09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:10 IST,||Markets crowded ahead of lockdown||Thousands of city residents and retail vendors threw COVID-19 safety protocols to the winds and thronged fish and wholesale markets on Saturday, ahead of the Sunday lockdown. Despite restrictions being announced, the Koyambedu wholesale market and Kasimedu fishing harbour witnessed huge crowds. According to wholesalers in Koyambedu, the market received nearly 5,000-6,000 small commercial vehicles since Friday night against the daily average of about 3,000. This led to heavy traffic around the market till Saturday morning even though traffic regulations were in place.Similarly, arrivals of produce from other parts of Tamil Nadu and neighbouring States also increased to 400 trucks compared to 340 on Friday, traders said. S.Chandran, president, Koyambedu Market Licensed Merchants Association, said nearly 30,000-35,000 retail merchants might have visited the market on Saturday. Individual customers are still not allowed entry into the premises. Nearly 85% of the stock, particularly green vegetables, were sold and stock of onion and potatoes remained unsold. The prices of most vegetables had stabilised, except for a few, like carrot, drumstick, beetroot and ladies finger. On Saturday, abundant arrivals had also led to a drop in prices of several vegetables by Rs. 5 a kg, he said. At Kasimedu, though wholesale auctioning had been segregated from retail sales, buyers rushed to both spots trying to get the best price and quality. “Auctioning began sometime after midnight and went on till early morning. But retail vendors and buyers lacked discipline and rushed to buy fish at the auctioning wharf. Segregation could not be done due to large numbers,” said M. Dayalan of Indian Fishermen Association. Nanjil Ravi, a community leader, said that due to the restriction in the number of fishing boats coming in, fish was not available in the required quantities. “This drove up the prices and many went back home empty handed. Better regulation is needed in the market to protect the interests of all stakeholders,” he said. Sources in the Fisheries Department said that steps would be taken to construct a wall between the wholesale and retail areas inside the fishing harbour with the permission of the Chennai Port Trust. “At 7.30 a.m. we announced that retailers must move out to the space allocated for them. But when many did not listen, we had to literally remove the fish and drive away buyers,” said an official. Other markets and even retail vegetable and provision shops witnessed crowds. “It took me more time than usual to buy vegetables and fruits on Saturday. It seemed as if people were shopping in panic,” said B. Narayanan, a resident of PTC Quarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/markets-crowded-ahead-of-lockdown/article38199762.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:48 IST,||Four of family die in ‘suicide pact’||In a suspected suicide pact, four persons of a family allegedly committed suicide. Wile two of them ended lives by allegedly taking some injections, the others jumped into Krishna river, here on Saturday. The victims were identified as Puppala Suresh, 57, P. Sri Latha, 49, P. Akhil, 24 and P. Ashish, 26, natives of Nizamabad district in Telangana. The family came to Vijayawada on January 6 to have darshan of Goddess Kanaka Durga, and checked into Sri Kanyaka Parameswari Choultry, said West Zone ACP K. Hanumantha Rao. “Bodies of Sri Latha and Ashish were found in the room, while Suresh and Akhil allegedly jumped into the Krishna. The bodies were retrieved from the river,” said One Town CI P. Venkateshwarlu. The reasons for the extreme step are not known immediately. We have sent the bodies to GGH mortuary for post-mortem,” said Mr. Rao. “Police recovered saline bottles, syringes, injections and IV fluid bottles from the room. We suspect the victims took some injections. Suresh had sent an SMS to his relatives about the suicide pact at 2.30 a.m. on Saturday,” said Mr. Venkateswarlu. Persons having suicidal tendencies and in depression may contact ‘Dial 1090’ for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-of-family-die-in-suicide-pact/article38199649.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:34 IST,||SilverLine will be fought tooth and nail: Cong.||SilverLine, the proposed semi-high-speed rail project, will not be allowed in the State as long as Congress activists are alive, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran has said. He was inaugurating a joint convention of District Congress Committee (DCC) office-bearers from four districts for strengthening the anti-K-Rail protest here on Saturday. Opposes CM’s designs “No force will be allowed to knife through the State and go ahead ignoring people’s sentiments,” Mr. Sudhakaran said, adding that the Opposition would go to any extent to defeat the designs of the Chief Minister and the act of forcefully laying survey stones and taking over houses. Mr. Sudhakaran said the CPI(M)’s dream project would divide the State into two. “Kerala will encounter grave social and environmental consequences if walls are built along the proposed rail path. Not just those in the immediate neighbourhood of the rail, but even those in nearby areas will suffer. While some areas will be flooded, others will turn arid facing even drinking water shortage. Going ahead with such a project without an environmental impact assessment is autocratic and amounted to cruelty to human beings and nature,” he added. Unholy nexus K-Rail is a testimony to the unholy nexus between the CPI(M) and the BJP. The affidavit submitted by the Railway Ministry that the acquisition of land for the project has the permission of the Centre is proof for that. Mr. Sudhakaran alleged that the Chief Minister and the administration were spreading lies by keeping legislators in the dark. The Chief Minister should end the misinformation campaign and come around to people’s side. Else, the Congress will force a course correction, Mr. Sudhakaran said adding an Assembly session should be convened on the issue at the earliest. The convention also decided to create awareness about the alleged anti-people project among environmental and social activists at the national level. Strong protest measures will be taken up shortly. As a prelude to that, awareness campaigns will be held at the district level. Debates engaging environmentalists and social workers will be organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/silverline-will-be-fought-tooth-and-nail-cong/article38200011.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:10 IST,||No need for lockdown: Soumya Swaminathan||The World Health Organization’s Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan on Saturday said lockdowns were not needed since there was a better understanding of the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19. Speaking to presspersons at an event in which a nutrition garden was inaugurated at Thiruvanmiyur by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, she said, “During the first wave, we did not know much about it, which was why many countries imposed lockdowns.” The three Cs — close contact, crowds and close settings — were the key to the spread of the disease, she said, urging people to wear masks. Booster dose Ms. Swaminathan underscored the need for elders and those with co-morbidities to take the booster dose of the vaccine. She said COVID-19 was yet another disease like influenza and there was a need to focus on the preventive aspects such as regular walking, exercise, balanced diet and maintaining weight according to height. The garden was established by the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, in collaboration with Rotary Club of Madras East, to improve nutrition literacy among people. Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Commissioner, Greater Chennai Corporation, and M. Nachiappan, Director–Environment, Rotary Club of Madras East, were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-need-for-lockdown-says-soumya-swaminathan/article38199757.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:22 IST,||481 new cases in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 295 new COVID-19 cases, including 11 from two clusters in Mangaluru. With discharge of 14 patients, the active cases was at 994 and test positivity rate was at 2.91%. Five persons, including two aged below five years, were found positive for COVID-19 from a house of a staff nurse of a hospital in Mangaluru taluk. The staff nurse and four of her family members have mild symptoms and they have been quarantined, an official said. Six paramedical students in a hostel in Deralakatte have been tested positive. All the six have mild symptoms of COVID and they have been isolated. In Udupi, 186 new cases were reported of which 137 are from Udupi taluk, 27 from Kundapura taluk and 22 from Karkala taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/481-new-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi/article38200207.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:47 IST,||Bumper to bumper||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bumper-to-bumper/article38199938.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:48 IST,||India to export mango to U.S. after hiatus||After more than two years, India is set to start export of mangoes to the United States under a new framework agreement signed between the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Department of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare of India. India will also export pomegranate and pomegranate aril to the U.S.. India did not export mangoes to the U.S. for two and a half years as the U.S. phytosanitary inspectors did not visit during 2020 and 2021. The new agreement also covers pomegranate. Both items will begin arriving in the U.S. from February. Under this agreement, India will import alfalfa hay and cherries from the U.S. from April. “Mango and pomegranate exports will start from January-February 2022 and pomegranate arils exports from April 2022,” the government said in a press statement. The development comes months after the 12th India-USA TPF (Trade Policy Forum) meeting held on November 23, 2021 which paved the way for the latest framework agreement. Cherries and alfalfa animal feed from the U.S. will be imported to India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-to-export-mango-to-us-after-hiatus/article38199651.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:46 IST,||Bus, railway stations see heavy Sankranti rush||The rush ahead of Sankranti festival at bus and railway stations was visible with tens of thousands of students, professionals, and families making a beeline to travel to their native places and other destinations within Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on Saturday. The rush at bus stations was heavy, especially at the Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (MGBS). National Highway-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada), the connecting link between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, is also bracing for its Sankranti rush.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bus-railway-stations-see-heavy-sankranti-rush/article38199932.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:07 IST,||Cause for concern||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cause-for-concern/article38199777.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:38 IST,||Respect laws passed by Assembly, CM tells Governor||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Saturday that it was the basic principle of a democracy that when the Assembly of a State invoked its right and enacted a law, the Governor should respect it and give his approval. Addressing a meeting of MLAs of all political parties, organised by the government here to chalk out the next course of action to get the State exempted from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), he said the Tamil Nadu Governor had failed to send the Bill against NEET, adopted in the Assembly, to the President even after he met him and requested him to do so. “This meeting has been convened since the rights of the States and the rights of the Assemblies to enact laws are under question. It is our goal to put an end to NEET and protect the interests of Tamil Nadu students. The meeting has been convened to prove that all are unanimous in their opposition to NEET,” he said. Mr. Stalin said there was a need to form an opinion that Tamil Nadu political parties were united since the problem concerned the State. Right to education “The stream of education [under the Tamil Nadu Board] is common to all, and everyone has the right to benefit from it,” he said. Mr. Stalin explained that the DMK government had in the past cancelled the common entrance test for admission to professional courses, since achieving education for all remained difficult in a country like India, where people lived on the margins and in poverty and there was inequality in the name of caste. He said the President and the Supreme Court gave their approval for the cancellation of the common entrance test. “NEET snatches away the right to education. We have been opposing NEET, which remains a stumbling block to the educational development of Tamil Nadu students.” ‘Against social justice’ The Chief Minister wondered, “How can we accept placing two hours of NEET above 12 years of school education? Is it not against social justice? How many students can pay in lakhs and get coaching to crack NEET? That was why I met the Prime Minister on June 17 last and requested him for exempting Tamil Nadu from NEET. Our MPs are also raising the issue in both Houses of Parliament.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/respect-laws-passed-by-assembly/article38199704.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:48 IST,||State reports 800 COVID-19 cases again||The State reported two deaths due to COVID-19 and 839 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The test positivity rate of the 37,553 samples tested in the past day was 2.23%. The daily tally was around 800 for the second consecutive day. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,503 and 20,80,602. The number of active cases jumped to 3,659 as only 150 patients recovered in the past day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-800-covid-19-cases-again/article38200233.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:48 IST,||Cause for concern||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cause-for-concern/article38199876.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:48 IST,||Parties welcome poll schedule||Political parties across the spectrum on Saturday welcomed the announcement of the schedule for the Assembly elections in five States. BJP president J.P. Nadda expressed confidence that his party would win with big margins.page 7||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parties-welcome-poll-schedule/article38199643.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:22 IST,||Centre permits distribution of boiled rice under PDS||The Union Government has permitted distribution of boiled rice under the Public Distribution System (PDS) in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, according to Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shobha Karandlaje. In a January 6 letter to Ms. Karandlaje, Union Minister for Food and Public Distributions Piyush Goyal said: “...Permission to procure Mo4, and local paddy varieties like Kaje, Jaya, Jyothi, Panchamukhi, Sayadri, Uma grown in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada for KMS 2021-22 has already been accorded by the Union government on December 31, 2021.” Earlier on November 23, 2021, Ms. Karandlaje wrote to the Minister that local paddy varieties of coastal belt should be procured under ‘Decentralised Procurement and Consumption Scheme’ and their rice should be distributed to the beneficiaries of Priority Household and Antyodaya Annya Yojana of the coastal districts including Uttara Kannada. Meanwhile, Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said in a statement on Saturday: “Based on the request from the people of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts, the State Government had recommended to the Union Government to distribute boiled rice under PDS. Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel and Udupi-Chikkamagaluru Member of Parliament Shobha Karandlaje too had recommended the same.” The Minister said that 1 lakh quintals rice per month is required for distribution under PDS in the two districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/union-govt-permits-distribution-of-boiled-rice-under-pds-in-dakshina-kannada-and-udupi/article38199732.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:48 IST,||Faculty found guilty in sexual harassment case||The grievance cell of the Government Dental College, which inquired into the alleged sexual harassment of house surgeons, reportedly observed that the two Associate Professors had behaved indecently with the junior doctors. Six medicos had lodged complaints with college principal G. Yugandhar a few days ago alleging that the two faculty members were harassing them sexually and were using abusive language over phone. Dr. Yugandhar directed the grievance cell members to inquire into the allegations, which submitted a report. During the inquiry it was reportedly found that the two Associate Professors had allegedly harassed the students. “The charges made by the house surgeons against the two faculty have been proved. Based on the observations of the grievance cell members, we submitted a report to the government recommending for action against the accused,” the principal said. Report sought  Meanwhile, the Andhra Pradesh Women Commission took suo motu cognisance of the case and directed the dental college management and the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) to submit a report.  According to the sources, a few students complained to the managements orally against the two associate professors earlier, but no action was taken. “The college management reportedly reprimanded the two faculty on their alleged indecent behaviour, but they did not mend their ways,” an employee of the institute said.  “The women’s commission directed the DME to take action against the two faculty based on the grievance cell report. We will inquire the case in detail,” women’s commission chairperson Vasireddy Padma told The Hindu on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/grievance-cell-finds-faculty-guilty-in-sexual-harassment-case/article38199646.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 11:36 IST,||23,001 engineering seats left vacant||This year, 23,001 government and government aided engineering seats have been left vacant after the third round of counselling by Karnataka Examinations Authority. Data from KEA revealed this is the highest number of vacant seats in engineering colleges over the past five years. More seats are likely to go unclaimed after the counselling for medical and dental seats is completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/230001-engineering-seats-left-vacant/article38199674.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:30 IST,||Niraj trying to delay app case probe: police||Police officials said on Saturday that Niraj Bishnoi, the main accused in the ‘Bulli Bai’ app case, is trying to delay the investigation and refusing to co-operate during interrogation. He has tried to harm himself twice while in custody, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/niraj-trying-to-delay-app-case-probe-police/article38200054.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:14 IST,||Delhiites keep indoors as police step up patrol||Delhi roads wore a deserted look on Saturday following the weekend curfew imposed by the city government in a bid to curb the rising number of COVID-19 cases. The Delhi police stepped up patrolling and warned citizens of legal action if they left their homes without any reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhiites-keep-indoors-as-police-step-up-patrol/article38199806.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:14 IST,||Niraj trying to delay app case probe: police||Police officials said on Saturday that Niraj Bishnoi, the main accused in the ‘Bulli Bai’ app case, is trying to delay the investigation and refusing to co-operate during interrogation. He has tried to harm himself twice while in custody, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/niraj-trying-to-delay-app-case-probe-police/article38199804.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:24 IST,||Niraj trying to delay app case probe: police||Police officials said on Saturday that Niraj Bishnoi, the main accused in the ‘Bulli Bai’ app case, is trying to delay the investigation and refusing to co-operate during interrogation. He has tried to harm himself twice while in custody, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/niraj-trying-to-delay-app-case-probe-police/article38200116.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:14 IST,||BJP’s Sarabjit Kaur new Mayor of Chandigarh||Sarabjit Kaur Dhillon of the BJP was on Saturday elected the new Mayor of Chandigarh Municipal Corporation after she defeated Anju Katyal of the AAP by one vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjps-sarabjit-kaur-new-mayor-of-chandigarh/article38199805.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:53 IST,||Main roads deserted during curfew||Large parts of the city, that would otherwise be bustling with activity on the weekend, were deserted on Saturday after the curfew kicked in on Friday night. Retail stores and businesses in most of the market remained closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/main-roads-deserted-during-curfew/article38199676.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:24 IST,||BJP’s Sarabjit Kaur new Chandigarh Mayor||Sarabjit Kaur Dhillon of the BJP was on Saturday elected the new Mayor of Chandigarh Municipal Corporation after she defeated Anju Katyal of the AAP by one vote. Ms. Kaur secured 14 votes, while Ms. Katyal got 13 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjps-sarabjit-kaur-new-chandigarh-mayor/article38200115.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:24 IST,||Going to file FIR against BJP for libel: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said the legal wing of his party would lodge a police complaint against Amit Malviya, the BJP’s IT cell in-charge, for spreading misinformation about him on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/going-to-file-fir-against-bjp-for-libel-akhilesh/article38200114.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:30 IST,||Going to file FIR against BJP for libel: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said the legal wing of his party would lodge a police complaint against Amit Malviya, the BJP’s IT cell in-charge, for spreading misinformation about him on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/going-to-file-fir-against-bjp-for-libel-akhilesh/article38200052.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:22 IST,||Contact tracing becomes a difficult task||With a surge in COVID-19 cases, authorities are struggling to keep pace with contact tracing. Although the total number of contacts traced in the last week is nearly seven times more than the contacts traced in the preceding week, the average contacts traced per patient is reduced by half.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/contact-tracing-becomes-a-difficult-task/article38199894.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:30 IST,||BJP’s Sarabjit Kaur new Chandigarh Mayor||Sarabjit Kaur Dhillon of the BJP was on Saturday elected the new Mayor of Chandigarh Municipal Corporation after she defeated Anju Katyal of the AAP by one vote. Ms. Kaur secured 14 votes, while Ms. Katyal got 13 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjps-sarabjit-kaur-new-chandigarh-mayor/article38200053.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:38 IST,||CBI books Madurai-based NGO for FCRA violation||The CBI has registered a case against the Centre for Promotion of Social Concerns (CPSC), a Madurai-based non-governmental organisation (NGO), and its programme unit, the People’s Watch, on charges of violating the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-books-madurai-based-ngo-for-fcra-violation/article38199741.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:38 IST,||Govt. fixes cost for river sand at Rs. 1,000 per unit||The government has fixed the basic cost of river sand at Rs. 1,000 per unit. It plans to take steps to open new sand quarries and government depots in two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-fixes-cost-for-river-sand-at-rs-1000-per-unit/article38199742.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:38 IST,||T.N. records 10,978 fresh COVID cases, 10 deaths||Tamil Nadu recorded 10,978 fresh COVID-19 cases and 10 deaths on Saturday. Chennai accounted for nearly 46% of the new cases. The capital recorded 5,098 cases, followed by Chengalpattu with 1,332. Tiruvallur 591 and Coimbatore 585.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-10978-fresh-covid-cases-10-deaths/article38199740.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:46 IST,||The ‘old man’ and the unrest||As a young man, Nursultan Nazarbayev was a steel mill worker in Temirtau in the Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic. He was a member of the Komsomol, the Leninist Young Communist League. He then rose to become the boss of the communist party in Kazakhstan. At age 50, he became the first President of the republic, a position he would hold for nearly three decades. In 2019, he relinquished the presidency, but would continue to remain the real power behind the throne as the Elbasy (Leader of the Nation) who is immune to prosecution and the head of the powerful Security Committee. This uninterrupted rise to and hold on power of the 81-year-old ‘strongman’ met with a strong resistance in the new year when thousands staged violent protests in Kazakhstan’s oil-rich western region and in Almaty, its biggest city, directly targeting the “old man”. In Almaty, which looked like a war zone after mobs stormed government buildings, torched vehicles and pulled down Mr. Nazarbayev’s statues, slogans such as ‘the old man out’ became a rallying cry for mass mobilisation. President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, Mr. Nazarbayev’s cherry-picked successor, moved swiftly to quell the unrest. He reversed an increase in fuel prices that was the trigger of the protests, sacked his Cabinet and replaced Mr. Nazarbayev as the chair of the Security Committee with himself. He also requested the Russia-led Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) for help in restoring order following which Russian President Vladimir Putin despatched thousands of troops to Kazakhstan. Mr. Nazarbayev is nowhere to be seen in public. The Elbasy, who the public was taught to adulate, has suddenly become a lonely, hated autocrat. There are speculations in the media that he would leave the country for “treatment”. Rise to power Born in 1940 in Stalin’s Soviet Union, Mr. Nazarbayev’s life had been closely linked with the ruling communist party. After graduating from a technical school in Dneprodzerzhinsk (in today’s Ukraine), he started working in steel mills. In 1962, when Stalinism was fading under the leadership of Nikita Khrushchev, Mr. Nazarbayev joined the party. His rise was relatively quick. In 1984, at the age 43, he became the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of Kazakhstan (equivalent of Premier), and in five years, he was appointed the First Secretary of the Communist Party in the republic. The next year, he was named the first President of Kazakhstan by the Supreme Soviet. In that position, Mr. Nazarbayev, along with Boris Yetsin of Russia, opposed the 1991 coup attempt against Mikhail Gorbachev, the leader of a crumbling Soviet Union, by Soviet hardliners. When the Union disintegrated and Kazakhstan became independent in December 1991, Mr. Nazarbayev was firmly in control of the newly born country. He never had to turn back. As President of independent Kazakhstan, Mr. Nazarbayev took a balanced approach towards Russia and the West. A strong proponent of economic and security cooperation of Russia and other former Soviet republics in Central Asia, Mr. Nazarbayev also invited western oil companies to invest in his vast, oil-rich country. (Chevron Corp., the American multinational, owns a 50% stake in the joint venture that runs the Tengiz oil field, a $37 billion project in wetlands along the northeast shores of the Caspian Sea.) He voluntarily gave up nuclear weapons, a legacy of the Soviet era, which earned him praises from world over. In an interview in 1994, Mr. Nazarbayev said, “The Soviet Union carried out more than 400 nuclear explosions on testing grounds in Kazakhstan, nearly 200 of them above ground or in the atmosphere, and more than 500,000 people are still suffering from the radioactive fallout.” He said his country suffered so much from Soviet nuclear policy that it should never seek nuclear weapons. He also promised that Kazakhstan, under his leadership, would become “a proving ground for democracy and a market economy”. The democracy bit never happened. As Mr. Nazarbayev grew more and more powerful, the Constitution was amended to reward him with limitless terms. Political opposition was not tolerated. Dissent was crushed. The regime built a cult personality around the leader, while there were allegations of corruption and favouritism which helped the President’s family continue to become richer. Western companies made huge investments in Kazakhstan’s hydrocarbon fields and Western governments ignored the lack of democracy and repression in the country. Business continued to flourish. In 2019, 29 years after he became President, Mr. Nazarbayev finally decided to step down. But the country’s ruling elite had already given him the title Elbasy. He also remained the head of the ruling party Nur Otan (from which he stepped down late last year) and retained a tight grip on the country’s security apparatus. Besides, Kazakhstan’s powerful oligarchs, many of them from Mr. Nazarbayev’s family, were closely associated with the former President. The regime continued to adulate him. Astana, the capital city, was renamed as Nur-Sultan, after Mr. Nazarbayev. Statues were erected across the country and parks and other public places were dedicated to the former President. But the regime, busy building a cult personality around the leader, failed to see the resentment that was growing in the country’s oil-rich underbelly. Economic woes Kazakhstan, a member of the OPEC Plus grouping, is one of the leading producers of oil and gas. It pumped out about 1.7 million barrels of oil a day in November, almost 2% of what the world consumed each day last year. It is also rich with coal and uranium — about 40% the world’s uranium supply comes from Kazakhstan. It was long seen as a successful, stable political and economic model in Central Asia. But Kazakhstan has also been a widely unequal country. When it went through a privatisation spree after the collapse of the Soviet Union, business people with close ties to the ruling elite made a fortune, creating a new class of oligarchs, who continued to become richer under Mr. Nazarbayev’s reign, while the basic pay for the workers remained stagnated. According to a report by KPMG, only 162 people account for 55% of the country’s total wealth today. But the minimum wage in the country is less than $100 a month. The pandemic worsened the economic situation. And high inflation stretched the family budgets further, adding to the miseries of the public. These underlying conditions led to the outbreak of mass protests on January 2 when the government removed a price cap on liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), which many Kazakhs, especially those in the country’s western region, use in cars as petrol and diesel are more expensive. The removal of the cap saw prices of the LPG nearly double, which triggered an instant protest. Within hours, the unrest spread to Almaty and other parts of the country. The protesters demanded not just a rollback of the price hike but also political reforms and an end to Mr. Nazarbayev’s de facto rule. The protesters’ direct attack on Mr. Nazarbayev and President Tokayev’s quick move to seize the moment and fire his predecessor as the head of the Security Committee suggest that the “old man’s” era is finally coming to an end. But it’s too early to say whether President Tokayev would be able to mobilise enough public support and restore stability. To use the old cliche, the crisis is as much a challenge as an opportunity for Mr. Tokayev to come out of the shadows of Elbasy Nazarbayev and start afresh. But would he?  In Focus   Only 162 people account for 55% of the energy and mineral-rich Kazakhstan’s total wealth today, while the minimum wage of workers is less than $100 a month||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-old-man-and-the-unrest/article38199579.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:50 IST,||Country sees highest spike in new COVID cases in 222 days||India reported a single-day spike of 1,41,986 new COVID-19 cases, the highest in around 222 days. Active COVID-19 cases have increased to 4,72,169, the highest in around 187 days, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday morning. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 9.28%. The country also saw its Omicron case tally rise to 3,071, as reported from 27 States and Union Territories. Of the 3,071 cases of the Omicron variant, 1,203 have recovered or migrated, the Ministry said. Maharashtra recorded the maximum number of 876 Omicron variant cases, followed by Delhi at 513, Karnataka at 333, Rajasthan at 291, Kerala at 328 and Gujarat at 204. The active cases account for 1.34% of the total infections reported. An increase of 1,00,806 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The national COVID-19 recovery rate decreased to 97.30%, the Health Ministry said. The Centre has urged people to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour and avoid mass gatherings to keep disease transmission under check. It has also asked States to review infrastructure preparedness, including re-establishment of field/makeshift hospital facilities to avoid any shortage in the eventuality of a potential surge in hospital admissions due to COVID-19. Meanwhile, the World Health Organization (WHO) has called for the strict implementation of public health and social measures as COVID-19 cases surged in most countries of the Southeast Asia region. It also said that though the Omicron variant of coronavirus may appear to be less severe, it should not be dismissed as “mild”, as health systems in many parts of the globe are being overwhelmed by the sheer number of hospitalisations. Also, not every case of COVID-19 is due to Omicron and other variants may cause severe disease. Odisha registered 3,679 fresh COVID-19 cases, a 36% rise over the previous day and the biggest single day spike in more than six months, the State Health Department said on Saturday, the Press Trust of India reported. The new infections include cases reported in 384 children. Odisha now has 11,663 active cases, a steep climb from the tally of 8,237 cases a day earlier. Telangana recorded another 2,606 new COVID-19 cases when 73,516 samples were tested over the past 24 hours. Andhra Pradesh reported 839 new cases of COVID-19 and two more deaths as on Saturday morning. The number of active cases jumped to 3,659. It is for the second consecutive day that the State is logging over 800 cases. In Assam, 1,254 new cases of COVID-19 were reported when 33,609 samples were tested on Saturday. Two deaths were also recorded. The active case pool of the State has 4,548 patients now. Kerala’s COVID-19 graph is on the rise once again, with the State reporting 5,944 new cases on Saturday. The State’s active case pool now has 31,098 patients, of whom 2,473 persons are being treated in hospitals. It also detected 23 more Omicron cases, taking the total number of Omicron cases in the State to 328. Karnataka on Saturday reported 8,906 new cases of COVID-19, when 1,64,261 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. Of the new cases, Bengaluru Urban alone reported 7,113 cases. Four new Covid-related deaths were also reported in the State on the day. The State now has 38,507 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/country-sees-highest-spike-in-new-covid-cases-in-222-days/article38199569.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||Parties welcome poll schedule, exude confidence||Political parties across the spectrum on Saturday welcomed the announcement of the poll schedule for the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa by the Election Commission of India (ECI). While the BJP president J.P. Nadda expressed confidence that his party will win with big margins, Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the elections are “an opportunity” to defeat the BJP and put an end to unemployment, price rise and atrocities against women and Dalits. ‘Vote for progress’ Home Minister Amit Shah took to Twitter to expresses his confidence that the people will give the BJP an opportunity to serve them again and appealed to “the people of these States to elect a government that contributes to the progress of the State and the progress of the country”. Welcoming the ECI guidelines of holding polls under COVID guidelines, Mr. Shah said, “The BJP under the leadership of @narendramodi ji is committed to have a healthy and safe elections”. Of the five poll-bound States, the BJP is in power in four — U.P., Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur — while in Punjab, it has allied with former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s outfit and a faction of the Akali Dal. While every Assembly election will be an important test for the parties, the results of U.P., that has 80 Lok Sabha seats, will be the most crucial and could well set the agenda for the 2024 general elections. In a series of tweets, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief and former Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav claimed that the counting day of March 10 will see a “revolution and change”. “People of the State have been waiting for March 10 to say goodbye to the BJP,” Mr. Yadav said. The SP chief also appealed to the ECI that it should ensure a level-playing field for the regional parties on digital platforms where the BJP dominates not only because of its financial heft but also because it is in power at the Centre as well in the State. Novel manipulations Taking to Twitter, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said, “The tendency of the ruling party [the BJP] to violate the model code of conduct by adopting new tactics in every election is becoming fatally common. It needs to be given due attention and prompt action is taken in this election. It is a special appeal to the Election Commission”. While Sukhbir Badal of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), that has tied up with the BSP for the Punjab polls, expressed confidence of being voted to power, Aam Admi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal, who has emerged as the biggest challenger to the established players in the State, asserted that AAP is ready for the battle.  Addressing an online press conference, Congress’ Surjewala said the adverse election results are the only thing that the BJP is scared of. “This is a chance to defeat the BJP as well as price rise and inflation. Farmers also have a chance to punish those who retained a union minister despite his and his son's involvement in the mowing down of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. Defeat the BJP and unemployment with vote ki chot [cause hurt with a vote] . Our women also have a chance to defeat the BJP over the atrocities and rising crime against women as well as Dalits in these five States,” he said.  Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress, that is contesting in Goa as a serious player, said, “With elections in full swing, the Budget session will be out of focus. This is Modi’s gameplan: Make Parliament irrelevant so he is accountable to no one”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parties-welcome-poll-schedule-exude-confidence/article38199543.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||India tops Sri Lanka’s tourism list||India topped Sri Lanka’s tourist arrivals in December and the entire year, according to data published by the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority (SLTDA). For most part of 2020 beginning April, Sri Lanka shut its borders fearing import of COVID-19 cases into the island nation, which was then making global headlines for managing the pandemic well. It was only in December 2020 that the country had gradually opened up to recover from the severe economic impact of the pandemic that had hit its tourism sector — third largest foreign exchange earner. However, 2021 saw a gradual increase in tourists, picking up in the latter part of the year. For December, Sri Lanka recorded 89,506 tourist arrivals, of whom 23,566 or 26.3 % were from India, data showed, signalling that India had regained its spot as the largest source market in its tourism sector. From January 2021 to December 2021, 56,268 tourists — about 42 % of the visitors — arrived in Colombo from India, again the highest number from a country recorded last year, following Russia, the U.K. and Germany. Sri Lanka is making its second big attempt to revive tourism after the Easter terror bombings of April 2019. It recorded about 1.9 million arrivals in 2019, a drop from the record 2.3 million the previous year. And then the pandemic struck. In 2020, 5,07,704 tourists visited Sri Lanka, mostly during the first three months before Sri Lanka reported its first local case of COVID-19 in March 2020. The sector’s recovery in 2021 was slow, with 1,94,495 tourists through the year. Pre-pandemic, the tourism sector generated $4 billion. It dropped to $682 million in 2021 and to $82 million until October in 2021, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka data showed. Enthused by the increase in tourist arrivals in November and December 2021, the SLTDA has stepped up international promotions hoping to further boost the sector. “Sri Lanka is back, and we are open for tourists. Our country has everything a post-COVID traveller is looking for. We have created a relaxed, bubble-free travelling for fully vaccinated travellers. Sri Lanka is ready to welcome you with the warmth of our hospitality,” SLTDA chairperson Kimali Fernando said recently. Indian tourists, in addition to holding destination weddings along the southern beaches, often travel to the hills in the Central Province, to cities such as Nuwara Eliya, while some follow the ‘Ramayana trail’ curated by tour operators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-tops-sri-lankas-tourism-list/article38199558.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||‘LCA MK-1A to take flight in June’||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) expects to deliver all Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas in the Final Operational Clearance (FOC) variant to the Indian Air Force (IAF) in 2022 while the LCA MK-1A, with specific enhancements, will take flight by middle of this year, said R. Madhavan, Chief Managing Director, HAL.  “We will be attempting at least 6-8 aircraft (LCA) this year. All 10 aircraft are already ready, there are some systems to be delivered from Israel. If that happens in time, we can deliver all 10,” Mr. Madhavan told The Hindu talking of the hectic calendar HAL has for this year. “By June this year we should start flying the LCA MK-1A configuration. Once flying starts, we have about 20 to 24 months of testing. Once that is done, we will be ready for deliveries as expected.”  Last February the Defence Ministry had signed a Rs. 48,000 crore deal with HAL to supply 83 LCA MK-1A to the IAF. HAL will be delivering the first three aircraft in 2024 and 16 aircraft per year for subsequent five years, the Defence Ministry had stated earlier. We will start manufacturing activities parallel with the testing, Mr. Madhavan said on LCA MK-1A schedule. With COVID cases surging again, there could be some delay if the work schedule is disrupted. To ramp up production, HAL has already set up two additional assembly lines. Stating that all three LCA assembly lines are operational now, Mr. Madhavan said the back end of the lines is what they are finishing now including supply of sub-assemblies by vendors. The design for LCA MK-2, a much bigger aircraft, has been frozen and some of the manufacturing activities have started. Hopefully by this year end or early 2023 we should have the first roll out of the aircraft, and one year after that it will be taking to the skies, Mr. Madhavan said. “We are targeting early 2023 but we should be able to do it slightly early.” The LCA MK-2 features enhanced range and endurance including Onboard Oxygen Generation System (OBOGS), which is being integrated for the first time. Heavy stand off weapons will also be integrated on the MK-2. The MK-2 will be a heavier and much more capable aircraft than the current LCA variants with the aircraft 1350mm longer, featuring canards and can carry a payload of 6,500 kg compared to 3,500 kg by the LCA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lca-mk-1a-to-take-flight-in-june/article38199636.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:50 IST,||Small comic relief in a tale of conflict||Gadchiroli Files, a comic strip, is set to present the new, changing and pro-development face of Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli district. On the border with Telangana in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra, the Naxal-hit Gadchiroli is one of the most backward areas of India. “We always wanted to send out a clean and clear message to the world outside that Gadchiroli is not only about Naxals and their activities. Yes, that is one of the problems, but we are overcoming it. “People need to know about Gadchiroli. We thought of using the comic strip series to send out a positive message to the people within Gadchiroli, and also those outside,” Ankit Goyal, Superintendent of Police, Gadchiroli, said. The cartoons will focus on different issues faced by the students, youth, women and farmers, among others, of the region and try to place the State’s response to them, addressing all stakeholders. Three languages The Police Department has planned a new comic strip every fortnight to be released in the Gondi, Marathi and English languages. The first comic in the series was released last week. A local artist will design the comic strip and the district Police will help popularise it.  “We have been trying traditional modes of delivering messages to the people. We thought of doing something different and innovative, other than a press note,” Mr. Goyal told The Hindu .   The police have also initiated “police dadalora khidki ” (a window of brother police in Gondi), a single window service at police posts to help villagers enrol in State-sponsored schemes, obtain important documents, and enable follow-ups on applications with the concerned departments.  Silent spectator Like the famous ‘common man’ character created by cartoonist R.K. Laxman, a peeping farmer will be the silent spectator to the happenings in the comic strip. “He will represent the people of Gadchiroli, who know what is happening and keep themselves updated,” Mr. Goyal said. Gadchiroli was in the news recently after 26 members of the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist), including its central committee member Milind Teltumbde, were gunned down in an encounter with the police. In 2021, 49 alleged Naxals were killed in 15 “encounters” in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/small-comic-relief-in-a-tale-of-conflict/article38199638.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:30 IST,||Two techies add colour to Kolkata||When you look at the artworks adorning the newer metro stations in Kolkata, you are unlikely to connect them with engineering, least of all chemical engineering, but there’s a link. Two men in their mid-twenties — Ritesh Verma and Prateek Sachan — who graduated in chemical engineering from IIT-Delhi in 2017, are these days busy lifting the environs of recently-built metro stations in the city of joy with mural art, having done similar projects in 24 stations across Delhi. “There’s no doubt our batchmates are earning much more than us, but we feel proud that we are creating value for our artists and designers and for the many artists we collaborate with,” said Mr. Verma, who along with Mr. Sachan started ‘The New Art’ in 2018 after refusing to sit for campus placements. “Also, we never feel we could have picked up something else because we see great opportunities lying ahead of us,” he added. They have already livened up the walls of six metro stations in the city — Phoolbagan, Bengal Chemicals, Salt Lake Stadium, Sector 5, City Centre and Karunamoyee — and are currently working on the Sealdah metro station. “Every station has a different theme, depicting local flavours. The theme at Sealdah is ‘art forms of Bengal’, while the theme at Howrah Maidan station would be ‘sports culture of Bengal’, focusing on rural, indigenous sports of Bengal,” Prateek Sachan said. Collaborative work For big-scale or multiple projects, the duo collaborates with freelance artists, mostly local talent. “We believe that when we scale up, we’ll be able to affect the lives of many artists positively by collaborating with them, and that gives us a lot of motivation,” Mr. Verma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-techies-add-colour-to-kolkata/article38199552.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||BJD rolls out incentives for anganwadi workers||Looking for votes from women in the forthcoming local body polls, the Naveen Patnaik government on Saturday announced an increase in the retirement benefits of anganwadi workers, and smartphones for community resource persons-community mobilisers (CRP-CM) involved in women self-help groups (SHG). The retirement benefits of anganwadi workers has been raised from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 40,000. Similarly, incentives for mini-anganwadi workers and anganwadi assistants have been doubled from Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 20,000, respectively. About 1.30 lakh anganwadi workers will benefit from the announcement, which comes into force retrospectively from January 1, 2019. Similarly, CRP-CMs — members of women SHGs who handhold and guide groups of SHGs after training — will now receive Rs. 1,000 towards a “cloth allowance”; Rs. 5,000 for smartphones of their choice; Rs. 3,000 as monthly remuneration; Rs. 350 as monthly travel allowance; and Rs. 250 as telephone allowance. In the past two decades, Mr. Patnaik’s government has reaped electoral successes largely due to women voters, who have extended their unflinching support for the regional party. The ‘Mission Shakti’ programme, which seeks grassroots social and economic empowerment of women, is one of the major reasons behind the winning streak. ‘Key members’ The smartphones and phone allowances will benefit about 50,000 CRP-CMs. A political observer who did not wish to be named said, “Both anganwadi workers and CRP-CMs are key members in villages and can influence voters’ decision during elections. The government is trying to keep them in good humour.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjd-rolls-out-incentives-for-anganwadi-workers/article38199554.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:46 IST,||Gender justice||The nomination of Justice Ayesha Malik as the first woman judge of the Supreme Court of Pakistan has been welcomed across the world for being a progressive move in the male-dominated topmost appellate court of the country. However, the development has exposed, once again, the rift between the military establishment and its rivals, especially in the judiciary. Justice Malik has a stellar reputation to back her candidature to the top court. She has been associated with prestigious chambers in Pakistan and was educated at the Harvard Law School. That apart, she has consistently batted for women’s rights as well as the rights of women judges in lower courts. The nomination comes a year after Justice Malik gave a landmark judgement in the Lahore High Court against the ‘two-finger test’, terming it scientifically unsound. Her legal pedigree is undoubtedly among the finest in Pakistan. However, a section of Pakistan’s liberals are cautiously welcoming her nomination, citing that Justice Malik got support from the pro-government members in the JCP (Judicial Commission of Pakistan), who elected her with majority votes in the January 6 meeting. The bar councils of Pakistan that called for protest following the announcement pointed out that her elevation took place superseding four senior judges. They point out that the support from the pro-government sections in the JCP indicates that the government may be eager to appoint a woman judge to project its progressive face, but in deed, it is not an honest broker. The appointment saw a divided JCP with the Chief Justice, Gulzar Ahmed, senior Puisne Judge Umar Ata Bandial, former Judge Sarmad Jalal Osmany and Attorney-General Khalid Jawed supporting the elevation, while others, including Justice Qazi Faez Isa, opposing it. Government support The support from the Attorney-General is a clear indication that the government of Prime Minister Imran Khan favoured the elevation of Justice Malik, superseding other judges. Over the years, Pakistan’s Supreme Court has clashed with the military establishment repeatedly. In a judgement in 2019, Justice Isa had directed the military not to be partial to any political party. While Justice Malik had taken on the patriarchal elements of society, Justice Isa had taken on the all-powerful military and therefore the doubts have risen if the good deed of elevating Justice Malik to the Supreme Court was indeed an outcome of the pursuit of gender justice or is it aimed at weakening the anti-military sentiment at the highest appellate body. The larger politics of the appointment has risen to the surface also because of the recent controversies over the appointment of the new chief of the Inter-Service Intelligence, the spy agency. The appointment of Lt. Gen. Nadeem Ahmed Anjum, which came in the backdrop of tension between Prime Minister Imran Khan and the military, was a reminder of the unstable dynamics inside the Pakistani state. Following the appointment of the new ISI chief, Pakistan witnessed violent protests by the extremist Tehreek-e-Labbaik (TLP), which forced the government to release hundreds of its activists and its jailed leader, Saad Hussain. It has been reported that the establishment has been behind the TLP’s move to harass the government. The role of the Supreme Court, in this backdrop, becomes important. The Supreme Court had famously clashed with the former dictator, General Pervez Musharraf, which led to the return of democracy in Pakistan. In 2007, Gen. Musharraf had asked Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry to resign from the post but the Justice defied the order, triggering a mass movement against Gen. Musharraf’s rule. The resultant election of 2008 saw the overthrow of the Musharraf regime. The democratic movement was spearheaded by the lawyers of the Supreme Court. With growing economic turmoil in Pakistan, which has recently prompted some diplomats to express displeasure against their government through “hijacked social media handles”, shows there is great deal of systemic tension building up inside the state organs. While Justice Malik is expected to deliver fairness in gender-related issues, her verdicts in cases involving the establishment will be her real test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gender-justice/article38199581.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:46 IST,||Keeper of Russia’s memories||In a setback for civil rights in Russia, its Supreme Court has ordered the closure of the International Memorial Society, one of the country’s oldest and most reputed human rights groups. In a ruling on December 28, the court said the NGO, known as Memorial, was in violation of the ‘foreign agent’ law and must, therefore, cease operations. A day later, a Moscow city court also granted a request to shut down Memorial Human Rights Center, a sister organisation. Started in 1987 in the Soviet years of glasnost under Mikhail Gorbachev, one of Memorial’s early organisers was Andrei Sakharov, the dissident physicist who was awarded the Nobel Peace prize. Starting off as a movement to uncover information about victims of repression in Stalinist Russia, Memorial grew into a web of civil society groups that ran a museum, a library, an archive, and support centres that together sought to preserve the collective memory of Soviet-era repression and help the victims and their family members. Memorial’s databases, for instance, contain the names and details of more than 3 million victims and thousands of perpetrators who worked for the Soviet state. The NGO operates on the principle that the most effective bulwark against the return of mass repression is preserving the memory of people’s suffering in the nation’s totalitarian past. Unlike other former totalitarian states such as East Germany, for instance, where it is the state that has taken on the responsibility of archiving the past, in post-Soviet Russia, the task fell on independent organisations, the foremost among them being Memorial. Apart from the documentation of the past, Memorial has also been, through its human rights wing, tracking abuses in the present. Some months ago, it published a list of 419 political prisoners kept in jail by the regime of Vladimir Putin. It has also been helping hundreds of Russians file cases against government agencies at the European Court of Human Rights. For Mr. Putin, who in 2020, in the middle of the pandemic, pushed through constitutional amendments paving the way for him to potentially serve as President till 2036, NGOs such as Memorial are both an irritant (insofar as they generate material that the West could use to embarrass him) and a threat (by punching holes in the narrative of democratic legitimacy that undergirds his hold on power). Also, Mr. Putin has publicly maintained that the collapse of the Soviet Union was the biggest geopolitical catastrophe of the 20th century. A core element of his nationalist propaganda is that the Russian state is, and has always been, a force for good. His regime, therefore, has always sought to play down the abuses of the Soviet state while playing up its glorious geopolitical successes. Authoritarian cast Russian democracy under Mr. Putin, a former KGB agent from the Communist era who made a successful switch to politics under Boris Yeltsin, has taken on an authoritarian cast. Opposition leaders have been jailed, investigative journalists have been assassinated, and civil society groups harassed relentlessly. Reminiscent of the ongoing crackdown on NGOs in India through amendments to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, Russia’s ‘foreign agent’ law requires NGOs who get funding from abroad to register themselves as a ‘foreign agent’. In Russia, the term ‘foreign agent’ — a carryover from the Soviet era — tends to denote a ‘spy’ or ‘traitor’. Apart from the suspicion and stigma that automatically attaches to such labelling, the law, through a byzantine array of reporting requirements, raises the compliance barrier to impossible levels. It thus makes it relatively easy for the authorities to initiate prosecutions and/or liquidation of entities deemed to have violated the ‘foreign agent’ law. The case against Memorial exemplifies this tactic. By getting the state prosecutor to go after Memorial using the ‘foreign agent’ law, Mr. Putin, some believe, hopes to both erase records of past abuses and escape scrutiny for current ones. Human rights groups around the world have condemned the Russian court’s decision, with the U.S. Ambassador to Russia describing it as “a blatant and tragic attempt to suppress freedom of expression and erase history.” As for Memorial, its spokespersons have vowed to seek legal remedies to continue their work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keeper-of-russias-memories/article38199583.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||New challenges emerge for parties||As elections for five Assemblies start off with a ban on physical campaigning till January 15 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, Election Commission officials said on Saturday the rules regarding the conduct and expenditure of conventional campaign would be applicable to virtual campaign events. Announcing the poll schedule for Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra on Saturday also encouraged candidates to adopt the virtual mode of campaigning as much as possible. The EC banned physical rallies and roadshows till January 15, when it planned to review the situation before taking a call on the rest of the campaign period.  The revised guidelines for elections released by the EC put a complete ban on nukkad [street corner] sabhas or meetings on public roads, roundabouts, public streets and corners.  A top EC official said as candidates have to open an account and submit their expenditure details for physical events, they should do the same for online rallies or events. Similarly, the Model Code of Conduct, which bans certain kinds of speech and misuse of government machinery for electoral purposes, would be applicable. The candidates would have to apply for clearance from the Media Certification and Monitoring Committees, which usually give pre-certification for advertisements, the official said. In fact, earlier this week, the EC announced that the expenditure limit for candidates had been increased from Rs. 28 lakh to Rs. 40 lakh. At the press conference, Mr. Chandra said one of the reasons for this was the increased expenditure on digital campaigning during the pandemic. While the BJP had started digital rallies in the Bihar Assembly elections in 2020 during the pandemic, it remains to be seen how all political parties proceed under the new rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-challenges-emerge-for-parties/article38199537.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||Great expectations: Assembly polls will influence the course of national politics||Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Punjab and Goa will litigate some key political questions that will have resonance across the country. There are at least six defining issues of these Assembly elections that will influence the course the country’s politics ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. First, two national parties are defending one of their key turfs each this time — the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and the Congress in Punjab. To understand the importance of Uttar Pradesh and Punjab in the scheme of things of the BJP and the Congress, respectively, note the contribution that these States make to their national strength. Eleven of the Congress’s 52 Lok Sabha seats — 20% — comes from Punjab. Of the BJP’s 301 Lok Sabha seats, 62, again 20%, comes from Uttar Pradesh. The BJP and the Congress are not facing each other, however, as they do in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh. The Opposition space is in a flux in both States. The Samajwadi Party (SP) is drawing crowds in Uttar Pradesh, and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is a talking point in Punjab, but incumbents appear to have an upper hand at the start. Minority problem Secondly, both national parties have a ‘minority problem’ that is in the spotlight. The BJP is practically non-existent in Punjab; and the Congress is practically non-existent in Uttar Pradesh — which shows a fundamental struggle that these national parties face. The BJP is impulsively mistrusted by religious minorities, and its efforts to woo Sikhs, remain half-hearted. It swings between accommodation and hostility. The party’s confrontation with Sikhs, a largely farming community, on the question of three controversial farm laws, has shrunk its appeal further this time. The Congress on the other hand is seen largely as the party inherently trusted by the religious minorities. The party’s strongholds these days are regions and constituencies that have a significant population of minorities, leaving it unviable in places and situations of communal polarisation. The BJP’s minority problem is that it is not trusted by them; the Congress’s is that its base is confined to minority regions. The BJP has been wooing Sikhs in Punjab through measures such as making visits to their sacred sites in Pakistan easier; it perhaps wanted to signal friendship to Catholics in Goa, who constitute a third of the population, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi met with the Pontiff last year. The BJP wants to get a foothold in Punjab; the Congress wants to get a foothold in Uttar Pradesh, through these elections. Third, leadership questions for both parties will come into sharp focus through these elections. If the BJP wins Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath will emerge as the prospective successor to Mr. Modi. His brand campaign in recent months puts the spotlight on him as an unapologetically brash Hindu leader who is turning around India’s biggest State — replicating what Mr. Modi had done as CM of Gujarat in the run up to 2014. Unlike other Chief Ministers of the party. Mr. Adityanath has already established himself outside the shadow of Mr. Modi. In the Congress, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is in charge of its Uttar Pradesh strategy; and she chose Navjot Singh Sidhu as party president in Punjab. The party’s performance will reflect on her leadership skills, and influence internal debates on her role. Regional issues Fourth, two models of regional politics are at test in these elections. The SP in Uttar Pradesh represents backward politics led by a dominant caste; the Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab helms a minority religious politics. These are two distinct models in the spectrum of regional political formations in India. Both are facing a crisis, as their traditional mobilisation strategies are now weak, and their corruption-ridden dynastic politics is increasingly unacceptable to the electorate. Fifth, Dalit politics in the heartland is at a crossroads. Dominated by the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) until some years ago, Dalits politics is adrift now, and is in search of a platform. The BSP, which has been in power in Uttar Pradesh several times in the past, appears to be in terminal decline. It had a strong presence in Punjab too, though it never won power. The BJP has made significant inroads among the Dalits, at the cost of the BSP in Uttar Pradesh. In Punjab, the Dalits have largely voted for the Congress in the past, and the party is trying to consolidate them following the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi, a Dalit, as Chief Minister. Dalit politics The outcomes of these Assembly elections may give some indication of how Dalit politics will evolve from here on. The BJP and the Congress are both trying to expand their acceptance among the Dalits. Sixth, the ambitions of two Chief Ministers who want to form a non-Congress alternative to the BJP are on test in these elections. Delhi Chief Minister and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal, and West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee are testing their politics outside their respective current arenas. Both want to emerge as the principal challenger to Mr. Modi ahead of 2024. Mr. Kejriwal’s focus is Punjab where his party had emerged as the second largest in 2017; Ms. Banerjee is focussing on Goa. The AAP is also in Goa, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh; TMC is trying to be a player in Manipur. The national ambitions of these two leaders are based on two different models and two different sets of calculations. Their performance this time can influence the course of national politics ahead of 2024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/great-expectations-assembly-polls-will-influence-the-course-of-national-politics/article38199547.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||‘App case accused trying to delay probe, not cooperating’||Main accused in the ‘Bulli Bai’ app case Niraj Bishnoi has tried to harm himself twice while in police custody but he is being taken care of, police officials said on Saturday. Police said Bishnoi is trying to delay the investigation and not co-operating in interrogation. “He had also tried to harm himself twice and is also threatening to end his life. He is being take care of him while he is in custody. His medical examination has been conducted and he is stable and unharmed. This may be due to his mental condition or perhaps, he wants to delay the investigation,” a senior police officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell Cyber Cell) K.P.S. Malhotra said after two days of interrogation, it has been revealed that he is a habitual hacker and has hacked websites of Indian and Pakistani schools and colleges. “Bishnoi is habitual of hacking, defacing the websites and is learning the same since he was 15-years-old. His claims of hacking the websites related to schools is being verified from the concerned quarters,” he said. Police sources said Bishnoi further disclosed that he was in touch with the persons arrested by Mumbai Police online and used to communicate through Twitter group chats. However, he had never met them nor did he have there contact numbers. According to the police, Bishnoi also said that he was using the Twitter account of another accused Shweta Singh, who has been arrested by the Mumbai Police. Sources said Bishnoi disclosed that he had chosen the Gurmukhi script “as he found the same to be more impactful than the Devanagari script”. According to the police, Bishnoi was also in touch with the creator of Twitter handle @sullideals, who had created the ‘Sulli Deals’ app on GitHub, and he had also propagated the app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/app-case-accused-trying-to-delay-probe-not-cooperating/article38199556.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:50 IST,||PUBG on rail track, selfie near river prove fatal for 3 persons||Two brothers who were engrossed in playing popular online game PUBG on their mobile phones while sitting on a railway track were run over by a train in Rajasthan’s Alwar district on Saturday, police said. The deceased have been identified as Lokesh Meena (22) and his younger brother Rahul (19). They were preparing for competitive exams, the police said. “Lokesh Meena and Rahul were sitting on the railway track near Roopbaas town and were playing PUBG when they were run over by a train. They were so engrossed in the game that they did not see the train coming,” said Manohar Lal, Assistant Sub-Inspector of Sadar police station. The bodies were handed over to the family of the deceased after a post-mortem examination, the police said. Selfie mishap A 50-year-old woman from Mumbai and her son’s fiancée fell into the Narmada river while taking selfies in Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur district, an official said on Saturday. The body of the 50-year-old woman was fished out later while the 22-year-old woman remains missing, he said. The incident occurred at the New Bhedaghat area, a famous tourist spot, some 25 km away from the Jabalpur district headquarter, on Friday, Tilwara police station sub-inspector Lekh Ram said. He said the women are identified as Hansa Soni (50) and Riddhi Pichdia (22). The family of four from Mumbai took a ropeway ride from Dhuadhar waterfall on the Narmada river and went to another side called New Bhedaghat on Friday. Riddhi and Hansa were standing on white marble rocks and taking selfies with mobile phones when they lost their balance and fell into the river, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pubg-on-rail-track-selfie-near-river-prove-fatal-for-3-persons/article38199571.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:50 IST,||Use only Covaxin for 15-18 age group, says vaccine maker||COVID-19 vaccine maker Bharat Biotech has appealed to healthcare workers to be “highly vigilant and ensure that only Covaxin is administered to individuals in the 15-18 years age group”. The appeal was issued late on Friday night and comes following reports of other COVID-19 vaccines being administered to this cohort. Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation on Saturday called for stringent implementation of public health and social measures as COVID-19 cases increased in most countries of southeast Asia, with some witnessing an exponential rise. Dr. Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, WHO South-East Asia Region said all preventive and protective measures must be implemented with full earnestness by one and all. Stating that authorities must implement situation specific measures to arrest further spread of the virus, she said people must adhere to these measures. “Masks, hand hygiene, cough etiquette, ventilation, and physical distancing is an absolute must,” she said. Other variants present A release issued by the South-East Asia Region office said though Omicron variant may appear to be less severe, it should not be dismissed as ‘mild’. Emerging as the most predominant variant, this highly infectious variant is already overwhelming health systems around the world. “Globally we are seeing hospitalisation and deaths from Omicron,” said Dr. Singh, adding that “we must also not forget that not every COVID-19 case is an Omicron infection. Other variants, including Delta, are also circulating, which, as we know, cause severe infections and deaths”. “Each positive case of COVID-19 should hence be a cause of concern,” she noted. Maintain vigil She further said that to save lives, “we must prevent overburdening of our health systems. An overburdened health system would neither be able to save preventable deaths from COVID-19 nor would it be able to deliver essential services to save lives from other diseases for which people may need surgery and urgent critical care”. “It’s time to do all we can, to arrest the current surge,” the regional director said. Stating that we are aware that COVID-19 virus spreads mainly between people who are in close contact with each other, she added that the virus can also spread in poorly ventilated indoor settings or crowded settings. “Often, people who are infectious do not always have symptoms or know that they are carrying the virus, so it is important to ensure good ventilation by opening windows and doors, if possible, when sharing an indoor space with other people... It is extremely important for people to wear well-fitting masks and avoid crowds and big gatherings, along with taking other measures,” she said. Cautioning that even after being fully vaccinated, people must continue to take all preventive and protective measures Dr. Singh said scaling up COVID-19 vaccination coverage is another key preventive measure for COVID-19, and all efforts must continue to ensure that the high-risk population is protected at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/use-only-covaxin-for-15-18-age-group-says-vaccine-maker/article38199564.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||Priyanka begins virtual outreach with Facebook Live||On a day when the Election Commission (EC) barred all physical rallies for the next week in the five poll-bound States because of rising COVID-19 cases, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra kicked off her first virtual campaign for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. In her first online interaction on Facebook with women and girls from U.P. on Saturday, Ms. Vadra said she will not allow women to be ignored and asserted that “women are the centre of the political discourse in the State”. As with Ms. Vadra’s online interactive session, the Congress is working on a plan to reach the voters by adhering to all COVID protocols. Door-to-door campaigns  Addressing an online press conference, party general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the party would lay emphasis on door-to-door campaigns (a group of 5 people as per latest EC guidelines) as well as nukkad sabhas (neighbourhood meetings) apart from hosting virtual rallies across different digital platforms. The party is said to be preparing ‘virtual studios and green rooms’ at the party headquarters as well as State headquarters for leaders to address the virtual and hybrid rallies.  However, the party is likely to rely on door-to-door campaign and small corner meetings to circumvent network and connectivity issues in remotes areas and hilly terrain in States like Uttarakhand.  “We are hopeful that the EC would allow nukkad sabhas that is among the most effective way to reach the voter as well as follow protocols with a crowd of about 100 people,” Mr. Surjewala told reporters.   Just before the EC announced the seven phase poll for U.P., Ms Vadra, who is the Congress in-charge for U.P., held an interactive session on Twitter and Facebook under the banner of her campaign, LadkiHoon, Lad Sakti Hoon , to focus on women-centric issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-begins-virtual-outreach-with-facebook-live/article38199545.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:50 IST,||Gharials to return to Orang National Park||The gharial, wiped out from the Brahmaputra River system in the 1950s, could be the prime beneficiary of a process to expand an Assam tiger reserve that shed its “Congress connection” five months ago. The Assam government had on January 3 issued a preliminary notification for adding 200.32 sq. km to the 78.82 sq. km Orang National Park, the State’s oldest game reserve about 110 km northeast of Guwahati. Much of the area to be added comprises the Brahmaputra river and the sandbars or islands in it, some cultivated by locals or used as sheds for livestock. Forest officials said the administrative heads of the Darrang and Sonitpur districts have been asked to determine the “existence, nature and the right of any person in or over the proposed schedule of land”. Orang, on the northern bank of the river, is strategic to the Kaziranga Orang Riverine Landscape. Tigers and rhinos are known to use the islands in this riverine landscape, about 180 km long, to hop between Orang and Kaziranga.  But what has enthused wildlife experts is the prospect of reintroducing the gharial ( Gavialis gangeticus ) in the area to be added to Orang. “The government is pursuing a policy for the reintroduction of the gharial that became locally extinct more than six decades ago. With better protection, the stretch of Kaziranga-Orang landscape is ideal for sustaining the gharial,” Pradipta Baruah, divisional forest officer of the Mangaldoi Wildlife Division, told The Hindu on Saturday.  The Gangetic dolphin is also expected to be a beneficiary of the final notification of the addition to Orang, expected to take at least three months after the rights and claims are settled. 16 species of turtles “There are a few points within the riverine landscape where the endangered dolphin thrives. The landscape has 16 species of turtles that need more conservation too,” Mr. Baruah said. One of the four major rhino habitats in Assam, Orang was recognised as a tiger reserve in 2016. The Himanta Biswa Sarma government had in September 21 dropped the ‘Rajiv Gandhi’ prefix to Orang given by the Congress government in 1992. Other national parks in Assam are Kaziranga, Manas, Nameri, Dibru-Saikhowa, Raimona and Dehing Patkai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gharials-to-return-to-orang-national-park/article38199575.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||‘Anyone keen to defeat BJP can ally with Cong.’||The Congress is ready to accept the support of any party that is keen to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the upcoming Goa Assembly election, senior leader P. Chidambaram said on Saturday. His statement came shortly after Mahua Moitra, the Goa desk in-charge of the Trinamool Congress, suggested that the Mamata Banerjee-led party was open to a pre-poll alliance with the Goa Forward Party (GFP) and the Congress. The Congress is capable of defeating the BJP on its own, but “if any party wants to support the Congress to defeat the BJP, why should I say no?” Mr. Chidambaram questioned. After winning the maximum 17 seats in the 40-member Goa Assembly in 2017, the Congress’s strength dwindled over the past five years. The party has lost a bulk of its MLAs to the BJP and at least two to the Trinamool, the new entrant in Goa politics, leaving the Congress with only two MLAs in the House. The Congress has already announced its pre-poll alliance with the GFP, while the Trinamool has a tie-up with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) for the State polls slated to be held next month. The Congress had emerged as the single-largest party in Goa in the 2017 poll by winning 17 seats in the 40-member House, but could not come to power as the BJP, which bagged 13, allied with some independents and regional parties to form the government under Manohar Parrikar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anyone-keen-to-defeat-bjp-can-ally-with-cong/article38199541.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||PM urged to steer India away from divisive forces||A group of students and faculty members from Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) in Bengaluru and Ahmedabad have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to steer the country away from “forces that seek to divide us” and said his silence “emboldens” voices of hate. The letter with over 180 signatories, has flagged hate speech and attacks on minorities. “Your silence on the rising intolerance in our country, Honourable Prime Minister, is disheartening to all of us who value the multicultural fabric of our country,” the letter said. “Your silence, Honourable Prime Minister, emboldens the hate-filled voices and threatens the unity and integrity of our country,” the letter further said. “We ask your leadership to turn our minds and hearts, as a nation, away from inciting hatred against our people. We believe that a society can focus on creativity, innovation, and growth, or society can create divisions within itself,” it added. ‘Lead by right choices’ They urged him to steer the country away from “forces that seek to divide us”. The letter said the signatories wanted to build an India that stood as an exemplar of inclusiveness and diversity in the world and expressed hope that Mr. Modi will lead the country in making the right choices. It noted that the Constitution gave people the right to practice their religion with dignity, without fear and without shame.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-urged-to-steer-india-away-from-divisive-forces/article38199634.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:30 IST,||A ‘village of books’ in all Maharashtra districts||A village of books inspired by the famous town of Hay-on-Wye in Wales, the U.K., will soon be seen in every district of Maharashtra. The initiative takes its cue from a successful pilot project launched in May 2017 in the village of Bhilar near the hill station of Mahabaleshwar. The project seeks to popularise Marathi books and nurture the reading habit. The State government’s Marathi Language Department on January 4 issued a resolution announcing the ‘Village of Books, Bhilar’ scheme to come up in one village of every district. In the first phase of the scheme, six such villages will be set up in every revenue division. In the second phase, every district will have one such village. Funding of Rs. 197.90 crore will be spent on the project. Conditions to be met Selection criteria require villages to be connected to tourism, protected monuments and pilgrimages, or sites of literary importance, historical significance, or as centres of agro-tourism. Villages known for their cultural contribution, peaceful coexistence and cleanliness will be prioritised, if residents are ready to cooperate and participate. The village Gram Panchayat can make available the necessary space (a minimum of ten rooms of 250 sq. ft. each is required), water, electricity, sanitation, etc. The owners of the rooms will be responsible for their maintenance. A monthly report on them will be submitted by the village-level body to the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-village-of-books-in-all-maharashtra-districts/article38199550.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||Senior IPS officer opts for VRS, to join BJP in U.P.||A 1994-batch IPS officer, who previously served as the chief of the Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad, Asim Arun (51) on Saturday announced that he had applied for voluntary retirement (VRS) and plunged into politics with the BJP. The Commissioner of Kanpur police (rank ADG) said he was “proud” that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath considered him fit for the membership of the BJP. He was earlier the ADG of the U.P. 112 emergency services. Hailing from Kannauj in central U.P., Mr. Arun is the son of Arun Ram, who had served as the DGP of the State twice. There is speculation that Mr. Arun could also contest in the 2022 Assembly polls from his home district. Mr. Arun, in a statement posted on Facebook, said he wanted to serve the country and the nation in a new form. He said he would try and utilise his skills and experience in the police force to serve the BJP. He also paid a tribute to B.R Ambedkar. “The IPS job and now this honour was only possible due to the system crafted by Babasaheb Ambedkar for ‘equality of opportunity’. I will follow his high ideals and work for the honour, security and uplift of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as well as brothers and sisters of all sections,” Mr. Arun said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/senior-ips-officer-opts-for-vrs-to-join-bjp-in-up/article38199538.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:48 IST,||Raghava remanded in judicial custody||Announcing the arrest of Raghava, Paloncha Assistant Superintendent of Police Rohith Raj said two persons - Girish and Murali were also taken into custody along with Raghava, adding that the duo and two others Chava Srinivas and Ramakanth were booked under Section 212 on charges of “harbouring the offender”. “Raghava confessed to the crime of abetment to suicide,” the ASP said responding to a specific query. Raghava was involved in 11 other cases booked against him under Section 307 (attempt to murder), Section 306 (abetment to suicide) and Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) in the past, the ASP said, asserting that a detailed investigation was underway into all the cases. Meanwhile, mild commotion prevailed in Paloncha town on Saturday when an aggrieved woman openly expressed her anger against Raghava charging him with resorting to “outrageous acts” with impunity by virtue of his “political clout.” She sought expeditious investigation and trial into nearly dozen cases including two “abetment to suicide” cases pending against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raghava-remanded-in-judicial-custody/article38199939.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:50 IST,||Plea in Supreme Court against ILPS in Manipur||A little known West Bengal-based organisation, Amara Bangali, has filed a petition in the Supreme Court opposing the implementation of the Inner Line Permit System (ILPS) in Manipur. Fearing that there may be communal tension, the Manipur government has taken up all necessary steps to maintain law and order. The Supreme Court has directed the Manipur government to file an affidavit. Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren, who is also in charge of Home, said, “The government has made all preparations to meet the challenge of this organisation in the Supreme Court. These people are the ones who had done nothing good for us”. Mr. Biren has been saying that the Modi government’s move of imposing the ILPS was a ‘gift’ to the people which had been long denied by the previous Congress government. It would go a long way in protecting the interests of the indigenous people who “fear being swamped”, he said. The ILPS has been in force in Mizoram, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. Outsiders planning to enter these States must obtain a permit specifying the number of days they can stay and they must leave after it expires. On January 7, leaders of four students’ organisations, AMSU, MSF, KSA and SUK, staged a protest in Imphal condemning the Amara Bangali, reportedly formed to protect the interests of Bengalis in the Northeast. They also torched the effigy of its general secretary Bakul Chandra Roy and the police picked up some leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-supreme-court-against-ilps-in-manipur/article38199562.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:50 IST,||Five primate carcasses found in Assam forest||The carcasses of five primates, believed to be capped langurs, were found without the skin and tails in an Assam reserve forest. A team of researchers working in the Biswanath district’s Behali Reserve Forest located the carcasses, presumably killed by poachers for their skin, bones and tails.  The 140 sq. km. reserve forest connects the Kaziranga National Park and the Nameri National Park bordering Arunachal Pradesh. “We recovered five skulls and a few bones inside the reserve forest. They are suspected to be of capped langurs, although samples will be sent to the Wildlife Institute of India to confirm the species,” Arun Vignesh, the Sonitpur East Divisional Forest Officer told The Hindu on Saturday. The Forest Department registered a case and started an investigation after recovering the carcasses. Raids have been conducted in adjoining areas as officials fear more wild animals may have been killed.  Investigation started “This is the first such incident here and we are sending the samples for forensic testing to ascertain the cause of death. But it looks like the primates were killed after being lured and trapped,” Mr. Vignesh said. “We are concerned about the habitat that has been targeted by poachers for long. Behali is an important bird area and an elephant reserve that needs conservation,” researcher Jaydev Mandal said. Apart from the rare capped langur, the Behali Reserve Forest houses the endangered slow loris, the near-threatened Assamese macaque and the rhesus macaque.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-primate-carcasses-found-in-assam-forest/article38199565.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||India to export mango to U.S. after hiatus||India did not export mangoes to the U.S. for two and a half years as the U.S. phytosanitary inspectors did not visit during 2020 and 2021. The new agreement also covers pomegranate. Both items will begin arriving in the U.S. from February. Under this agreement, India will import alfalfa hay and cherries from the U.S. from April. “Mango and pomegranate exports will start from January-February 2022 and pomegranate arils exports from April 2022,” the government said in a press statement. The development comes months after the 12th India-USA TPF (Trade Policy Forum) meeting held on November 23, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-export-mango-to-us-after-hiatus/article38199549.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||BJP councillor is new Mayor of Chandigarh||Bharatiya Janata Party’s Sarabjit Kaur Dhillon was on Saturday elected the new Mayor of Chandigarh Municipal Corporation after she defeated Aam Aadmi Party’s Anju Katyal by one vote. Ms. Kaur secured 14 votes while Ms. Katyal got 13 votes. One vote was declared invalid. 28 members voted In the 35-member House of the MC, a total of 28 members voted. The Congress’s seven members and one member of the Shiromani Akali Dal abstained from voting. In the Chandigarh MC, there are 35 councillors while the Member of Parliament from Chandigarh, who is an ex officio member in the municipal corporation, also has a voting right. Soon after the results, AAP councillors created a ruckus in the House, following which the police had to intervene. The Chandigarh MC election results declared on December 27 threw up a hung House as no single party secured a clear majority of 19 seats. AAP had emerged as the single largest party by winning 14 wards. The ruling BJP won 12 seats. The Congress won eight seats while the SAD secured one. Later Harpreet Kaur Babla, from the Congress, joined the BJP, taking the party’s seats to 13. AAP’s Punjab and Chandigarh affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh accused the BJP of murdering democracy. He said that in the Chandigarh civic body elections, the city residents had voted the maximum number of 14 seats for AAP. He said the election for the Mayor of Chandigarh clearly showed that there was a clandestine understanding between the BJP and the Congress to defeat AAP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-councillor-is-new-mayor-of-chandigarh/article38199633.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:50 IST,||Govt. blocks multiple social media handles||The government has blocked several social media handles that were circulating “fake and inciting” content on Twitter, YouTube and Facebook, Minister of State for IT Minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar said on Saturday. Owners of these accounts are being identified for action under the law, Rajeev Chandrasekhar added. Amid the massive crackdown on hateful posts, sources said that the offensive content actioned pertained to a fake video of a Cabinet briefing, an animated fake video showing violence against the Prime Minister and derogatory posts targeting Hindu women uploaded on various social media handles. The Minister said that social media platforms will be reviewed on their due diligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-blocks-multiple-social-media-handles/article38199559.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:30 IST,||SP to file FIR against BJP for ‘deception’||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said the legal wing of his party would lodge a police complaint against the BJP’s IT cell in-charge for spreading misinformation about him on social media, linking him to Kannauj perfume trader Piyush Jain whose premises were raided by tax officials recently. Mr. Yadav said he would get an FIR lodged against Amit Malviya, the BJP’s national information and technology department in-charge, for tweeting a photo of him when he was visiting France in 2015 as Chief Minister for the purpose of setting up a perfume park in Kannauj. While along with Mr. Yadav, his colleague Abhishek Mishra, wife Dimple Yadav and MLC Pushpraj Jain alias Pampi are also present, in his tweet Mr. Malviya insinuated that Piyush Jain was also present with Mr. Yadav. Mr. Malviya said the photograph featured Mr. Yadav's businessman friend from whose house stacks of currency notes were recovered from under the floor and from inside the walls. Mr. Yadav however termed the BJP’s allegations as deception, saying the BJP IT cell in-charge was “lying with the support of the State and Central government”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-to-file-fir-against-bjp-for-deception/article38199539.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:32 IST,||Creating awareness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/creating-awareness/article38200056.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:50 IST,||Sonowal bats for AYUSH immunity kit||The Ministry of AYUSH has developed an Ayurvedic kit for increasing immunity to combat the variants of COVID-19, AYUSH Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Saturday. “Our Ministry has developed an Ayurvedic kit named Ayuraksha Kit comprising Chyavanprash, Sanshmani Vati, Anu Taila and Ayush Kwath to increase immunity in the fight against the coronavirus. Together with yoga, it can help in maintaining fitness during the pandemic,” he told journalists in Guwahati. Mr. Sonowal said the Ministry of AYUSH is working in close coordination with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to maximise the efficacy of the medications by supplementing each other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonowal-bats-for-ayush-immunity-kit/article38199566.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:50 IST,||‘Omicron is driving third wave now’||The third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic across all States is being driven by the fast-spreading Omicron variant, official sources said on Saturday, citing the latest data. Till a few days ago, it was only in the western region that the surge in COVID-19 cases was due to Omicron while the Delta variant was predominant in the northeast, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. A source said, however, the latest data suggest that all eastern States have also reported high numbers of Omicron cases. “So going by that it can be said the third wave is being driven by the fast-spreading and highly transmissible Omicron variant,” the source said. India saw a single-day rise of 1,41,986 new coronavirus infections taking the case tally to 3,53,68,372, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The government has reiterated and urged people to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour and avoid mass gatherings, as well as States and UTs to review infrastructure preparedness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-is-driving-third-wave-now/article38199573.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:50 IST,||The road not taken||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-road-not-taken/article38199577.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:49 IST,||Viresh Bhawra appointed DGP of Punjab||Viresh Kumar Bhawra, a 1987-batch IPS officer, assumed charge as the DGP of Punjab on Saturday. The State government order said: “On consideration of the panel received from the Union Public Service Commission, the Governor of Punjab is pleased to appoint Shri Viresh Kumar Bhawra, IPS, as DGP, Punjab (Head of Police Force). His term shall be for a minimum period of two years from the date of assumption of office in pursuance of the orders of the Supreme Court dated July 3, 2018.” After assuming charge, Mr. Bhawra said the Punjab police will ensure smooth conduct of elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/viresh-bhawra-appointed-dgp-of-punjab/article38199548.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases cross the 10,000-mark||Fresh COVID-19 infections crossed the 10,000-mark in Tamil Nadu, nearly 46% of which were reported in Chennai. With a total of 10,978 persons testing positive for COVID-19 in the State, the overall positivity rate rose to 7.9%. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said while cases were rising rapidly, nearly 2,000 being added every day, the situation was not alarming, and the health infrastructure was sufficient. “At the Government Corona Hospital, there are 260 in-patients. Young persons, who are asymptomatic, are being discharged in a day and advised seven day home isolation, while elderly persons with co-morbidities are being admitted,” he said, and added that a meeting to discuss precautionary measures would be held on January 10. The surge in daily COVID-19 cases pushed the State’s active caseload to 40,260. Of these, Chennai had a total of 20,369 active cases. Daily COVID-19 cases continued to rise across the State, with only Ariyalur reporting fewer than 10 cases. Chennai’s daily tally soared to 5,098. Chengalpattu followed with 1,332 cases, while there were 591 cases in Tiruvallur and 585 cases in Coimbatore. Cases increased in Madurai as 314 persons tested positive, while Kancheepuram had 309 cases. The new cases pushed the State’s overall tally to 27,87,391. The State recorded 10 deaths, taking the toll to 36,843. There were no deaths in 35 districts. A total of 1,525 persons were discharged after treatment. The number of persons who tested positive for Omicron rose to 185 of which 68 had no links with international travellers. The State’s overall vaccination figures crossed nine crore. At the 18th mega vaccination camp held on Saturday, a total of 17,34,083 persons (5,71,795 first dose and 11,62,288 second dose) received the COVID-19 vaccine, taking the coverage of government vaccination centres to 8,71,97,535. CPI(M) leader admitted Veteran CPI(M) leader N. Sankaraiah has been admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government hospital after testing positive. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who inquired about his health, said a separate team had been constituted to monitor the health of Mr. Sankaraiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-cross-the-10000-mark/article38199767.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Be polite with public during checks, DGP tells colleagues||Director-General of Police (DGP) C. Sylendra Babu said police personnel should be polite and courteous with motorists during the night curfew and complete lockdown. Issuing a set of guidelines to police across the State, the DGP said personnel should wear gloves while checking vehicles and use hand sanitisers frequently. At night, the checking of vehicles should be conducted at a place with adequate lighting. ‘Erect barricades’ The personnel should erect barricades and wear reflector jackets. Government employees, staff of banks, public transport and local bodies should be permitted to proceed on showing identity cards by them. Similarly, essential service providers such as milk supply, electricity, communication, medical and medical related services should be allowed after verifying their identity cards. Food delivery services are permitted from 7 a.m. and 10 p.m. during complete lockdown on Sunday. The police should keep in mind that candidates attending the competitive exams on Sunday are allowed to travel by road. The DGP said those going to railway stations, airports and bus stations and similarly people going home should be allowed . They are permitted to use their own vehicles and taxis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-polite-with-public-during-checks-dgp-tells-colleagues/article38199892.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 surge may hit State’s revenue||With the start of the third wave of COVID-19 pandemic, the State government faces the prospect of its revenue taking a hit. However, it is too early to gauge the intensity of the impact, a senior official says. But what could come as a saving grace is the forecast of health experts that the intensity of the third wave may not be as strong as the second. If this turns out to be true, the State government can absorb the pandemic’s adverse impact on the revenue. The government’s general approach has been to balance the requirements of public health and livelihood issues of people. At present, the government has only resorted to minimum restrictions. But the experience of the first and second wave of the pandemic shows that there is a possibility of stringent restrictions coming into force if the current surge in the number of daily new cases gathers momentum. In such a scenario, the revenue will take a hit, as in the previous rounds of two waves. Capturing this aspect, an official document on the mid-year review of trends in receipts and expenditure, placed in the Assembly recently, cited adverse impact of the pandemic on tax collectons as one of the reasons for the deviation from the RBE [revised budget estimates] in the trend in receipts for the first six months (April to September) of 2021-22. For most part of this financial year, the State’s Own Tax Revenue (SOTR) had grown impressively over the collections recorded in the previous year. In the first half of 2021-22, SOTR registered a growth of about 38% over what it was during the corresponding period in 2020-21. However, it was learnt that there was a dip in the revenue during December as compared to the situation a year ago. Major contributors Two components of SOTR — stamps and registration fees and taxes on vehicles — had recorded growth of around 74% and 69% respectively. They accounted for Rs. 8,767 crore out of the SOTR of Rs. 52,908 crore. Commercial Taxes, one of the remaining three components, fetched a revenue of Rs. 40,508 crore, a rise of around 35% over the previous year’s figure. State Excise witnessed a modest growth of around 9.6% with the collections of Rs. 3,496 crore. The State’s Own Non Tax Revenue too saw a growth rate which was approximately 21% over the previous year’s collections. Till the end of September, this source of revenue contributed Rs. 3,974 crore, according to the document. In the first half of this year, the State received Rs. 10,611 crore of its share of Central taxes, constituting 39.09% of RBE, and grants-in-aid of Rs. 17,717 crore from the Centre, representing 51.26% of the estimated receipts. The document pointed out that during the same period in 2020-21, the State got Rs. 15,973 crore as grants-in-aid from the Centre. This meant that the State got Rs. 1,744 crore more this time than in the past.  In the first half of 2021-22, the State’s Own Tax Revenue registered a growth of about 38% over what it was during the corresponding period in 2020-21||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-surge-may-hit-states-revenue/article38199768.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Madurai-based NGO booked by CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation has registered a case against the Centre for Promotion of Social Concerns (CPSC), a Madurai-based non-governmental organisation (NGO), and its programme unit, the People’s Watch, on charges of violating the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA), 1976. Complaint from MHA Acting on a complaint dated July 22, 2014, lodged by A.K. Sinha, the then Director in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the CBI’s Economic Offences Wing booked the NGO for alleged FCRA violations that surfaced during two inspections conducted by MHA officials in Madurai in May 2012 and 2014. During the inspections for the period 2005-06 to 2010-11 and 2011-12 to 2012-13, it was found that after the suspension of FCRA registration, the CPSC had withdrawn Rs. 28 lakh on July 23, 2012. It also withdrew Rs. 1.69 crore from 2008-09 to May 2012, which did not tally with available vouchers. People’s Watch was functioning like a separate entity and communicating directly to the foreign contribution grantee organisations, and most of the bills/receipts were in the name of Peoples’ Watch. The First Information Report said CPSC had withdrawn foreign contribution to the tune of Rs. 44.54 lakh during 2011-12 and 2012-13 on 240 occasions. They used foreign contribution for a purpose other than what it was meant for.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-based-ngo-booked-by-cbi/article38199765.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||54.5 kg ganja seized||The Narcotics Intelligence Bureau-CID on Friday checked the trains entering Tamil Nadu from Andhra Pradesh and seized 54.5 kg of ganja. In continuation of a drive against the illegal sale of narcotics and psychotropic substances throughout the State, the Salem unit of the NIB-CID checked the Sabari Express going from Secunderabad to Thiruvananthapuram and seized 21 kg of ganja from A. Pandi and K. Irulappan of Usilampatti, Madurai. It also seized 5.5 kg from an unclaimed bag on the luggage rack of the Visakhapatnam-Kollam Weekly Express. The NIB-CID’s Kancheepuram unit seized 22 kg of ganja in an unclaimed parcel kept in the Circar Express and the NIB-CID’s Chennai team arrested S. Guna and K. Suresh Kumar of Tiruppur for possession of 6 kg of ganja at Chennai Central. Additional DGP Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said people could share information through helpline 10581 and message on WhatsApp 9498410581 or e-mail spnibcid@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/545-kg-ganja-seized/article38199753.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu should set up a citizens’ information portal, says Jean Drèze||Leading economist Jean Drèze has made a strong case for the creation of a citizens’ information portal (CIS) in Tamil Nadu, saying that it would facilitate social audits and other efforts to curb corruption. When he met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday, Mr. Drèze proposed three steps that could help Tamil Nadu set an example of transparent governance. Mr. Drèze, a member of the State Advisory Council, said though Tamil Nadu, like the Centre, had a user-friendly facility for online Right To Information (RTI) queries, “it was only for one department so far.” In a letter to the Chief Minister, he proposed extending the facility to all departments as the first step towards transparent governance. He explained that the online facility of the Central Government had made it possible not only to file RTI queries but also to monitor their progress, pay fees if any, file appeals etc., Mr. Drèze pointed out that though as per Section 4(2) of the RTI Act, public institutions had an obligation to make information available to the public in a proactive manner without waiting for RTI queries, the implementation of this mandate had been very poor. He said in many States and departments, there was a growing practice of hiding information behind administration logins, depriving the public of wealth of material available in their management information system (MIS). “Tamil Nadu should set an example of full compliance with Section 4(2) of the RTI Act, with every department disclosing as much information as possible in a user-friendly format as a second step,” he said. Reiterating that user-friendly access was particularly important for welfare schemes such as the public distribution system (PDS), social security pensions and the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA), he suggested the creation of the CIS as a third step to address the problem. Mr. Drèze said, “Official websites often fail to present information in a manner that helps ordinary citizens, including those who are not familiar with online navigation,” and added that the citizen information portal would help people find essential information related to welfare schemes. “This will also facilitate social audits and other efforts to curb corruption. Some States have taken interesting initiatives in this regard, such as the ‘Jan Soochana’ portal in Rajasthan. Tamil Nadu is well placed to take them further,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-should-set-up-a-citizens-information-portal-says-jean-drze/article38199771.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||State Government fixes basic price for sale of river sand||The State Government has fixed the basic cost of river sand as Rs. 1,000 per unit and plans to take steps to open new sand quarries and government depots in two months. According to a Government Order, approved building plans have been made mandatory for customers to book river sand loads. Besides online booking, buyers may also pay in cash at the special bank extension counters to be established at government sand depots. Customers will also have to provide the registration number of vehicles at the time of booking, which will be verified by the Water Resources Department (WRD) during delivery. The functioning of the quarries and depots will be monitored through CCTV cameras round the clock. A centralised control room will be set up for real time monitoring of sand quarry activities across the State. Moreover, shunting vehicles fitted with GPS equipment will have to be monitored to prevent pilferage, the Government Order said. The State Government has directed other agencies, including the Revenue Department and the Geology and Mining Department to assist in the sand quarries’ operation. Once phase I of the sand quarries operation is completed, the facility to deliver river sand at the doorstep of the customers will be taken up by the WRD in the next phase. The decisions were taken after a review meeting held recently by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on the operation of sand quarries and sale of sand at government depots. Priority basis The State Government on Friday announced that river sand would be made available for individual customers on the basis of priority to reduce sand shortage both online and at the depots. The WRD will operate 16 quarries for lorries and 21 sand quarries exclusively for bullock cart transportation. The process of obtaining environment clearances for more quarries from the State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority will be expedited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-government-fixes-basic-price-for-sale-of-river-sand/article38199773.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli, Tirupur Police Commissioners transferred||The Police Commissioners of Tirunelveli and Tirupur cities – N.K. Senthamarai Kannan and V. Vanitha – were transferred and A.T. Durai Kumar and A.G. Babu have been posted in their places respectively on promotions. 15 Deputy Inspector General of Police-level officers were promoted as Inspector General of Police (IGs) and three Superintendents of Police were promoted as DIGs. The 15 IPS officers who were promoted as IGs (with their postings) are: K.A.Senthil Velan, Avinash Kumar, Asra Garg (on Deputation to Government of India), A.G. Babu, K. Ejilearassane (IG Armed Police), P.K. Senthilkumari (Member-Secretary, TNUSRB), A.T. Durai Kumar, C. Mageshwari (Technical services), N.Z. Asiammal (Intelligence), A. Radhika (IG - General), S. Mallikha (Welfare), R. Lalitha Lakshmi (DVAC), B. Vijaya Kumari (Enforcement), M.V. Jaya Gauri (SID Crime Branch CID), N. Kamini (IG Crime). Kapilkumar C. Saratkar, IG - Establishment, has been posted as Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Greater Chennai Police. N.K. Senthamarai Kannan and V. Vanitha have been posted as IGs Social Justice and Human Rights and Home Guards respectively. Mahendra Kumar Rathod was shifted from the TNUSRB and has been posted as IG - State Human Rights Commission. The officers who were promoted as DIGs (with their postings) are: R.V. Ramya Bharati (Joint Commissioner of Police, Greater Chennai City Police), R. Ponni (DIG Madurai range) and Sonal Chandra (on deputation to Government of India). Praveen Kumar, DIG, was shifted from Thanjavur and posted to Tirunelveli; Praveen Kumar Abhinapu, DIG, was shifted from Tirunelveli to Salem range; Rupesh Kumar Meena was posted as DIG, Dindiguil range; Z. Annie Vijaya was posted as DIG Vellore; and A. Kayalvizhi as DIG Thanjavur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelveli-tiruppur-police-commissioners-transferred/article38199796.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK ridicules DMK over 27% reservation for OBCs||The AIADMK on Saturday ridiculed the DMK for seeking to portray as its achievement the Supreme Court’s decision to allow the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test counselling for medical courses with 27% of the all-India quota seats reserved for the Other Backward Classes. In a statement, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the ruling was due to their party’s efforts and pressure for long, but the DMK, which had done little while in power at the Centre for 17 years, sought to depict it as its victory. The AIADMK recalled that the Madras HIgh Court’s direction to the Central government in July 2020 to constitute a panel for considering the issue of a 27% quota for the OBCs was made on a petition filed by it, and this formed the basis for the Supreme Court’s order. The leaders added that the party would voice its support for a 50% quota for the OBCs in employment at the Central Government and in education at government institutions and all-India quota for the medical courses. It would call for the repeal of the 10% reservation for the poor in the general category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-ridicules-dmk-over-27-reservation-for-obcs/article38199763.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||20-km cycling lane created on ECR||The Chennai city police have created a cycling lane on a 20-km stretch of the East Coast Road (ECR). This lane has been demarcated exclusively for cyclists for use on weekends. A trial was conducted on Thursday and Saturday. The exclusive lane was proposed by City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal for the people to go on long jogs and cycling down ECR. He also instructed the police personnel to ensure safety of cyclists and joggers on the stretch and that they are free from hindrance from other vehicles. The first trial was conducted on a 12-km stretch from Akkarai Junction to Muttukadu on December 25. Many requested the Police Commissioner to extend the stretch since they felt comfortable without any hindrance from other vehicles or rash driving. On Saturday morning, the Law and Order and Traffic Police personnel together regulated the traffic and ensured that the lane was used only by cyclists and joggers from Kottivakkam to Muttukadu. A senior police officer said, "Initially, we decided to give a convenient track for cyclists between 5 a.m. and 8 a.m. from Akkarai junction to Muttukadu. Following the response and request from the public, we extended the lane for a stretch of 20 km from Kottivakkam to Muttukadu boat house. The idea was to allow them on Saturdays and Sundays but it will not be possible on Sunday this time since it is a lockdown." "We are identifying other places and exploring the possibility of creating a similar lane exclusively for cyclists. We are studying other possibilities. At least on Saturdays and Sundays, those who are willing to cycle will be allowed," the officer said. It is also proposed to create a similar lane on Rajiv Gandhi Salai from Madhya Kailash Junction to Sholinganallur junction. A trial will be conducted soon on the stretch in association with the Tambaram Police Commissionerate, police officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-km-cycling-lane-created-on-ecr-one-on-omr-soon/article38199750.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 10 lakh can get precaution dose||Over 10 lakh persons — healthcare and frontline workers and senior citizens having co-morbidities — who received their second dose of COVID-19 vaccination during February to May 2021 are eligible to get the “precaution” dose before January 31, 2022, depending on the completion of 39 weeks (273 days) after the second dose of vaccination. The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine pointed out that the Government of India had instructed to start the precaution dose for healthcare and frontline workers and those aged above 60 years with co-morbidities on January 10. Persons who have completed nine months (39 weeks) from the date of the second dose administration were eligible to receive the precaution dose from January 10. There was no need for any medical certificate, T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, said in a circular to all deputy directors of health services and the city medical officer of Greater Chennai Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-10-lakh-can-get-precaution-dose/article38199759.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pongal Malar released||The HinduTamilThisai’ s annual Pongal Malar was released by Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu on Friday.  The special publication is released every year to mark Pongal celebrations in the State. Mr. Thennarasu lauded the special publication and the articles which highlighted the different aspects of celebrating Pongal as well as other sections pertaining to cinema, spirituality, and young women achievers, among others.  Priced at Rs. 125, the 212-page special publication is available at The HinduTamil Thisai offices, shops, and can also be ordered online fromhttps://www.htamil. org/pongal22||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pongal-malar-released/article38199795.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Railways to act tough to curb smoking on trains||After fire originating from coach toilets or dustbins triggered 17 accidents in the last three years, the Ministry of Railways has decided to act tough to curb smoking on trains. As part of a ‘zero tolerance’ policy, the Railway Board directed the Railway Protection Force and ticket-checking staff not to tolerate smoking on trains and penalise the violators. “Smoking and/or disposing of the burning cigarette butt/matchstick in the toilet dustbins is a major hazard. Reckless behaviour by a few passengers is posing a threat to the safety of others on trains,” the Railway Board said in an advisory to the General Managers of Zonal Railways. Metallic bins Rolling out a plan, the advisory said loose non-metallic or fibre-reinforced plastic dustbins should be replaced with metallic dustbins in all coach toilets across the network. Railway coach manufacturing factories were told to install metallic dustbins in all new coaches. Even built-in bins should be replaced with metallic dustbins at the earliest. “Smoking on trains should not be tolerated and controlled strictly by the Railway Protection Force and ticket-checking staff by imposing penalty on violators as per rules. Zero tolerance must be the policy,” the Railway Board said. Need to refrain Besides an intense awareness campaign through all forms of the media to sensitise people to the need for refraining from smoking on board, posters should be pasted in all trains to caution passengers against smoking in the coach toilets and disposing of any burning object in the dustbin.  Smoking and/or disposing of the burning cigarette butt/matchstick in the toilet dustbins is a major hazard. Reckless behaviour by a few passengers is posing a threat to the safety of others on trains Railway Board||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-to-act-tough-to-curb-smoking-on-trains/article38199857.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Admissions for MBBS, BDS see dip in T.N.||The academic year 2021-2022 has seen 40,288 candidates apply for MBBS/BDS seats in the State. Of these, 25,511 candidates have applied for government quota seats and 14,777 for management quota seats, officials in the Department of Medical Education said. The number of aspirants is lower than that of 2019-2020 and 2020-2021. In the academic year 2019-20, 61,079 candidates applied and in 2020-21, 40,377 had applied. This year, the government is set to start admissions in the 11 new medical colleges which are scheduled to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 12. Replying to a question in the State Assembly on Friday, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said the government aimed to set up a medical college in each district in the State. The 11 new medical colleges were a step towards that goal. The Chief Minister was considering the feasibility of setting up government medical colleges in Mayiladuthurai, Tirupattur, Tenkasi, Ranipet and Kancheepuram districts. There were 10,425 seats available in 70 medical colleges, including the 1,450 seats from the 11 new medical colleges, in the State. A total of 2,450 seats were on offer in 13 deemed universities in the State. As many as 1,960 seats were available in two government dental colleges and 18 self-financing institutions, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dip-in-number-of-candidates-for-medical-dental-admissions/article38199854.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Train services curtailed||Suburban train services have been revised on Sunday in view of the complete lockdown. According to a press release, 343 train services would be operated on the four sections of Chengalpattu, Arakkonam, Velachery and Gummidipoondi along with shuttle services. The Southern Railway said it would run 120 services from Chennai Beach to Chengalpattu via Tambaram, 113 services from Moore Market complex to Arakkonam via Tiruvallur and Avadi, 60 services from Moore Market Complex to Gummidipoondi and 36 services from Chennai Beach to Velachery. All reservation centres in Chennai will remain closed on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/train-services-curtailed/article38199758.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seized clothes, bags donated by police to underprivileged children||On the face of it, the branded readymade garments looked no different from the genuine ones. They were actually counterfeit products but brought wide smiles to the faces of orphaned children, many of whom were infected with HIV. A week ahead of Pongal, the Tamil Nadu police went the extra mile to make these children happy. Acting on complaints lodged by the manufacturers of reputed brands that some gangs were selling counterfeit products in the market, Additional Director-General of Police, Crime, Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, formed special teams to conduct searches in Chennai and Madurai. Sleuths of the Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Cell seized huge quantities of shirts, t-shirts, travel and school bags and sportswear worth about Rs. 4.5 lakh during the operation. Six cases were registered against the suspects for making these products in the name of reputed brands. After investigation, the police filed a charge sheet against six persons before the Metropolitan Magistrate Court, Saidapet. The court convicted the accused in all the cases. Since the property seized cannot be returned to the convicts, the only option before the police was to destroy them. “In other Copyright cases we usually destroy the seized or criminal property. But in this case, we thought these unused clothes could be useful to underprivileged children,” Mr. Aggarwal said. The Shakunthala Dhanasekaran Charitable Trust, TVK Nagar, Chennai; the Shelter Trust for HIV Affected Children, Redhills, Chennai; and the CSI Home for Children and the CSI Home of Abundant Life, Chengalpattu were identified for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seized-clothes-bags-donated-to-underprivileged-children/article38199858.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. notice to 6 private hospitals||Greater Chennai Corporation has issued notice to six private hospitals that did not provide information about patients with COVID-19 symptoms. Chennai Corporation has directed all hospitals and scan centres to share information about patients with COVID-19 symptoms at gccpvthospitalreports@chennaicorporation.gov.in The hospitals have been sending the name, address, phone number and symptoms of the patients to the civic body. On Friday, details of 960 patients from private hospitals and 199 patients from scan centres were received by the civic body. As many as 187 of the patients tested positive for COVID-19. All the patients have been isolated. Teams of the Chennai Corporation have started monitoring the private hospitals and scan centres of the zones. On Saturday, Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi directed officials to increase the number of COVID volunteers to help residents in home isolation. At least 400 additional volunteers would be sent to the 200 wards. Zones have been asked to increase tele counsellors in areas with an increase in the number of cases, he said. In addition to the 15,573 active cases in the city, 5,098 new cases were reported on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-notice-to-6-private-hospitals/article38199752.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||No restrictions on attending family events on Sundays||The Tamil Nadu Government on Saturday announced that people could attend marriages and other family functions on Sunday (January 9) even though a complete lockdown will be in force. A Government press release said those who would like to attend marriages should show their invitations to authorities. “Only hundred persons will be allowed in marriage halls. The police will cooperate with invitees to marriages,” the release said. Food delivery The Government has also permitted restaurants, hotels and tiffin centres to deliver food to their customers through their own network and also through e-orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-restrictions-on-attending-family-events-on-sundays/article38199764.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Secure release of fishermen before Pongal’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday wrote to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar urging him to prevail upon the Sri Lankan government to release 56 fishermen from Tamil Nadu who were languishing in Sri Lankan prisons since December 19 and 20. In his letter, Mr. Stalin thanked the Centre for securing the release of 12 fishermen but 56 fishermen were still languishing in Sri Lankan prisons. Further, 75 boats belonging to the fishermen from the State were still in Sri Lanka’s custody that neededto be urgently retrieved. “In view of the Pongal festival beginning on January 13, I urge that no effort be spared to ensure that the remaining56 fishermen are released so that they can reunite with their families for the traditional Tamil festival,” the Chief Minister added.  “In view of the Pongal festival beginning on January 13, I urge that no effort be spared to ensure that the remaining56 fishermen are released||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/secure-release-of-fishermen-before-pongal/article38200203.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Award for Chennai doctor||Vijay Viswanathan, head and chief diabetologist of MV Hospital for Diabetes here, has been presented the ‘Outstanding Investigator Award’ by the the US-based World-India Diabetes Foundation. The award was presented to him at a virtual function on Saturday. The award consisted of a cash prize and a plaque. Dr. Viswanathan delivered a talk, a hospital release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/award-for-chennai-doctor/article38199751.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||Essay competition on Ahimsa||In memory of Mahatma Gandhi and thousands of freedom fighters, the Chennai-based Gandhi Peace Foundation will organise an essay competition on the subject “The Ahimsa Abundant in Me”.Those in the age group of 10 to 25 may send their essays not exceeding 500 words based on how they manage their day-to-day problems creatively using ahimsa. Those sending in their entries for the competition must mention the name, age, class/job, postal address, mobile number or email id of the writer. About 100 selected essays will be given a gift pack of 21 tiny books containing 147 stories on peace education. This will reach the selected participant on or before January 30, 2022. The last date to submit the entries is January 20, 2022. The entries should be sent by post or email to: Secretary, Gandhi Peace Foundation Madras, 332, Ambujammal Street, Alwarpet, Chennai-600018. The email id is kulandhaisamy.gpf@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/essay-competition-on-ahimsa/article38199754.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police step up enforcement of safety norms in Coimbatore city||Police have intensified enforcement of COVID-19 safety norms in view of the rise in the number of fresh cases that led to the implementation of night curfew and total lockdown on Sunday. Around 700 personnel in the city are involved in various duties related to COVID-19 management. Temporary vehicle checkpoints have been set up at 30 places within the city limits according to the police. These are in addition to the 11 permanent checkpoints. A total of 23 four-wheelers and 44 motorcycles are being used for patrols to deal with people who wander around unnecessarily and those who fail to adhere to COVID-19 safety norms such as maintaining physical distansing and wearing of mask Instructions to police City Police Commissioner Pradip Kumar has given strict instructions to personnel to enforce safety norms and avoid gathering people in public places for events like protests. Mr. Kumar has also instructed police personnel not to harass people who violate norms. During the complete lockdown on Sunday, personnel who are on duty in the city will allow people who venture out for emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-step-up-enforcement-of-safety-norms-in-coimbatore-city/article38199788.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Release life convicts who have completed 10 years in jail’||Members of various political parties and organisations, under the leadership of Manithaneya Jananayaga Katchi (MJK), staged a protest here on Saturday, demanding the release of life convicts who have completed 10 years in prison. MJK founder and Nagapattinam MLA M. Thamimun Ansari, led the protest, which saw the participation of leaders and members of Kongu Ilaignar Peravai, Mukkulathor Pulipadai, Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam, Viduthalai Tamil Puligal and the May 17 Movement. Mr. Ansari wanted the State government to implement the recommendations of the committee it appointed for the premature release of convicts. “The government should take immediate steps to release life convicts who have completed 10 years without considering their religion, caste, type of case or political affiliation. They include the likes of Perarivalan, Muslim convicts and those belonging to the Sangh Parivar,” he said. The organisers of the protest said that the agitation will be taken to the next level if the demand is not met in 100 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-life-convicts-who-have-completed-10-years-in-jail/article38199790.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Textile units seek measures to control input costs||Textiles and clothing manufacturers are hit by high raw material prices for more than a month now and have sought urgent measures from the Union government to bring down the prices. President of South India Hosiery Manufacturers Association in Tiruppur, A.C. Easwaran, said in a press release the high yarn prices because of spike in cotton prices have hit hosiery production. The industry bodies are asking for ban on cotton exports, permit export of yarn and cotton only after meeting domestic demand, and ensure that the MSMEs get the raw material prices at affordable prices. Since, there is no remedial measure from the government, the hosiery manufacturers will join the exporters in Tiruppur and down shutters on January 17 and 18. The South India Spinners’ Association has said the spinning mills stare at uncertainty because of the high price of cotton, which is the raw material for the mills. The Association president, J. Selvan, said in a press release that the price of cotton was Rs. 37,000 a candy in September 2020 as against Rs. 80,000 a candy now. He urged the Union government to remove the import duty on cotton, ban trading of cotton on commodity exchanges, and ensure that multi-national companies do not hoard cotton.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-units-seek-measures-to-control-input-costs/article38199782.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for acid attack on woman in Coimbatore||The Race Course police on Saturday arrested a 59-year-old man in connection with the acid attack on a 32-year-old woman near Ammankulam in Coimbatore on Thursday night. S. Ilangovan from Chettipalayam was arrested by the police for throwing acid on S. Radha, a resident of Ammankulam. The police said that Radha’s husband Stalin (40) of Dharmapuri and Ilangovan’s son-in-law M. Chandrasekar (40) of Vallar Nagar were working together in construction sites for the past eight years. Stalin and Radha were living separately due to differences of opinion. Ilangovan told the police that Chandrasekar was not taking care of his family of late. He suspected that his son-in-law was in a relationship with Radha. To save his daughter’s marriage, he threw acid on Radha. Ilangovan was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody. Man arrested The Podanur police on Friday arrested a 31-year-old man on charges of attempting to rob a man of his cash and mobile phone. The arrested has been identified as Syed Ali (31), a resident of Sathar Sahib Street near Podanur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-acid-attack-on-woman-in-coimbatore/article38199779.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases cross 500 in Coimbatore district||New cases of COVID-19 crossed the 500 mark in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The Health Department said that a total of 585 persons tested positive for the disease on Saturday against the 408 cases the district reported on Friday. The district’s test positivity rate stood at 4.1 % on Friday when 10,040 swab samples were subjected to tests. Active cases of the disease in Coimbatore district increased to 2,030 on Saturday. According to the Department, four persons have been tested positive for Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus in Coimbatore district so far and all of them were discharged from hospitals. The daily COVID-19 caseload of Tiruppur district crossed the 200-mark after six months as 226 new cases were reported on Saturday. Prior to this, the district’s caseload was over 200 in the first week of July 2021. No new deaths were reported and the toll remained as 1,028. A total of 62 patients recovered from COVID-19 and 724 patients were active cases in Tiruppur district as of Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-cross-500-in-coimbatore-district/article38199787.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shiv Das Meena inspects 24x7 water supply project||Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department Secretary Shiv Das Meena on Saturday visited Jayaram Nagar in Ward 76 to have a first-hand experience of the result of the 24x7 drinking water supply project, said a release from the Coimbatore Corporation. He asked about the current status of execution of the Rs. 646.71-crore project and asked the contractor to complete the work before August 2023. In Rangappa Nagar, Mr. Meena witnessed first hand the pressure with which the Corporation supplied water. He then visited the Ukkadam Periyakulam to take stock of the lake development work that the Corporation had undertaken using the Smart Cities Mission fund, the release added. Director, Municipal Administration Mr. Ponniah, Commissioner Mr. Sunkara accompanied the Secretary. Road works Earlier, on Friday the Secretary inspected two road construction works. Mr. Shiv Das Meena went to Saravanampatti to inspect the Rs. 42 lakh road work in Ward 31 and then to Siddha Naidu Layout in Central Zone to check the progress made in the Rs. 10.60 lakh road work. ‘Ensure quality’ The Coimbatore Corporation had taken up road construction work under the Tamil Nadu Urban Road Infrastructure Project, the release said and added that he asked the engineers to ensure quality in construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shiv-das-meena-inspects-24x7-water-supply-project/article38199791.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Majority of industry workers have taken COVID -19 vaccine’||Over 90 % of the workers employed at Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) and industries in Coimbatore have taken at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, according to official and industry sources here. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president M.V. Ramesh Babu said almost 90 % of the workers in the district have taken both the doses of the vaccine and the remaining are waiting for the due date to take the second dose. Even the migrant workers are covered largely because awareness has improved among them, even in rural areas. The industries are following the safety protocols and the workers are largely vaccinated. Hence, the government should not impose lockdown restrictions on industries, he said. General Manager of District Industries Centre B. Karthigaivasan said 85 % to 90 % of the workers are expected to have taken both the doses in the district. Apart from the drive by the DIC, the Health Department conducted mega campus in rural areas too and the workers took the vaccine at these camps too. There may be pockets from where information is not available on workers who have taken the vaccine and that is why the district cannot say 100 % workers are covered, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/majority-of-industry-workers-have-taken-covid-19-vaccine/article38199793.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special buses for SSC examination||The district administration has arranged special buses from railway station and Gandhipuram to transport candidates appearing for the Combined Higher Secondary Level Examination 2020 – Tier II (descriptive type exam) on January 9 (Sunday). A release from the administration said for the examination to be held at the Coimbatore Corporation R.S. Puram West Girls’ Hr. Sec. School, between 11 a.m. and noon, the candidates should carry the admit card and another identity card. At the time of inspection the candidates should show the identity cards and asked the candidates to follow COVID-19 safety guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-buses-for-ssc-examination/article38199792.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Combined Statistical Subordinate Service exam postponed||The Combined Statistical Subordinate Service examination, scheduled to be held on Sunday, would be held on January 11 (Tuesday), said a release from the district administration. The Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission was scheduled to hold the examination at 10 centres in the city on Sunday. Only the written examination would be held on January 11. The candidates could use on Tuesday the hall ticket they had downloaded for the Sunday’s examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/combined-statistical-subordinate-service-exam-postponed/article38199785.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates flower auction centre in Hosur||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday inaugurated farm-related infrastructure in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts, through video conferencing. In Dharmapuri, the CM inaugurated a facility set up at a cost of Rs. 21.82 crore in the Department of Agriculture Marketing and Agri Business. District Collector S. Divyadarshini and other senior officials, public representatives took part in the programme. The facility consists of a primary food processing unit, a cold storage unit with 2,000 tonne capacity, and a packaging centre. In Krishnagiri, the CM inaugurated an international flower auction centre in Hosur built at a cost of Rs. 20.20 crore. The centre has facilities to store 2,000 tonnes of flowers, cold storage unit, auction centre, conference hall, and 16 retail outlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-flower-auction-centre-in-hosur/article38199886.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Prices of flowers drop sharply in Dindigul wholesale market||The Tamil Nadu government’s decision for a total lockdown on Sunday and closure of shrines on three days in a week has severely hit farmers as prices of flowers fell n Dindigul on Saturday. According to a flower merchant Ponnammal at the wholesale market, following the order to close down temples, churches and mosques from Friday to Sunday, the footfall to the shrines had come to a standstill since Friday. Normally, about 40 metric tonnes of different types of flowers like jasmine, rose, ‘arali’, ‘sampangi’ and among others grown in and around Chinnalapatti, Yagapanpatti, Narasingapuram, Perumal Koil Patti, Adikaripatti and Siluvathur hamlets, arrived here in the market. Merchants from as far as Kerala and Puducherry and other parts of TN procured flowers and transported them by road and rail. However, after the G.O., the arrivals had sharply dropped to 15 tonnes in the place of 40 tonnes. The price of flowers too had taken a nosedive by at least 30 to 50 per cent. A farmer Sagayam said that the TN government should compensate and give relief for the losses due to the lockdown. “When things were looking up, the sudden announcement to close down shrines has come as an unexpected development,” he said. The officials said that the measures had to be taken keeping in mind the rising number of COVID-19 cases in different parts of the State and other locations. The priority now was to prevent the spread and enhance the inoculation to as many people as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prices-of-flowers-drop-sharply-in-dindigul-wholesale-market/article38199866.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable markets in Erode witness huge crowds ahead of total lockdown||Ahead of the total lockdown on Sunday, vegetable markets across the district saw huge crowds right from Saturday morning. Also, the prices of vegetables shot up by over 20% due to increase in demand. Since the lockdown begins at 10 p.m. on Saturday and ends at 5 a.m. on Monday, people in large numbers thronged the Nethaji vegetable and fruit market, Uzhavar sandhai and departmental stores. While traders said that business was higher by over 30%, consumers said that prices of vegetables were very high. Most of the vegetable shops did brisk business during the day. The temporary shops along the roadside were also crowded. Uzhavar sandhai functioning at Sampath Nagar, Periyar Nagar, Sathyamangalam, Perundurai and Gobichettipalayam will not function on Sunday. Police personnel deployed Meanwhile, around 1,000 police personnel were deployed across the district to ensure compliance with the total lockdown. Only essential services will be allowed during the lockdown. Hotels and restaurants can only offer takeaway services. Vehicle checks will be intensified as people are asked to move out of their homes only for medical emergencies and for travelling on trains and buses with valid tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-markets-in-erode-witness-huge-crowds-ahead-of-total-lockdown/article38199882.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sugarcane harvest begins in Erode||The harvest of sengarumbu variety of sugarcane for Pongal has begun in the villages situated on the banks of River Cauvery here.   The sengarumbu variety is cultivated in Gobichettipalayam, Sathyamangalam, Kavundapadi, Bhavani and Kodumudi areas and the harvested cane is procured by traders and sold in local markets and in nearby States.  Due to availability of water, the production was good this year, said a farmer in Kodumudi. He said the cane was widely cultivated in Samayasangili panchayat in Namakkal district. “It is a 11-month crop that needs regular maintenance and availability of labour is a challenge,” he added. Farmers said that each bundle, consisting of 20 canes, is procured for Rs. 600 to Rs. 750 from them and marketed by traders. In retail, a pair of cane is sold between Rs. 80 and Rs. 100. Increase in labour charges, transportation and production costs continue to be a concern for farmers who urge the State government to procure cane directly from them for distribution through ration shops. Though the State government ordered that a cane, not less than six feet tall, should be purchased at a maximum price of Rs. 33 a piece, farmers complained that they were forced to sell the produce at a very low rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sugarcane-harvest-begins-in-erode/article38199890.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Decision on reopening prasadam stall on temple premises soon’||Officials of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department said that a decision on reopening the prasadam stall located inside the Bhavani Sangameswarar temple that was closed after the BJP members objected to the stall selling packets with ‘halal’ certification would be taken soon.  The stall, run by Vijayalakshmi of Bhavani, is located near the Adi Kesava Perumal shrine where sweet pongal, tamarind and curd rice, laddu and other prasadams, all prepared in the temple kitchen, were sold for the devotes. On January 1, ‘murukku’ packets with certification were kept for sale in the stall. A few members of the BJP and Hindu Makkal Katchi objected to it and raised slogans in front of the stall. They said the packets were purchased from outside. The HR&CE officials conducted an inquiry and ordered closure of the stall. All the packets purchased from outside were removed and the stall was closed immediately. A notice was served on the stall licence holder seeking a written explanation. Sources said that the department had received a reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-on-reopening-prasadam-stall-on-temple-premises-soon/article38199880.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bulls raring to go and tamers are ready too||It’s mid-day and Appu, after an hour of gruelling exercise, is hunkered in his shed. He shares space with four others. Their rasping snorts fill the air but their quivering muscles belie their passive demeanour. With just a few days to go for jallikattu, these bulls are raring to go. The ‘vaadi vaasals’ in Alanganallur, Palamedu and Avaniapuram have got a fresh lick of paint and there is a palpable excitement in these areas. Due to the fresh round of restrictions imposed by the government, the people are keeping their fingers crossed. R. Govindaraja, Jallikattu Committee Member, Alanganallur, says, “If the government cancels jallikattu, we are ready to accept the decision. But we would be happy if these games are conducted under strict norms and even without spectators.” As of now 750 bulls have been registered for the jallikattu in Alanganallur and most of them have been examined and certified by the government veterinary doctors. A little down the road, in an open space, sits Manikandan, 21. He, along with his relatives, is grooming two bulls. Having lost two front teeth in a jallikattu, when a bull tossed him face down, Manikandan displays these scars with pride. “How can we not have the jallikattu event. It is sacrosanct for us. Let the public watch it on TV, but we have to let the bulls run,” he says. For a year, young men like him walk, talk and breathe ways to train and tame bulls. As the jallikattu season dawns, many of these young men even keep fasts praying to their family deities so that they can prove their mettle on the field. For these young men, it is not just a game that showcases their valour but it is part and parcel of their religious belief. P. Rajasekaran, president, Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Peravai, acknowledges the fact that the pandemic had indeed made things complicated. But he says they are ready to conduct all the events under strict COVID-19 protocol. All bull tamers and owners, he stresses, have been fully vaccinated. “If the government wants, we are ready to hold the events without spectators,” Mr. Rajasekaran adds. Exercise goes on With the debate still on regarding the conduct of these events, at a farm in Varichiyur, Sundara Valli, 40, a petite woman, is busy looking after the training schedule of 12 powerful bulls. All of these are veterans in the arena and have bagged various awards. Beginning from Karthigai, she has started an intensive daily routine of half an hour of swimming in the village pond and half an hour at a mud pit where these bulls gore the earth and toss the loosened soil up in the air. Once done, they are ready for their special diet that consists of black gram skin, cotton seeds and ‘kollu’ (horse gram) . As of now these stately bulls paw the ground waiting impatiently for the day when they can take the tamers for a ride.  The waiting game||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bulls-raring-to-go-and-tamers-are-ready-too/article38199851.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Litigant tried to offer bribe: AGP||Coming across an issue of a litigant having tried repeatedly to offer bribe to an Additional Government Pleader (AGP) by approaching his juniors, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has referred the matter to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC). In 2021, the litigant, S. Kumaravel of Madurai district, had filed a petition seeking a direction to the Collector to reduce the punishment period of increment stoppage awarded to him. He allegedly tried to approach the AGP and attempted to offer a bribe to favour him in the case. When the petition came up for hearing before Justice B. Pugalendhi, AGP A. Kannan told the judge that Kumaravel approached his juniors posing as an officer, and offered to pay any amount if he favoured him in the case. Even after Mr. Kannan told the litigant’s advocate about the incident, Kumaravel contacted Mr. Kannan’s junior reiterating that he was ready to offer a bribe. The judge told Mr. Kannan to file a memo in this regard. The judge observed that it was unfortunate that corruption had reached this extent. The petitioner who was facing punishment got to know whom this case had been allotted to, collected the details of his juniors and approached them. The judge took into account the fact that the petitioner had come to the AGP’s office posing as an officer who had come to give instructions on the petition. Such an act by the petitioner had to be deprecated and dealt with in an appropriate manner. The court referred the matter to the DVAC and directed authorities to conduct an inquiry. The judge appreciated AGP Kannan for bringing the issue to the knowledge of the court. The court sought a report in this regard. It is said that Kumaravel was working in Alanganallur panchayat union office as an Assistant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/litigant-tried-to-offer-bribe-agp-tells-hc/article38199832.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Historian, poet get Puthumaipithan award||Historian and writer Stalin Rajangam and feminist poet Sukirtharani were honoured with Puthumaipithan Memorial Award by Vilakku Ilakkiya Amaippu, a U.S. based forum, for 2020. This was the 25th Puthumaipithan Memorial Award. At the award function organised in Madurai on Saturday, Mr. Stalin Rajangam said that he focused on the research methodology to document the life and cultural identity of people belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The writer said that he adopted the methodology that was followed by social reformer and thinker Iyothee Thass Pandithar. He said that his work aimed at documenting the contributions made by SC and ST people to society. The objective was to bring out the contributions made through the research and document them. He said that he carried out extensive field work as part of his research and was honoured to receive the award. Poet Sukirtharani shared her experience on becoming a poet. She said that she preferred to be called ‘eco-feminist’ as feminism was connected with nature. The poet said that she was happy to receive the award and would continue to write to bring change in society. She said that writing was not only her weapon, but also her life. Ms. Sukirtharani said that she would be focusing on liberation of women and marginalised people. Scholars and writers spoke on the works and contributions made by the awardees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/historian-poet-get-award/article38199856.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Crime Branch directed to register case against OPS, his son||The Theni Special Court has directed the District Crime Branch (DCB) police here to register cases against AIADMK coordinator and former Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and his son O.P. Raveendranath Kumar, a Lok Sabha MP, for alleged offenses under Section 125-A of the Representation of People (RP) Act. Following a complaint by Milani, a former DMK district youth wing coordinator, the court ordered the police to register a case. The complainant alleged that the accused had knowingly furnished false information, regarding their immovable properties, agricultural properties, annual income, liabilities and educational qualification, in the affidavits filed with the nomination papers as per Sections 33 and 33-A of the RP Act. The court observed that the case required further deliberation, by way of police investigation, in order to bring the entire truth and best evidence with regard to the facts alleged in the complaint. Besides, the case intrinsically assumed much public interest as the matter pertained to the Constitutional process of electing an MLA or MP to the State Assembly. It is the anguish of every citizen that the nation is still fighting to conduct a fair election in terms of constitutional provisions. “Therefore, we cannot set an example by making the complainant prosecute this case through a private complaint. It is the duty of government agencies to prosecute cases of this nature,” the judge noted. Moreover, the law is well settled that when the complaint has been filed under Section 190 of CrPC, it is the prerogative of the Magistrate to decide whether to proceed under Section 200 of CrPC or to give direction for a police investigation by taking into consideration the nature of each case. Hence, as far as this case was concerned, for the reasons discussed above, the court deemed it fit to invoke Section 156 (3) of the Criminal Procedure Code. The court also directed the police to give protection to the complainant and adjourned the case for February 7.  We cannot set an example by making the complainant prosecute this case through a private complaint. It is the duty of government agencies to prosecute cases of this nature Theni Special Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crime-branch-directed-to-register-case-against-ops-his-son/article38199769.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC: Expect State to install CCTV cameras in schools||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday observed that it expected the State to install CCTV cameras in all government schools to ensure the safety of students, particularly girls. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran observed that CCTV cameras should be installed at important places in schools. The judges observed that many government schools in the State lacked compound walls, and antisocial elements were using the premises to consume alcohol and drugs. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by S. Shanmugam seeking basic amenities such as adequate drinking water and toilets at the Government High School in Karambakudi in Pudukottai district.The petitioner sought a direction to authorities concerned to construct a compound wall at the school, where most of the students were from humble backgrounds.He said the school building was damaged in Cyclone Gaja. Pointing to the dilapidated condition of the school building, the petitioner said it could collapse at any moment. In the absence of a compound wall, antisocial elements were using the premises to consume alcohol, and they often broke bottles on the school premises. It was dangerous for the students and could be prevented only by constructing a compound wall, the petitioner claimed. He pointed out that there was no proper infrastructure and no watchman appointed to the school. He also sought a direction to the authorities to install a napkin vending machine and incinerator in the school.The court sought a report from the authorities and adjourned the hearing by four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-expect-state-to-install-cctv-cameras-in-schools/article38199841.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Compensation to kin of 2020 cracker unit fire victims sanctioned’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court was on Friday told that the State government had sanctioned Rs. 3 lakh each to the families of the 14 victims who lost their lives in the fire accident at Rajammal Fireworks unit in Virudhunagar district in 2020. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan took note of the submission by the State that the amount was sanctioned from the Chief Minister’s relief fund. The family members of the victims had to appear before the Virudhunagar Collector and the amount would be handed over to them, the court was told. The judge, who was hearing the petitions filed by the family members of the victims, directed Virudhunagar District Legal Services Authority to take necessary efforts to ensure that the amount was paid to them. They had complained that the government had announced an interim compensation of Rs. 1 lakh each and the Collector had also assured them that adequate compensation would be provided to them. They had sent several representations to the authorities in this regard, but they did not receive any compensation, they said. They said since the State had allowed Rajammal Fireworks to function without a proper licence and permission, the authorities were vicariously liable to pay the compensation. The authorities had failed to properly monitor cracker units in the region, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/compensation-to-kin-of-2020-cracker-unit-fire-victims-sanctioned/article38199862.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||High Court grants bail to accused in financial fraud case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has granted bail with conditions to one of the main accused in the Kumbakonam financial fraud case, M.R. Ganesh. Earlier, the court had granted bail to his brother M.R. Saminathan, also a main accused in the case. The brother’s known as ‘Helicopter Brothers’ of Kumbakonam, Thanjavur district have been accused of cheating several investors in Kumbakonam. The brothers were operating a dairy business in Kumbakonam. They were also running a financial company. The case of the prosecution was that the brothers induced several persons to invest in their company under various schemes. Later, the accused brothers failed to repay the money to the investors. The State submitted that the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) was still receiving complaints from the investors and some of the properties of the accused brothers had been attached. The State opposed the bail petition. Justice R. Tharani took into account the fact that the charge sheet in the case was not filed on time and observed that the petitioner was entitled to statutory bail. The court granted bail to the petitioner with conditions - that the petitioner must report before the EOW daily till further orders. In his petition, Ganesh said that he was having health problems and was in judicial custody for more than 150 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-grants-bail-to-accused-in-financial-fraud-case/article38199842.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC Judge tests positive||A High Court Judge at Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court and a few court staff have tested positive for COVID-19. The test results of the others at the High Court Bench were awaited, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-judge-tests-positive/article38200098.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC restrains sand mining activities||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has restrained a man from carrying out sand mining activities on a portion of land located near a pond in Virudhunagar district. The local villagers had complained that rampant mining activities had reduced the groundwater level. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran restrained R. Chithira Velu from carrying out the mining activities from the land in Kariapatti taluk in Virudhunagar district. The court was hearing the petition filed by C. Panthanam of Kariapatti. She complained that due to the rampant mining on the land, it affected the nearby waterbody and also resulted in reduced groundwater level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-restrains-sand-mining-activities/article38199855.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level in Mullaperiyar, Vaigai dams||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at 138.85 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 190 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.34 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 954 cusecs and a discharge of 869 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,059 mcft. Manjalar dam recorded a rainfall of 8 mm and Melur 2 mm during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-in-mullaperiyar-vaigai-dams/article38200101.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Silambu Express makes unscheduled stop near Aruppukottai||Chennai-Shencottah Silambu Express made an unscheduled stop near Aruppukottai railway station for about three hours in the early hours of Saturday. According to railway sources, the tri-weekly train, which left Chennai at 8.25 p.m. on Friday, reached Thottiankulam near Aruppukottai railway station at around 5.45 a.m. on Saturday. An eye witness said the alert loco pilot stopped the train after he spotted long electric wires that got snapped over the roof of the engine. After alerted, technical staff and senior officials arrived at the spot and commenced the operation to remove the wires. Meanwhile, some passengers alighted from the train, got into private vehicles after walking some distance and proceeded to Aruppukottai. After about three hours, when the wires were completely removed, the train was allowed to proceed towards Shencottah. A senior official in the Railway Division said they would conduct an investigation. Electrification works were under way between Manamadurai and Virudhunagar via Aruppukottai. Another train detained Meanwhile, a train bound for Tiruchi from Virudhunagar was detained at Aruppukottai for about two hours. After Silambu Express was cleared, the train proceeding to Tiruchi was cleared, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silambu-express-makes-unscheduled-stop/article38199868.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at 138.85 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 190 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.34 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 954 cusecs and a discharge of 869 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,059 mcft. Manjalar dam recorded a rainfall of 8 mm and Melur 2 mm during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38199873.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coconut value-addition centre opens at Shenbhagaramanpudur||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin on Saturday inaugurated through videoconference a coconut value-addition centre established at Shenbhagaramanpudur near here on an outlay of Rs. 16 crore, which is expected to boost the farm economy. Though coconuts play an important role in the economy of Kanniyakumari district, the farm produce are sent to other districts either as tender coconuts or coconuts and no step has been taken to add value. When Cyclone Ockhi felled thousands of coconut trees in the district, the trunks were sold at throwaway price to be used either in construction industry or as brick kiln fuel. Though Kerala has introduced a range of value added products - from packaged tender coconut water to handicrafts made with coconut shell – the State government did not do anything in this direction. Following attempts made by agriculturists on several occasions, the request was taken up with the then Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamy by the then Special Representative for Delhi and present MLA of Kanniyakumari N. Thalavai Sundaram during the former’s visit to the district in November 2020 and the government subsequently sanctioned the value-addition centre at Shenbhagaramanpudur. “The facility will grade coconuts being produced in Kanniyakumari before it is sent to various destinations for marketing. Moreover, it will pave way for a number of value-added products using coconut as raw material. In other words, coconut, which is being sold as such in the market, will augment the producers’ income,” says Mr. Thalavai Sundaram. The centre will have facilities to prepare desiccated coconut powder, dry coconut, virgin coconut oil, wooden press oil, coconut charcoal, coal blocks, refrigeration and packaging facility to market tender coconut water, neera (coconut pathaneer) etc. he says. The coconut value-addition centre has been established under National Agriculture Development Programme. The coconut will be dried naturally using sunlight using solar driers, besides being dried in traditional methods. The well-connected centre near Thovaalai has two storage points each having the capacity of storing 500 tonnes of coconut, auction hall, packing hall, dormitory for farmers and workers, canteen, retail shops, administrative office etc. Apart from this, the Department of Horticulture is working on conserving traditional coconut seedlings being grown largely in Kanniyakumari district like Jawa, Jaffna Nettai, Malaysian Green, Malaysian Orange, Nakkuvaari, Sowcot Orange Short, Eeththamozhi Nettai, West Coast Nettai etc. in the coconut seedlings farm at Puththalm near Rajakkalmangalam. Collector M. Aravind inspected the coconut value-addition centre after it was inaugurated.  The centre will have facilities to prepare desiccated coconut powder, oil, coal blocks and also refrigeration facility to market tender coconut water and pathaneer N. Thalavai Sundaram Kanniyakumari, MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coconut-value-addition-centre-opens/article38199869.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||Traders told to follow norms||District Collector Shreya P. Singh has advised the traders in the district to follow COVID-19 safety protocols issued by the State government and ensure all employees are vaccinated. The Collector interacted with the traders and representatives of trade organisations here and advised them to strictly adhere to COVID-19 prevention guidelines issued by State government. The traders were advised to ensure facilities for hand sanitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-told-to-follow-norms/article38199884.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||Direct paddy procurement centre opened||District Collector Shreya P. Singh inaugurated a direct paddy procurement centre at Pallipalayam on Friday.  Ms.Singh inaugurated the centre set up at the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation at Elanthakuttai panchayat. She said that to facilitate easy procurement of paddy, farmers can register on the websites www.tncsc.gov.in and www.tncsc.edpc.in with their Aadhaar number, bank account and other required details and book the date. She said that message regarding procurement would be sent to farmers mobile numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/direct-paddy-procurement-centre-opened/article38199883.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested under POCSO Act||Two youths were arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for marrying minor girls in separate incidents here on Friday. According to the officials, following information to the Childline helpline number 1098 that S. Kabinath (20) from Edayappatti has married a 17-year-old girl from the locality Namakkal All Women police arrested him under the Act and he was remanded. Similarly, an 18-year-old youth from Vattur in Tiruchengode was arrested and remanded following information that he had married a 15 year-old girl from his locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-under-pocso-act/article38199891.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP stages protest over PM’s security breach||Puducherry unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday held a protest near the Gandhi Statue to condemn the ‘security breach’ during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent visit to Punjab. Led by the party’s Puducherry president V. Saminathan, party workers, including Home Minister A. Namassivayam, Minister for Civil Supplies A. K. Sai J. Saravana Kumar and legislators, shouted slogans against the Congress, accusing the party of sabotaging the Prime Minister’s security in a border district. ‘Compromising security’ They held the Congress government in Punjab responsible for “compromising the security” of the Prime Minister. Earlier on Friday night, a delegation comprising Mr. Saminathan and Mr. Namassivayam, met Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and submitted a memorandum to express their anguish at the incident. They urged the Lieutenant Governor to take up the issue with President Ram Nath Kovind. The memorandum said the “absence” of Punjab Chief Minister, Chief Secretary and Director General of Police, brings out the compromise made on protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-stages-protest-over-pms-security-breach/article38200180.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records one COVID-19 death and 280 fresh infections||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded one death due to COVID-19 and a huge spike in the number of daily infections, with 280 persons testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, ending Saturday 10 a.m. A 57-year-old, hailing from Villianur with no history of any other health issues, succumbed to the virus at the Government Chest Hospital. The toll in the Union Territory has increased to 1882. The test positivity rate has gone up from 5. 26 % on Friday to 7. 88 % on Saturday. The fresh cases were detected from the screening of 3554 persons. As per data released by the Health Department, 234 fresh cases were detected in Puducherry region, 27 in Karaikal and 19 in Mahe. The recovery rate has come down from 98.12 % to 97.92 % on Saturday. Of the 825 active COVID-19 cases currently in the Union Territory, 729 are under home isolation and 96 in government hospitals. Vaccination camp Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday inspected the vaccination camp for teenagers held at Amalorpavam Higher Secondary School. Interacting with reporters, she said there was no hesitation from children to get vaccinated. “The one lakh adults, who were yet to get vaccinated in the Union Territory, should take their cue from children. They are not showing any hesitancy but adults are reluctant. As cases rise, vaccination and adherence to norms, especially wearing of masks, are the only ways to prevent getting infected,” the Lieutenant Governor said. Physical classes held in educational institutions would be reconsidered if the situation demands, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-one-covid-19-death-280-fresh-infections/article38200184.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector visits COVID-19 treatment ward at GH||District Collector S. Karmegham along with health authorities and doctors visited the COVID-19 treatment ward at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here on Saturday. The Collector enquired about the treatment facilities at the hospital and interacted with patients. Mr. Karmegham along with Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy, Medical Superintendent P.V. Dhanapal and other health officials visited the COVID-19 ward at the hospital. According to officials, there are over 400 beds available for COVID-19 treatment at the hospital and the bed strength could be increased as required. The Collector also enquired about the food being provided to patients. The Collector along with Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj and other officials visited the COVID-19 Care Centre at Thongum Poonga. About 200 beds have been set up at the multipurpose hall to treat COVID-19 patients. The Collector assessed the facilities for patients and diet arrangements. The Collector earlier interacted with managements of private hospitals in Salem regarding treatment for third wave of the pandemic. The hospitals were advised to intimate district administration immediately when a patient is admitted for COVID-19 treatment and follow all protocols issued by the State government. According to officials, 24 private hospitals can provide COVID-19 treatment in the district and six hospitals have medical oxygen generation plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-visits-covid-19-treatment-ward-at-gh/article38199885.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Amma Kovil’ demolished in Thanjavur||Corporation officials have demolished a structure, referred to as Amma Kovil , erected over an open drain on West Raja Veedhi here.   AIADMK member and former municipal councillor Swaminathan had converted an erstwhile stable near Konganeswarar temple on West Raja Veedhi into Amma Kovil in 2017 and performed puja to the portrait of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa.  Officials had earlier left the structure untouched during an anti-encroachment drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amma-kovil-demolished-in-thanjavur/article38199893.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shortage of Pongal gift hampers irks cardholders||The shortage of ‘Pongal’ gift hampers has irked the cardholders and the ration shop workers face verbal abuse from the cardholders. As the distribution of ‘Pongal’ gift hampers with 21 items started recently, the ration shop workers were giving the freebies to the cardholders in phased manner in a bid to restrict the crowd. However, the short supply has irked the cardholders and has left the ration shop workers in an unpleasant situation. The ration shop at Tooveypuram has received only 950 gift hampers against the 1,400 cards the shop has. The ration shop on the Second Street of Anna Nagar in Thoothukudi has received only 700 gift hampers against the total number of 920 rice cards attached to this shop. “Of this 700 gift hampers, only 684 bags had all 21 items while the remaining bags did not have ghee, cumin and a few more items. The cardholders, suspecting the workers of having taken these items, abuse us verbally,” said a ration shop worker. The disappointed cardholders say that they had visited the shops at least twice and every time they were told that they would be given the gift hamper once it was received. “After my two unsuccessful visits to the ration shop, I came to the shop today (Saturday). I have been told to come again on Tuesday to check if the fresh stocks of gift hampers have arrived. It shows poor planning by the State government,” said a cardholder, a retired private firm worker. Another major grievance of the cardholders is that the sugarcanes being given along with the gift hamper was of very “inferior quality”. “The sugarcane being given in the ration shop is like a thin cane being used by the school teachers… Why should I receive it as my children will just throw it away,” said a woman who received the gift hamper from a ration shop in Bryant Nagar. Admitting that there was ‘Pongal’ gift hamper short supply, the officials said the issue would be sorted out during next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shortage-of-pongal-gift-hampers-irks-cardholders/article38199867.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector’s gesture to physically challenged woman||A poor physically challenged woman from Aazhikkudi, a sleepy hamlet in Srivaikundam taluk, received an unexpected guest - Collector K. Senthil Raj - at her doorsteps on Saturday. Even before her surprise could subside, the Collector handed over her a laminated document – free house site patta. She was in tears when he gave her the order for getting a free house. As S. Bhanumathi, a differently-abled woman from Aazhikkudi village in Karungulam union had been living in a rented house, a dilapidated structure, she had submitted a petition to Dr. Senthil Raj during the grievances redressal meet seeking free house site patta. After considering the petition, the Collector visited her house on Saturday and handed over the free house site patta and the order for the construction of green house. She could not control her tears as she received the gifts from the Collector. Dr. Senthil Raj also inspected the ongoing construction of green houses in nearby Kongaraayakurichi. When he inspected the construction of an overhead tank in the village, the Collector asked the officials to complete at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-gesture-to-physically-challenged-woman/article38199853.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID Care Centres are back as cases rise in central districts||COVID Care Centres are being set up in central districts where the number of cases has witnessed a sharp rise over the last week. Asymptomatic and mild patients of COVID-19 will be admitted to the centres where health officials will be able to monitor them round the clock. In Tiruchi, where the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases has been steep, a total of 2,000 beds are being readied.  Speaking to The Hindu , Collector S. Sivarasu said that bookings at Yatri Nivas for devotees of Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam had been stopped as it was being converted into a COVID Care Centre. With a capacity of 380 beds, it was one of the biggest centres in the city.  Five other centres, Bharathidasan University Khajamalai campus (150 beds), Bishop Heber College (350); Nehru Memorial College, Puthanampatti, (150), Kalaiarangam (150) and Government College of Engineering, Sethurapatti, (400), were also being readied. The facilities would be ready for use by Monday. In Karur, five COVID Care Centres were being set up, a district health official said. Of them, 550 beds were at Government Hospital. Chettinadu College, Government Arts College and two other centres were also being prepared. In Pudukottai district, all Block Primary Healthcare Centres had been asked to ready 15 beds, Deputy Director of Health Services K. V. Arjun Kumar said. The Siddha Care Centre would have 80 beds, the old government hospital campus 100, Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department hostels 200, Agricultural College and Research Institute, Kudumiyanmalai, 500. “We have also increased our testing capacity to up to 3000 samples a day,” Dr. Arjun Kumar said. In Thanjavur district, following a meeting with the Collector and other health officials, four COVID Care Centres were being readied with a total bed capacity of 1,484. In Vallam, 704 beds had been allotted, Pattukottai 480 and Kumbakonam Annai College 300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-care-centres-are-back-as-cases-rise-in-central-districts/article38199838.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||Traders apprehensive over relocation||With the possibility of wholesale vegetable sale at Gandhi Market being temporarily shifted due to rapid rise in COVID-19 cases looming large, traders here have expressed reservations over any such move. Corporation officials held a meeting with representatives of traders’ associations a couple of days ago to sound them out on such a possibility and to discuss possible alternative locations. It was indicated that the traders may have to move as was done during the first and second wave of the pandemic in 2020 and 2021. However, the representatives expressed their views against any such move. “The officials brought up the issue right at the beginning of the meeting and indicated that we may have to move out of the market temporarily, depending on directions from the government with respect to the functioning of Koyambedu and other markets. But we requested them not to close the market and make us run from pillar to post as during the previous occasions,” said M. K. Kamalakannan, president, Gandhi Market Vyabarigal Munnetra Sangam. Gandhi Market was closed in March 2020 in view of COVID-19 threat and the wholesale market temporarily initially functioned on the service lane near Ariyamangalam on Chennai By-Pass Road and later at G. Corner grounds. Temporary retail markets functioned at a few places across the city. The traders were asked to move during the second wave, too, but this time to West Boulevard Road in May last after they refused to move to G. Corner grounds, citing practical difficulties and loss of business. Justifying their demand, Mr. Kamalakkannan says people and traders are bound to visit vegetable markets wherever they functioned for their essential requirements. “If the authorities keep all 10 gates of Gandhi Market open, there will be no congestion. We are prepared to adhere to all other conditions and safety protocol that needs to be followed..” According to a senior Corporation official, a decision will be made based on the government’s directive with respect to the functioning of Koyambedu market in Chennai. Public interest is paramount, the official said, pointing to the rapid rise in COVID-19 cases. Meanwhile, traders including Mr. Kamalakannan, have urged the district authorities to ensure that traders headed to the market and vehicles transporting vegetables are not stopped during the night curfew. Traders may be issued identity cards for the purpose. Similarly, farm labourers should be able to go to the fields to carry out the harvest and transport the produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-apprehensive-over-relocation/article38199847.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||Club to promote mental health awareness||Athma Hospitals and Research, a private psychiatric institute, recently signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College to establish a ‘Mind Club’ to offer counseling to students on mental health.  The club is aimed at raising awareness about mental health issues and self-destructive behaviour such as substance abuse. “We will be training students to become advisers in personality development, so that young people can understand how to lead healthy lives, physically and mentally, from their own peers,” J. Karan Louis, community psychiatric counselor, Athma Hospitals, told The Hindu .  The closure of schools and college and shift to online classes had affected the mental health of many students, added Mr. Louis. “We have seen increased cases of smartphone addiction, because the devices have become mandatory for online education. Instead of using the smartphones for studying, many children have got addicted to non-stop gaming, online gambling and even pornography during lockdown," he said. “We are keen on setting up the Mind Club programme in all colleges in Tiruchi district,” said K. Ramakrishnan, managing director and chief psychiatrist, Athma Hospitals. Geetha Rajasekar, director, Athma Hospitals, Ammangi V. Balaji, secretary, and M.Pitchaimani, principal, Srimad Andavan College and other senior officials were present at the MoU signing ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/club-to-promote-mental-health-awareness/article38199840.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized||The Customs Air Intelligence Unit on Thursday seized 254.50 gm of 24 carat gold in powder form, concealed as soft drink powder, from a passenger at the international airport here. Based on intelligence, the male passenger, who arrived from Kuala Lumpur, was intercepted. They found the gold powder concealed “ingeniously” in the soft drink powder. Gold ingot valued at Rs. 12,34,834 was recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized/article38199863.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||499 new cases, zero deaths||A marked increase in the number of COVID-19 cases was reported in the central region, as a total of 499 people tested positive for the viral infection on Saturday. However, no death was reported in the region as per the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. In Tiruchi, where the increase was the most evident, 237 patients tested positive. Thanjavur too witnessed an increase with 94 fresh cases. Perambalur reported 52 cases, the first time such a high number had been reported in the district since the second wave of COVID-19. Nagapattinam registered 36 cases, while Mayiladuthurai reported 27. Nineteen cases were registered in Tiruvarur, 16 in Karur, 14 in Pudukottai and four in Ariyalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/499-new-cases-zero-deaths/article38199836.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 triaging centre resumes functioning||The COVID-19 triaging centre at Gandhimathi Higher Secondary School near Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital in Palayamkottai, which played a major role during the second wave of the viral infection in segregating the patients based on their conditions after contracting the infection, was revived on Saturday with the sudden surge in number of COVID-19 cases. District Collector V. Vishnu, who inaugurated the triaging centre, said four more similar facilities would be created at Koodankulam, Valliyoor, Ambasamudram and Cheranmahadevi. Instead of taking the patients directly to the hospitals upon being tested positive for the viral infection, the patients would be taken to the triaging centre first, where the patients’ health parameters such as fever, blood pressure, breathing conditions, oxygen saturation levels etc. would be tested. If the patient is comfortable with satisfactory oxygen saturation levels, he or she would be home quarantined after giving medicines. If the health parameters were not satisfactory, then the patient would get admitted in the hospital or COVID Care Centres for treatment. If the oxygen saturation level was alarming, the patient would be rushed to the oxygen-supported beds in the intensive medical care units either in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital or in the hospitals designated for treating the COVID-19 patients. When Mr. Vishnu came-out with the idea of establishing the triaging centre, the first of its kind facility in Tamil Nadu, the burden of TVMCH was significantly reduced and this system was replicated in all other districts after Minister for Health Ma. Subramanian visited the facility. As the number of fresh cases is going up sharply after a brief lull, Mr. Vishnu has revived the triaging centre at Gandhimathi Higher Secondary School and increased its number to five by establishing four more similar facilities anticipating more number of cases in the days to come. Mr. Vishnu also flagged off mobile vaccination units for vaccinating hitherto uncovered people in Tirunelveli Corporation, Valliyoor and Maanur areas. Each mobile unit with first-aid kits including oxygen cylinder will have a doctor, a nurse, a superintendent and an assistant. The Collector informed that 52,081 of the 76,400 teens between the age of 15 and 18 had been vaccinated and urged the hitherto uncovered youth to get vaccinated at the earliest. Dean, TVMCH, M. Ravichandran, Deputy Director of Health Services Krishnaleela, City Health Officer Rajendran and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-triaging-centre-resumes-functioning/article38199860.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||HM held for sexually harassing girl student||The headmaster of a government-aided higher secondary school in Thisaiyanvilai has been arrested for allegedly sexually harassing a girl student. Police said Christopher Jebakumar, 50, of Yemankulam was a headmaster of a government-aided higher secondary school in Thisaiyanvilai. When he took classes for Plus One students, he allegedly sexually harassed a girl student and reportedly sent obscene messages to her on her mobile phone. The girl informed her parents about the harassment and they filed a complaint with Thisaiyanvilai police, who registered a case against Christopher Jebakumar under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Even as the police were on the lookout for the accused, the Tirunelveli CSI Diocese, which administers the school, placed Christopher Jebakumar under suspension on December 29 last. As he went underground to evade his arrest, the Hindu Munnani announced that the school would be closed if the accused was not arrested. Against this backdrop, Christopher Jebakumar was arrested on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hm-held-for-sexually-harassing-girl-student/article38199864.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 133.15 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 502.54 cusecs and 704.75 cusecs of water was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 117.85 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 180 cusecs and 260 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38200202.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Grievance meets cancelled in Tiruppur||District Collector S. Vineeth on Saturday announced the cancellation of weekly grievance redress meets and the monthly grievance meets for farmers, which are held at the District Collectorate in Tiruppur, till further notice in view of the rising COVID-19 cases. In a release, he appealed to the public to not visit the Collectorate regarding their grievances to prevent the spread of virus. Henceforth, residents of Tiruppur district shall communicate their grievances to the district administration every Monday by contacting 97000 41114 between 10.30 a.m. and 1 p.m., he said. The public shall also communicate their grievances via WhatsApp to this contact number on other days, Mr. Vineeth said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grievance-meets-cancelled-in-tiruppur/article38199781.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||1,000 police personnel to be deployed in Tiruppur||Tiruppur City Police will deploy around 1,000 police personnel on Sunday to monitor adherence to the one-day lockdown. Police sources said on Saturday that 10 check-posts have been set up in the city police limits to monitor vehicle movement. Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha has instructed all the police personnel to be polite while dealing with the public. Meanwhile, Tiruppur Corporation said that four COVID-19 screening centres were opened on Saturday. According to a press release, the centre for Zone-I is located at Ward No. 14 at Velampalayam, Zone-II screening centre at Ward No. 18 in Nanjappa Nagar, centre for Zone-III at Ward No. 35 in Nallur and the screening centre for Zone-IV at Ward No. 52 in Andipalayam. The centres will provide guidance with those who have tested positive for COVID-19 to isolate themselves at their residences or to get admitted at a hospital/COVID-19 care centre, the release said. Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati on Saturday inspected the COVID-19 care centre at Nanjappa Municipal Boys Higher Secondary School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1000-police-personnel-to-be-deployed-in-tiruppur/article38199783.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two college students found dead||Two first-year college students were found dead at a residence in Tiruppur on Friday. The police said on Saturday that T. Saran, 18, and V. Vinitha, 18, hailed from Pudukottai district. The two were allegedly in a relationship and were living together at a rented house in Veerapandi for nearly a year. The boy was studying at a private college in Coimbatore district and the girl at a college in Pudukottai district. The Veerapandi police had recovered a suicide note allegedly written by the boy and its contents were being analysed, the police said. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-college-students-found-dead/article38199797.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||Godowns inaugurated||Rural godowns constructed under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (National Agriculture Development Programme) at Tiruvarur, Poonthottam, Mannargudi and Thiruthuraipoondi were dedicated to the nation on Saturday. A sum of Rs. 14 crore was spent on construction of 500-tonne capacity godown at Tiruvarur, Mannargudi (1,000), Poonthottam (3,000) and Thriuthuraipoondi (5,000) under the Centrally sponsored NADP scheme. They were inaugurated by Chief Minister, M.K. Stalin through video conference on Saturday. Works are afoot for construction of godowns having a total storage capacity of 6,500 tonnes at Muthupettai, Kottur, Needamangalam, Kudavasal, Koradacherry and Valangaiman taluks at a total cost of Rs. 1,0.30 crore funding from NABARD-Rural Infrastructure Development Fund, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/godowns-inaugurated/article38199846.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||More tourists visit the Nilgiris in 2021, compared to 2020||After a challenging period for the tourism and hospitality sector in the Nilgiris due to the COVID-19 pandemic, 2021 witnessed the resurgence of the industry that provides the most livelihoods to local residents, as visitors to the district are believed to have doubled compared to 2020. The Tourism Department uses a few parameters to judge the number of visitors to the district, with the number of visitors to the Nilgiris’ most popular tourism spot – the Government Botanical Garden (GBG), being the most accurate means of calculating tourist inflow. Based on the figures released by the Horticulture Department in the Nilgiris, more than 17 lakh people visited the GBG, which is almost double the number of visitorsin 2019. Officials from the Tourism and Horticulture Departments said that the main reason for the increase was the shorter lockdown periods in 2021. “When compared with 2020, when the garden, as well as all tourist places, were shut down for five months, the garden was only closed for three months in 2021, in May, June and July,” said an official from the Horticulture Department. Following the reopening of the district to tourists in August, the number of visitors steadily increased, with around 2.5 lakh people visiting the garden in November and December. Sivasubramaniam Samraj, Joint Director of Horticulture, Nilgiris district, said that tourists were being reassured that it was safe to travel to the Nilgiris due to strict enforcement of COVID-19 protocols. “In gardens and parks maintained by the Horticulture Department, as well as in other tourist spots, people not wearing masks are not allowed to enter, while strict enforcement of personal distancing is also maintained,” he said. N. Chandrashekar, honorary secretary of the Nilgiri Hotel and Restaurant Association (NHRA), said that hotels and businesses have done well, especially during the last three months of 2021. “The number of tourist visitors has definitely increased, when compared with 2020. Since the New Year, visitor numbers have dropped again.” Though 2021 witnessed more visitors to the district than in 2020, tourism has still not bounced back to pre-pandemic levels, said officials. In 2019, the number of visitors to the Nilgiris was estimated to be around 30 lakh visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-tourists-visit-the-nilgiris-in-2021-compared-to-2020/article38199800.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Use of earth excavators without approval to attract criminal charges in the Nilgiris||The use of earth movers and mini excavators by private individuals for laying roads, landscaping and for construction work is banned, said Nilgiris District Collector S.P. Amrith on Sunday. In a press release, the Collector said that recent reports of the use of excavators were investigated by the Nilgiris district administration. The use of heavy machinery for landscaping work in the district which is a biosphere reserve is banned unless express permission is given for their use in agricultural works by the Collector. Permission will be granted only after inspections by the agricultural engineering department, revenue department as well as the department of geology and mining. After the investigations, one earth mover, a lorry and five mini excavators had been seized across the Nilgiris, said the Collector. Farmers who wish to get approval for using mini excavators have been urged to approach the horticulture department. They have been advised to not use the excavators without approval, failing which, action will be taken against both the owner of the land as well the owner of the excavators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-of-earth-excavators-without-approval-to-attract-criminal-charges-in-the-nilgiris/article38199798.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Around 1.2 lakh people get the jab at mega vaccination camps||District administration in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur have vaccinated around 1.2 lakh persons in 3,029 camps, as part of the 18th mega vaccination camp, held between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. on Saturday. Tiruvannamalai had set up 1,075 camps, which was, the highest among four districts, vaccinating 58,158 persons, including 17,368 from Cheyyar block. At present, the district has 19.62 lakh persons, aged over 18. So far, 80% of the population have been vaccinated in the district. “We are concentrating on the segment that is yet to take the second dose of vaccine. We are also reaching out to tribal areas along Jawadhu Hills,” said Tiruvannamalai Collector B. Murugesh. In Vellore, over 800 camps were organised for the mega vaccination camp, covering 247 villages, four town panchayats and two municipalities. The staff, including health workers, was 800. The district has a population of 13 lakh, who are eligible for vaccination. In Vellore, 39,172 were vaccinated at the mega camp. The newly formed Tirupattur and Ranipet districts have organised 421 and 477 camps, covering15,500 and 14,193 persons at the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/around-12-lakh-people-get-the-jab-at-mega-vaccination-camps/article38200178.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||70% students in four districts get first COVID-19 vaccine dose||More than 70% of eligible students in the 15-17 age group in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts have taken their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine as on Saturday 7 p.m. With this, 2,26,009 eligible students in the four districts have been given first dose of the vaccine. Of the four districts, Tiruvannmalai district topped with 90,076 students, including 30,876 from Cheyyar health block, taking the first dose since Monday accounting for 87% coverage. At present, Tiruvannamalai has 1,600 schools, including 545 high and higher secondary schools, with 1.27 lakh students in Class IX to XII. Of these, 1,13,800, including 56,996 girls, are eligible for the vaccination. About 95% of the 11,857 teachers handling Classes IX to XII have been vaccinated. A help desk with helpline numbers (04175-250814; 04175-253845) has been set up at the Tiruvannamalai Collectorate for the public to report any negligence by the school authorities. Tiruvannamalai Collector B. Murugesh visited some of the schools on Saturday.  In Ranipet district, there are 45,755 students, including 23,114 girls, from Classes X to XII, studying in 230 schools with Arakkonam taluk having the highest number of students, 7423, in the 15-17 age group, eligible for vaccination. Ranipet Collector D. Bhasakara Pandian told The Hindu that more than 70% of students had been covered so far. “Rest of the students will be vaccinated in the next few days. Motivational sessions are also held before students are allowed to take the jab,” he said.  In Vellore district, 53,751 students in the 15-17 age group are eligible for vaccination. Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian inspected the schools on Saturday. The Vellore City Corporation has shortlisted 72 schools covering 24,000 students. As on Saturday, the civic body vaccinated 20,400 students accounting for 85% coverage with the first dose. Tirupattur district has enrolled 47,700 students in the 15-17 age group, covering 146 schools for the jab. Till Saturday, 34,088 students were vaccinated which accounted for 71.5% of the coverage. All the four districts had set January 8 as the deadline to cover the maximum number of students. Grievance meetings have been suspended in all the four districts. More beds In Tiruvannamalai, 800 additional beds were provided at the Government District Headquarters Hospital and Government Polytechnic College as COVID-19 care centres on Saturday. The Vellore Corporation has declared Babu Rao Street and Sukkaiah Vathiyar Street, opposite to CMC, as containment roads after more than 10 cases were reported in each of these two streets. Both the streets have over 250 lodges with mainly patients and their relatives from other States who visit the CMC for treatment.  All the four districts had set January 8 as the deadline to cover the maximum number of students||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-70-students-in-4-districts-vaccinated/article38200182.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||243 new cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 51,586 with 243 fresh infections reported on January 8. With a total of 49,366 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 1078. The district’s toll is 1145. In Ranipet district, 128 fresh infections cases were reported and the total number of cases stood at 44,136.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/243-new-cases-in-vellore/article38200185.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Battling Omicron, the T.N. way||In three weeks after reporting the first confirmed Omicron case, Tamil Nadu is in the grip of the highly transmissible and fast-spreading variant of SARS-CoV-2. Fresh COVID-19 cases have jumped seven times since the start of New Year, marking the beginning of yet another long-haul for the State’s health infrastructure and its workforce. The State is now in the midst of an exponential rise in infections, as indeed is most of the world. The number of daily cases started increasing on December 29 when 739 persons tested positive and quickly surged to over 10,000 on January 8. For health officials and public health experts, the rapid surge was on expected lines, and as the predictions pointed out — inevitable. Compare this: It took 58 days in the first wave for the daily count in the State to peak from 1,000 cases to nearly 7,000. In the second wave, it took 26 days for the cases to jump from 1,000 to nearly 7,000. It took another 38 days for the cases to peak at 36,000. In contrast, it has just taken 7 days for the daily cases to jump from 1,000 to 7,000. As the graph accompanying this article shows, the emerging curve of the third wave appears to rise more vertically — rather like a wall than a wave. In no time, Chennai has turned into a hotspot, driving the surge. Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Tiruvallur, Tiruppur, Erode, Kancheepuram, Salem, Thoothukudi and Vellore are the other districts of concern because of the high caseload. Lessons learnt from the second wave, which wreaked havoc on the State as it ran out of beds and oxygen, has put the Health Department on guard. Now, the State’s twin aims are to prevent the spread of the disease and strengthen clinical management, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. “From the experience in the past week and what is observed globally, it is clear that the present surge is fuelled by the Omicron variant, while Tamil Nadu has residual cases from the Delta variant. In the last three months, whole genome sequencing revealed that 99.9% of the samples were of the Delta variant. With the situation changing rapidly, it was 65% Omicron and 35% Delta earlier this week. According to experts, the dominance of Omicron is likely to be swift and it is likely to swamp all fresh positive cases,” he explained. Gearing up It was on December 15 that the State reported its first Omicron case. A Chennai resident, who had travelled from Nigeria through Doha, tested positive for the new variant. A total of 185 persons — of whom 68 had no links with international travellers — tested positive for Omicron in the State. At the Government Corona Hospital, where the first patient was admitted on December 11, the initial panic among those who tested positive for the new variant — international travellers and their contacts — quickly faded as the symptoms subsided in a couple of days. There were no recurrent symptoms, no requirement for oxygen support or higher drugs, said its director K. Narayanasamy. The hospital has treated 40 confirmed Omicron cases, and has so far seen nearly 200 persons with suspected symptoms. As the cases surged, the State quickly updated its triage and treatment protocol to guide its response to the new variant. The updated protocol provided for home isolation of the fully vaccinated asymptomatic persons and other categories and took the vaccination status as one of the deciding factors for hospitalisation. From January 6, the government brought in new restrictions — weekend curbs at places of worship, night curfew and a total lockdown on Sunday, among others. After the second wave tested the health infrastructure, the Health Department ramped up bed and medical oxygen capacities. As of now, the State has nearly 1.20 lakh beds, with 50,000 beds being added at COVID-19 Care Centres, while the present oxygen storage capacity was 1,730 metric tonnes. While it took nearly a month during the initial phase of the second wave to increase the number of RT-PCR tests from less than 50,000 to more than one lakh a day, the State is already testing more than one lakh persons a day during the third wave. “Considering the inevitable surge, instead of the number of cases, we are conscious of the number of people who actually need hospitalisation. Asymptomatic patients who are fully vaccinated should not be hospitalised but monitored clinically through home isolation and at COVID-19 Care Centres. We have asked every district to set up war rooms, encourage the setting up of screening centres and follow the triaging protocol so that oxygen-supported beds and intensive care unit beds at government and private hospitals are free for those who need treatment,” Dr. Radhakrishnan said. “Our health system is well prepared to handle the crisis — not only the health infrastructure, including oxygen availability, but also trained human resources, clear-cut protocols on triage, clinical management, monitoring of home isolation and discharge. Sufficient drugs and consumables are stocked to manage the situation,” T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, added. “Based on the experiences across the globe, we anticipate a steep rise in cases in Tamil Nadu, but our efforts are made in such a way that we will slow down the speed of the rise and flatten the curve so that our health system is not overwhelmed and there is no excess mortality or morbidity,” he pointed out. As a way ahead, sequencing of samples would continue to identify the circulating variants and the emergence of new ones from all potential clusters. It was a continuous process of monitoring, Dr. Selvavinayagam said. But he quickly added: “But whatever be the variant, we need to follow the basic COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated so that even if there is infection you are protected from severe illness and death.” The pattern observed in Tamil Nadu, especially in Chennai, was similar to that of cities such as Mumbai and Delhi, said Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Epidemiology. “So, this is not totally unexpected. The rise is consistent with how Omicron behaves globally, in other countries and thickly populated big cities in India. The faster transmission suggests that the Delta variant will be pushed behind by Omicron.” What doctors see? Based on his experience of treating several COVID-19 patients during the last two waves, a senior government doctor in Chennai said the strain seemed to be milder, with the number of patients needing oxygen support being fewer. Fever with chills and sore throat are the commonly seen symptoms lasting for a maximum of three days. “We should be able to cope with this wave better than last time. But the strain on healthcare due to excess fever cases may be high. Wave after wave, there seems to be no respite, and we are exhausted. Most of the triaging could be done at zonal healthcare facilities so that tertiary care centres need not be overburdened. We can have fever camps, either streetwise or wardwise. If fever persists beyond three days, they can be tested and admitted to a tertiary care centre,” he said. He added a word of caution: “We need not panic seeing the number of positive cases. It is going to be very high. The number of patients at the intensive care units and fatalities could be a better indicator of the wave rather than the total number of cases.” S-gene dropout study While medical management of cases is vital, doctors of the State’s largest government hospital — Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) — are taking a closer look at patients in whom S-gene dropout, a marker for Omicron, was observed. It has taken up studies on how many with S-gene dropout tested positive for Omicron, antibody titre for those who are reinfected and symptomatology of patients with S-gene dropout. RGGGH Dean E. Theranirajan said that from December 17 to January 6, the hospital saw 231 persons in whose samples S-gene dropout was identified. Of them, 22 were asymptomatic — no fever, cold or cough. They were contacts of patients. A total of 38 had mild flu-like illness, while 171 persons had fever for two days with cold and cough. A total of 17 persons required oxygen of less than five litres. Of the 231, 51 were healthcare workers. “We identified 127 persons who were clear about the day of the onset of symptoms. When we tested them after five days from the onset of symptoms, 79 were negative for the infection. Of the remaining, many tested negative on the sixth or seventh day of the onset of symptoms,” he explained. The doctors went on to check the vaccination status of patients. They found that 194 persons were vaccinated — 176 fully vaccinated and 18 with a single dose. The remaining 37 were not vaccinated. “None of the persons with S-gene dropout is in the intensive care unit. The Delta variant is still in circulation. We have 13 patients in the intensive care unit — all of them with the Delta variant. Of them, only two are vaccinated and have co-morbidities. A majority of patients are in room air. The situation is not alarming, but we need to stay cautious. When the number rises exponentially, our health infrastructure could get strained,” he said. Areas of concern But the two major areas of concern are poor compliance with the mask mandate and the low second-dose vaccination coverage. “Even after two years, the message on masking has not reached. There is poor mask compliance, especially in indoor settings... Wherever people come together in a close setting, the spread is fast. Persons with co-morbidities should wear good quality masks — a three-layer cloth mask or surgical mask,” Dr. Kaur said. Dr. Radhakrishnan is of a similar view. “Despite clear indications of Omicron cases increasing, there is a general tendency to treat the surge lightly. People need to understand that if we allow the number to spiral vertically, the corresponding increase in absolute number of cases, especially those with co-morbidities, might lead to an increased number of hospitalisation. It is a struggle as the awareness among people is not accompanied by willingness to change to safe behaviour. People are taking masking and adherence to the standard operating procedures casually. We need massive public support,” he said. While vaccination coverage has improved, the second dose coverage is another challenge. As of now, 60 lakh persons are yet to receive the first dose, while 90 lakh-odd are due for the second dose. Dr. Kaur stressed the need to identify persons who are due for their second dose and take up targeted vaccination, especially of high-risk groups such as persons aged above 60 with co-morbidities. Which other areas require attention? Triaging of patients is one. She added that triaging would identify who needs hospitalisation. “We need to preserve beds for those who require oxygen support and stand the risk of a severe disease.” Avoid all gatherings and get tested if symptomatic. Do not rush for CT scans or expensive tests or hospitalisation. If fully vaccinated, monitor oxygen saturation and get a teleconsultation, she said. “We should not rush to declare lockdowns because of rapid transmission. We need to assess our health system’s capacity. The situation needs to be closely monitored, and panic is definitely not the solution,” she said.  ( With inputs from  Pon Vasanth B.A. )   Asymptomatic patients who are fully vaccinated should not be hospitalised but monitored clinically through home isolation and at COVID-19 Care Centres J. RadhakrishnanHealth Secretary   Our health system is well prepared to handle the crisis... Sufficient drugs and consumables are stocked to manage the situation T.S. SelvavinayagamDirector of Public Health and Preventive Medicine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/battling-omicron-the-tn-way/article38199748.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Governor must approve laws: Stalin||He was addressing a meeting of MLAs of all political parties organised by the government here to chalk out the next course of action to get the State exempted from NEET. “This meeting has been convened since the rights of the States and the rights of the Assemblies to enact laws are under question. It is our goal to put an end to NEET and protect the interests of Tamil Nadu students. The meeting has been convened to prove that all are unanimous in their opposition to NEET,” he said. Mr. Stalin said there was a need to form an opinion that Tamil Nadu political parties were united since the problem concerned the State. “The stream of education [under the Tamil Nadu Board] is common to all, and everyone has the right to benefit from it,” he said. Mr. Stalin explained that the DMK government had in the past cancelled the common entrance test for admission to professional courses, since achieving education for all remained difficult in a country like India, where people lived on the margins and in poverty and there was inequality in the name of caste. He said the President and the Supreme Court gave their approval for the cancellation of the common entrance test. “NEET snatches away the right to education. We have been opposing NEET, which remains a stumbling block to the educational development of Tamil Nadu students.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-must-approve-laws-stalin/article38199772.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for theft||The police on Friday arrested a woman from Edayarpalayam in Coimbatore in connection with the theft of gold jewellery from an apartment in Kovilmedu where she worked. The police said that A. Surya of Rengammal Street was arrested based on a complaint lodged by P. Prasanth (29), a resident of the apartment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-held-for-theft/article38199780.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||131 new COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 131 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday taking the total number of patients to 1,08,214. While 74 persons were discharged, 491 continue to be under treatment. A total of 126 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 111 cases were indigenous and 74 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 44 cases were reported. The daily caseload increased to 97 in Krishnagiri. Thirty-three indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/131-new-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article38199877.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Non-wearing of masks: Belagavi police book 258 cases in less than 24 hours||The police are strictly implementing the weekend curfew in Belagavi. In less than 24 hours, the Belagavi police booked 258 cases against persons not wearing masks and seized 39 vehicles for moving around for non -emergency reasons. Police put barricades on all the main two lane roads, saying this would lead to better monitoring. Police also stopped the various by lanes leading to markets in the old city. Movement of vehicles was minimal. Private vehicles, autos and state transport buses were seen on the roads. Some factories, offices and schools and colleges were open. Most shops were closed, except for those selling food, milk, liquour and medicine. However, net users began complaining that the police were playing favourites. “While the whole city has closed down, the shops selling food, clothing and beauty products in Khau Katta were kept open. This is discrimination,” Abdul Jameel wrote on his social media platform. Shaleen Pinto alleged that the police were partial to the shopping place as it is patronised by MLA Abhay Patil. Sudhir Phadke, another user, said Khau Katta had been spared of all restrictions, including night curfew, in the last two years, only because of its political connections. Meanwhile, an error from the part of the police head quarters led to the police closing shops at 8 p.m. on Friday. Police Commissioner M.B. Boralingaiah clarified later that the actual timing was from 10 p.m. “There was a small correction with respect to to the timing of Week end curfew. The guidelines mentioned that it starts at 8.00 pm today. However later we got to know that it is a typographical error. It actually starts from 10 p.m,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/non-wearing-of-masks-belagavi-police-book-258-cases-in-less-than-24-hours/article38199898.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Woman files plaint against in-laws||A woman has complained that her in laws threw her out of the house after alleging that she was featured in an obscene video. In her complaint to the police, she has named six persons, including her husband and her brother-in-law, in Tukkanatti village near Gokak. Ghataprabha Police officers have booked a case under some sections of the IPC relating to outraging the modesty of a woman, harrassment, insulting and intimidation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-files-plaint-against-in-laws/article38199900.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:25 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Attempts on to make KSAMWU co-educational’||The Dalit Vidyarthi Parishat has alleged that the State Government was trying to convert the Karnataka State Akka Mahadevi Women’s University (KSAMWU) in Vijayapura into a co- educational university and end the university’s unique status as a women’s university. DVP leader Srinath Poojary accused senior State Government officials of conspiring to shut down the State’s only women university. “Several rounds of meetings have been held between Ministers, some local legislators, and some Higher Education Ministry officers. If the government wants to set up a separate co–educational university for Vijayapura district, let them set up another university. They should not disturb the women’s university,” he told journalists in Vijayapura. He, however, said he had no documents to prove that such meetings were going on. “It is unfortunate that some leaders who fought with the State Government to bring the women’s university to Vijayapura are now conspiring to close it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/attempts-on-to-make-ksamwu-co-educational/article38199911.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:25 IST,KARNATAKA||Main roads deserted, residential pockets bustle with activity||Large parts of the city, that would otherwise be bustling with activity on the weekend, were deserted on Saturday after the curfew kicked in on Friday night. Retail stores and businesses in most of the market and transport hubs - Majestic, K.R. Market, Old Pete Area, Malleswaram - remained closed. Malls and parks, too, were closed as people were urged to adhere to the restrictions in an effort to stem the spread of COVID-19. The police had barricaded most arterial roads and stopped motorists without valid reasons for travelling. Cases were booked and vehicles were seized when motorists did not have a valid reason for violating restrictions. Only those who were able to produce documents to back their claims were permitted to travel. Many were seen arguing with the police. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra with top city police in tow did the rounds of the city on Saturday evening inspecting nakabandis put up to enforce weekend curfew. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike marshals had also spread out across the city, levying fines on people not wearing masks. Auto and cab drivers plying the streets complained of police harassment. “The guidelines clearly say we are allowed to ferry passengers to and fro from airport, railway stations. How will people travel if police harass us?” said Manikantha, a cab driver who was stopped by police on Ballari Road. While he claimed he was returning empty after dropping a passenger to the airport, the police had none of it arguing that he could drive his taxi only with a passenger. “In the garb of making trips to the airport, many cabs and autorickshaws are on the street. We need to control them,” said a constable, who did not wish to be named. However, most residential localities offered a picture in contrast. Shops were open and it was business as usual. Some localities even had their parks open. Most residential pockets saw normal crowds and business during morning and evening peak hours. Though hotels were supposed to be only open for takeaways, darshinis served coffee where people gathered in groups. City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said people and businesses had largely cooperated with the enforcement of curfew and Saturday had passed off with neither large crowds gathering nor any untoward incident. He added enforcement of the curfew on Sunday would be similar and will plug some of the gaps observed on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/main-roads-deserted-residential-pockets-bustle-with-activity/article38199699.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:27 IST,KARNATAKA||Contact tracing becomes a difficult task||With a surge in COVID-19 cases, authorities are struggling to keep pace with contact tracing. Although the total number of contacts traced in the last week (January 1 to 7, 2022) is nearly seven times more than the contacts traced in the preceding week (December 25 to 31, 2021), the average contacts traced per patient is reduced by half. While 14,948 primary contacts were traced in the week ending December 31 with 3.75 contacts per patient, 72,812 primary contacts were traced in the week ending January 7 with 2.22 contacts per patient. The same trend is reflected in the case of secondary contacts. While 10,915 secondary contacts were traced in the week ending December 31 with 2.74 contacts per patient, 51,668 secondary contacts were traced in the week ending January 7 with 1.57 contacts per patient. District-wise analysis of the primary contacts per patient in the seven days prior to January 7 shows that Udupi has reported the highest number of primary contacts, with an average of 18.34 per patient. While Yadgir and Chickballapur have an average of 12.11 and 10.61 primary contacts per patient respectively, Chamarajanagar, Davangere, and Raichur have an average of 9.71, 8.33, and 7.88 primary contacts per patient, respectively, according to data from the State War Room. Bengaluru Urban, which is reporting the highest number of positive cases in the State, on an average has 1.47 primary contacts per patient, which is the least after Ballari where 1.1 contacts per patient have been traced. However, K.V. Trilok Chandra, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health), claimed that contact tracing is being done aggressively in Bengaluru. “There could be a data lag due to which the number of contacts traced per patient is low in Bengaluru. The week-on-week testing has dramatically increased in Bengaluru and most of the people tested are contacts,” he said. D. Randeep, State Health Commissioner, said while the average number of contacts per patient may be low, the total number of contacts traced is more owing to the sheer number of positive cases. “Now our focus is on tracing and testing primary contacts as the transmission of Omicron variant is high and the core family is usually infected. Besides, several primary contacts are coming on their own and getting tested. Among the secondary contacts, we are testing only those who are symptomatic,” he said. Admitting that tracing 20 contacts per patient, which is the ideal number, will not be possible now, the Commissioner said the department was working on increasing the number of field staff for contact tracing. “As of now, health teams from the BBMP and Home Guards are involved in the exercise in Bengaluru. We are planning to deploy staff from the Education Department as schools are closed now. We have also written to the Education Department in this regard,” he said. Asserting the importance of contact tracing, C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said it was vital to break the transmission chain. “Identifying the contacts and the vulnerable population, including those with comorbidities, ILI, and SARI, is what is needed at this juncture when the virus is spreading extensively,” he said. Pointing out that the manpower required for this important exercise should be doubled, the doctor said contact tracing was very difficult at this stage of the pandemic. During the first wave, Karnataka had won appreciation from the Centre for its robust contact tracing efforts in the initial few months when an average of 47 contacts per patient were being traced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/contact-tracing-becomes-a-difficult-task/article38199713.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:27 IST,KARNATAKA||Padayatra: Araga warns of action against violators of COVID norms||Ahead of the Congress’ 10-day padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru on Sunday, Home Minister Araga Jnanedra warned that cases will be booked under the State Disaster Management Act against all those who were found violating COVID-19 week-end lockdown. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, he said the police had to act in a cautious manner and the public had to extend support to the Government for effective implementation of curbs for containing the rising pandemic cases in the State. Terming the Congress padayatra as politically motivated, the Home Minister said the curbs had been imposed as a preventive measure to check the spread of COVID-19 cases. Matters related to the Mekedatu project were pending in the Supreme Court and the Congress had to behave in a responsible manner while raking up issues related to the project, he said.  An official in Ramanagaram district told The Hindu that the district administration had made elaborate arrangements to check the violation of COVID-19 guidelines issued by the Government.  The Police Department had erected barricades all over the district and deputed a large number of personnel to handle the situation as the political showdown continued between the ruling BJP and the Congress on the issue. As per Congress leaders, a large number of workers were expected to participate in the padayatra from surrounding districts. Depending on the situation on Sunday, the police would take action against the organisers of the padayatra, sources said. Meanwhile, Congress leaders held a meeting at the Kanakapura residence of Mr. Shivakumar in which they discussed the measures to be taken to prevent legal action if they take out a padayatra. They are also learnt to have discussed alternative plans if the police went ahead in preventing their padayatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/padayatra-araga-warns-of-action-against-violators-of-covid-norms/article38199727.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:27 IST,KARNATAKA||Warmer and wetter future predicted for Karnataka||Over the next three decades, Karnataka is projected to experience warmer weather and an increase in heavy rainfall events. The State is prone to loss and damage by droughts, floods due to extreme rainfall, landslips, hailstones, and forest fires. These are some of the findings of a study by the Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP) which projected changes in climate patterns from 2021–2050 when compared with the 30-year period from 1991–2019 in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu. “Consecutive droughts impact 54% of the geographical area (18 of the 30 districts). Below normal rainfall or dry spells for more than three consecutive weeks are the main factors that cause droughts in the State. Poor storage facilities in minor irrigation tanks and depleting groundwater resources exacerbate the problem. According to the Vulnerability Atlas of India (2019), about 15% of the total geographical area is under moderate earthquake damage risk zone, 10 districts are prone to flooding, and hilly areas of four districts are prone to landslips due to heavy rainfall events,” the study said. Increase in temperature  Indu K. Murthy, sector head for Climate, Environment and Sustainability at CSTEP, told The Hindu that in the last three decades (1991–2019), there has been an increase in the summer maximum temperature by 0.18° Celsius to 0.61° Celsius and the winter minimum temperature by 0.3° Celsius to 0.65° Celsius in different districts of Karnataka. The rainfall shows an increasing trend during this period in all the districts, with up to 15% to 25% increase in the Western Ghats districts, but has been highly variable.  “Climate change projections using an ensemble of models for the next 30 years (2021–2050) under moderate emissions and high emissions scenarios indicate a much warmer and wetter future for Karnataka. An increase in summer maximum temperature by 0.5° Celsius to 1.5° Celsius with a majority of the districts projected to warm by 1° Celsius to 1.5° Celsius, particularly under the high emissions scenario. This includes the already warm districts of North Karnataka. Winter minimum temperature is also projected to increase, particularly higher in the northern districts of Karnataka, by up to 2° Celsius,” she explained. She added that the number of rainy days (more than 2.5 mm/day) are projected to increase in all the districts of Karnataka. “Under the high emissions scenario, up to 26% increase in rainfall during the kharif season is projected in Kolar district, and during the rabi season the increase is up to 34% in Bidar district. Rainfall variability during the kharif season is projected to increase in a majority of the districts by up to 14%, and this includes many of the low rainfall northern districts of Karnataka. However, rainfall variability during the rabi season is projected to decline in all the districts of Karnataka,” Dr. Murthy said. Heavy rainfall events Heavy rainfall events are projected to increase in all the districts of Karnataka. The increase is notable in the districts of Kodagu, Udupi, and Uttara Kannada. Even in some of the North Karnataka districts of Yadgir, Bidar, and Koppal, and in Kolar, more than five additional days of heavy rainfall are projected every year in the next 30 years, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/warmer-and-wetter-future-predicted-for-karnataka/article38199710.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:27 IST,KARNATAKA||Power supply restored to engineering colleges||After a month of struggling with either intermittent or no power reportedly owing to non-payment of bills, government engineering colleges have got some relief. Power supply has been restored to government engineering colleges and polytechnics in Karnataka after the Department of Technical Education released funds towards payment of pending electricity bills.  This comes after The Hindu reported that many engineering colleges were finding it difficult to conduct classes and had cancelled practicals. While some colleges did not have electricity for a few days in December, many did not have power even for one day. A principal of an engineering college said: “Even though we had made repeated requests to several stakeholders to release funds to pay our electricity bills, it went in vain.”  Some principals, in fact, wanted to suspend classes till power supply was restored. Power supply was cut as the colleges were unable to pay the electricity bills to their respective Escoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-supply-restored-to-engineering-colleges/article38199719.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Dumping of waste at Chigarenahalli plant resumes amidst police security||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has restarted dumping the city’s waste at the MSGP plant in Chigarenahalli. Trucks are rolling in amidst heavy police security disrupting local protests and leaving residents angry. Heavy rains in November last year led to leachate from the plant polluting water sources in the neighbouring villages triggering protests that blocked garbage trucks for over a month. At the time, the State government had promised an all-party meeting of elected representatives of the area to resolve the deadlock during the recently concluded winter session of the legislature. However, with no meeting held yet, the civic body has restarted dumping waste. Every day nearly 400 tonnes of waste is being dumped at the plant. “Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has misused the police force and vacated all protesters. Prohibitory orders have been clamped in the villages. The government has gone back on its words. We demanded that dumping be completely stopped, which they did not agree to. But they seem to be not ready to listen to our grievances either,” said Siddalingappa, President, Bhaktharahalli Gram Panchayat, in whose limits the plant is. Sarfaraz Khan, Joint Commissioner, Solid Waste Management, BBMP, refuted allegations that the concerns of the villagers were not addressed. “A check dam and a pond were polluted with leachate from the plant following heavy rains. We have treated the water in the check dam and entirely drained out the water from the pond. We have built a retention wall to prevent leachate polluting water sources again. We have also directed the private firm running the plant to put up a 50,000 Litres Per day capacity leachate treatment plant and have posted a civic official at the plant to ensure it is run as per norms,” he said listing the measures taken. However, the local villagers are not appeased. “BBMP has always made tall claims, but the situation on the ground has not changed one bit,” Siddalingappa rued. Venkataramanaiah, Congress MLA from Doddaballapur, who raised the issue in the recently concluded legislature session and got an assurance of a meeting chaired by the Chief Minister, said he was shocked at how the government had gone back on its word given on the floor of the assembly. “If the CM doesn’t convene a meeting on the issue in the next one week, we will be forced to call a public meeting of all representatives and activists from our taluk and decide on the next course of protests,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dumping-of-waste-at-chigarenahalli-plant-resumes-amidst-police-security/article38199695.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:27 IST,KARNATAKA||Nikhil Kumaraswamy may contest from Ramanagaram in 2023 Assembly polls||As the political battle in the Vokkaliga turf in South Karnataka intensifies, Ramanagaram could emerge as a flashpoint in the Vokkaliga heartland with Nikhil Kumaraswamy expected to test the political waters in the 2023 Assembly polls and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar jostling for the community’s leadership role. With the Bharatiya Janata Party trying to establish its base in the district that often witnesses bloody fights between the Janata Dal (Secular) and Congress workers, the battle between the two leaders could define the course of the Assembly poll outcome. Mr. Kumaraswamy, his wife Anitha Kumaraswamy and Mr. Shivakumar are elected from Ramanagaram district. The recent public spat between Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Bengaluru Rural MP D.K. Suresh in front of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in Ramanagaram could be an indicator of the things to come.  Mr. Kumaraswamy told The Hindu recently: “D.K. Shivakumar and D.K. Suresh duo is out to finish us. Their agenda for 2023 is to remove me from Ramanagaram. They are strategising to that effect. We need a strong candidate, which we do not have among the local leaders now.” He acknowledged that the coalition dented the party’s strength in Ramanagaram, which could be countered only with a strong candidate.  Though publicly, the decades old bitter rivalry seems to have been buried by families of the former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and Mr. Shivakumar, the battle to control the Ramanagaram turf has remained intense. “We have not decided on the candidature. But if circumstances arise, Mr. Nikhil will contest. The party does not have a strong leader who has the capability to contest the polls effectively,” he said. “If we have to put up a good candidate, then we will ask Mr. Nikhil to contest. The local leaders do not have strength and they are asking either me or Mr. Nikhil to contest. However, I cannot contest from Ramanagaram since I represent Channapatna. “The family has always been ready to make sacrifices to protect the party, and if need be Mr. Nikhil will contest in Ramanagaram,” Mr. Kumaraswamy added. While the recently concluded JD(S) conclave indicated that Mr. Nikhil would get a larger State-wide role to attract youth, there has been speculation around the political career of Mr. Nikhil, who lost his debut electoral battle in Mandya against Independent candidate Sumalatha Ambareesh during the 2019 general elections. The Ramanagaram seat has been a stronghold of the Janata Dal (Secular) since the 90s, and has returned Mr. Gowda and Mr. Kumaraswamy. Mr. Gowda represented the constituency in 1994 when he became the Chief Minister while Mr. Kumaraswamy has represented Ramanagaram thrice. Even during the 2018 polls, Mr. Kumaraswamy won the seat, but vacated it to retain the neighbouring Channapatna. Ms. Anitha, a former legislator from Madhugiri, won the bypoll later. Party sources said that Ms. Anitha Kumaraswamy, who currently represents Ramanagaram, has indicated her unwillingness to be on the political space. Sources also believe that there have been attempts by the Congress to weaken JD(S) after the failed 14-month JD(S)-Congress coalition headed by Mr. Kumaraswamy. “The JD(S)’s strength in a few pockets has also gone down. We are also not sure how the situation will pan out for Mr. Nikhil since he is the fourth person from the family to contest from Ramanagaram.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nikhil-kumaraswamy-may-contest-from-ramanagaram-in-2023-assembly-polls/article38199722.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:25 IST,KARNATAKA||Southern States set for warmer winters, heavier and frequent rainfall: Study||From warmer summers and winters to heavier and more frequent rainfall, signs of changes in the climate pattern are expected across all States in South India over the next three decades, says a new study by the Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP). The report, ‘District-Level Changes in Climate: Historical Climate and Climate Change Projections for the Southern States of India’, reveals changes in climate patterns that are likely to occur in South India over the next three decades, compared to the historical 30 years (1991-2019) in all the districts of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu. The study reveals that over the last three decades, up to 2019, temperature and rainfall have increased, and there is greater variability in rainfall across all South Indian States. Climate projections for 2021-2050 indicate overall warming of both summer and winter minimum temperatures, an increase in the number of rainy days (more than 2.5 mm rainfall/day) and heavy rainfall events across almost all the districts of the southern States. The summer maximum temperature is projected to increase by 0.5°C to 1.5°C, and the winter minimum temperature by 1°C to 2°C in a majority of the districts. “During the monsoons, rainfall during the kharif (June to September) and rabi (October to December) seasons are projected to increase in the 2030s across South India. The maximum increase in the kharif season rainfall is projected in the districts of Andhra Pradesh (up to 29% increase). Rainfall during the rabi season is also projected to increase substantially in all the districts of South India, even up to 40% in Andhra Pradesh and 59% in Telangana,” the centre said. Rainfall variability shows mixed trends, but it decreases during both kharif and rabi seasons in a majority of the districts of South India. The number of rainy days is projected to increase in the 2030s in almost all the districts in South India, and rainfall deficient years (less than 20% of long period average rainfall) are projected to decline. States are likely to see an increase in high-intensity (51–100 mm/day) and very high-intensity (over 100 mm/day) rainfall events in the 2030s, the study adds. “The Global Climate Risk Index 2021 ranks India seventh, considering the extent to which India has been affected by the impacts of weather-related loss events (storms, floods, heatwaves, etc.). The index signals that repercussions of escalating climate change are exacerbating and can no longer be ignored. A good understanding of historical climate trends and climate change projections at a district scale is essential in this endeavour as much of the decision-making, planning, and implementation happens at the district level,” the study stated. It calls on States to integrate this information into the State Action Plans on Climate Change, and to institute climate risk assessments.  Projected increase in majority of southern districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/southern-states-set-for-warmer-winters-heavier-and-frequent-rainfall-study/article38199679.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:27 IST,KARNATAKA||With 8,906 new COVID-19 cases, weekly TPR crosses 3%||Karnataka on Saturday reported 8,906 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30,39,958. Of the new cases, Bengaluru Urban alone reported 7,113 cases. With this, the weekly test positivity rate (WTPR) in the State shot up from 2.5% on Friday to 3.16% on Saturday. The day’s positivity rate touched 5.42%. As many as 508 people were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 29,63,056. The State now has 38,507 active patients, taking the active case rate to 1.26%. Active cases have remained less than 2% for the last 191 days. With four deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,366, recording a Case Fatality Rate of 0.04%. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients owing to non-COVID-19 reasons. After conducting a record 2,03,260 tests on Friday, the State conducted 1,64,261 tests in the last 24 hours. This includes 1,35,291 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,74,94,176. Omicron cases Of the total 333 Omicron cases, 305 are from BBMP limits. The 333 patients included 198 international and 77 domestic travellers. The travel history of the remaining patients is being ascertained. As many as 299 of the total cases are fully vaccinated, 11 are partially vaccinated, and 14 are not eligible for vaccination. The vaccination status of nine patients is not known, according to data provided by the Health Department. While 95 of the 333 patients are under institutional quarantine, 60 have recovered., State Health Commissioner D. Randeep said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-8906-new-covid-19-cases-weekly-tpr-crosses-3/article38199720.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:25 IST,KARNATAKA||Confusion prevails over travel||Though intra-State and inter-State travel was allowed as per the guidelines issued by the Karnataka Government, a majority of motorists who had planned trips during the weekend either cancelled or rescheduled their plans. Those who chose to travel by road on Saturday faced many hurdles at checkpoints. Confusion reigned on the streets with police officials at every barricade interpreting the guidelines differently. For instance, a group of four luxury cars was stopped at Town Hall on Saturday. As the police threatened to seize the vehicles, the occupants were seen trying hard to convince them that they were on their way to a marriage in Kodagu, and submitted related documents showing that marriages were indeed allowed as per the guidelines. After nearly an hour, police personnel took down the numbers of the cars and let the group go. Prasanna Gowda, a software engineer working in the city, left for his hometown in Chikkamagaluru district on Saturday morning after his office announced work-from-home. “As the guidelines said intra-State travel was allowed, I took it at face value and left for home in my car. But it was such an ordeal. I was stopped at over 10 barricaded checkposts where the police asked me why I was going home. They claimed that my travel was not an ‘emergency’ and they could not allow it. Some even asked for an RT-PCR test report and vaccination certificate. One police officer tried to levy a fine as I was not wearing a mask even though I was alone in my car,” he said, questioning the point of the guidelines. Confusion at Attibele Meanwhile, there was confusion at Attibele checkpost on the city’s outskirts - the entry point into the State from Tamil Nadu. Many people seeking to enter Bengaluru from the neighbouring State were turned back. “We allowed only travelers who were entering the State for purposes allowed under the guidelines and not everyone. We also insisted on a negative RT-PCR test report,” said K. Vamsi Krishna, SP, Bengaluru Rural district. Foreseeing this confusion, many people had cancelled or rescheduled their travel. “We were supposed to go to a temple in Andhra Pradesh, but cancelled the trip to avoid being harassed by cops on the road. We cannot pick an argument with them, as each police official interprets the rules differently. We are at their mercy,” said R. Subramanian from Bengaluru. Others rescheduled their travel plans. Raghottam and his family had a darshan booked for Sunday at Tirumala temple, which they did not wish to miss. “We were supposed to leave on Saturday, but rescheduled our travel and left Friday afternoon to cross the State border before the weekend curfew kicked in,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/confusion-prevails-over-travel/article38199694.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:27 IST,KARNATAKA||36% of engineering seats go unclaimed after KEA counselling||As many as 23,001 or 36% of government and government-aided engineering seats have been left vacant after the third round of counselling by the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA). Of the total 64,484 seats available, 48,027 were selected by students for the 2022-2023 academic year. However, only 41,483 students downloaded admission orders. These seats include government, government quota seats in private colleges as well as seats surrendered by private colleges. According to data made available by the KEA, this is the highest number of vacant seats in engineering colleges over the past five years. After completion of two rounds of counselling, the State Government sought permission from the Supreme Court to extend the last date for engineering admissions and conducted a second extended round of counselling till December 31, 2021 to fill the seats. Numbers likely to go up Sources in KEA said that the number of vacant engineering seats would further increase after the counselling process for medical and dental seats was completed. “Students who have obtained high ranks in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and obtain medical or dental seats will give up their engineering seats,” the source said. A majority of the seats remaining are in civil and mechanical engineering branches. A principal of a private engineering college said that for several years now, a large number of engineering seats in government colleges were going vacant and termed it the “problem of plenty”. This year as many as 1.83 lakh students were eligible to join engineering courses. Despite the demand being close to three times the number of seats available, there is no demand to join many colleges as they have poor teaching resources or inadequate infrastructure. ‘High fees is a deterrent’ However, student organisations pointed out that many candidates were forced to give up on their dreams to pursue professional courses as the fees for engineering seats were increased this year. Shruthi K., an engineering seat aspirant said that she was unable to afford it as her family’s finances were affected due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/36-of-engineering-seats-go-unclaimed-after-kea-counselling/article38199715.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:27 IST,KARNATAKA||State’s COVID-19 War Room gets Centre’s award for use of ICT||Karnataka’s COVID-19 War Room has been awarded the Centre’s e-governance ‘jury’ award for use of Information, Communications and Technology (ICT) in managing the pandemic. The award was received by IAS officer Munish Moudgil, the brain behind the Karnataka State COVID-19 War Room, at the two-day 24th National Conference on e-Governance in Hyderabad on Friday. Congratulating the tech driven COVID-19 War Room, Health Minister K. Sudhakar tweeted: “Be it the gamut of in-house mobile applications or the fully equipped war room, Karnataka’s tech-driven COVID management has been a model to the entire country. Congratulations to Mr. Manish Moudgil and the team for winning GoI’s e-governance award for use of ICT in Covid-19 management.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/states-covid-19-war-room-gets-centres-award-for-use-of-ict/article38199718.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:27 IST,KARNATAKA||Implement demands of guest lecturers: HDK||Janata Dal (S) leader and former Chief Minister H. D. Kumaraswamy has urged the Government to implement the demands of guest lecturers who have been protesting for regularisation of their services. Pointing out that over 14,500 guest lecturers in various degree colleges of Karnataka were getting only Rs. 11,000 to Rs. 13,000 per month as salary, he said this was lower than the minimum/basic salary prescribed by the Government. Education policy Pointing out that Karnataka was in the process of implementing new education policy and that the Prime Minister wanted the country to become the world leader, he wondered if it was proper to make so many lecturers to work for such a meagre salary when the country had set such ambitious plans. ‘Hold talks’ Seeking to draw the attention of the Government on the protest being launched by these guest lecturers since December 1, he urged Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Higher Education Minister Ashwath Narayan to hold consultations with them and implement their demands on humanitarian grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/implement-demands-of-guest-lecturers-hdk/article38199716.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Fire at under-construction commercial building||An under construction building at Konanakunte in Bengaluru caught fire on Saturday causing panic in the area. No casualties were reported. As thick smoke engulfed the area, people ran out of their houses. Motorists, too, found it difficult to drive as visibility was low. Three fire tenders and police personnel rushed to the spot. Inquiries revealed that styrofoam, used for the interiors, could have caused the fire to spread. The building has been under construction for two years, and was reportedly scheduled to be inaugurated in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-at-under-construction-commercial-building/article38199685.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:27 IST,KARNATAKA||Four killed, 6 injured in serial accident in Bengaluru||Four people — three software engineers and a school teacher — were killed in a serial accident when a truck rammed into their car on NICE Road in Kumaraswamy Layout traffic police limits on Friday night. Six others in two vehicles were injured. According to the police, the accident occurred around 9.30 p.m. when a Tamil Nadu registered truck rammed into a car bearing a Kerala licence. The car was crushed on impact killing the four friends inside. The truck driver, who was allegedly driving in a rash and negligent manner, lost control of the wheel and rammed into two other cars. Three-four container vehicles were also damaged in the serial accident, said the police. “All four deceased accident victims were between 25-30 years of age. Of the six injured, four in an SUV, are undergoing treatment in hospitals, and two, in another car, escaped with minor injuries,” a senior police officer said. “There was some minor road repair work on the stretch where the accident took place, and most of the motorists were driving slowly. However, the truck driver was speeding, which led to the serial accident. He escaped soon after the accident, and efforts are on to track him down,” the police officer added. The deceased accident victims have been identified as Shilpa, 30, who worked in a private school as a teacher, and her friends, software professionals, Mohammed Fadzil, 25, Abhilash, 25, and Jeena, 26. Investigation revealed that Abhilash was driving the SUV, which belonged to his sister. “The deceased stayed in and around Bommasandra on rent, and were heading from Bannerghatta towards Kengeri. We suspect that they were leaving the city for a holiday over the weekend, and are trying to identify their destination,” the police said. Traffic movement was disrupted on NICE Road, and the pileup extended over 4 km. Senior officials visited the spot to supervise the investigation. Immediately after the horrific accident, motorists surrounded the truck driver and reportedly began trashing him. However, he managed to escape the crowd, and remains absconding. The KS Layout traffic police, who have registered a case, have launched a massive manhunt for the truck driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-killed-six-injured-in-serial-accident-on-nice-road/article38199687.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:24 IST,KARNATAKA||Sale of adulterated Nandini ghee uncovered||The Additional Director of Karnataka Milk Federation (marketing) and his team uncovered a racket involving the sale of adulterated Nandini ghee. They zeroed in on a wholesale dealer in the city who was allegedly supplying the spurious product in and around the city. Based on the complaint by B.P. Suresh of KMF, the Basavanagudi police on Friday registered an FIR against the wholesaler. Dr. Suresh in his complaint said that KMF officials had raided a unit manufacturing adulterated Nandini Ghee in Hosahundi village in Nanjangud taluk on December 16. After the raid, they continued their probe into the supply chain. The probe revealed that the unit was supplying adulterated ghee to a wholesale dealer in Bengaluru who in turn sold the spurious product to retail clients in and around the city. Some of the retail clients were in Nelamangala, Hosakote, Devanagundi, Jayanagar and Rajajinagar. Officials along with the police raided the godowns and shops and seized the adulterated products. Samples were sent to government labs for testing. “Reports confirmed that the ghee had been adulterated,” said the police. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sale-of-adulterated-nandini-ghee-uncovered/article38199688.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:24 IST,KARNATAKA||Two held for issuing fake COVID-19 negative reports||The government’s restrictions on movement and fresh rules by various States on RT-PCR tests has created a market for fake negative certificates. A similar trend was observed during the second wave last year. The Economic Offences wing of the city police’s CCB raided a diagnostic centre in D.J. Halli on Friday and arrested two staffers who were allegedly issuing fake COVID-19 certificates to people. “The police team, which raided the diagnostic centre at Kaval Byrasandra, seized as many as 50 fake certificates,” police said. The initial probe revealed that the accused did not collect any swabs but issued certificates to their clients directly. “They collected money through e-wallets like Google Pay or by cash,” said a police officer. According to the police, most clients were people who were travelling out of the city and needed to show that they did not have COVID-19. “The accused took advantage of the situation and sold fake reports,”the police officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-issuing-fake-covid-19-negative-reports/article38199689.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Reach govt. benefits to people’s doorstep’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has called upon bureaucrats to work towards reaching government services to the doorstep of people amidst COVID-19 challenges. After laying the foundation stone for new rooms at the KAS Officers’ Association building and releasing the annual calendarof the association here on Friday, the Chief Minister observed that the Government would earn people’s trust when its services were taken to the doorstep of people. The 'Grama One' and 'Jan Sevak' programmes to take governmentservicesto the doors of people would be launched on January 26, he said. He called upon the officers to make Karnataka the number one State in the country in terms of development. He recalled the contributions of the royal family of Mysuru in giving a structured framework for the administrative system and developingthe State as a model in agriculture, industry, banking, and education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reach-govt-benefits-to-peoples-doorstep/article38199714.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:24 IST,KARNATAKA||Explosion in godown||One person was injured in a massive explosion at a godown in Mudalapalya where nearly a hundred LPG cylinders were stored. The godown, which caught fire, was destroyed. According to the police, the explosion occurred at Bharat Bhavani gas agency while the cylinders were being filled illegally. The owner of the agency, identified as Bettaiah, sustained minor injuries Fire and Emergency Service Personnel rushed to the spot and put out the fire before it could spread. Police estimate that there were over 90 domestic, commercial and even mini–cylinders in the godown. Inquiries revealed that Bettaiah was illegally refilling a mini gas stove cylinder at the time of the explosion. A case has been booked against him,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/explosion-in-godown-that-stored-over-90-cylinders/article38199683.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:25 IST,KARNATAKA||Plaint against school||A complaint has been raised against a government high school in Bidalur, Devanahalli taluk, for conducting classes on Saturday in violation of the weekend curfew. According to the rules, schools are to remain closed across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plaint-against-school/article38199701.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Steps to be taken to eradicate malnutrition: CM||Specific measures would be taken to eradicate malnutrition in Raichur, Yadgir districts and Chincholi in Kalaburagi district backed by necessary allocations in the budget, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. Mr. Bommai who had an interaction with Niti Ayog (SGD) consultant Sanmukta Samaddar on Friday said that funds would be provided in the next budget for Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board to improve education, health and standard of life in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steps-to-be-taken-to-eradicate-malnutrition-cm/article38199700.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:59 IST,KARNATAKA||Response to curfew almost total in Hassan, Shivamogga districts||The people’s response to the weekend curfew was total in Hassan and Shivamogga districts on Saturday. The movement of the public was scarce, shops and establishments were closed in most parts of the city, and roads looked deserted. The police had put up check-posts to enquire about those who had come out of their homes. On a few occasions, the public did argue with the police when they objected to their movement. No walkers Following guidelines from the State Government, the Deputy Commissioners had issued separate orders clamping the curfew. As the public parks and playgrounds were closed, there were hardly any morning walkers. Many people did walk on the terrace at home, a practice cultivated since the 2020 lockdown. The administration had no restriction on shops that sold essential items. There were a few vehicles on the road and police were seen enquiring with the travelers. Many said they were on the way to purchase vegetables, medicine and other essential items. The administration had allowed KSRTC bus service to continue but there were few passengers. The KSRTC staff had to wait for passengers. Every day many dailywage workers assemble near N.R. Circle in Hassan expecting employers to pick them up for work on the day. On Saturday too several people had assembled expecting employers. However, there were none. Senior officers did rounds reviewing the situation. Penalty In Shivamogga, the police had camped at many places in the centre of the city. They slapped penalty on those moving without documents to support their claims. A few people were seen arguing with the police when they were asked to pay penalty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/response-to-curfew-almost-total-in-hassan-shivamogga-districts/article38200112.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:27 IST,KARNATAKA||Eshwarappa’s appeal to Congress leaders||“We are appealing to them not to risk their lives by taking out a march for Mekedatu project now. But what can we do if they are adamant,” asked RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarapa in Shivamogga on Saturday. He was reacting to a question on the Congress leaders’ march scheduled to begin on Sunday, at a press conference. “I appeal to them not to take out padayatra now. Even if only the two (D.K. Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah) leaders decide to walk, their supporters will definitely join them. Anyhow, in view of coming zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat elections, many would join to impress upon their leaders. I wish all of us remain healthy and happy. But, I have no objection, if they want to do politics,” he said. He also commented that the Congress leaders forgot the Krishna, Cauvery, and Mekedatu issues while they were in power. They were raising the issue now for political reasons. People of the State would understand their gimmicks. Further, referring to Congress leaders’ statement that they would continue with the march and would not mind if they were arrested, Mr. Eshwarappa said such words were uncalled for at the present situation. “During the COVID-19 pandemic, one should not speak like that. All senior leaders of all political parties are asset to the state. I request them to give up their plan”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eshwarappas-appeal-to-congress-leaders/article38199731.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:59 IST,KARNATAKA||Biker fatally hit by goods carrier||A bike rider died after he was hit by a goods carrier on B.M. Road near Channarayapatna on Friday. The police gave the name of the person as Ravi Kumar, 24, of Chowdenahalli in Channarayapatna taluk. Ravi Kumar was on his way to Hassan from Channarayapatna when he the accident occurred. Negligence of the goods carrier driver is said to be the reason for the accident. Ravi Kumar’s father, Manje Gowda, has filed a complaint with the Channarayapatna Rural Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/biker-fatally-hit-by-goods-carrier/article38200105.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:59 IST,KARNATAKA||Officers told to conduct 5,500 RT-PCR tests a day||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has instructed the officers of the Health and Family Welfare Department to conduct 5,500 RT-PCR tests a day as the number of COVID-19 cases was on the rise. Hassan reported 89 fresh case of infection on Friday. Among them, 36 were in Hassan taluk, 14 in Alur, 11 in Belur, seven each in Arsikere and Channarayapatna, four in Sakleshpur and three in Arkalgud taluk. So far 1,384 people have died in the district since the outbreak of the pandemic. As many as 250 people are under treatment. None of them are in the intensive care unit. In a meeting with the officers in Hassan on Friday, the DC said the COVID care centres and hospitals should be ready to treat cases, if the number of cases increased. The officers should collect details of those undergoing test so that tracing the primary and secondary contacts would not be a problem. “Take details of their family members and the neighbours as well”, he told the officers. The COVID care centres should be kept clean and ready. The medicine and other facilities required for treatment of patients should be ready at taluk and hobli centres. War rooms should be opened at district and taluk centres. The staff at the war rooms should arrange hospital and other necessary arrangements for the infected people, he said. The DC said the private hospitals should also earmark beds for the infected patients, referred by the district administration. “All officers have to work towards combating the third wave of the pandemic effectively”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officers-told-to-conduct-5500-rt-pcr-tests-a-day/article38200107.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:27 IST,KARNATAKA||Environmentalists, locals oppose development works at Jog Falls||The State Government’s decision to take up development works, including a ropeway, a five-star hotel, at Jog Falls in Sagar taluk of Shivamogga district, has not gone down well with environmentalists and local people. The construction activities in the sensitive area would pose a threat to the world famous tourist attraction, environmentalists worry. The local people stress the need for addressing the basic needs of tourists visiting the place. The place, where river Sharavati takes a plunge from a height of 810 ft, attracts nearly 10 lakh tourists in the rainy season. The Cabinet, which met on Thursday, cleared the project worth Rs. 116 crore, which includes the construction of a star hotel, coffee bars, ropeway, and other facilities on Design-Build-Finance-Operate-Transfer (DBFOT) mode. Shivamogga Lok Sabha member B. Y. Raghavendra and Sagar MLA Hartal Halappa have thanked the Government for the decision. Cable car Mr. Halappa, speaking to presspersons, said the Rs. 116 crore approved by the Cabinet was in addition to Rs. 185 crore for which work had already begun. “A total of Rs. 301 crore would be spent on the development of Jog Falls. We will have a cable car, which is found in major tourist places. It will connect the two edges of the site, attracting thousands of tourists,” he said. The MLA maintained that the works were not mere announcements, but would be completed within a time frame, clearing all hurdles. However, many people are opposed to the ropeway citing that it might affect the valley. It would involve the construction of pillars. “The carrying capacity of the place is already exhausted. Let the Government not bring in new projects to harm the place”, opined Akhilesh Chipli, an environmentalist. The rocks in the valley had been a place for several species of birds. Any activity to promote tourism would harm the biodiversity of the place, he said. He also opposed the construction of star hotels on the premises. “Why cannot the Government take up construction of hotels at Talaguppa, a nearby place? ” he remarked. Environmentalists are also of the view that the tourist spot is part of an eco-sensitive zone and the Government should not take up works without prior approval of the Forest Department. S. N. Rajkumar, a member of the local forest rights’ committee, said, “A majority of tourists who visit the place are from North Karnataka districts. Those who come from Bengaluru do not stay here. Then, who will stay at the proposed five-star hotel?”  When The Hindu contacted Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K. B. Shivakumar, who is also chairman of Jog Development Authority, he refused to comment citing that he would not pass his remarks on the Cabinet’s decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/environmentalists-locals-oppose-development-works-at-jog-falls/article38199729.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Police strictly enforce curfew in Hubballi-Dharwad||The Hubballi-Dharwad Police ensured strict enforcement of the weekend curfew on day one by getting into action from early morning to warn and penalise people venturing out without any valid reason. At the otherwise busy Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi and Jubilee Circle in Dharwad, the police were seen enforcing the weekend curfew strictly. The checking of vehicles and enquiry of people who had come out on two- wheelers and in four-wheelers began as early as 6 a.m. in the morning. They intercepted vehicles and sought details from the vehicle owners. Those not wearing masks were also warned and some were penalised by them. Penalised While the police allowed people who had come out for a particular purpose, others who failed to give convincing answers were warned and penalised by them. They also warned that if they were found violating the weekend curfew again, their vehicles would be seized. The police personnel on duty also made an appeal to the people, not to venture out unless it was very essential. Youth attended to A youth from Kundapur, who fell unconscious at Kittur Chennamma Circle was immediately attended to by the police personnel on duty. They gave him first aid and arranged for taking him to hospital. The Youth identified as Nagaraj, reportedly suffered from Epilepsy. Although it was weekend curfew, the NWKRTC (North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation), operated its city services to help people reaching the city from different places and also those proceeding to work to different offices and industries. The move which came in for appreciation from regular travellers, was taken in the wake of complaints about auto rickshaw drivers fleecing the long distance passengers. The police patrol vehicles also visited various localities making announcement about the weekend curfew and appealing to the people not to venture out unnecessarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-strictly-enforce-curfew-in-hubballi-dharwad/article38199901.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Hike in cellular, data tariff condemned||Scores of students staged a demonstration under the aegis of All India Democratic Youth Organisation (AIDYO) in Dharwad on Wednesday protesting against what they termed as arbitrary hike in mobile recharge and data pack tariff. Addressing the protestors, AIDYO district president Bhavanishankar Gouda said that at a time when the life of the common people has been adversely affected by the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns, the telephone companies have increased tariff by 100% in a year. Especially post COVID-19, dependency on mobile phones and data packages has increased. Particularly, the students and youths are dependent on mobile phones for their studies and work. And, when online classes are being held because of the fear of the pandemic, the arbitrary decision to increase tariff will further affect their lives, he said. “At a time when mobile phones have become an inevitable part of people’s life, telecom service providers have once again increased tariff by 20% to 25%. It is highly shocking that the regulatory authority, Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), has gone into silent mode at such a crucial time,” he said. Mr. Bhavanishankar said that AIDYO will urge the TRAI to immediately intervene and stop the “daylight robbery” by telecom companies. He said that earlier the public sector company, BSNL, was systematically weakened and private telecom companies allowed to control the market. And, now, they are being allowed to loot the people. He said that TRAI should immediately intervene and the Union Government too should take the requisite steps to reduce the burden on mobile phone users.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hike-in-cellular-data-tariff-condemned/article38199896.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Third school in Hubballi sealed||Amid apprehensions about educational institutions becoming hotspots of COVID-19 pandemic and warning from experts, another school in Hubballi has been sealed after eight students tested positive for the infection. Eight students of St Antony’s Public School located at Siddeshwar Park in Hubballi have been tested positive and this is the third school to be sealed in Hubbali. The other two schools are Railway School and Chetan Public School. The district administration in coordination with the health officials and the school authorities conducted RT-PCR testing at the school and all the teaching, non-teaching staff, and students were screened for the infection. As eight students tested positive, the classes were suspended and the school had been sealed, authorities confirmed. The Railway school was closed after a student and a teacher tested positive in the third week of December and in the genome sequencing it was revealed that both had contracted Omicron. Both have subsequently recovered and are under observation.Chetan Public School near Akshay Nagar in Hubballi too was closed after 11 students tested positive. 28 RPF personnel Meanwhile as per the test results received on Saturday, 28 personnel of Railway Protection Force (RPF) have tested positive and all the positive patients have been isolated. Meanwhile the district administration has initiated steps to trace the primary and secondary contacts of the RPF personnel and get them tested for the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-third-school-in-hubballi-sealed/article38199899.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Solar pumps: KVGB ties up with Mecwin Tech||Farmers planning to get solar water pumps installed for irrigation can now get financial assistance for the same from Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank (KVGB), which has tied up with Bengaluru based Mecwin Technologies Limited, which manufactures solar powered pump sets. A formal signing and exchange of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) took place in Dharwad on Saturday.General Manager ofKVG Bank P. Srinivasa Rao and co-founder and Director of Mecwin Technologies Sivakumar H.M. signed and exchanged the document in the presence of Chairman of KVG Bank P. Gopi Krishna at the bank’s head office in Dharwad. Speaking at the formal function, Mr. Gopi Krishna said that KVG Bank was the first bank to introduce solar loan schemes and is at the forefront of financing solar lights and sustainable energy solutions to under-served households and businesses in association with SELCO for the last 25 years. Emphasising the significance of using solar water pumps in irrigation, Mr. Gopi Krishna said that it was high time the farmers adapted the innovations in the solar energy sector. “Solar power is continuous and farmers have direct control over it. Initially the price of equipments and installations seem to be high. But considering the life span of 20 to 25 years it will become inexpensive medium in the longer duration,” he said. This apart, replacement of diesel pump sets with solar pumps would also reduce carbon emissions significantly, he said, adding that the MoU would benefit the farming section as the Mecwin Technologies was specialised in the production and management of solar irrigation pump sets and the bank with its large network in rural areas would offer better financial products to help them. Mr. Shivakumara said that already the company had over 15,000 satisfied farmers in the State. The farmers should consider solar pumps as a means of resolving irrigation issues and also reducing carbon emissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/solar-pumps-kvgb-ties-up-with-mecwin-tech/article38199903.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:24 IST,KARNATAKA||Cong. seeks vaccination for those in 12-15 age group||Addressing presspersons in Kalaburagi on Saturday, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson and former Medical Education Minister Sharan Prakash Patil said that the Government should allow those in the 12-15 age bracket to get inoculated as Omicron cases are rising in the country. Amid concerns about a possible surge in COViD-19 cases in the State, Mr. Patil asked the State Government to spell out a plan for combating the third wave. He urged the Government to make sure health facilities are well equipped. “It seems that the State Government has failed to learn lessons from the first and second waves. Though the third wave and the Omicron variant has hit the State, no proper arrangements for vaccination have been made so far,” he alleged. Mr. Patil alleged that despite strict guidelines of the Government, private hospitals’ charges were exorbitant for COVID-19 treatment. The Government should fix a ceiling on rates and also take appropriate action wherever instances of over-charging come to notice. He also urged the district administration to strengthen the health infrastructure, ensure adequate beds and, supply of oxygen, ventilators, concentrators, and medicines, and also monitor their availability on a daily basis to ensure that there is absolute preparedness to tackle any rise in the number of infections. The district administration should utilise the 40-bed Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU), 20-bed Neonatal Intensive care Unit (NICU), 30-bed Intensive Care Unit (ICU) in a new building at Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) hospital and also make use of Beds available at ESIC hospital complex. ‘Release White Paper’ Mr. Patil also demanded that the district administration issue a White Paper on the total deaths due to COVID-19 across the district, along with details of compensation paid to the victims’ families. He also alleged that cheques paid to several victims had bounced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-seeks-vaccination-for-those-in-12-15-age-group/article38199909.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:32 IST,KARNATAKA||Life thrown out of gear in Kalaburagi||The first day of the weekend curfew imposed on the onset of the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic disrupted normal life in Kalaburagi on Saturday. With the closure of all the commercial establishments, except for those considered as the providers of essential commodities and services, and thin vehicular movement on the roads, the city wore a deserted look throughout the day after a few roadside vendors transacted their business in the morning. It was found that the police, in order to minimise people’s movement, had themselves closed some of the roads in the city by putting barricades at Basaveshwara Circle and Jagat Main Road. People’s entry to holy places like Sharana Basaveshwara Temple and Khaja Banda Nawaz Dargha was restricted. The police teams deployed at vital locations like MSK Mill, SVP Circle, Kharge Petrol Pump Circle, APMC, Aland Nakha, Supermarket, Ram Mandir Circle, Muslim Chowk and Lalgeri Cross were found stopping the vehicles who had ventured out and checking the validity of the reason for their coming out. They seized the vehicles that came out without a valid and justifiable reason in many places across the city. Though the public transport services were not completely banned, there were hardly any people to use them. The Central Bus Station had worn a deserted look with a few buses and passengers. Most of the buses were parked inside the station and different depots. Though the hotels and restaurants were allowed to offer takeaway services, there were hardly any people to take food home as their movement was restricted. People were asked to use the services only at their neighbourhoods. Police intensified the checking at the nine check posts established along the Karnataka-Maharashtra and Karnataka-Telangana borders areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/life-thrown-out-of-gear-in-kalaburagi/article38199907.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:24 IST,KARNATAKA||CPCRI scientists report new pest infesting areca nut kernel||A team of scientists from the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI), Regional Station, Vitla in Dakshina Kannada, have identified a new pest infesting areca nut kernel at plantations. It has been identified as Xylosandrus crassiusculus, a scolytid beetle measuring 2.5-2.8 mm. It was found in young gardens located at Markanja village of Sullia taluk and Kaniyooru village of Kadaba taluk during the regular pest and disease surveillance programme, the CPCRI said in a statement on Saturday. The adult female beetle bore the husk by making a gallery of 1.06-2.39 mm and entered the kernel. It will then feed on the internal content and breed in the galleries. Infestation can be identified based on the hole made by the insect and extrusion of frass noodles from the bored hole, the statement said. The scientists also discovered the symbiotic association of fungi, Ambrosiella roeperi, with the pest. Interestingly, this fungus serves as a nutrition-rich food source for larvae and adults. The fungus will cause black staining of kernel tissues and profuse growth of greyish fungal colony. This will reduce the weight of the nut, and affect its storage life and marketable quality. “Our scientists have identified and reported a new pest of areca nut infesting the kernel. Further, its management using eco-friendly strategies will be studied” the in-charge director of the CPCRI, Kasaragod, Kerala, Anitha Karun said. This is the first report of Xylosandrus crassiusculus, a scolytid beetle affecting areca nut kernel, and the symbiotic association of Ambrosiella roeperi at the global level. It was reported by a team of scientists led by Shivaji Thube and comprising Thavaprakasa Pandian and Bhavishya, she said. “This is an interesting discovery. At present it is not very serious. However, it affects storage life and marketable quality, which is a matter of concern. We are developing traps for its management” Mr. Thube, who led the team, said. “We have observed it mostly in stressed plants in young gardens. Balanced nutrition is very important to sustain the yield and safeguard the crop against pest and diseases” said Mr. Bhavishya.  Mr. Bhavishya said that the areca nut is affected by many pests, of which pentatomid bug and perianth mite are the major insects infesting areca nut kernel. “Now we have found a new one,” he told The Hindu , adding that their work has been published in an international journal, Insects .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cpcri-scientists-report-new-pest-infesting-areca-nut-kernel/article38200212.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:24 IST,KARNATAKA||UPCL grants Rs. 78.18 lakh to Karkala government hospital||Udupi Power Corporation Limited in association with Adani Foundation, a CSR wing of Adani Group, has granted Rs. 78.18 lakhs to the Udupi district administration for setting up 10 paediatric ICU ventilator beds and purchase allied medical equipment in the government hospital in Karkala. The foundation in August last had given Rs. 40 lakh to the Udupi district administration for establishing paediatric ICU ventilator beds in government hospitals and with Saturday’s grant it has given Rs. 1.18 crores to the government health facilities. Kishore Alva, president and Executive Director of Adani Group, Karnataka, handed over the Demand Draft for Rs. 78,18,500 to M. Kurma Rao, Deputy Commissioner on Saturday, a release from the UPCL said. The fund given on Saturday was towards purchase of medical devices comprising multipara monitors; central monitoring system; Syringe Infusion Pump; Drip Infusion Pump; Modular wall mount monitor stand with drip stand and thrash can; Portable USG machine; Defibrillator; Cardiac Table; Laryngoscope handle and blades (curved & straight); crash cart; desktop computer system with printer and UPS; Resuscitation Couch/ICU Bed; Electrical/Foot operated suction machine; ECG machine; Radiant warmer; Emergency trolley; High Flow Nasal Cannula; Ophthalmoscope; Defibrillator; Invasive ventilators; Humidifier for ventilators; Ventilator circuits paediatric and the like, Mr. Alva said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/upcl-grants-rs-7818-lakh-to-karkala-government-hospital/article38200219.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:24 IST,KARNATAKA||KSRTC, pvt. operators run only 50% of services in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada and Udupi witnessed skeletal public transport services during the weekend curfew on Saturday. There were not many travellers on the buses, auto rickshaws and taxis. The city police booked 517 cases under the Indian Motor Vehicle Act for violating traffic rules and 369 persons were fined for not wearing mask. Police said that more than 110 vehicles plying without valid reason in the city were detained which were released later after their owners paid fine. The district police seized 10 vehicles and imposed fine on 108 persons for flouting COVID-19 protocol. A majority of the business establishments and educational institutions remained closed. Medical shops, grocery and other shops dealing with essential commodities remained open in the twin districts. The KSRTC and the private city buses operated only 50% of their services. Mangaluru KSRTC Divisional Controller Arun Kumar said among the routes where services have been reduced include Mangaluru-Kasaragod and Mangaluru-Benglauru. Jayasheela Adhyantaya, president of Dakshina Kannada Bus Owners Association, said the travellers were less throughout the day. Most of the city bus services were stopped by evening. “Bus service on Sunday will depend on the number of travellers,” he said. The city police set up checkposts across the city and at the border checkpost at Talapady to prevent people from travelling unnecessariy. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar and other police officers stood at the checkpost. People were found waiting for buses at the Udupi KSRTC bus stand. With most of private city buses cancelled by evening, the bus drivers and conductors were found playing cricket at the Udupi city bus stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-pvt-operators-run-only-50-of-services-in-dk-udupi/article38200215.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:24 IST,KARNATAKA||43 establishments fined for violating COVID-19 norms||The Mangaluru City Corporation officials cancelled the trade licences of two commercial establishments and imposed a fine of Rs. 12,000 on 43 establishments violating COVID-19 norms during the weekend curfew on Saturday. Following complaints, teams of MCC officials from Revenue and Health department inspected establishments across the city. In a press release, MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that no commercial establishments, except those related to essential and emergency services, are allowed to operate during the weekend curfew imposed to curb spread of ‘Omicron’ variant of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/43-establishments-fined-for-violating-covid-19-norms/article38200209.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:24 IST,KARNATAKA||Briefly||There will be no vaccination camp against COVID-19 in Udupi district on January 9, according to Udupi District Health and Family Welfare Officer H. Nagabhushana Udupa.   Train No. 16650 Nagercoil Junction-Mangaluru Central Parasuram Express leaving Nagercoil Junction on January 13 and January 14 will have one-minute stoppage at Kanjiramattom railway station. It will arrive at the station at 10.6 a.m. Train No. 16649 Mangaluru Central -Nagercoil Junction Parasuram Express leaving Mangaluru Central on the same days will also have one minute stoppage at the same station. The train will arrive at the station at 2.19 p.m.   Department of Minorities Welfare has invited applications from post metric minority students not admitted in the government hostels for granting them financial assistance towards food and accommodation. Last date to apply on line is January 10. Call the helpline 82777799990.   There will be no power supply to some areas in Manipal and Udupi on January 11 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Syndicate Circle, MGC School, BSNL Telephone Exchange, Vidyaratnanagara, offices of Deputy Commissioner and Regional Transport Officer, Perampalli, KMC Hospital, Venugopala Temple, Kukkikatte, Korangrapady, Bailuru, Udyavara and Katpady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article38200210.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:59 IST,KARNATAKA||Lockdown in Mysuru fully effective||The city and surrounding region went into a lockdown on Saturday as part of the weekend curfew announced by the State Government to combat the surge in COVID-19 cases. All non-essential commercial establishments remained shut not only in the heart of the city but across residential areas as well. Only pharmaceutical shops, milk parlours, and grocery shops were open while hotels were permitted to deliver parcels and take-aways. The places of tourist interest remained shut including the palace, art gallery, railway museum, St. Philomena’s Church, Zoo, and Chamundeshwari temple. The places of tourist interest will remain out of bounds to the public even on Sunday. However, the authorities have said that the zoological gardens will remain open on Tuesdays (on January 11 and 18) which otherwise is a holiday for the zoo. Bandipur Tiger Reserve, which tend to be teeming with tourists during weekends, did not have many visitors. The authorities operated only two trips for safari given the low turnout as against more than a dozen trips that are normally conducted. Though city buses operated as usual the number of passengers was a fraction of the people travelling during normal days. Autorickshaws and other forms of public transportation were not affected though there were not many users. The main commercial areas of the city wore a deserted look including Devaraja Urs Road, Sayyaji Rao Road, Dhanavantri Road, Ashoka Road, 100 feet Double Road, Shivarampet, and Irwin Road. Though commercial establishments tend to operate slyly in residential areas during bandhs called by political establishments, it has not been the case during the pandemic-induced lockdown. It was no different on Saturday and all shops in the non-essential category remained shut across the region. In Mysuru city, the streets were deserted as evident in Kuvempunagar, Siddarthanagar, Jayanagar, Jayalakshmipuram, Gokulam, Yadavgiri, Udaygiri, Bannimantap, Srirampura, Dattagalli, Rajivnagar, N.R.Mohalla, Chamundipuram, Vidyaranyapuram etc. MLA does the rounds Meanwhile, Tanvir Sait, MLA, apprised himself of the measures in place in areas coming under Narasimharaja assembly segment to cope with the third wave. The segment was badly hit during the first and the second wave and hence the MLA met the officials to discuss the preparations in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-in-mysuru-fully-effective/article38200109.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Industries brace for showdown with CESC over power tariff hike||The manufacturing and service sectors in Mysuru are bracing for elaborate objections to the power tariff escalation sought by Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation. The fresh proposal for upward revision comes hardly six months after the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) had approved a hike in June last year. “We are yet to fully recover from the downturn owing to the pandemic and now the CESC has sought another upward revision in tariff which will break our backs’’, said Suresh Kumar Jain of Mysuru Industries Association. Cascading impact Even a nominal hike will have a cascading impact and make the manufacturing sector less competitive and hence the stakeholders are preparing a detailed objection for submission during the pubic hearing to be convened by the KERC, he added. “The economy is not yet out of the uncertainties due to the pandemic and even as the industrial sector was gaining traction to reach the pre-pandemic level of growth the third wave is upon us and may have a bearing on the economy’’, said A.S. Satish, President, Mysore Chamber of Commerce and Industry (MCCI). He said that the issue was already raised with the parent body, the Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI), and steps are being taken to file a strong objection against the application for upward revision of tariff filed by the CESC. Stakeholders aver that the previous hike six months ago was sought to bridge the projected revenue shortfall and if they have sought another hike it only means that their projections were all wrong and is a commentary on inefficient management. “The KERC should reject such attempts of the ESCOMs in the State to pass on the financial burden arising due to their own mismanagement, to the consumers’’, said Mr. Satish. The CESC’s proposal for tariff revision for the financial year 2022-23 has been justified on the grounds that the revenue gap for 2022-23 will be to the tune of Rs. 1,543.46 crore. It has also sought a hike in fixed charges to cover the operation and maintenance expenses. The CESC states that the fixed charges at the existing rate across all categories is Rs. 656.38 crore while the difference after taking into account the employee cost and other expenses stands at Rs. 316.69 crore. The tariff hike required across all categories has been pegged at Rs. 2.27 per unit. The fixed charges for commercial lighting, heating and motive power installations is proposed to be raised from Rs. 105 per KW to Rs. 165 and from Rs. 205 per KW for every additional KW above 50 KW, to Rs. 265. Steep decrease The CESC also admitted that owing to COVID-19, the energy sales in the financial year 2020-21 impacted the first half of the year and following the lockdown and restrictions industrial and commercial establishments were shut. This resulted in steep decrease in revenue demands and collections. The CESC owes Rs. 2,485.82 crore to the power generating companies as on September 2021 and has requested the KERC to approve the tariff revision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/industries-brace-for-showdown/article38199690.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:59 IST,KARNATAKA||200-plus cases for second day in Mysuru||For the second consecutive day on Saturday, Mysuru has reported 200-plus COVID-19 positive cases, putting the health authorities on their toes. Three new clusters have been reported with a total of 18 cases, all in Mysuru city. Seven tested positive out of 249 samples from a school in Nazarabad. Five and six cases respectively were reported in Saturday’s cluster outbreaks besides Nazarabad cluster. Mysuru city alone reported 158 cases out of 203 new infections. Fifteen persons were discharged on Saturday. The testing target has been revised amidst the spurt in infections in the district. As many as 6,648 tests were carried out on Saturday. The active case tally rose to 672 with about 521 cases in home isolation and the rest in hospitals. Mysuru alone has 520 active cases. T. Narsipur taluk has second highest active cases of 53 in view of recent cluster outbreaks. Meanwhile, senior officials from the Department of Health and Family Welfare held a meeting here on Saturday to discuss about preparations to be made for countering the third wave of pandemic in view of sudden spike in cases. The meeting discussed how the district is prepared to face the pandemic besides the availability of medical oxygen, drugs, and other essentials for combating and managing COVID-19. All taluk health officers have been asked to hold meetings and take stock of the situation. Hospital infrastructure has to be kept ready for handling any surge in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/200-plus-cases-for-second-day-in-mysuru/article38200104.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:59 IST,KARNATAKA||Surge in COVID-19 cases in Mandya; SP tests positive||Even as RT-PCR testing for pilgrims has been stepped up in Mandya amidst the rising infection rate, senior police officers, including the Superintendent of Police, Yatish, have tested positive to COVID-19 on Saturday.  Confirming this to The Hindu, District Health Officer Dhananjay said the SP and a few other officers have contracted the infection and all of them are in home isolation.  “They might have contracted the infection as the officers were active in COVID-19 control measures in the district following the recent cluster outbreaks,” he added. Dr. Dhananjay said police help was sought in identifying and testing the interstate travelers who were returning to the district amidst the surge and the rising threat of a third wave. “They (officers) also helped us in setting COVID-19 Care Centers in the district. They could have come in contact with infected persons and later developed the infection, which seems to be mild.” 183 test positive On Saturday, 183 persons tested positive in Mandya, which is the highest since many months after the second wave. With this, the active case tally rose to 490. Barring K.R. Pet, two-digit cases were reported in all other taluks on Saturday. The number of cases: Mandya (32), Maddur (54), Malavalli (17), Pandavapura (23), Srirangapatna (36) and Nagamangala (16). K.R. Pet reported four cases on Saturday. Meanwhile, the number of persons testing positive on returning from the annual pilgrimage of a famous temple in Tamil Nadu has gone up. As many as 200-plus pilgrims have so far tested positive and most of them are asymptomatic. All of them are in COVID-19 Care Centers in the districts. Dr. Dhananjay said the cases of pilgrims testing positive are not confined to Srirangapatna like earlier since the returnees of the temple visit from across Mandya were on the pilgrimage and all of them are being tested as a safety precaution. “About 100-plus pilgrims tested positive on Saturday after 1,500 of them were subjected to RT PCR tests,” the DHO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-mandya-sp-tests-positive/article38200110.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:25 IST,KARNATAKA||TiE University Pitch competition for startups, founders announced||TiE Mysuru chapter, one among 61 worldwide chapters of TiE, has announced the launch of its regional competition to select the college team to represent TiE Mysuru chapter at the global finals of the TiE University Global Pitch Competition 2022. Applications are available at www.tieuniversity.org/pc. Speaking about the competition, Ajith Pai, president of the chapter, said, “The pitch competition is a platform for entrepreneurs such as our charter members to give back and to help foster entrepreneurship among college students. The TiE University programme offers a complete ecosystem to the next generation of entrepreneurs to launch and scale their startups. TiE Mysuru is the only chapter in Karnataka to host TiE University Program fourth year in a row.” In the last edition, TiE Mysuru provided Rs. 3.5 lakh seed fund and mentorship support to the winners of the past editions, a release said. The competition is open to startups/founders who are currently in college or have graduated after January 2019. As part of the competition, the startups are mentored and coached by experienced entrepreneurs at the regional/city level. After this, they present their ideas to a seasoned jury panel that selects the chapter (regional) winner. The winning team then becomes part of the global group which undergoes extensive mentoring and coaching by international mentors. Global finale The cohort then presents to an international jury and competes for cash prizes of $100,000 including a grand first prize of $50,000 and in-kind awards of $500,000. TiE Mysuru chapter will provide up to Rs. 1 lakh cash award to the winners of chapter-level pitch competition along with one-on-one mentorship and incubation support. According to the chapter champion Shivashankar, “The pitch competition in the preceding year received applications from 1,500 teams from 200 colleges representing 10 countries.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tie-university-pitch-competition-for-startups-founders-announced/article38199921.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Mango may turn dearer as yield is set to drop||This year, mango enthusiasts may need to shell out more money for relishing their favourite fruit as the production is expected to fall significantly compared to last year’s output with the present year turning out to be an off-year for the crop. As an added factor, the untimely rains in November-December last year may have a bearing on the production. With the expected fall in production, the fruit is likely to turn expensive, particularly the premium varieties. Horticulture experts are forecasting a yield of about 7 to 8 lakh tonne this year in the State and the early varieties of the fruit are likely to hit the market by March-end or early April with lush flowering noticed in most parts, particularly in Ramanagaram, in December. Last year, the State produced around 15 lakh tonne of mangoes and only half of this production is the forecast for this year. Despite facing problems last year such as rains in May and June and COVID-19 induced lockdowns and so on, farmers managed to overcome difficulties as several of them resorted to direct marketing. “Mango growers have now learnt how to overcome the situation after facing a tough year in 2020 over COVID-19. They did not lose much over issues like transportation last year. I think they are strong now to overcome hurdles,” said horticulture expert S.V. Hittalmani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mango-may-turn-dearer-as-yield-is-set-to-drop/article38199696.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:59 IST,KARNATAKA||MSME appeal to consumers||The MSME Council and Mysuru Industries Association has urged all its members to file objections to the proposed power tariff revision sought by the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC). The Council has also urged all electricity consumers to file their objections before the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) for which the last date is January 29, 2022. ‘Mismanagement’ The consumers are being penalised for ‘mismanagement’ by the CESC while there was over Rs. 511 crore in arrears that was yet to be recovered by it from various government departments, said Suresh Kumar Jain, Secretary, Mysore Industries Association. He said it was only in last June that the CESC had increased the tariff by Rs. 1.60 per unit apart from hiking the fixed charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/msme-appeal-to-consumers/article38200106.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:27 IST,KARNATAKA||ED arrests ex-Chancellor of Alliance varsity||The Enforcement Directorate arrested the former Chancellor of a Bengaluru-based private university who is alleged to have duped the parents of 4,500 students by “siphoing off” Rs. 107 crore funds taken from them as fees, the agency said on Saturday. Madhukar G. Angur, the ex-chancellor of Alliance University, was arrested on Friday. He was produced before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Bengaluru on Saturday that sent him to seven-day judicial custody, the ED said in a statement. It alleged that Angur and others “informed the parents of the students through e-mails and physical notices not to deposit the fee in the official accounts of the Alliance University and instead asked them to deposit the fees of their children into the illegally opened bank accounts (by Angur) and others in the name of Srivari Educational Services”. “Hence, the parents of about 4,500 students were persuaded to deposit the fees in the said illegally opened bank accounts and amounts to the tune of about Rs. 107 crore were siphoned off by Angur and others by collecting tuition fees, hostel and other fees illegally from students,” it said. These fee deposits, the Enforcement Directorate said, were made between 2016-17. The agency in September last year had attached assets worth over Rs. 19 crore of Angur and his family members Priyanka M. Angur, Ravi Kumar K., Shruthi and Pavana Dibbur. The ED filed a criminal case of money laundering against the former chancellor and his family members after studying at least 4 FIRs filed by the Bengaluru police and some other agencies against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ed-arrests-ex-chancellor-of-alliance-university/article38199682.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Successful curfew in Yadgir, Raichur||There was good public response on Saturday to the weekend curfew, which was imposed considering the number of COVID=19 cases, restricting public movement from 10 p.m. on Friday to 5 a.m. on Monday in Yadgir district. . Business establishments, traders, and cloth shops were closed. But, there were no restrictions on shops selling essentials, the APMC yard, hospitals, and medical shops. There were no passengers at bus stands though there was no restriction for government buses. Autorickshaws and private vehicles operated as usual but, the number of passengers in government and private vehicles were less compared to normal days. The business at the APMC yard was normal. Police had put up barricades on the key points including Yadgir- Kalaburagi, Yadgir- Hyderabad main roads near government degree college and Basaveshwar circle at Gunj and deployed more men to prevent unnecessary movements of the vehicles and general public as well. The Health Department deployed its employees to conduct COVID-19 tests on passengers arriving at the central bus terminus. According to the staff, tests were carried out on 30 persons and of them, two people tested positive. The situation was similar even in Raichur. Police checking the documents collected from the people seen on the roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/successful-curfew-in-yadgir-raichur/article38199905.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:25 IST,KARNATAKA||Stage set for political showdown||While week-end curfew has been enforced throughout the State in the wake of COVID-19, Section 144 has been imposed in Ramanagaram district to prevent any congregation. In fact, Ramanagaram district Superintendent of Police Girish personally met Mr. Shivakumar in Kanakapura and conveyed him the Government’s decision that padayatra would not be allowed as it would be violation of law. Later, he told a private TV channel that the police would be compelled to take action if anyone violates COVID-19 protocol. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra too made it clear that the padayatra could not be allowed. Describing it as politically motivated, he warned that stern action would be taken against violators of COVID protocols. The Congress leaders who met at the residence of Mr. Shivakumar in Kanakapura on the eve of the padayatra are learnt to have discussed the ways and means of preventing legal hurdles for their walkathon. A few leaders hinted that only Mr. Shivakumar and Mr. Siddaramaiah may go ahead with the padayatra as a strategic move if the Government tries to scuttle the padayatra. However, a few MLAs are expected to follow them. The padayatra, which is particularly aimed at consolidating the the support for the Congress in this Vokkaliga heartland, is turning out to be tricky for the Government as several cine personalities, including Shivarajkumar, are also expected to participate in it. Ahead of the march, Mr. Shivakumar offered prayers at the temple in Kanakapura to make the march a grand success. Later, the KPCC president also participated in religious programmes organised by Christians and Muslims in his home constituency Kanakapura. The KPCC chief termed the restrictions imposed by the Government as “BJP lockdown and not COVID lockdown” aimed at scuttling the padayatra. It aimed at “destroying the livelihoods of drivers, traders, and street vendors, and many other sections of the people,” he said.  The JD (S), the arch rival of the Congress in the Old Mysuru region, too criticised the Congress and said its party supremoH.D. Deve Gowda had unveiled its Janata Jaladhare campaign for highlighting the “injustice” meted out to Karnataka by the Centre in implementing various irrigation projects.Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy blamed national parties for lacking the commitment to safeguard the interests of the State. The Mekedatu padayatra planned by Congress would hurt Karnataka’s position when a petition on the project is heard in the Supreme Court, he claimed.  Meanwhile, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai countered allegations made by both Opposition parties and said that his Government was committed to implementing the Mekedatu project and a memorandum had been submitted to the Modi Government seeking clearances for executing the project. The 10-day padayatra is expected to culminate in Bengaluru on January 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stage-set-for-political-showdown/article38199702.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:24 IST,KARNATAKA||Weekend treat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-treat/article38200217.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:10 IST,KERALA||Heavy vehicles off AC road limits from Jan. 10||To avoid traffic snarls on the under-construction Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road, a ban on movement of heavy vehicles, except Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses, will be imposed on the 24.16-km road between 9 a.m. and 10.30 a.m from January 10. The ban will remain in force until further notice. The decision was made in a meeting chaired by District Collector A. Alexander on Friday. Officials said only those heavy vehicles transporting essential commodities to various places in Kuttanad would be allowed to enter the road outside the specified hours. Traffic will be banned on the Pandarakalam and Mankombu bridges for 85 days starting January 10 in view of the reconstruction of two bridges. Temporary service roads will be constructed parallel to the bridges for the movement of light vehicles. The KSRTC buses from Alappuzha will conduct service up to Pandarakalam and buses from Changanassery will end service at Mankombu Block Junction. The AC road, under the Kerala State Transport Project, is being reconstructed as a semi-elevated highway at a cost of Rs. 649.76 crore. The work, which began last year, is making progress. The project, which is aimed at preventing flooding of the road during the monsoon season, is expected to be completed by December 2022. As part of the project, 2.9 km of the road will be refurbished using the bituminous macadam bituminous concrete (BMBC) method. Another 8.27 km will be strengthened by laying geotextiles. A length of nine km of the road will be rebuilt with geogrid and geotextile encased stone columns. Reconstruction and widening of existing bridges and construction of flyovers at places prone to severe flooding are part of the project. Once completed, the two-lane road and flyovers with footpaths will have a width between 13 and 14 metres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-vehicles-off-ac-road-limits-from-jan-10/article38200076.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||All crew members in seized vessel ‘safe’||Crew members, including two Keralites, on board a UAE-flagged cargo ship seized by Yemeni Houthi fighters on January 2 are safe, relatives have been informed. Deck cadet Akhil Raghu (26) of Cheppad in Alappuzha and another Malayali who has not yet been identified are among four Indians on board the vessel Rawabi when it was seized while sailing near the Red Sea port city of Hodeida recently. On Saturday, at least two Indian crew members of the ship contacted their families reportedly from the Yemeni capital Sanaa. “We are yet to receive a phone call or establish contact with Akhil. But two of his colleagues have contacted their families in India and said the entire crew are safe and in good health. The Indian crew will be released once the Indian Embassy in the UAE confirms their citizenship and the same is conveyed to our embassy in Yemen,” said Rahul Raghu, Akhil’s brother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-crew-members-in-seized-vessel-safe/article38200089.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:07 IST,KERALA||Ecotourism project at Arunamala may be dropped||The Forest Department has promised to withdraw the plan to set up an eco-tourism project at Arunamala under the Meppady forest range of the South Wayanad forest division owing to the stiff opposition by tribespeople. The department had proposed to launch a mega tourism project, including trekking to Aurnamala and setting up tents for tourists near the tribal settlement on the eastern slope of the camel hump mountain complex of the Western Ghats where 85 families of Kattunayakkan community, a particularly vulnerable tribal group, are living. Many incidences of landslips were also reported on the ecologically fragile area during the monsoon two years ago. Tribespeople’s demand After tourism activities such as setting up private resorts in the area and the arrival of tourists in vehicles became a threat to the tranquil life of the tribespeople, they brought the issue to the attention of Wayanad District Collector A. Geetha with the support of the Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshna Samiti. Ms. Geetha directed a team of officials led by D.S. Prabhat, Deputy Director of Tourism, to submit a report on the issue after visiting the site. They visited the site and collected evidence from the tribespeople and submitted the report to the Collector. Later, the team held a talk with senior officials of the Forest Department and the latter assured them that the department would not launch any tourism project in the area that would hamper the tranquillity of the tribal settlement. B. Akhil, president of the Arunamala tribal group committee, said the officials had assured them that tourism activities would not be allowed in the area. The samiti told the authorities that the tourism project was against the norms and conditions of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF and CC) as it was not included in the working plan of the department. According to the norms, the intervention of outsiders was not permitted in a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group settlement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-dept-may-drop-plan-for-eco-tourism-project-at-arunamala/article38200005.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:53 IST,KERALA||Man held on charge of uxoricide||The Meppadi police have arrested Salivan Jagiri, 29, a worker from Nepal, on the charge of beating his wife, Bimala, 28, to death in the wee hours of Saturday at Kunnambatta in the district. The police said the couple, natives of Nepal, was staying in a makeshift shed of a private coffee estate at Kunnampetta along with their eight-year-old son. A quarrel between the duo regarding their return journey to Nepal led to the murder, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-uxoricide/article38200004.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:53 IST,KERALA||Study finds high levels of metal pollution in Kannur||Anthropogenic (originating due to human action) activities due to the rapid urbanisation in Kannur district have affected the environment and led to a higher level of metal pollution, which can have serious health problems in the near future. The finding was made in a study conducted by researchers including T.K. Prasad, Head of the Geography Department; G. Jayapal, Government College, Kasaragod; Associate Professor, Department of Geography; V. Vineeth Kumar, lecturer in the Department of Physics; and research scholar K.P. Shimod. Urbanisation The main objective of the study was to find the role of urbanisation in the heavy metal pollution of Kannur district, Mr. Prasad said. He said the district was eighth in population and fourth in urban population among the 14 districts of Kerala. Of the total population in the district, 65.04% lived in urban areas. For the study, soil samples were collected from 20 different areas of major towns in the district and the concentration of heavy metals such as lead, arsenic, mercury, cadmium, zinc, and iron were analysed using X-ray fluorescence spectrometer. The soil study found the presence of heavy metals dangerously high in the urban areas of Kannur, Thalassery, and Payyanur. These cities were all high in lead, mercury, and cadmium, he said. The study found that rapid urbanisation had led to pollution of the environment. It was evident from the fact that construction work had increased in the district and the total built-up area, which was 85 sq km in 2000, had risen to 195 sq km in 2020. Besides, surface temperatures had also risen by 2 degrees Celsius over the past 10 years, he said. The researchers concluded that improper solid waste management and untreated wastewater disposal in and around the study area influenced the heavy metal contamination. The study suggested that a detailed master plan for solid waste management, wastewater treatment for each city, periodical evaluation of pollutant origins and development of practical strategies for remedial action were needed to reduce the heavy metal contamination in these areas.  Surface temperatures had also risen by 2 degrees Celsius over the past 10 years T.K. Prasad Government College, Kasaragod||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/study-finds-high-levels-of-metal-pollution-in-kannur/article38200007.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||Do not be duped by K-Rail package, say Moolampilly evictees||“No one should ever give their land for development projects, and if they do, they suffer our fate,” rued 82-year-old Sreedevi last year on the 13th anniversary of the forceful eviction of 10 families at Moolampilly for the rail-road connectivity of the Vallarpadam International Container Transshipment Terminal (ICTT). Just over five months later, she died without ever being rehabilitated. She was among the 32 evictees to face similar fate. Unable to reconcile to the reality, some of them had even taken their lives. Sreedevi would be turning in her grave, as the State government tries to win over opponents to the proposed SilverLine semi-high-speed rail project by dangling the carrot of Rs. 13,265 crore compensation package. Note of caution “Having gone through a nightmarish 13 years since our forceful eviction for a negligible compensation and without proper rehabilitation, we feel absolute contempt watching the government trying to take another set of people for a ride in the name of development. We just want to tell them not to be fooled by the announcements and never to leave without first receiving the compensation and rehabilitation,” said Sanoob Antony whose house was among the first to be levelled by an earth mover at Moolampilly on the fateful day. Shattered, his father turned alcoholic and eventually succumbed to it, while his mother has been an emotional wreck since then. The compensation received for his six cents was just about enough to buy two cents at Chittoor, while the rehabilitation plot given to him is unfit for construction without piling for which he hardly has the means. Unkept promises “One member each from the evicted families was guaranteed a job at ICTT believing which I did a course in crane operation. For the last nearly 14 years I have been waiting for the job,” fumed the 35-year-old who now makes a living as a crane operator on call. Mary Francis, a 72-year-old evictee from Moolampilly who continues to live in a rented house, also urged those likely to be affected by the SilverLine project to learn lessons from the experience of Vallarpadam evictees. “A life of debt is what is in store for you. You will be stripped of your life’s savings leaving you in no shape to rebuild physically, mentally, or financially. Our 24 cents, house, and a workshop were hammered down and were given six cents in exchange,” she said. Ms. Francis still shudders how her grandchild Godson was still sleeping inside the house when workers turned up with the police to pull down her house. Godson is now 14 years old. Court orders ignored V.P. Wilson, a 56-year-old, was uprooted from the industrial belt of Eloor and given a plot at Kothad disrupting his livelihood. “The promise of four and 10 times the market value for the land to be taken over has little meaning, if the government has no intent to act on it. Multiple Government Orders and court verdicts for the implementation of our rehabilitation package remain ignored,” he said. Francis Kalathungal, general convener, Moolampilly Coordination Committee, said rehabilitation should take precedence over eviction, and a rehabilitation officer should also be appointed with sufficient powers. “There should be a comprehensive social impact assessment, and title deeds should be transferable while not defeating the purpose of rehabilitation. Title deeds given to Vallarpadam evictees were non-transferable for 25 years, and financial institutions denied them loans citing that,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/do-not-be-duped-by-k-rail-package-say-moolampilly-evictees/article38199994.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Corporation gearing up for a potential wave of pandemic||The Kochi Corporation is gearing up to handle the challenge posed by yet another potential wave of the pandemic as cases continue to surge across the State. The civic body is set to convene a meeting of all stakeholders, including the District Medical Officer, to take stock of the prevailing situation. “Our immediate priority will be to cover the rest of the citizens yet to get both doses of COVID-19 vaccines. Also, the advantage this time, unlike during the second wave last year, is that we already have a system, and it just needs to be reactivated. Besides, the councillors are also better prepared unlike last time when many first-time councillors were at sea about dealing with the situation,” said Mayor M. Anilkumar. The civic body is set to introduce ward-level meetings and intensify monthly meetings, including that of the health standing committee, to deal with the emerging situation. Mr. Anilkumar hoped that unlike last time, the stress laid on the health care system, including demand for hospital beds, would be far too less considering the vaccination coverage. However, challenges remain, as the civic body has disbanded the facilities it had set up for treating COVID-19 patients during the second wave. The corporation had set up temporary facilities at Samudrika Hall at the Cochin Port Trust last time, and it will be hard to reinstate them now. “We have a field hospital complete with oxygen beds at Amabalamugal that can be scaled up for potential requirements, though we don’t foresee stress on the health care system. We also don’t expect shortage of oxygen, thanks to association with the public sector Kochi Refineries for conversion of industrial oxygen into medical oxygen,” said Mr. Anilkumar. The civic body remains confident of reactivating its band of volunteers and door delivery of food with the help of its budget hostel Samrudhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-gearing-up-for-a-potential-wave-of-pandemic/article38200039.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:56 IST,KERALA||KSRTC to run city circular service||The KSRTC will run a city circular bus service, with Kalamassery as the base, if the municipality provides adequate parking space, Minister for Transport Antony Raju said here on Saturday. Flagging off a shuttle bus service launched on the HMT Junction-Government Medical College-Kalamassery route, he said electric buses would be deployed for the circular service. Earlier, Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve had sought a circular bus service in the city. Mr. Raju said patronage for a similar service was improving in Thiruvananthapuram, where 82 buses operate on seven circular routes every 10 minutes. They operate clockwise and anti-clockwise trips, including through side roads. Passengers who purchase a Good Day Ticket can make unlimited trips for 24 hours. The KSRTC is also planning to launch a ‘Grama Vandi’ service from April on experimental basis to enhance connectivity to rural areas. It will be conducted in tandem with the respective local bodies based on the routes they recommend. The service will be the first-of-its-kind in the country. Such services can also be sponsored by pooling in the cost of fuel, and the expenses can be sourced from the CSR funds of companies, the Minister said. It is planned to extend the service to other districts in a phased manner. The first 10,000 passengers of the HMT Junction-Government Medical College service can travel free of cost, Mr. Raju said, adding that it would be extended to Kangarapady. The service will be available from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. The fare is Rs. 10, and it can be done away with, if sponsors come forward. Municipal Chairperson Seema Kannan and Medical College Principal Dr. P. Kala Keshavan were present on the occasion. The function also saw Mr. Raju announce the resumption of select bus services that were withdrawn due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-to-run-city-circular-service/article38200037.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||Unfit land delays rehabilitation of Vallarpadam evictees||Out of the 316 families evicted from seven villages for rail-road connectivity of the Vallarpadam International Container Transshipment Terminal (ICTT), only less than 50 have moved to rehabilitation plots awarded to them in nearly 14 years since their eviction. This was largely due to the marshy character of the reclaimed land and faulty land filling in at least four out of the seven rehabilitation sites because of which seven of the houses have either tilted to a side or developed cracks. 2017 report In a report back in 2017, an Assistant Executive Engineer of the PWD Buildings Division had admitted as much. No house has yet been constructed on the 15 rehabilitation plots at Mulavukad, while only five houses have come up on 13 plots at Moolampilly and three houses on six plots at Cheranalloor. Thirty-two houses have been built on 94 plots at Vaduthala, by far the best among the rehabilitation plots. Only two houses At Kothad, Thuthiyoor, and Indira Nagar in Kakkanad, only two houses each have been built on 15, 56, and 104 plots respectively. “Despite the PWD vouching for the suspect nature of the rehabilitation plots, nothing has been done to improve the fitness of the land. This was also in violation of the court direction that ‘A’ class land should be given for rehabilitation. Besides, some plots fall under the Coastal Regulation Zone because of which evictees are not willing to risk investing in constructing houses,” said Francis Kalathunkal, general convener, Moolampilly Coordination Committee. Some rehabilitation plots lacked basic infrastructure too. For instance, a critical link road to the rehabilitation plots at Moolampilly linking it with the adjacent Container Terminal Road was opened only last month. This critical gap in access had been posing a major hurdle to evictees in bringing construction materials to the plots and had remained unaddressed despite inspections by officials. Rehab package “The rehabilitation package was announced by the government not out of goodwill but in the face of our stiff opposition. They [government] never wanted it, and that is reflected in the poor rehabilitation plots. Piling is needed for any construction on the plots at Moolampilly, while the compensation was hardly enough for that,” said Mary Francis, an evictee from Moolampilly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unfit-land-delays-rehabilitation-of-vallarpadam-evictees/article38199992.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Cruise passengers allege foul play behind paid quarantine||Several passengers, including senior citizens from Kerala, on board a cruise vessel that was on a Kochi-Goa trip had a harrowing time, reportedly following attempts to make them undergo paid quarantine at star hotels in Mumbai, as their names were “falsely mentioned” in a list of COVID patients.  The passengers on board M.V. Empress operated by Cordelia Cruises, who were thus stranded in Mumbai, attributed it to a possible “unholy nexus” between the hotels and government authorities. They had to disembark the vessel in Mumbai, after it was reportedly refused permission to berth at Goa, as over 60 passengers tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during the cruise that began from here on December 29.  Among those who were mentioned as COVID patients were film director Roy Manappallil and his wife. They soon afterwards tested negative in Mumbai and were still sent to a hotel to undergo a 10-day paid quarantine. “I ended up paying Rs. 5,500 at a star hotel, after spending just a few hours there. The entire episode also resulted in we flying back to Kochi on January 7, instead of January 2 as was scheduled. We along with others would have had to spend 10 days in paid quarantine at the hotel, but for our insistence on a second test,” Mr. Manappallil said. They boarded the vessel on December 29 for the trip that was to end in Goa on January 2, following which they were to fly back to Kochi the same day. Having arrived in Mumbai on January 4, they were put up in hotels along with over 140 others whose names were mentioned in the list of COVID patients. “The very day we and many others tested negative following a retest which we insisted on. This proved that the first list was manipulated. Moreover, the health authorities were not following up on us, and that aroused our suspicion,” he added. Lyla Lathif, whose sister’s name was on the quarantine list despite testing negative, wondered who would compensate for the trauma, separation, and anxiety it caused to the passengers. A statement issued by Jurgen Bailom, CEO of Cordelia Cruises, said all crew members and guests had to undergo RT-PCR test 48 hours prior to boarding the vessel. The guests who boarded the vessel had all tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 at the time of boarding. They were also fully vaccinated. A crew member who showed mild symptoms on board close to departure was immediately isolated, and all guests and crew had to undergo the test again. The results showed that a few guests and a crew member on board were positive. ‘Lack of empathy’ The guests who tested positive were asymptomatic. They would have been infected prior to boarding. But it was disheartening to see a lack of empathy on the part of the authorities (in Goa) for neither allowing local residents (to board) nor tourists to disembark, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cruise-passengers-allege-foul-play-behind-paid-quarantine/article38200030.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Police recover money lost through online fraud||A youngster, who rang up a number he found on browsing for a bank’s customer care in the Internet lost Rs. 70,000, but timely intervention by the Ernakulam rural cyber police led to his money being recovered. The youngster from Kizhakkambalam is an account holder with a prominent bank. He browsed for the bank’s customer care centre in the bank to complain about a failed transaction. However, the number thrown up by the Internet was allegedly being run by some scamsters who feigned as bank authorities. The youngster downloaded an app at their instance following which his mobile phone was taken over by the imposters, giving them access to all the vital information. Eventually, he lost Rs. 70,000 from his credit card. Following this, he petitioned District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik, who in turn, formed a special squad of cyber police. The investigators found that the imposters had bought a laptop and mobile phone from an online portal using the swindled money. The police were able to freeze the transaction and took measures to credit the amount back to the youngster’s account. “People should be careful about browsing for contact numbers on Internet as they may fall prey to scamsters,” said Mr. Karthik. A team led by inspector M.B. Latheef, sub inspector M. J. Shajo, civil police officers Vikas Mani, P. A. Rafeek, and Jery Kuriakose probed the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-recover-money-lost-through-online-fraud/article38200043.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:37 IST,KERALA||It’s in Kerala’s interests to drop K-Rail: Gadgil||Ecologist Madhav Gadgil has said it is in the best interest of Kerala not to go ahead with K-Rail (SilverLine). In an online interaction with journalists on Saturday, he said the project implementation would require large quantities of raw material, including rock and M-sand, which would involve large-scale quarrying, affecting the environment. Dr. Gadgil was delivering the 6th APJ Abdul Kalam Memorial Lecture organised by the Cochin Chamber of Commerce and Industry. He said the trend was towards making easy money through the collusion of political power and capital. This was taking place at the cost of environment and the common man. He said a country should invest in health and education before going for mega projects and cited the example of South Korea which had made tremendous improvement in the lives of its people. Case of Koottickal Illegal quarrying and mining were taking place near human habitats and the case of Koottickal in Kottayam district, where landslips posed a major threat, was an example, he said. Dr. Gadgil said major projects such as SilverLine would affect the management of water resources and Kerala should imbibe lessons from the floods of 2018 and 2019. He said the Konkan rail project had affected the water flow and management systems in Maharashtra in a big way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-in-keralas-interests-to-drop-k-rail-gadgil/article38200046.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:37 IST,KERALA||Actor assault case: SIT holds meeting||A meeting of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) reconstituted recently to probe the actor assault case involving actor Dileep held a meeting here on Saturday. The SIT was reconstituted in the wake of fresh revelations by Balachandrakumar, who claims to be a friend of Dileep, an accused in the case. The meeting, chaired by SIT head and Additional Director General of Police, Crime Branch, S. Sreejith, assumes significance in the wake of a direction by the Ernakulam Additional Special Sessions Judge Honey M. Varghese to probe the revelation and file a report. The report is expected by January 20 when the case is set to come up for hearing. The actor assault case sprung back into life after Mr. Balachandrakumar claimed that he had seen ‘Pulsar’ Suni, the key accused, at the residence of Dileep. He also alleged that Dileep had a copy of the video of the sexual assault of the woman actor even before it was produced in the court. Deadline set The SIT has little time at its disposal as the apex court had directed the trial court to complete the proceedings by February 16. The State government had moved the apex court for an extension by six months for completing the trial in the wake of the recent revelations. The SIT is likely to record the statement of Mr. Balachandrakumar before the magistrate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/actor-assault-case-sit-holds-meeting/article38200047.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Marine Drive walkway renovation over||The 2.20-km-long Marine Drive walkway, which was renovated by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), will be formally opened to visitors on Monday by Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve. The Rs. 7.85-crore walkway was almost fully renovated, including by replacing tiles laid by the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA). This was because the tiles laid about eight years ago on the walkway near the High Court had turned uneven at many places. A gym for visitors, play area for children, and LED lights are among the new additions on the renovated walkway, a popular destination for Kochiites and visitors to the city. The walkway will by April be remotely monitored by the police using CCTV network. This is being readied as part of the Intelligent City Surveillance System (ICSS). The District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) had demanded extension of the walkway up to the boat jetty, even as members of the public were keen to have it extended up to Subhash Bose Park. CSML too had requested the Kochi Corporation to provide a link with the waterfront walkway of Subhash Bose Park and beyond up to Rajendra Maidan, so that visitors to the Marine Drive can walk all the way up to DH Ground on the southern side and up to Mangalavanam on the northern side. This is part of the initiative to link green corridors located in the city’s western end, it is learnt. Faced with complaints from regular walkers about the nauseating odour from the nearby Market Canal and the backwaters, the GCDA had submitted a proposal to the government to expand the capacity of the existing sewage treatment plant (STP) which processes sewage from apartments on the waterfront. The Market Canal will be rejuvenated under the canal rejuvenation project in the Greater Kochi area. A tank was readied on the northern side of the walkway to collect treated water from the STP. This will be used to water plants planted afresh on the walkway, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovated-walkway-at-marine-drive-to-be-opened-tomorrow/article38200032.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Forum seeks exemption for archdiocese||Almaya Munnettam, representing a section of lay people in the Archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly of the Syro-Malabar Church, submitted a memorandum to the Synod of Bishops of the Syro-Malabar Church on Saturday to either permanently exempt the archdiocese from the purview of a Synodal decision in August last year on the way the Mass is celebrated or to grant the archdiocese special privilege to celebrate the Mass as it is being celebrated now. The representation was submitted to the 30th synod that began here at the headquarters of the Syro-Malabar Church at Mount St. Thomas, Kakkanad, near Kochi, on Saturday. It will conclude on January 15. The group of lay people was allowed to submit the representation after they were initially disallowed. The group threatened to organise a sit-in if they were not allowed to submit the representation and later, Almaya Munnettam leader Binu John and Pastoral Council general secretary P. P. Gerard submitted the representation. They said they were optimistic that the Synod would be an occasion to reconcile the differences of opinion over the way the Mass is celebrated in the archdiocese. The group of lay people and priests had come out against a Synodal decision in August last year. The Synod ruled that the Mass should be celebrated with the celebrant (priest) facing the congregation (participants) for the first part, and then face away from the congregation for the second half. The group opposing the Synodal decision said that over the past half-a-century, the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese had been practising fully congregation-facing Mass. The Synod has recommended the new way of Mass celebration without consultation or discussions, they alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laity-forum-submits-memorandum-to-synod-over-uniform-mass-celebration/article38200033.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Ernakulam records spike in COVID-19 cases||Cases of SARS-CoV2 infection are rising in Ernakulam with the district recording 1,214 cases on Saturday with a test positivity rate of 12.25%. As many as 502 patients recovered too. As on Saturday evening, a total of 11,748 people were under surveillance for the disease at their homes. The number of COVID-19 patients in the district, meanwhile, stood at 6,581. In all, 9,913 samples were sent on Saturday for testing. Altogether, 55.34 lakh doses of vaccine have been administered in the district with 24.68 lakh people receiving two doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-spike-in-covid-19-cases/article38200045.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Man held on charge of stealing gold ornaments||The Maradu police on Saturday arrested a man on the charge of stealing gold ornaments and cash from a house in Maradu. The arrested man was identified as Ayyanar, 33, of Madhura. The accused allegedly stole gold ornaments weighing around five sovereigns and Rs. 21,000 from the house of a woman who runs a snacks business. The police said that the accused used to come to the house frequently to assist the family in their business. He was arrested from Thiruvananthapuram. The ornaments he had pawned at various financial institutions were recovered by the police. Two held with MDMA The Infopark police on Saturday arrested two youths with MDMA. The arrested are Siby Joy, 23, of Chittoor and Ansif Rafi, 20, of Idukki. The police seized 1.64 grams of MDMA from Siby and 1.77 gram from Ansif.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-stealing-gold-ornaments/article38200041.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||Aim is 20 lakh jobs in five years: Rajeeve||The State government aims to generate 20 lakh jobs in five years, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve said here on Saturday. Inaugurating ‘Jeevika 2022’, a job fair jointly organised by the District Planning Office and the District Skill Development Committee, he said the government aimed to establish over a lakh new enterprises this year. Skilled workforce He added that though there were qualified job-seekers, there was shortage of skilled working force too, which the government was trying to address. Efforts will also be made to create job opportunities for educated housewives. The Minister said the establishment of K-Phone facilities would enable housewives to work from home or from close to their homes online. The government’s aim is to create job opportunities for all qualified people, he added. The job fair is held at Bharat Mata College, Thrikkakara. Hibi Eden, MP, district panchayat president Ullas Thomas, District Development Commissioner Shibu Abdul Majeed, and Thrikkakara municipal chairperson Ajitha Thankappan were present.  The establishment of K-Phone facilities will enable housewives to work from home or from close to their homes online||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-aims-to-create-20-lakh-jobs-in-5-years/article38199990.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Convocation ceremony held||Courts should take decisions promptly in the digital age, Kiren Rijiju, Minister of Law and Justice, has said. Speaking at the 15th convocation ceremony at the National University of Advanced Legal Studies at Kalamassery on Saturday, he said the trend of large number of cases pending before courts should change, and justice should reach the deserving at the earliest. Judges’ vacancies The Minister also said that vacancies of judges would be filled, and the collegium and the Union government were working in tandem on the matter. He informed that Rs. 9,000 crore had been allocated for legal infrastructure development in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clear-pending-cases-before-courts-union-minister/article38200038.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Tax evasion unearthed in raids on quarries||A raid conducted by the Income Tax authorities at four stone quarries in Ernakulam and Kottayam districts have detected tax evasion of over Rs. 200 crore besides the recovery of unaccounted money. The raids were conducted at quarries at Thiruvaniyoor, Muvattupuzha, Nedumkunnam, and Thannikode over the past three days. Raids were also conducted at the houses of the quarry owners. Irregularities The raids unearthed irregularities, including benami transactions. The raiding team had a tough time as attempts were made to destroy evidence at more than one place. Unaccounted money over of Rs. 2 crore was also seized. Evidence In one case, workers threw away into the bushes a pen drive purportedly containing evidence, while in another instance, an attempt was made to bury the account details in a toilet. While political links are being reported in connection with the quarried raided, IT authorities shot it down.  Raids have also also conducted at the houses of quarry owners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raids-unearth-tax-evasion-of-rs-200-crore/article38200044.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:10 IST,KERALA||Senior hockey players honoured||Senior hockey players were honoured as part of the inauguration of the Senior Players’ Association of Hockey here on Saturday. Olympian Dinesh Naik, Kerala’s senior hockey player and coach Rufus D’Souza and George Nainan, who represented India in international competitions, were honoured on the occasion. Kollam Mayor Prasanna Ernest inaugurated the event and District Sports Council President X. Ernest unveiled the logo of the association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/senior-hockey-players-honoured/article38200078.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:10 IST,KERALA||Art expo on spices opened||K. Vararadarajan, Chairman, KSFE, inaugurated Gusto, a solo art exhibition on spices by Radhika Rani on Saturday. The exhibition chronicles stories about spices, their origin, trade, superstitions and folklore. Gusto, going on at 8 Point Art Cafe, concludes on January 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/art-expo-on-spices-opened/article38200079.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Rubber Board plans analysis laboratory||In a move aimed at augmenting the competence of Indian rubber products across Europe, the Rubber Board is all set to commission an advanced analysis laboratory at the Rubber Research Institute here. The new facility, to be commissioned on January 11, will enable exporters to conduct independent third-party testing of rubber products for compliance with European Union regulations and manufactures in the MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) sector to design product formulations. The agency already has a National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories-approved laboratory for conducting product testing as per national and international specifications. The step assumes significance as the European Union is a major importer of rubber products from India. As per estimates, the value of rubber products imported to the EU from India was to the tune of Rs. 4,200 crore in 2017-18, which constituted 25% of the export earnings of rubber products from India. According to a senior official, the export of rubber products to European markets is a challenging task as the exporters are required to meet stringent regulatory standards under the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical substances (REACH) norm set by the EU. These regulations seek to restrict and control the use of polycyclic aromatics (PCA) and substances of very high concern (SVHC) in rubber products to the minimum limits. Although REACH is now mandatory for products manufactured in or shipped to the EU, many other developed countries into which India exports rubber products are soon expected to adopt similar restrictions, he added. Several chemicals restricted under REACH are used in rubber products that are exported to EU member countries. Rubber chemicals such as plasticisers, extenders, accelerators, cross linking agents, resins, antioxidants, colouring agents, reclaimed rubber, etc., come under the preview of REACH regulation.  The new facility, to be commissioned on January 11, will enable exporters to conduct independent third-party testing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rubber-board-plans-advance-lab/article38200074.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:53 IST,KERALA||As threat of a third wave looms, people rush to conduct events||Even as concerns loom large over a third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and the possibility of another lockdown, there is no fall in the number of public and private events involving a large number of people in the district. The fear of the imposition of stringent regulations is reportedly prompting many to advance events such as weddings and house-warming parties to ensure a satisfactory turnout. Poor enforcement Though there are well-defined curbs on the number of participants in private events, the stringent enforcement of those rules is yet to happen. Registering of cases against violation of physical distancing norms is also minimal compared to the record of previous months. Joining the frenzy are tour organisers, who have advanced previously scheduled programmes. Many trips have been re-arranged in such a way to avoid last-minute cancellations. Curbs such as night curfew and total shutdown on selected days imposed in States like Karnataka have affected the plans of many private tour operators in the city. “The loss we suffered in the last two years is beyond anyone’s imagination. Among the worst-hit are tourist bus operators who are now forced to sell off their vehicles to escape tax liabilities and maintenance charges,” said a functionary of the Kerala Contract Carriage Operators’ Association. He said all entrepreneurs in the sector were apprehensive of a third wave and subsequent regulations. Many traders have come up with attractive offers for customers to clear existing stock in advance. According to the traders, any move on the part of the State government to introduce stringent regulations on public life and the functioning of shops will derail sales targets. There is also a rush to buy construction materials to speed up various small-scale and large-scale building projects. With the tightening of regulations in various States, many fear price rise, scarcity of materials and labour shortage. According to some wholesale traders, people are scared of going through lockdown challenges again and the interruption of ongoing works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-threat-of-a-third-wave-looms-people-rush-to-conduct-events/article38200009.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:53 IST,KERALA||Corpn., Irrigation dept. told to clean canal||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has directed the Kozhikode Corporation and the Department of Irrigation to reinstate the Manchakal canal to its original form by ensuring free flow of water in it. The commission has asked the authorities to identify places where there has been encroachment on the canal and to seek the help of the Town Surveyor if necessary. Commission member K. Baijunath has directed the Corporation Secretary to take steps to remove silt from the canal with the help of the Minor Irrigation department. The direction came at the commission sitting on Friday, based on a complaint filed by A.C. Francis. The commission noted that the canal, which extends from Kuttiyilthazham to Mooriyad in the city, is likely to have been encroached by private parties who have raised compound walls on both sides of the canal. The commission summoned the Executive Engineer of Minor Irrigation at the sitting and said only a proper survey by the Revenue department could bring out the facts. Civic body’s report The commission accepted a report from the Corporation Secretary which states that the civic body has already undertaken renovation works worth Rs. 25 lakh on the canal and that a sum of Rs. 2 crore has been set aside for a separate project on the canal. The desilting process of the canal is under way in Wards 30, 34 and 35 of the civic body. The report says that a bund set up by the Irrigation department on the Kallai river is one of the reasons behind the disruption of water flow in the Manchakal canal and that the Corporation has asked the department to demolish it. The Commission has asked the Corporation Secretary as well as the Divisional Engineer of Minor Irrigation to submit a report on action taken within two months. Residents’ demand The Manchakkal canal was in the news recently, with local people demanding that it be cleaned as the water remained stagnant due to the presence of algae and water plants. It had resulted in waterlogging in the region during the 2018 and 2019 floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-irrigation-dept-told-to-clean-canal/article38199998.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Mice crammed into small cages in varsity’s ‘animal house’: plaint||Mice are reared and bred in academic institutions for scientific experiments in labs. The Department of Life Sciences at the University of Calicut, however, is now accused of keeping a licence-less ‘animal house’, where hundreds of rodents are crammed into small cages. A recent police complaint filed by Radhakrishna G. Pillai, assistant professor with the department, said the head of the department and the professor in charge had “failed to perform their responsibilities and prevent infliction of pain and suffering on the mice as directed by the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960”. Certificate Mr. Pillai said the department had no certificate from the Committee for the Purpose of Control and Supervision of Experiments on Animals, a statutory panel under the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Union Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. Because of this, the department has not been able to make use of the facility for around three years. The new ‘animal house’ building was opened in 2019. According to reports, the mice are kept in small, congested cages. At least 18 to 25 of them are there in a cage that can house only four or five of them. There are no separate cages for males and females or space to move about. The mice get pregnant, and deliver babies, which get killed by others. Rules mandate appointment of a veterinary doctor, even on a part-time basis, to ensure their care. A supervising committee that has scientists, local social activists, and government representatives should also be set up. All requests for scientific experiments should be vetted by this panel. The university has none of these, it has been claimed. B.S. Harikumaran Thampi, head of the Department of Life Sciences, however, has termed the allegations baseless, saying that the institution had a licence till 2017. “Application was submitted for a renewal of licence when the new building was constructed. The supervising committee suggested setting up of CCTV cameras and centralised AC system. These facilities are being added now, after which an application will be submitted afresh for licence,” he said. MP’s letter Maneka Gandhi, MP, and former Union Minister, had written to Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj on December 30, asking why the mice were kept there if there was no need to keep them. She also sought to know what action had been taken against complaints on ill-treatment of the animals. Mr. Pillai, who is under suspension at present, said on Saturday that the police officials did not act on his complaint though they had the powers to search the premises and examine the allegations.  Head of the department and professor in charge failed to perform their responsibilities and prevent infliction of pain and suffering on the mice as directed by the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 Radhakrishna G. Pillai Assistant professor, Calicut University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mice-crammed-into-small-cages-in-varsitys-animal-house-plaint/article38199999.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:53 IST,KERALA||Medha Patkar to address K-Rail protest at Vengalam||Social activist Medha Patkar will speak at a protest pavilion of K-Rail Janakeeya Pratirodha Samithi at Kattil Peedika, Vengalam, at 9 a.m. on Monday. Protest committee chairman T.T. Ismail told reporters here on Saturday that Ms. Patkar’s visit would be a definite boost to the anti-K-Rail protests going on across the State. From October 2020 The Samithi at Vengalam was the first to launch a protest in the State against the semi high-speed SilverLine rail project in June 2020. They organised several protests until October 2020 and launched a permanent protest pavilion at Kattil Peedika on October 2, 2020. Ms. Patkar’s visit falls on the 465th day of the protest. Several prominent personalities have visited the protest pavilion irrespective of political affiliations, organisations and religions. Mr. Ismail said the compensation package announced by the State government was of no concern to the protestors, who wanted the project abandoned at any cost. “This project, if executed despite the public outrage and after borrowing a large amount from external sources, will lead to the destruction of the State. All socio-economic and environmental experts have pointed out that it will be a disaster. If the government is hell-bent on executing it, even breaking the law for it, we will resist it legally,” said Mr. Ismail. Compensation He said the protestors did not pay heed to the political statements of party leaders. He also dismissed as propaganda the reports that a section of people who would be affected by the project was happy with the compensation package. “This protest is on the side of the commoner and we believe every commoner will ally with us,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medha-patkar-to-address-k-rail-protest-at-vengalam/article38199985.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:53 IST,KERALA||Unravelling Mappila Ishal history in a unique way||Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University at Tirur witnessed a unique presentation of Mappila Ishal history on the inaugural day of a three-day seminar on the centenary of Malabar Rebellion. When young Mapilapattu lyricist and Ishal aficionado Faisal Kanmanam and team presented the Ishal history through Mappilapattu, it provided a different experience to the crowds on Thursday evening. Mr. Faisal took the listeners through the deepest treasures of Mappilapattu and also provided a memorable musical evening. Singers Arshita Tirur, Shahana Shibin, and Dimsha Theyyampattil lent him a perfect chorus. Faisal and team started their programme with Mohiyiuddin Mala, which is widely considered to be the first Mappilapattu in the traditional rhythm. They guided the audience through the Mappila struggles that had taken place in the 18th and 19th centuries. Although the Ishals were not unheard, the history behind them was new to many people. They introduced Zainuddin Makhdoom’s Thahreedh, Kazi Mohammed’s Fathahul Mubeen, and Kaipatta Mohiyuddin Moulavi’s Badar Mala in Arabic language. Famous Mappila ballads like Sakhoom Padappattu, Cherur Padappattu, Badar Padappattu, and Malappuram Padappattu were also introduced. Faisal touched upon several poets and social reformers, including Kambalath Govindan Nair, Edassery Govindan Nair, and S.K. Pottakkad in his “singing and narration”. The message of unity was underscored with special reference to Thunchath Ezhuthachan, Vallathol, Kazi Mohammed, Zainuddin Makhdoom and Moyinkutty Vaidyar. He concluded the session by rendering the famous Mappilapattu “Manushyan manushyane snehichu nokku” penned by P.T. Abdurahman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unravelling-mappila-ishal-history-in-a-unique-way/article38199987.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||Firemen make a unique garland of steel rings from trapped fingers||The Fire and Rescue Services station at Malappuram has a unique garland made of steel rings. The fire officers there have made the garland to send home a message against wearing the Chinese steel ring. All the rings in the garland are removed by them after they have been stuck on the fingers of youngsters. Rings getting stuck on fingers may be too common, but making garlands out of them should evoke a special interest. People are increasingly depending on the State Fire and Rescue Services to remove the rings stuck on their fingers. “The incidence of rings getting stuck has increased with the arrival of cheap Chinese steel rings,” says Abdul Gafoor M., Malappuram Fire and Rescue Services station officer. “We warn the people against using the Chinese rings.” People with rings stuck on their fingers reach the fire station as the last resort. First they try their best using their own methods, including soap and oil. With the swollen fingers, frustration too adds up, causing severe pain and skin scrape. People approach goldsmiths, blacksmiths and even home appliance shops seeking relief, before turning to hospitals. Hospitals too often fail in removing the rings and they seek the help of the firemen finally. “People come to us as a last resort. There were cases when we were called in by the medical colleges in Kozhikode and Manjeri,” says Mr. Gafoor. Two dozen cases The Malappuram fire station gets two dozen stuck-ring cases a month on an average. “We even handled up to four cases on a single day,” says Mr. Gafoor. No exaggeration. Other fire stations across the State too are getting such cases. “When they store the removed rings in bottles, we make garlands out of them,” laughs Mr. Gafoor. He says China-made steel rings are extremely tough and they would get easily stuck on fingers. The firemen would first try the popular method of using a cotton thread to remove the rings. If it does not work, they would attempt with a small indigenous cutter. “It is easy to remove gold rings because gold bends. But the Chinese steel rings are a real cause for worry,” says Mr. Gafoor. Chinese rings are cheap and attractive with a wide variety of models. Youngsters, especially college students, are increasingly found to be having a fancy for the steel rings. Apart from specialising on finger-stuck rings, the firemen also get their regular dose of curious and freak cases: such as children getting their heads stuck in pots, fingers in idli moulds, and even in pencil-holder of protractors. “People come to us even at 2 a.m. or 3 a.m. with unbearable pain. And the joy they have when we help them remove their hardship is immeasurable,” says Mr. Gafoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/firemen-make-a-unique-garland-of-steel-rings-from-trapped-fingers/article38200084.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||Despite curbs, Sabarimala sees a surge in income||The intensifying restrictions on crowding notwithstanding, pilgrim footfall at Sabarimala has recorded a sharp surge with a corresponding growth in revenue collections ever since the forest shrine’s reopening for the Makaravilakku season. As per official estimates, the income received during the second leg of the pilgrimage season crossed Rs. 25.18 crore, taking the income for the whole season to over Rs. 110 crore. Of this, Rs. 9.5 crore was collected through the sale of Aravana while Rs. 11.5 crore was received as donations. The sale of Appam accounted for about Rs. 1 crore. In anticipation of a further rise in footfall in the coming days, the authorities have stepped up the arrangements for accommodating the pilgrims. A mobile laboratory by the Food Safety department has been stationed at Nilackal while special squads have been deployed across the pilgrimage zone for inspecting the restaurants and shops. Meanwhile, the health kiosk constructed at Pandithavalamas part of the Sabarimala master plan will soon be opened for emergency requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-sees-surge-in-income/article38199995.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||State’s case pool on a steady climb for a week||Kerala’s COVID-19 graph is on the rise once again, with the State reporting 5,944 new cases on Saturday when 60,075 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. All key metrics, which indicate a possible change in transmission dynamics including hospitalisation, oxygen or ICU requirement, has begun rising this week. This had been steadily dropping in Kerala since October. While the increase in cases or hospitalisation has not been as dramatic here as it has been in other States so far, the metrics over the next one week would be a clear indication of the state of affairs to come, public health experts said. Health department’s data show that between January 1 and 7, there was an increase of 9,897 new cases. The growth rate in new cases was 61 % when compared to the previous week. The average active cases were 20,707, out of whom about 2% each required oxygen support and ICU care. The number of active cases increased by 3%, hospitalisations went up by 8%, ICU requirement increased by 10% and the number of patients on ventilator support too went up by 2% between January 1 and 7 when compared to the previous week. TPR at 9.89 % The test positivity rate (TPR) in isolation is no longer considered as a proper indicator of disease transmission but the TPR has been rising and stood at 9.89 % on Saturday The State’s active case pool is on a steady climb for the past one week and now has 31,098 patients, of whom only 7 % are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals. A total of 2,463 people were reported to have recovered from the disease on Saturday. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals is remaining steady at 419, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support showed a nominal drop to140 on Saturday. On Saturday the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID rose to 265. Hospitalisations are rising slowly, with 2,473 people being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 49,547 with the State adding 189 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Saturday. These includes 33 deaths which occurred in the past few days and 209 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths. Till now, 18,905 deaths have been newly added to the State’s official list of COVID deaths. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 52,79,304 cases. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1,219, followed by Ernakulam 1,214, Kozhikode 580, Thrissur 561, Kottayam 319, Pathanamthitta 316, Kollam 299, Kannur 280, Malappuram 260, Palakkad 248, Alappuzha 235, Kasaragod 150, Idukki 147 and Wayanad 116 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-case-pool-on-a-steady-climb-for-a-week/article38200091.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||Govt. will forge ahead with development: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government will not allow blind political antagonism to derail Kerala's development. Addressing a group of Keralites in Telangana on Saturday, Mr. Vijayan said the administration would not capitulate to those who opposed background infrastructure creation merely for the sake of opposition. Political resistance Mr. Vijayan seemed to refer to the political resistance mounted by the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) against the government's flagship programme SilverLine semi-high-speed rail project. Travel time The welfare of future generations is of paramount importance, he adding the SilverLine greenfield project would open up Kerala's verdant hinterlands for development, decongest arterial roads and reduce the State's carbon footprint. The project would minimise the travel time between Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod from 14 hours to four hours. Mr. Vijayan expressed confidence that the government would surmount opposition to the project. The State had successfully doused resistance to the GAIL pipeline, Kudankulam-Kerala power grid and national highway expansion by taking the public into confidence and giving adequate compensation to families displaced by the mega development schemes. “The question is whether the government should place emphasis on development or succumb to vested interests hostile to the State's interests. The answer is the government is responsible for future generations. They will blame us if we do not modernise the State. Hence, the administration will fast-track development,” Mr. Vijayan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-will-forge-ahead-with-development-cm/article38200086.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||Tribal children get a space to open up||Concerned by the issues that children in the tribal settlements of Idinjar in Peringamala panchayat are vulnerable to, the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) under the Women and Child Development Department organised a day-long awareness programme for them on Saturday. ‘Kaliarangu,’ the awareness and community mobilisation camp, was held at Government High School, Idinjar, along with the Scheduled Tribe Development Department. The camp was led by the non-governmental organisation Kanal. Women and Child Development Director T.V. Anupama said the programme was envisaged as a pilot to ensure child protection, especially in the wake of COVID-19 when children were home-bound and faced socialisation issues. Interventions Mobile phone addiction among children was yet another problem. The camp was a platform to engage with the children and get them to open up so that the issues they faced could be identified and interventions made at a higher level. Local activists say child suicides, substance addiction, and involvement in POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act) cases are some of the other issues that children there face. Parents too were not very aware, and children often lacked direction. Games, cultural events To reach out to children, activities such as games, art sessions, story-telling, motivational session, and psychosocial counselling, and cultural programmes such as Nadan Pattu and Ottanthullal for their recreation were involved. There was a good response to the camp from children and their parents. Ms. Anupama interacted with the children on the problems they faced and suggested ways to solve them. More activities The ice-breaking session is expected to be followed up by more activities such as vulnerability mapping and interventions on its basis. Peringamala grama panchayat president Shinu Madathara inaugurated the camp. Idinjar ward member Basurangi presided. Integrated Tribal Development Project project officer A. Rahim and District Child Protection Officer Chitralekha S. were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-children-get-a-space-to-open-up/article38200071.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||Missing Health dept. files are very old ones: Veena George||Confirming reports that numerous files of the Health Department have gone missing, Health Minister Veena George claimed they were very old ones. She told mediapersons in Pathanamthitta that nearly 500 files are estimated to be missing at the Directorate of Health Services, but dismissed allegations that they pertained to the Kerala Medical Services Corporation. The files concerned matters much before the corporation had been established, she said, adding that an inquiry was underway. The Health Department had complained to the Thiruvananthapuram City police regarding the missing files in November last. While the Cantonment police conducted a preliminary inquiry, they did not register a case under claim that no information was received on the possibility of theft. Considering the difficulty associated with probing the issue in the absence of critical information such as the nature of the missing files, the City police have conveyed its inability to probe the case. Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Saturday alleged that numerous files had been destroyed to conceal corruption to the tune of Rs. 1,600 crore in the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/missing-files-are-old-ones-minister/article38200155.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||1,219 more positive in district||The capital district faced the spectre of a third COVID-19 wave when 1,219 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. The pandemic graph has not crossed the 1,200-mark since October. The test positivity rate also mounted to 12.8%. As many as 4,551 people are currently undergoing treatment for the disease. A total of 517 people recovered from the illness in 24 hours. According to available statistics, the COVID-19 death toll stood at 6,457 in Thiruvananthapuram district, the highest district-level count in the State. The case fatality ratio is 1.26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1219-more-positive-in-district/article38200227.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||Hema panel report yet to be made public||More than two years after the K. Hema commission report to address issues of sexual harassment and gender inequality in the Malayalam film industry was submitted, the State government is yet to make it public or take any action on the report. The commission, constituted in the aftermath of an actor assault case, submitted the report to the Chief Minister on December 31, 2019. Members of the Women in Cinema Collective (WCC) question the lack of transparency regarding the report, for which many women had given testimonies of the harassment they experienced. Filmmaker and WCC member Anjali Menon said revealing the list of findings is important because any recommendation has to be seen in the context of these findings.  “Why don't they officially list the findings? An extreme case of sexual assault propelled all of us to come together and led to the formation of the WCC. Our entire attempt is to make sure that such a thing does not happen again in the industry. Five years since that incident, are we sure that it won't repeat?,” Ms.Menon told The Hindu .  Hema’a take Ms.Hema, who headed the three-member commission, said the government seemed to be working on implementing it.  “As far as I know, the Government is moving towards implementing the report recommendations. Some of the serious issues in the industry cannot be solved without enacting a statute and the setting up a tribunal for the industry. In addition to sexual abuse, there are lot of other issues which are very serious, including unofficial bans. The issues raised concern not just women or actresses alone, but several men and other categories of persons working in the industry. The report is also meant to protect those who will be joining the industry from practices like casting couch. The contents of the report as such need not be made public as there are sensitive materials which were confidentially conveyed to the committee by both women and men,” Justice Hema told The Hindu .  Film editor and WCC member Bina Paul said she is perplexed as to why the report has not been discussed at any level, if the Government is acting on it. “We are not being suspicious, but are wondering about this lack of transparency. If they are acting on it, why are they not consulting the stakeholders from the industry? There has been no communication regarding this,” said Ms.Paul. Seen in context According to Ms. Menon, the non-transparency around the report is not an independent phenomenon, but has to be seen in the context with other issues like non-implementation of the Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) Act in the industry and the plight of the survivor, for whom the WCC got together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hema-panel-report-yet-to-be-made-public/article38200087.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||Precaution dose from Monday||The precaution dose of vaccine for COVID-19, meant for health-care workers, front-line workers and those above 60 years of age with comorbidities, will be administered from January 10, said Health Minister Veena George here on Saturday. Among these categories, only those who completed nine months after the second dose of vaccine would be eligible to receive the precaution dose. The booking for the same will begin on Sunday. Even though precaution dose can also be received directly from vaccination sites, it would save time if people register ahead online. Minister’s appeal Ms. George appealed to those eligible to receive the precaution dose not to delay it as COVID cases were rising again. To book the precaution dose, eligible individuals should go to cowin.gov.in and log in using the same phone number that was used earlier and follow the directions to book the vaccination site and time slot. Meanwhile, the State vaccinated 1,22,701 children in the 15-18 age group on Saturday against COVID-19 with the first dose of Covaxin. So far, 29% of the children in the target group -- 4,41,670 children – have received the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/precaution-dose-from-monday/article38200094.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||NCC students adopt tribal settlement||The National Cadet Corps (NCC) students of University College, M.G. College, and Government Arts College under the aegis of 2 Kerala Battalion NCC, Thiruvananthapuram, adopted the Manthooki Tribal Settlement under Vithura grama panchayat as part of the village adoption initiative which aims at the betterment of social and economic conditions of village communities. A total of 73 families were provided ration kits, 50 students were given stationery materials and two ailing individuals were given financial assistance. Baburaj, president, Vithura grama panchayat, inaugurated the function. Colonel Pradeep Kumar, Commanding Officer, 2 Kerala Battalion, delivered the keynote address. With the chieftan Sreekala, the chief of the village settlement was felicitated at the function. She later interacted with the cadets presenting insights into the life and history of Manithooki village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ncc-students-adopt-tribal-settlement/article38200223.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||Grama panchayats to have sports councils||Sports councils will be formed in grama panchayats on the lines of the district-level ones, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G. R. Anil said on Saturday. Playgrounds and swimming pools are being constructed in the grama panchayats as part of the efforts to mould a generation of sports lovers, Mr. Anil said. Kho-Kho contest The Minister was inaugurating the Kho-Kho competitions held as part of the district olympics under the aegis of the Kho-Kho Association and the Sree Narayana Higher Secondary School, Uzhamalackal. The competitions which are held as a prelude to the first Kerala Olympic Games in February, will help to identify new talents and contribute sportspersons to the country, he said. The Kerala Olympic Games, organised by the Kerala Olympic Association, is scheduled to be held from February 15 to 24. G. Stephen, MLA, presided. Kho-Kho Association secretary Prasannakumaran K., school principal B. Surendranath and PTA members were present.  Kerala Olympic Games is scheduled to be held from February 15 to 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/grama-panchayats-to-have-sports-councils/article38200035.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||DUK invites applications||The Digital University Kerala has invited applications for the post of accounts officer (on deputation or short-term contract). Applications have also been called for the posts of software engineer and GIS engineer for hydrographic portal. Further details are available onwww.duk.ac.in/careers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/duk-invites-applications/article38200222.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||23 more Omicron cases, 11 in capital district||Kerala has detected 23 more Omicron cases from its samples that tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of Omicron cases in the State to 328. All new cases, except one were detected in samples from international travellers who reached the State. One case was detected in a contact. Of the new cases detected, 11 were from Thiruvananthapuram, four from Kollam, three from Kottayam, while one each were reported from Alappuzha, Thrissur and Kozhikode. Tamil Nadu natives Two cases were detected in two Tamil Nadu natives from UAE. A total of 33 cases out of the 328 Omicron cases have been reported in contacts, a health bulletin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/23-more-omicron-cases-11-in-capital-district/article38200093.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||Award for police’s social media cell||The Kerala Police’s social media cell received the National Award for e-Governance for 2020-21 at the 24th National Conference of e-Governance held in Hyderabad on Friday. Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Science & Technology Jitendra Singh presented the award to Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham and officers of the social media cell K.R. Kamalanath, V.S. Bimal, and P.S. Santosh. The cell was chosen for using its social media platform for effective COVID-19 prevention activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-polices-social-media-cell/article38200156.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||Assault on family: man arrested||The Parassala police have arrested one person for allegedly barging into a house and attacking a family, including a woman civil police officer, at Dhanuvachapuram on Saturday. The police identified the accused as Satheesh, 21, of Dhanuvachapuram. He was allegedly part of a 10-member gang that forced their way into the house of Biju, the complainant, around 10 p.m. on Friday. They assaulted Biju, his wife Shiji, and Biju’s sister Sheeja, a civil police officer attached to the office of the Parassala circle inspector. Following the attack, they were admitted at the Neyyattinkara Taluk Hospital. The gang is suspected to have attacked the family for having shared with the police information on an earlier attack in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assault-on-family-man-arrested/article38200228.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||Scrutiny of LIFE housing applications before Jan. 31||The scrutiny of the latest set of applications for the State government’s Livelihood Inclusion Financial Empowerment (LIFE) housing project will be completed before January 31, Minister for Local Self Governments M.V. Govindan has said. In a press release, he said the field-level surveys had been completed for 64% of the applications received online. The local bodies would publish a draft list of beneficiaries before February 28. As many as 9,20,260 applications were received when the government opened windows for new applications in August 2020 and March 2021. The direct application method for the project began for the first time in August 2020. In the previous phases, the beneficiaries were chosen based on a survey conducted by the Kudumbashree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scrutiny-of-life-housing-applications-before-jan-31/article38200225.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||Below normal rainfall likely in January||Compared to January last year, January 2022 is likely to be rather dry for Kerala although parts of the State have been receiving light to moderate rainfall in recent days. An extended range forecast of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep region has predicted below normal rainfall for the next two weeks ending on January 20. The IMD has forecast light or light to moderate rainfall in several southern and central districts of the State till January 12. In the past one week (December 30 to January 5), the Kerala-Mahe region recorded a deficit of 79% compared to the normal rainfall for the seven-day period. In 2021, the winter rainfall (January and February) in the State was marked by heavy showers during January due to the delayed withdrawal of the 2020 northeast monsoon. All 14 districts had reported a large excess (60% or above in excess of the normal) and, overall, the State had recorded a 409% excess during the two-month period. In 2021, the State recorded an annual rainfall of 3,610.2 mm, its highest in 60 years. The 2021 winter rainfall was also an all-time record for the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/below-normal-rainfall-likely-in-january/article38200088.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||More steps for tribal students’ education||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has directed more steps to ensure further education of children in tribal areas. The direction to take more steps follows a report prepared by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala. Six hostels function under the Samagra Shiksha in five districts. Of these, three reopened in November and the remaining will begin functioning this month. Arrangements for boys from tribal communities inside forests to stay and study have been made in Marayur and Adimali in Idukki district and Nilambur in Malappuram, a statement from the Minister’s office said on Saturday. A count of children not attending regular school or online classes was being taken. Trainers and cluster resource centre coordinators had been directed to visit schools, talk to teachers, and collect details of children yet to attend schools and prepare a list. Children who were found ‘out of school’ through a survey in 2020-21 had all been admitted to schools. Travel arrangements had been made for children who came to school daily from areas with no transport facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-steps-for-tribal-students-education/article38200221.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:37 IST,KERALA||Solar energy to power tourism projects: Riyas||Solar energy will be used as much as possible in tourism projects in the State, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. There is an increasing need to utilise solar boats and systems in the water tourism project, he said inaugurating Muziris Waves-2022, a tourism and informal education project under the Muziris project on Saturday. He also distributed prizes to winners of a State-level painting competition held as part of the ‘Ente Paithrukam’ project. V.R. Sunil Kumar, MLA, presided over the function held at the Muziris amphitheatre, Kottappuram. Mr. Riyas also inaugurated the students heritage walk project and launched a solar boat as part of the Muziris project. He said the renovation of Cheraman Juma Masjid, Holy Cross Church, Kodungallur Bhagavathy Temple museum, and P.A. Said Mohammed Community Centre would be completed within three months. Heritage corridor “A heritage corridor will be ready when various projects, which go along with the Muziris project, are completed. When the national waterway gets completed, we can utilise the heritage corridor more effectively. We can also connect the other heritage tourism projects to the corridor,” he said. The project would give a fresh lease of life for the tourism sector, he added. As a project that introduced places of heritage importance to the people, Muziris had made a mark in the tourism sector. Students were getting a chance to see and feel what they study in their academic books. It should be a continuous process, Mr. Riyas noted. The Tourism department was on a mission to explore lesser-known places with tourism potential. All districts had many such places to explore, he said. Mr. Riyas visited Cheraman Juma Masjid and reviewed the renovation work under way at Rs. 1.5 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solar-energy-to-power-tourism-projects-riyas/article38200034.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Festival time back in Thrissur||Marking the return of the festival season after a long break, the sky above Thrissur exploded with colours for the vela celebration of the Paramekkavu temple. Festival lovers were excited to watch the colourful pyrotechnic show at Thekkinkadu Maidan in the wee hours of Saturday, which had remained silent without any festival in the last two years due to the pandemic outbreak. The procession and fireworks (Chinese fireworks) were held maintaining the COVID-19 protocols. Celebrations started with Astapadi on Friday morning. Percussion ensembles led by maestros such as Peruvanam Kuttan Marar and Parakkatt Thankappan Marar were a feast for the crowd. PESO sanction Earlier, the Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organisation (PESO) had given permission for fireworks for the vela. However, high decibel fireworks were not allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festival-time-back-in-thrissur/article38199989.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:10 IST,KERALA||Curbs in place to contain Omicron||With the recent surge in COVID-19 and Omicron cases in Kollam, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has tightened surveillance and introduced new restrictions to control the spread. While the district reported 299 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, the number of Omicron cases has touched 30. The first Omicron case in the district was confirmed on December 21 and by December 28, nine more cases were reported. Rise in cases There has been a consistent rise in new cases during the last week that include several persons who contracted the variant through contact. Among the 299 persons who tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, 280 are contact cases. They also include four persons from other countries and nine persons who have travelled from other States. The DDMA has instructed the public to strictly adhere to the protocol. Masks will be mandatory in public places, workplaces, and while travelling. Social distancing Social-distancing norms should be followed in all public spaces and a minimum distance of six feet should be maintained between two persons. Anyone caught spitting in public will have to pay a fine and protocol compliance will be strictly monitored. Various departments have been asked to implement work from home as per government directives. Sanitiser, hand wash, and thermal scanning, will be made available at all entry and exit points in public places. Workplaces will be sanitised and parts such as door handles will be sanitised at regular intervals. The district administration has also directed employees in various offices to strictly observe physical distance. District Development Commissioner Asif K. Yusuf has been appointed as nodal officer for ensuring protocol compliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-in-place-to-contain-omicron/article38200077.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:37 IST,KERALA||With much elan||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-much-elan/article38200232.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:10 IST,KERALA||Fighting for rights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fighting-for-rights/article38200082.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:07 IST,KERALA||On top of their game||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-top-of-their-game/article38200073.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:56 IST,KERALA||Bird’s eye view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/birds-eye-view/article38200029.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||Caught in action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caught-in-action/article38200158.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||In the act||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-the-act/article38200154.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:53 IST,KERALA||Window of opportunity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/window-of-opportunity/article38200003.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:36 IST,KERALA||Loud appeals||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/loud-appeals/article38200230.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:52 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fruits of his relentless labour dot campuses||At Vignjana Vilasini Higher Secondary School (VVHSS), Thamarakulam, there are two intrinsically green gardens teeming with life. A herbal park spread over 25 cents is home to more than 150 medicinal plants and the second, which uses the Miyawaki method, houses 460 trees of 115 species in five cents. While the abundant tree cover on the campus is the fruit of relentless planting and nurturing by students and staff, one man who deserves accolades is Raphi Ramanath, biology teacher at the school. Small endeavours For Mr. Ramanath, 41, the two gardens are small endeavours, given a long list of initiatives undertaken by him to increase tree cover since 2009. The teacher has so far planted or helped plant more than one lakh saplings in Alappuzha and other parts of the State. Mr. Ramanath, who won the best conservationist award of the Kerala State Biodiversity Board in 2015, recently bagged the Vanamitra award of the Kerala Forest and Wildlife Department for his efforts to conserve the environment. His vision He says his vision is to increase green cover and inculcate environmental values in young minds. “I was not part of any conservation initiatives until I became coordinator of the school nature club in 2009. As a beginning, we planted saplings of 50 medicinal plants with the help of the Forest department. After finding success at the school, I embarked on a tree planting drive in Alappuzha and outside. I have found students an able partner in my initiatives in increasing green cover,” says Mr. Ramanath, hailing from Thekkekara in Mavelikara.  His initiatives got a boost when he was elected State coordinator of an environmental NGO in 2013. He helped create herbal/fruit gardens, butterfly gardens and nakshatra vanam (planting trees named after stars in the Malayalam calendar) in a number of schools, government offices, places of worship and so on over the years.  No longer with NGO Although no longer associated with the NGO, he continues to plant saplings and distribute saplings free of cost to those who are ready to plant them. He had organised protests against the practice of nailing signboards on trees. As part of creating awareness on the importance of trees and biodiversity conservation, Mr. Ramanath had produced a couple of documentaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fruits-of-his-relentless-labour-dot-campuses/article38199611.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kin of drinking water scheme workers join stir||The family members of the agitating workers of drinking water schemes, being run in the district under the supervision of the Rural Water Supply(RWS) Department, also joined the stir for salaries on Saturday and went to the pumping station at the Penna Ahobilam Balancing Reservoir on Saturday to block the switching on of the motors. Workers of the Neelakantapuram Sriram Reddy Scheme and Sri Sathya Sai drinking water scheme have been waiting to get their salaries for the past four and seven months respectively. The PF amount of the Ramagiri and Kalyandurg Comprehensive Protected Water Supply(CPW) Schemes have not reportedly been deposited by the contractor. Out of the seven month salary that is yet to be paid, the workers say that L&T, the previous contractor, was yet to pay two month salary while the RWS, which took reigns after the L&T quit, was supposed to pay the salary for five months. The workers in 62 CPW schemes are paid a lower pay than the one SSR for the contractors and the State government and its officials do not bother to set it right, pointed out Obulu Konda, a union leader. Salaries of many of these workers are not paid for 17 months, he said. Under Phase 4 of Sriram Reddy Scheme, Madakasira, Kalyandurg, Rayadurg and Hindupur regions are served and the contractor has not paid PF amount for 14 months, Mr. Obul Konda added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kin-of-drinking-water-scheme-workers-join-stir-for-payment-of-salaries/article38200124.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:45 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLC welcomes decision on retirement age||Former AP NGOs’ Association State president and current MLC and Government Whip Vennapoosa Gopal Reddy has welcomed the decision taken by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to increase the retirement age by two years and the 23% fitment, when the employees and their families were not expecting it. This had silenced the voices of TDP leaders and its president Chandrababu Naidu, he said. If the TDP had an objection to raising the retirement age of experienced officers and employees, Mr. Naidu should tell people what was his age and why was he not taking retirement from politics, he said. Meanwhile, some government employees have termed it as a loss as 23% fitment will reduce their salary effectively when clubbed with the Dearness Allowance and their Interim Relief amount will no more be given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mlc-welcomes-decision-on-retirement-age/article38199652.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB raids market committee office||The Anti-Corruption Bureau(ACB) sleuths on Saturday raided the office of the Agriculture Market Committee at Anantapur after ACB Director General P.S.R. Anjaneyulu received complaints regarding alleged corrupt practices at the yard. Anantapur ACB DSP J. Kulasekhar told mediapersons that there were complaints that some private persons, instead of the AMC staff, were collecting market fees without issuing any receipt. There were also allegations of misappropriation of funds and improper leasing and collection of amounts from the godowns from vendors and dealers of fruits and other goods. “We will look into all the records and initiate further action,” said Mr. Kulasekhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-raids-anantapur-market-committee-office/article38200125.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:52 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress firm on padayatra plan, Karnataka set for showdown today||The stage is set for a political showdown as the Congress is poised to go ahead with its 10-day padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru from Sunday demanding early execution of the drinking water project despite warning by the State Government that it will not allow such political rallies in the wake of restrictions enforced due to COVID-19. Leaders camping Prominent party leaders, including Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D. K. Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah are already camping in Kanakapura, which also happens to be the Assembly constituency of Mr. Shivakumar, ahead of the padayatra. Police deployed While a large number of Congress leaders and workers have descended on Kanakapura that also houses the Mekedatu site, the Government has heavily deployed police force in an apparent indication that padayatra would not be allowed as per the plans of the Congress. While weekend curfew has been enforced throughout the State in the wake of COVID-19, prohibitory order under Section 144 of Cr.PC has been imposed in Ramanagaram district to prevent any congregation. In fact, Ramanagaram district Superintendent of Police Girish personally met Mr. Shivakumar in Kanakapura and conveyed him the Government’s decision that padayatra would not be allowed as it would be violation of law. Later, he told a private TV channel that the police would be compelled to take action if anyone violates COVID-19 protocol. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra too made it clear that the padayatra could not be allowed. Describing it as politically motivated, he warned that stern action would be taken against violators of COVID protocols. The Congress leaders who met at the residence of Mr. Shivakumar in Kanakapura on the eve of the padayatra are learnt to have discussed the ways and means of preventing legal hurdles for their walkathon. A few leaders hinted that only Mr. Shivakumar and Mr. Siddaramaiah may go ahead with the padayatra as a strategic move if the Government tries to scuttle the padayatra. However, a few MLAs are expected to follow them. The padayatra, which is particularly aimed at consolidating the the support for the Congress in this Vokkaliga heartland, is turning out to be tricky for the Government as several cine personalities, including Shivarajkumar, are also expected to participate in it. Ahead of the march, Mr. Shivakumar offered prayers at the temple in Kanakapura to make the march a grand success. Later, the KPCC president also participated in religious programmes organised by Christians and Muslims in his home constituency Kanakapura. The KPCC chief termed the restrictions imposed by the Government as “BJP lockdown and not COVID lockdown” aimed at scuttling the padayatra. It aimed at “destroying the livelihoods of drivers, traders, and street vendors, and many other sections of the people,” he said.  The JD (S), the arch rival of the Congress in the Old Mysuru region, too criticised the Congress and said its party supremoH.D. Deve Gowda had unveiled its Janata Jaladhare campaign for highlighting the “injustice” meted out to Karnataka by the Centre in implementing various irrigation projects.Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy blamed national parties for lacking the commitment to safeguard the interests of the State. The Mekedatu padayatra planned by Congress would hurt Karnataka’s position when a petition on the project is heard in the Supreme Court, he claimed.  Meanwhile, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai countered allegations made by both Opposition parties and said that his Government was committed to implementing the Mekedatu project and a memorandum had been submitted to the Modi Government seeking clearances for executing the project. The 10-day padayatra is expected to culminate in Bengaluru on January 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-firm-on-padayatra-plan-karnataka-set-for-showdown-today/article38199613.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. to mobilise opinion against NEET in other States||A meeting of all party MLAs, convened by the Tamil Nadu government on Saturday, decided to consult legal experts to find ways of dispensing with medical admissions based on the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test and to take steps to mobilise a unanimous opinion against the test in other States. A resolution adopted at the meeting said NEET went against federalism and had dashed the hope of rural and poor students to enter higher educational institutions. Tamil Nadu was a model State for the other States in medical education and the health sector. NEET and the National Medical Commission Act had severely affected Tamil Nadu students, it said. “NEET is against the autonomy of the States since it has taken away their rights to admit students to medical colleges launched with their own funds,” the resolution said. Arguing that NEET favoured only students who could afford coaching classes, the resolution moved by Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said it had rendered school education irrelevant and destroyed the country’s federal character espoused by the Constitution. It said the Governor’s failure to send to the President the Bill adopted by the Tamil Nadu Assembly against NEET would not augur well for the sovereignty of the House. Recalling Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s meeting with the Governor and the efforts made by a delegation of Tamil Nadu MPs to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the resolution said a team of all party MLAs would meet Mr. Shah, if he agreed. Vanathi walks out Though the BJP participated at the meeting, its MLA Vanathi Srinivasan staged a walkout, saying her party was not in agreement with the resolution against NEET. “A lot of students of government schools have cleared NEET. Even tribal students have secured admission to medical colleges after clearing the test,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-to-mobilise-opinion-against-neet-in-other-states/article38199708.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Defeat of YSRCP certain: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday alleged that the YSRCP government had cheated the youth in the name of the job calendar. Addressing a roadshow at Jatakartanapalle of Gudupalle mandal, near Kuppam, on the third day of his visit to his constituency, Mr. Naidu said the government’s much-publicised job calender had upset the unemployed and educated youth, as it was limited to setting up meat and fish markets, and petty jobs. Mr. Naidu said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was promoting consumption of sub-standard liquor, besides increasing the cement prices of the brand owned by his family. “The defeat of the YSRCP is certain in the next elections as Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has pushed the State into bankruptcy,” Mr. Naidu said. Accusing the YSRCP leaders of deploying the village / ward volunteers to intimidate and prevent people from attending his meetings, Mr. Naidu said, “Despite the threats, the people of Kuppam are attending the meetings in large numbers.” Mr. Naidu also criticised Mr. Jagan for sticking his images for the schemes sponsored by the Central government. Referring to the sops announced for the government employees, Mr. Naidu said the government enhanced the retirement age from 60 to 62 as it had no funds to clear the retirement benefits. He also termed the PRC as “not proper.” ‘Oppression of Dalits’ Earlier, a delegation of the TDP cadres met Mr. Naidu in Kuppam and brought to his notice the alleged removal of the Ambedkar statue in Ramakuppam mandal. Responding to the issue, Mr. Naidu alleged the YSRCP leaders in Chittoor district were oppressing the Dalits. He also alleged that the police officers were working in favour of the ruling party. “Atrocities against Dalits and their suicidal deaths are on the rise in the YSRCP rule,” the TDP chief alleged. ‘Illegal granite quarry’ Later in the evening, Mr. Naidu inspected a granite quarry site allegedly being operated illegally in Shantipuram mandal under Kuppam Assembly constituency, and accused Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy of encouraging illegal granite mafia. Prove charge, says Peddireddi Refuting the allegation, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy told the media that he was ready to quit politics if the allegation was proved. “I challenge Mr. Naidu to prove the charge. Mr. Naidu has lost the confidence of the people of Kuppam. He will be defeated in Kuppam, and it will be given as a gift to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/defeat-of-ysrcp-certain-naidu/article38200149.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:45 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stone laid for two 50-bed hospitals in Chittoor||Deputy Chief Ministers Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas and Kalattur Narayanaswamy on Saturday laid foundation stones for two 50-bed hospitals of Andhra Pradesh Vaidhya Vidhan Parishad (APVVP) at Penumuru and Karveti Nagaram mandal headquarters. Rs. 13.05 cr. sanctioned The State government has sanctioned an amount of Rs. 13.05 crore each for the two hospitals, and the projects are estimated to be completed within next 15 months. Addressing medical and paramedical staff at Karveti Nagaram, Mr. Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, who also holds the portfolio of health and family welfare, said that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government was committed to bolstering the medical and health facilities, with focus on the rural areas. He said that the two hospitals, with modern facilities such as advanced diagnostic labs, operation theatres, and expert medical fraternity, coming up in Gangadhara Nellore Assembly constituency would go a long way in serving the rural poor. On this occasion, the Deputy Chief Ministers unveiled the statues of Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy at Penumuru and Karveti Nagaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stone-laid-for-two-50-bed-hospitals-in-chittoor/article38200128.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Third ghat road to Tirumala unnecessary, says Chinta||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan on Saturday faulted the move of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Trust Board to construct the third ghat road to Tirumala saying that it would only lead to security problems and escalation of red sanders smuggling activity from the Seshachalam hills. Speaking to the media at Tirupati, the former Union Minister said that the existing two ghat roads were well-designed to serve the pilgrims. Referring to the cinema tickets issue in Andhra Pradesh, Dr. Chinta Mohan alleged Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy had cast his eyes on the revenue of the Telugu film industry. “The fact that the issue has come up in A.P. shows the ulterior motive of the YSRCP leaders behind the strictures,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3rd-ghat-road-to-tirumala-unnecessary-says-chinta/article38200126.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||50,000 free darshan tickets for Tirupati residents||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy on Saturday said that 50,000 free darshan tickets will be issued to residents of Tirupati for “Vaikunta Dwara Darshan” at Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala from January 13 to 22. The official was inspecting the venues arranged for issuing the darshan tickets to residents at the ZP High Schools of MR Palle and Satyanarayana Puram localities, Ramachandra Pushkarini, Rama Naidu School at Bairagipatteda and the special counters at the municipal office at Tirupati. Mr. Dharma Reddy said that the residents could get the tickets from the respective venues from 9 a.m. on January 10. The ticket holders would be allowed to reach Tirumala from Alipiri point on previous day from 2 p.m. onwards during the ten days. The officials sought the devotees to strictly adhere to the COVID-appropriate behaviour to avail the tickets and during darshan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/50000-free-darshan-tickets-for-tirupati-residents-from-jan-13-to-22/article38200129.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:52 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala-bound helicopter makes emergency landing||A private helicopter with four persons on board made an emergency landing on a farmland at Athiyur village in Kadambur hills in Erode district on Saturday. Kadambur police said a couple, Bharat, 65, and his wife Sheela, 60, from Karnataka had hired the helicopter for undergoing treatment at a hospital in Kochi in Kerala and were on their way. The pilot Jaspal and an engineer Angith Singh were on board. While flying over the forest area in the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR), bad weather prevailed and the pilot decided to make an emergency landing at 10.30 a.m. at the farmland owned by Perumal Amman. The chopper landed safely and all the four passengers are safe. The police said that after the weather turned favourable, the helicopter lifted off at 12.55 p.m. and resumed its journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-bound-helicopter-makes-emergency-landing/article38199615.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:45 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Guntur gearing up to face third wave’||The district administration is gearing up to face a likely third wave of COVID-19. Following the guidelines from the Centre, the district administration has laid out a schedule to give a third dose of vaccines to frontline workers from January 10. District Collector Vivek Yadav said that vaccination for those aged between 15 and 18 years would be completed by Sunday. Covid Care Centres Mr. Yadav told mediapersons that the district administration was gearing to face any eventuality. “The district administration has identified 84 hospitals with a bed strength of 6,951. Of those, 3,091 have been provided oxygen support, 1,205 are ICU beds and 3,651 are ventilators. Further, we have also identified 872 Covid Care Centres,’’ he said. Oxygen concentrators Hospitals have also been fitted with oxygen concentrators and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would virtually launch PSA Oxygen plant on the premises of GGH on Monday, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-gearing-up-to-face-third-wave/article38199657.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left leaders meet KCR, call to root out BJP from politics||Top leaders of CPI and CPI (M) on Saturday called on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao here separately and made a strong case for unity of like-minded and progressive parties to pull out BJP along with its roots from national politics. There was an emergency need for these parties to come on a single platform to fight against the atrocious government at the Centre led by the BJP, the leadership of the twin Left parties informed Mr. Rao. It was therefore decided to hold another meeting shortly to discuss their future course of action, sources said. The CPI (M) leaders who met Mr. Rao included party general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, former Tripura Chief Minister Manik Sarkar, politburo members Ramachandran Pillai, Balakrishnan and M.A. Baby. The CPI was represented by its general secretary D. Raja, Parliamentary party leader Binoy Viswam and Revenue Minister of Kerala K. Rajan. While the CPI (M) top brass was in the city for the party’s Central committee meeting, the CPI leaders attended the national conference of All India Youth Federation, a frontal organisation of the party. Sources added that the Left parties informed KCR that the breach of security projected by the Centre when PM Narendra Modi was stuck on a flyover at Ferozepur in Punjab was nothing but a face saving tactic as there was not much crowd at the venue where he was heading to address a rally. Mr. Modi felt the pulse of farmers and people who were angry with BJP in Punjab which was going to polls. The Left leaders discussed national politics in the context of election schedule announced for five States on Saturday. They informed Mr. Rao that defeat was certainty for BJP in UP as the party faced a strong anti-incumbency. The SP led by Akhilesh Yadav was sure to wrest power. Therefore, there was an urgent need for alternative politics. The divisive politics of BJP posed a grave threat to the integrity of the country. The obstacles set up by the Centre to the development path of Telangana government went against federal spirit, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-leaders-meet-kcr-call-to-root-out-bjp-from-politics/article38199603.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assam CM to visit Warangal today||Telangana BJP has decided to intensify its agitation against GO 317 and as part of that Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis would visit the State and extend their support to the ongoing agitation. BJP OBC Morcha national president K. Laxman said that the party would continue its protest against GO 317. He said that national leaders would visit Telangana to put pressure on the government. Mr. Sarma would participate in a meeting in Warangal on Sunday, and Mr. Fadnavis was scheduled to take part in a programme in Mahabubnagar on January 11. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, Mr. Laxman said that the agitation would be intensified after Sankranti. He said that TRS government arrested State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar and imposed restrictions on him to suppress the agitation. “Thousands of families are facing problems due to this attitude of the government. This is an issue related to about 3 lakh families in the State. We are ready to extend our support to them irrespective of restrictions imposed on us. We are ready to face cases legally,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/assam-cm-to-visit-warangal-today/article38199601.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State adds 2,606 cases to fast-surging virus tally||Telangana recorded 2,606 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday — an increase of 311 from the previous day. The number of tests has also been ramped up. Throughout December, a maximum of 40,000 samples were being tested on a daily basis. This has been gradually increasing from January 6 in view of the sharp spike in new infections. On Saturday, 73,156 tests were conducted. However, the results of 11,167 samples were awaited. The surge in cases has pushed up the number of cases under treatment or in isolation — from 3,733 on January 1, the number has increased to 12,180. The maximum number of infections continues to be detected from three urban districts. Of the 2,606 new infections, 1,583 were from Greater Hyderabad region, 292 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 214 from Rangareddy. Sangareddy recorded 59 cases followed by Mahabubabad (53). Mulugu was the only district that did not report even a single positive case on Saturday while Jangaon, Narayanpet and Nirmal logged one case each. The cumulative case total stands at 6,92,357. Two more COVID patients died, taking the death toll to 4,041.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-adds-2606-cases-to-fast-surging-virus-tally/article38199945.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:52 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Netaji apparel keen to set up Textile Park in East Godavari||Tamil Nadu-based Netaji Apparel Park chief executive officer Ramaswamy Subramanian on Saturday held talks on the proposal to set up a textile park in East Godavari district. The inquired about the availability of land with the AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) and other facilities to set up the textile park. Responding to the proposal, Collector Ch. Hari Kiran said that the proposal would be shared with the State government. The Collector directed the officials concerned to examine the possibility to spare land at least a parcel of 100 acres as the project would likely offer more employment opportunities for the locals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/netaji-apparel-keen-to-set-up-textile-park-in-east-godavari/article38200187.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TRS MLA’s son remanded in 14-day judicial custody||Vanama Raghava, son of TRS legislator from Kothagudem Vanama Venkateshwara Rao, who was arrested by the police in connection with a businessman family’s suicide case, has been remanded in judicial custody for two weeks. Raghava, 58, had been on the run ever since the Paloncha police registered a case against him under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC on a complaint filed by a relative of the deceased. The grisly incident of suicide by a debt-ridden Ramakrishna (40), who set on fire his wife and two daughters injuring them fatally before immolating himself at his house in Old Paloncha in the wee hours of Monday, sent shock waves across the State. A police team apprehended Raghava while he was heading towards Hyderabad at Mandalapalli crossroads on Friday night. On Saturday morning, he was produced before a local court, which remanded him in 14-day judicial custody. Raghava was lodged in the sub-jail in the temple town of Bhadrachalam later in the day. Selfie video Public anger against the “tainted politician” mounted after Ramakrishna’s heart-rending selfie video surfaced on social media on Tuesday. The victim in his suicide note as well as selfie video accused Raghava of mentally harassing him to send his wife to a hotel room on the pretext of settling a property dispute between him and his sister. The suicide note also contained the names of Ramakrishna’s mother and sister. He squarely blamed Raghava for his extreme step. A near total bandh was observed in Kothagudem constituency by the JAC of the main opposition parties and women’s organisations demanding harshest punishment to the accused in the abetment-to-suicide case and also the resignation of Venkateshwara Rao as Kothagudem MLA, to pave way for a free and fair investigation into the ghastly incident. The TRS on Friday expelled Raghava from the party. Announcing the arrest of Raghava, Paloncha Assistant Superintendent of Police Rohith Raj said two persons - Girish and Murali were also taken into custody along with Raghava, adding that the duo and two others Chava Srinivas and Ramakanth were booked under Section 212 on charges of “harbouring the offender”. “Raghava confessed to the crime of abetment to suicide,” the ASP said responding to a specific query. Raghava was involved in 11 other cases booked against him under Section 307 (attempt to murder), Section 306 (abetment to suicide) and Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) in the past, the ASP said, asserting that a detailed investigation was underway into all the cases. Meanwhile, mild commotion prevailed in Paloncha town on Saturday when an aggrieved woman openly expressed her anger against Raghava charging him with resorting to “outrageous acts” with impunity by virtue of his “political clout.” She sought expeditious investigation and trial into nearly dozen cases including two “abetment to suicide” cases pending against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trs-mlas-son-remanded-in-judicial-custody/article38199604.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Abduction case: probe rules out security lapse||Even as the authorities have placed a woman security officer under suspension for alleged callousness while on duty, a preliminary investigation into the abduction of an infant girl from the Government Medical College Hospital here on Saturday has ruled out any security lapse. Hospital officials said here on Saturday that the woman officer was suspended from duty pending further inquiry, based on a verification of the CCTV visuals gathered from the hospital. The official concerned had been posted on duty at the entrance of the hospital's maternity ward when the abduction took place. As part of the investigation, joint director of medical education Thomas Mathew visited the hospital and assessed the security network. Talking to mediapersons later, the official sought to dismiss reports of a security lapse and said the abductor did not seem to have received any help from the hospital. “The kidnap was well planned as the woman had no doubts whatsoever with regard to entering the hospital and it was all over in just three to four minutes. Further details are being investigated,” the official said. Meanwhile, the parents of the infant girl named her Ajayya, based on a suggestion by T.S. Reneesh, sub-inspector of police, Gandhinagar, who led the police team that rescued the baby. The baby and its mother were discharged from the hospital during the day. The police would now approach the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court at Ettumanur seeking custody of Neethu Raj, the accused, for further interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/abduction-case-probe-rules-out-security-lapse/article38199605.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two mini lorries recovered||SPSR Nellore district police have achieved a breakthrough in two mini trucks theft case on the arterial Chennai-Kolkata highway with the arrest of two persons from Tamil Nadu at Mabattu village, near Tada, in SPSR Nellore district. Tada police were clueless when two mini trucks, one on December 8 and another on December 20, parked at a petrol bunk went missing. A special team constituted under Sullurpeta Circle Inspector Venkateswara Reddy nabbed the duo, P. Muthu(33) and K. Rajasekhar, late on Friday and recovered the mini trucks worth Rs. 13.75 lakh registered in Tamil Nadu, Gudur Deputy Superintendent of Police M.Rajagopala Reddy told the media. Superintendent of Police Ch.Vijaya Rao patted Mr.Venkateswara Reddy and other members for cracking the cases swiftly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-tn-mini-lorries-recovered/article38200130.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:45 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All teenagers took jab in Nellore dist.: DMHO||The Nellore district health administration added yet another feather in its cap, vaccinating all the eligible teenagers on Saturday. “All the 1.41 lakh persons in the age group of 15 to 17 have taken the jab by evening,” said Nellore District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) S. Rajyalakshmi, while overseeing the special vaccination drive at a time when the third wave of Coronavirus threatens to grip the State sooner or later. The district has been the first in the State in providing first dose of vaccine to all the eligible persons in the age group of 18 years and above. In neighbouring Prakasam district, vaccination of teenagers continued on a brisk pace. “So far 75% of the 1.79 lakh students have been provided with first dose of vaccine,” Prakasam DMHO P. Ratnavalli said. Prakasam district also had ensured first dose of vaccine to all persons aged above 18 years. Meanwhile, all but one of the five Omicron cases had staged a smart recovery. “Four of the foreign returnees have been cured of the virus, while the fifth person has been taking treatment from home,” Dr. Ratnavalli said. The health staff had been fully geared to tackle any third wave of Coronavirus. As many as 49 hospitals — 19 government and 30 private hospitals — have been equipped with required medical oxygen and other equipment to meet any increase in the number of infected persons, she said. COVID cases Meanwhile, south coastal Andhra Pradesh saw 80 fresh cases in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday, taking the total number of active cases to 329 from 269 in the previous 24 hours. The number of recoveries was four times lower than new cases as only 20 patients —11 in SPSR Nellore district and 9 in Prakasam district, were cured of the disease during the period, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-teenagers-took-jab-in-nellore-dist-dmho/article38199658.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BJP should ponder over why farmers stopped Modi’s convoy’||Responding to the protests led by BJP State president Somu Veerraju in the State over the alleged security lapse during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent visit to Punjab, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna on Saturday asked the BJP to first introspect over the reasons for incurring the wrath of the farmers instead of making a “hue and cry” over some farmers stopping Mr. Modi’s convoy. The CPI leader said the BJP should also take note that hundreds of farmers had died because of the Centre’s delay in taking back the black farm laws. The stir by Mr. Somu Veerraju was as ‘politically-motivated’, taken up to “be in the good books of the BJP party command”, he said. Mr. Veerraju had failed to take up the State’s cause be it on Special Category Status, sanctioning of a central port and privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. The BJP should take note it was was the central intelligence wing responsible for the Prime Minister’s security breach, which had to take the blame for what had happened in Punjab. Objecting to the “paltry” pay hike announced for employees by the government, he said the pay revision was less than the interim relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-should-ponder-over-why-farmers-stopped-modis-convoy/article38200150.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:52 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to merge 2 panchayats with RMC||Municipal Commissioner Abhishikth Kishore has said that Kolamuru and Lala Cheruvu grama panchayats have been proposed to be merged with the Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation. The residents of the two panchayats could submit their written objections on the proposal at the KMC office till January 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-merge-2-panchayats-with-rmc/article38200186.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||D.Litt. issue: Kerala varsity V-C’s letter validates Oppn. charge||Lending credence to the allegations by the Opposition United Democratic Front, a letter written by Kerala University Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai turning down a proposal by Governor Arif Mohammed Khan for awarding President Ram Nath Kovind an honorary doctorate emerged in the public domain on Saturday. The document validated the charge that statutory provisions were ignored while considering the proposal. The latest in a series of ‘leaks’ in the ongoing controversy triggered by allegations raised by the Governor, the handwritten letter was apparently delivered by Prof. Pillai personally at Raj Bhavan on December 7. Mentioning a meeting with the Chancellor a week before, the Vice Chancellor referred to a discussion he had with “several members of the Syndicate” on the proposal to confer the DLitt degree on the President. “The members of the Syndicate turn it down (sic),” the letter added. Despite the Governor having not divulged specific details of the discussions he had with Prof. Pillai, the contents of the letter corroborate the former’s claim of matters of national importance having sparked his rift with the government. Mr. Khan had shot off a strongly-worded letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan a day after he was informed of Kerala University’s disinclination to honour his request. The Opposition had accused the Vice Chancellor of failing in his duties by rejecting the proposal without placing it before the Syndicate and Senate for discussions. Disgraceful: Chennithala Meanwhile, Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, who termed the Vice Chancellor’s act disgraceful, questioned the government’s role in the controversy. In a statement here, he accused Prof. Pillai of committing a serious lapse by presenting the decision as one adopted by the university despite failing to hold detailed discussions. He demanded that the university divulge the minutes and agenda of the meeting the Vice Chancellor had with Syndicate members as claimed in the letter. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said in Kochi that the Vice Chancellor should have placed the Governor's proposal before the Syndicate instead of discussing it in secret with some Syndicate members. Mr. Satheesan took a dig at the Governor for what he regarded as “leaks” from Raj Bhavan while declining to speak about the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dlitt-issue-kerala-varsity-v-cs-letter-validates-oppn-charge/article38199609.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD appeal to devotees on rescheduled darshan||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Saturday appealed to the devotees not to choose the dates between January 13 and 22 while rescheduling their darshan visits in view of the 10-day Vaikunta Dwara darshanam. For the benefit of those who could not undertake their pilgrimage to the temple between November 18 and December 10 despite possessing valid darshan tickets owing to unprecedented rains, the TTD had provided them with an option to reschedule their visit within 90 days of their original date of darshan. Devotees are at liberty to choose any day of their choice other than the above mentioned 10-day period, the TTD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-appeal-to-devotees-on-rescheduled-darshan/article38199599.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:45 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Selfless service and actualisation essence of Sufism, say speakers||Sufism is the mystical path of Islam that deals more with self-actualisation and reaching out to the commoners, rather than treading the path of ritualistic practices, speakers said at the South India-level conference on ‘Sufi’ and ‘Natiya Mushaira’ conducted here on Saturday. The event was jointly conducted by Deen-e-Milad Tahreeq Association, Anjuman Taraqqi Urdu and Khanakha-e-Qadariya at Sri Venkateswara University’s Arts block auditorium, where academics and ‘Sajjida Nasheen’ (spiritual gurus) representing various monasteries took part and discussed threadbare the need for inward search for the Almighty. Sayed Sha Shafee Ahamed Qadari, the Government Khazi of Tirupati, said Mohammed the Prophet had always stood for truth and devotion, with his focus always on reaching out to those following his true tenets. “The Sufis practise virtuousness by staying away from vices and all forms of human weaknesses, with the ultimate goal being spreading love,” he explained. SVU registrar O.Md. Hussain spoke on the need to emerge higher in thought process by pursuing higher academic and moral education. SVU College of Arts principal B.V. Muralidhar, former head of Philosophy department S. Abdul Sattar, former Urdu head S.A. Sattar Saheb and others took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/selfless-service-and-actualisation-essence-of-sufism-say-speakers/article38199660.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:46 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||COIVD surge: IIT-T asks students to leave campus||With the number of COVID-19 positive cases increasing, the Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati (IIT-T) has appealed to the students to leave the campus. The appeal has come at a time when the surge in cases coincided with the vacation period, as it may become difficult to manage the hostel space should there be a major outbreak. Even as the students started moving to their destinations, the campus is now left with only 200 final year B.Tech, M.Tech and Ph.D students. However, none of them is COIVD-19 positive. The semester commences from January 17, but classes will continue online till February 15, a spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coivd-surge-iit-t-asks-students-to-leave-campus/article38200138.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:46 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State looks to mine diamonds at Upparapalli in Kadapa||The State government has decided to grant a composite licence through competitive bidding to explore diamond mines at Upparapalli, a nondescript village in Kadapa district. The Mines and Geology Department will invite tenders by the end of this month. The decision comes after a preliminary survey by the Geological Survey of India (GSI) has hinted at the presence of diamonds at Upparapalli. The GSI has already conducted G-4 studies (Reconnaissance Survey). “The government has given its nod to invite the tenders. A composite lease will be given to the successful bidder, who will take up the survey to pinpoint the regions where diamonds are present in abundance,” says V.G. Venkat Reddy, Vice Chairman and Managing Director, Mines and Geology Department. The successful bidder has to take up G-3 (Preliminary Exploration), G-2 (General Exploration), and G-1 (Detailed Exploration) surveys. These will help in assessing the level at which the ores are available in those blocks. The successful bidder will have to bear the expenses of the surveys. The bidder will be given two to five years to complete the surveys. The G-4 studies have shown that diamonds are available in the area. As per the estimates, diamonds are available within a radius of 37.65 sq km in the Upparapalle area. The river basins of the Penna and the Krishna are said to have once harboured large diamond mines. There was a ban on issuing licence for diamonds exploration based on the G-4 surveys. However, the Union government had recently amended the Mines and Minerals, Development and Regulation (MNDR) Act to allow leasing of mines as per the G-4 survey to increase revenue. Following the amendment, the State government has turned its attention to explore diamond and gold reserves. “As the surveys involve huge investment, the Centre thought of roping private agencies, and to facilitate this, the Centre has amended the Act. A six-member high-power committee has sanctioned permission for the survey at Upparapalli,” according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-looks-to-mine-diamonds-at-upparapalli-in-kadapa/article38200137.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports over 800 new COVID cases in a day again||The State reported two more deaths due to COVID-19 and 839 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The test positivity rate of the 37,553 samples tested in the past day was 2.23%. The daily tally was around 800 for the second consecutive day.  The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,503 and 20,80,602. The number of active cases jumped to 3,659 as only 150 patients recovered in the past day.  The recovery rate came down to 99.13% while the total recoveries stand at 20,62,440. So far 3.156 crore samples were tested and their positivity rate was 6.59%. One death each was reported in Srikakulam and West Godavari districts. Chittoor reported 175 infections in the past day. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (174), Krishna (79), East Godavari (78), Guntur (67), Nellore (61), Anantapur (37), Vizianagaram (37), West Godavari (35), Srikakulam (32), Kadapa (30), Prakasam (19) and Kurnool (15). More than half of the State’s active cases were in Visakhapatnam (771), Chittoor (659) and Chittoor (476) districts, while Kadapa (96), Kurnool (69) and Prakasam (60) altogether account for only 6% of the State's active cases. The disrict tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,95,392), Chittoor (2,49,408), West Godavari (1,80,266), Guntur (1,79,644), Visakhapatnam (1,59,622), Anantapur (1,58,460), Nellore (1,47,365), Prakasam (1,38,880), Kurnool (1,24,308), Srikakulam (1,23,841), Krishna (1,21,146), Kadapa (1,16,092) and Vizianagaram (83,283).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-over-800-new-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-again/article38199655.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spl. trains from Vijayawada to Palasa||To clear the extra rush of passengers during Sankranti, the South Central Railway (SCR) will operate 12 Jansadharan special trains between Vijayawada and Palasa. Train No. 07199 Vijayawada-Palasa will depart from Vijayawada station at 9.20 p.m. and arrive at Palasa at 1 p.m. the next day. The train will be operated on January 10, 11, 12, 13, 16 and 17 from Vijayawada. Train No. 07200 will depart from Palasa at 1.30 p.m. and arrive at Vijayawada at 3 a.m. It will start on January 11, 12, 13, 14, 17 and 18. The trains will stop at Eluru, Tadepalligudem, Nidadavolu, Rajahmundry, Dwarapudi, Anaparthi, Samalkot, Pithapuram, Annavaram, Tuni, Narsipatnam Rd, Elamanchili, Anakapalli, Duvvada, Visakhapatnam, Simhachalam, Kottavalasa, Vizianagaram, Cheepurupalli, Ponduru, Srikakulam Rd, Tilaru, Kotabommali and Naupada stations, a release from the South Central Railway said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spl-trains-from-vijayawada-to-palasa/article38199653.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. finalises tenders for road renewal and strengthening works||The Roads and Buildings (R&B) Department has finalised tenders for 812 road renewal and strengthening works at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,764 crore, and the agreements have been concluded. “A total of 1,152 works costing Rs. 2,208 crore have been identified. Tenders for the remaining works will be finalised in a month,” according to a press release by M.T. Krishna Babu, Principal Secretary, Transport, Roads and Buildings. Stating that R&B Minister M. Sankaranarayana held a review meeting on Saturday and ordered that all the works be started and completed by June 2022, Mr. Krishna Babu said works had begun in Chittoor, Kadapa, Prakasam, Kurnool, Anantapur, Krishna, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts. Twenty works had been completed and about 52 others were in progress, he added. The Minister further directed the A.P. Road Development Corporation Managing Director to ensure payment of bills through banks within 48 hours of clearance from the Pay and Accounts officers. The officials were asked to give top priority to road safety measures such as proper lane marking and setting up signboards, crash barriers, and hazard markers wherever necessary. The government had sanctioned urgent repairs to the tune of Rs. 387 crore, and works costing Rs. 276 crore had been completed. Mr. Krishna Babu said on the maintenance front, the government had sanctioned Rs. 78.24 crore for filling up potholes during the year, and the officials were directed to complete all the works by the end of March 2022. Capital works had been taken up with a loan of Rs. 1,158 crore under NIDA (NABARD Infrastructure Development Assistance), and a sum of Rs. 568 crore was drawn and paid under the scheme. The officials were ordered to send proposals to NABARD to obtain loan under NIDA-II for executing 52 bridge works costing Rs. 717 crore. Road widening works costing Rs. 2,970 crore had been taken up in the first phase of the New Development Bank-assisted External Aided Programme. However, it was observed that the progress was slow, especially in Anantapur, Kurnool and Prakasam districts, and notices were issued to the contractors to complete the works by the end of January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-finalises-tenders-for-road-renewal-and-strengthening-works/article38200144.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu seeks security for party activist in Guntur||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday urged the Director General of Police to provide security to TDP leader Puli Maria Das alias Chinna of Tadikonda constituency in Guntur district as he faced a threat to his life allegedly from the YSRCP activists. In a letter to the DGP, Mr. Naidu said that Mr. Das, who hails from the SC community, was a distant relative of YSRCP MP Nandigam Suresh. “As Mr. Das has been an active member of the TDP and leading protests against the government’s anti-Dalit polices, Mr. Suresh is trying to take revenge,” Mr. Naidu alleged. “Mr. Das hails from Uddandarayunipalem in Thullur mandal. He was seriously injured in an attack on September 18 last. Mr. Suresh’s followers are now closely monitoring his movements with an intention to eliminate him,” Mr. Naidu alleged in the letter. “Should anything happen to Mr. Das, it will be considered as the handiwork of the YSRCP MP,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-seeks-security-for-party-activist-in-guntur/article38200145.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor directs V-Cs to defer convocations||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan directed Vice-Chancellors of universities, who scheduled their annual convocations in January and February, to defer the same in view of the rise in the number of COVID cases. Taking stock of the situation arising from the resurgence of the pandemic and the threat posed by the new variant Omicron, Mr. Harichandan took the decision to postpone the convocations already scheduled by the universities, to protect the students, parents, faculty members and administrative staff from the virus. Mr. Biswa Bhusan Harichandan had earlier informed the Vice-Chancellors to conduct the convocations on a regular basis in order to give priority to the students' careers and their future endeavours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-directs-v-cs-to-defer-convocations/article38200147.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:45 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Job drive at Pamarru||About 600 candidates have landed jobs at the placement drive conducted by the Andhra Pradesh Skill Development Corporation at Pamarru of Krishna district on Saturday. According to the District Skill Development Officer, a mega job drive had been organised in collaboration with various companies from various sectors at Pamarru. He said 1,036 candidates attended the interviews and 588 of them were selected by the companies. Help rural youth Joint Collector Mohan Kumar who visited the event said that such successful job drives in rural areas help rural youth grab opportunities without having to make beelines to cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/job-drive-at-pamarru/article38199656.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resident assns. decide not to pay new garbage collection charges||Members of the Visakhapatnam Apartment Resident Welfare Association (VARWA) and the Federation of Greater Visakha Residential Colony Association passed a resolution, in a meeting held here on Saturday, not to pay charges for garbage collection which is being imposed by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and also continue their fight against the tax revision. During the meeting, the members condemned the decision for levying enhanced charges on garbage collection and issuing notices for property taxes. They said that when public are strongly opposing the new garbage collection charges, several political leaders are supporting the move by saying that it would only cost Rs. 4 per day for the people. They condemned the comments made by a senior MLA, asking the civic bodies to dump the garbage in front of the houses of those who are refusing to pay. The members expressed surprise on the GVMC sending notices for property tax when the issue is still pending in the Andhra Pradesh High Court. They demanded that the government stop issuing property tax notices immediately. The members stated that though the GVMC has secured rank 9 in Swachh Survekshan survey most of the roads and drainages are in a bad state. The ongoing drainage works in the city have become a hindrance for the citizens. Residents of Pendurthi, Madhurawada and Gajuwaka are facing menace from pigs, while most of the localities are facing dog menace. Instead of an exclusive park for pet dogs, the GVMC should control dog menace in the city, they said. A few members brought the issue of severe sound pollution due to construction activities at Yendada region. Several association members complained that the sanitary workers of GVMC are burning wastes in the colonies. VARWA president Narava Prakasa Rao, General Secretary B.B. Ganesh, CPI(M) leader and Corporator of Ward 78, B. Ganga Rao, and others attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/resident-assns-decide-not-to-pay-new-garbage-collection-charges/article38200238.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top Maoist leader Singru arrested, 2 kg explosive material recovered||An area committee member (ACM) from the Pedabayalu Dalam of the banned CPI (Maoist), Korra Singru alias Sundar Rao alias Joyo alias Jaya, was arrested by the district police near Sapparla Junction in G.K. Veedhi mandal under the Sileru police station limits on Saturday. The police alleged that Singru was leading a Maoist action team with some active militia members, and was planning to attack the security forces and special police parties by detonating the landmines. Following Intelligence inputs, a police team nabbed Singru recovered one country-made pistol, five 7.65 mm or .32 cartridges, one metal tiffin box filled with 2kg of explosive material, two detonators, 60 metres of electrical wires and four torch batteries from their possession. The 52-year-old Maoist, a resident of Kondrum village in Pedabayalu mandal, had joined the movement in 2000. He was influenced by Bakkuri Venkataramana alias Ganesh, who was killed in the Ramaguda encounter in 2016. Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao said the arrested Maoist was moving with the party members in the Galikonda, Korukonda, and Pedabayalu areas, and in the cut-off areas in the AOB region. He had actively taken part in about 70 offences in the last 21 years, the SP said. He was also allegedly involved in about four murders – Chikkudu Satyarao at Chinthagaruvu village in Pedabayalu in December 2020; Korra Rangarao at Landulu village in October 2019 and Korra Sathibabu at Bongajangi village in June 2019 (both in Pedabayalu mandal); and Kolakani Surya Chandrababu at Maddigaruvu in G Madugula mandal in December 2017. All the four were killed after branding them as police informers. Singru was also allegedly involved in two landmine blasts – one in September 2020 at Chintalaveedhi in which two innocent villagers had died and the other on the Balapam-Kistavaram road in November 2021, which was targeted against the police parties involved in ganja destruction. Fortunately, no one was injured in the incident. The police alleged that Singru also participated in five exchanges of fire from 2017 to 2021, one of which was on June 16, 2021, at Teegalametta of Koyyuru mandal, in which six Maoists, including a few top leaders such as Ranadev and Ashok, had been killed. He was also involved in the exchanges of fire in the Digujanaba forest in Chintapalli in 2020, in which Pangi Pethru alias Daya was killed, and in the Sirlimetta forest in the cut-off area in December 2017, in which ACM Chukkalu was killed. He had a reward of about Rs. 4 lakh on his head. With the arrest of Singru, the presence of the Maoists in the Visakha Agency further weakened. The area was now being looked after by a handful of cadres and leaders such as Ashok and Korra Nageswara Rao. It is learnt that after the Koyyuru encounter in June last, the security forces have stepped up the offensive both on the Andhra and Odisha sides, forcing the top leaders such as Aruna, Gajarla Ravi alias Uday, and Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan to escape to safer places in the Dandakaranya region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/top-maoist-leader-singru-arrested-2-kg-explosive-material-recovered/article38199964.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:50 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction of ESI hospital hangs fire||The construction of a proposed ESI super-specialty hospital at Sheelanagar, for which the foundation stone was laid over five years ago, continues to hang fire. When asked about the delays dogging the project, ESI Corporation (ESIC) Member Prasanta N. Chowdhury said he suspects a nexus between ESI authorities and some local politicians. Mr. Chowdhury, who is also the national secretary of CITU, was in the city to participate in a series of meetings in the run-up to a two-day general strike being called against the privatisation of PSUs. 20 lakh beneficiaries  “This hospital is required to cater to the needs of 20 lakh ESI beneficiaries, consisting of five lakh insured persons and their families. The land has been identified long ago and the previous Telugu Desam Party (TDP) government had given nine acres as against the 10 acres sought by the government for construction of the hospital,” Mr. Chowdhury told The Hindu .  “When completed, it would be the only 500-bed ESI super-specialty hospital in A.P. The land identified at Sheelanagar is located close to the national highway going through the city and is easily accessible. Last month, I had informed the Centre that there is no shortage of land and it accepted my suggestion for vertical expansion. This hospital can cater to the needs of ESI beneficiaries from all over A.P. as well as from south Odisha,” the ESIC Member said. “I will discuss the issue at the ESIC board meeting to be held in February and we will exert pressure on the Centre for early commencement of the construction work,” Mr. Chowdhury said. ‘Land grab attempts’ “Attempts were made by vested interests to grab the land. We (CITU representatives) removed the encroachments and gave a strong warning to those who tried to grab the land. We are planning to launch an agitation if the construction is delayed further,” said G. Subba Rao, a CPI(M) leader. It may be recalled that the then Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment Bandaru Dattatreya had laid the foundation for construction of the ESI Hospital on April 11, 2016. The ESI Sub-Regional Office (SRO), Visakhapatnam, had 8,234 units covered under the ESI scheme. The SRO, Visakhapatnam had six branch offices, one ESI Hospital, 14 dispensaries, five panel clinics and one diagnostic centre under its jurisdiction at that time. BJP State president Somu Veerraju had said in the past that the Centre was ready to give funds and the YSRCP government should allot a little more land for construction of the hospital and a medical college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-of-esi-hospital-hangs-fire/article38200235.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC contract workers stage protest||Alleging that they were ignored in the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) which was announced by the State government on Friday, members of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Contract Workers Union, staged a protest near Gandhi Statue at the GVMC Building here on Saturday. The union members along with municipal staff raised slogans against the government during the meeting. Union president G. Venkat Reddy alleged that the State government has completely ignored the municipal contract/outsourcing workers. During ‘padayatra’, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised to make the jobs permanent and provide equal pay. However, there was no mention of anything regarding the contract municipal workers in the meet, he said. He said that the State government must rediscuss about the assurances given to contract municipal workers and make the jobs permanent. Union members G. Subbarao, N.V. Prasad Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-contract-workers-stage-protest/article38200239.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fake messages on lockdown being circulated on social media||As the COVID-19 cases see a steep increase since the last 10 days, fake messages of lockdown and other restrictions are being widely circulated on social media and other messenger applications here. Since Friday, a message is being widely circulated that the State government has imposed night curfew from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. from January 8. It also claims that all educational institutions, gyms and spas are closed, while theatres, restaurants will operate with 50% capacity. The officials concerned said that the messages are fake and appealed to people not to believe such forwarded messages. ‘No directives’ Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said that they have not received any directives on lockdown or night curfew till now. He confirmed that the messages were completely fake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fake-messages-on-lockdown-being-circulated-on-social-media/article38200193.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tug ‘Balbir’ sails out of HSL||The 200th vessel ‘Balbir’, which is a 50-tonne Bollard Pull tug, built by Hindustan Shipyard Ltd., sailed out with HSL engineers onboard for delivery to Indian Navy at Naval Dockyard (Mumbai) on Friday. This was the last delivery in the series of four 50T Bollard Pull Tugs built for the Indian Navy, by the HSL. The tug has been completely designed and built by the HSL, and the tug can achieve a speed of up to12 nautical miles. During the first sea trials itself, ship has proved her capabilities and achieved performance greater than the contractual requirements. Cdr J.P. Gupta, Director (Corporate Planning & Personnel), congratulated all officers, staff and workers. Cmde Kunjumon E. Mathew, Director (Shipbuilding), and other senior officers were present at the flagging off ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tug-balbir-sails-out-of-hsl/article38200245.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalits will not trust Naidu, says YSRCP MLA||Coming down heavily on Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu, YSR Congress Party MLA Merugu Nagarjuna has alleged that he is trying to use the Dalit card to conspire against the State government for his political gains. Mr. Nagarjuna said that no Dalit in the State would trust him. Addressing a press conference at the YSRCP office here on Saturday, the MLA alleged that the Mr. Naidu during the TDP rule had completely neglected the BC, SC, ST and minorities and is now showing false love towards them after losing power. Mr. Nagarjuna also questioned Mr. Naidu if he had introduced at least one scheme for the welfare and development of BCs, Dalits and minorities. The YSRCP MLA said it was made clear through recent local body polls that TDP has lost its ground in Kuppam also and added that Mr. Naidu has been trying to gain political mileage in his home bastion by creating rift among Dalits. Alleging that Mr. Naidu is obstructing development in the State, Mr. Nagarjuna said that the YSR Congress Party government had credited about Rs. 26,000 crore in the accounts of Dalits through direct benefit transfer (DBT) schemes. The MLA said that BJP was unnecessarily making an issue regarding Jinnah Tower in Guntur only for their political mileage and questioned why the party was silent during the TDP rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dalits-will-not-trust-naidu-says-ysrcp-mla/article38200241.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Frontline workers felicitated||Members from Nehru Yuva Kendra, Sri Gayatri Welfare Cultural Youth Academy, Rupakala Visalakshi Charitable Trust and Nature Cure Hospital on Saturday organised a felicitation ceremony for doctors, police, sanitary workers and a few others, who have relentlessly worked during the pandemic. Mizoram Governor and former MP K. Hari Babu attended the programme as the chief guest. Former Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar, VIMS Director K. Rambabu, S. Lakshmi Narayana from Nature Cure Hospital, Inspector of Maharanipeta Police Station Somasekhar and a few others were felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/frontline-workers-felicitated/article38200242.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 174 new COVID cases||Consecutively for the second day, the COVID-19 single day tally crossed the 150-mark in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. The district recorded 174 new cases in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The death toll remains at 1,111 as no COVID-19 death was recorded during the same time period. The number of active cases has increased to 771. Lakshmisha positive Meanwhile, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Lakshmisha tested COVID-19 positive on Saturday. He has mild symptoms and is under medication, it was learnt. Similarly, several top officials have also tested positive and are under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-174-new-covid-cases/article38200243.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guru Gobind Jayanti today||Guru Gobind Singh Jayanti, the tenth Guru of the Sikhs, will be celebrated on Sunday at Gurudwara Sadh Sangat, Seethammadhara. But due to the rise in COVID-19 cases, the celebrations will be held on a low-key. The three-day ‘Akhand path sahib’ that began on Friday, will culminate on Sunday. Kirtan darbar was held and Guru ka langar was served on all the three days, said D.S Anand, president, Gurudwara Sadh Sangat Seethammadhara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guru-gobind-jayanti-today/article38200247.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||AMC gets new principal||G. Sambasiva Rao, Additional Director of Medical Education and Principal, ACSR Government Medical College, Nellore, took over as Principal of Andhra Medical College, from earlier principal P.V. Sudhakar on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amc-gets-new-principal/article38200246.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:52 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fort city development stalled in last three years, says former MLA||Former MLA Meesala Geeta alleged that the entire development process was halted in the fort city for the last three years due to lack of supervision and delay in sanctioning of funds for the ongoing projects. She said that the condition of roads was horrible at almost all the places and the government failed to complete the road repairs and expansion which was taken up in many stretches. She met Telugu Desam Party national general secretary Nara Lokesh in Vijayawada on Saturday and explained to him the lack of development in Vizianagaram city and other places. In a press release, she said that over Rs. 200 crore worth of works were taken up during her tenure between 2014 and 2019 but the entire development was stalled in the district headquarters. ‘Works shelved’ She said that roads expansion, underground drainage system, 100% water supply through individual pipelines and other works were initiated during the TDP regime but they were completely shelved by the YSRCP government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fort-city-development-stalled-in-last-three-years-says-former-mla/article38200189.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:52 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Industrial units gearing up to face Omicron threat||In view of the threat from the Omicron variant of COVID-19, the industrial units here have started taking appropriate measures so as to minimise any effect on their production processes. The Pydibhimavaram-Pusapati Rega industrial zone of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts houses over 50 companies, including major units like Aurobindo Pharma. The factories have initiated a series of steps to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Thermal screening has been made compulsory at the entrances of the factories. All the employees have been directed to wear quality N-95 masks, use sanitisers and maintain social distancing norms. Following suggestions from the government and the respective managements, the top executives are taking special care in the companies’ buses that transport employees from different parts of the North Andhra region. Aurobindo Pharma Limited senior vice-president (HR) U.N.B. Raju said that the company was taking measures for the protection of the health of employees. They organised meetings in all departments to make employees follow COVID-19 protocol strictly in the office and also take proper care at home, he added. Srikakulam Collector Shrikesh B. Lathkar and Vizianagaram Collector A. Suryakumari have also directed the respective industries departments to issue necessary guidelines to the factories to prevent the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/industrial-units-gearing-up-to-face-omicron-threat/article38200190.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raid and defence||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raid-and-defence/article38200152.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:45 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Acting tough||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acting-tough/article38199662.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:50 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-fervour/article38200237.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:52 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No takers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-takers/article38199617.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Risky behaviour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/risky-behaviour/article38200192.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:05 IST,TELANGANA||COVID testing hesitancy the new headache for doctors||Notwithstanding two waves of the COVID-19 pandemic, certain individuals have been found to be resisting routine medical tests and procedures. With the ongoing surge in COVID cases, such reluctance could prove detrimental to their health, opine healthcare professionals. Doctors at government hospitals, who attend patients with the symptoms, say many of them are reluctant to undergo COVID diagnostic tests while some others are curious to know if they have contracted the Delta or Omicron variant. Then there are those who have been requesting ‘tests’ for Omicron diagnosis. There is also a category of people who are consulting doctors but do not want to know their infection status. Doctors say reluctance to get tested could do more harm to the COVID-positive person and to society at large. Since infection with Delta variant could lead to aggravated condition in just a matter of few days, doctors have urged people not to resist tests if they have symptoms. Assistant Professor of General Medicine at Osmania General Hospital Pratibha Lakshmi says, “They say they will undergo testing only when they have severe symptoms. Delta variant is also in circulation. If they do not undergo tests or consult doctors for appropriate treatment, their condition might deteriorate within a week in case they have Delta infection. This can be avoided by undergoing test at the first instance of the symptoms manifesting.” Vaccine ‘confidence’ Civil Assistant Surgeon (Pulmonologist) at Government District Hospital in King Koti, P. Raghavendra Reddy, who has been checking patients at the Fever Clinic, points out that a few individuals suspected to have the infection questioned why must they undergo testing after having taken both doses of COVID vaccine. “If someone has the virus but does not know about it, and goes out, they might spread it to more people. We try to convince people with the symptoms to undergo tests which helps not only them but also cuts down the possibility of transmission,” he adds. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao had recently expressed concerns on the same lines. At a press conference held on Thursday, he said while 90% of current cases are asymptomatic, and the remaining 10% have symptoms such as mild fever, discomfort in throat, cough, severe headache or bodyaches, and weakness. Those with the symptoms were advised to undergo tests. “Delta too is prevalent along with Omicron. The rate of hospitalisation and severity of symptoms are low in people with Omicron. But health condition of those with Delta variant, who have similar symptoms, can become serious in just three days,” Dr Srinivasa Rao had cautioned. Genome sequencing is performed to know which of the two variants one has. However, it is not done for all positive samples. The sequencing is used as a surveillance mechanism but not as a diagnostic test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-testing-hesitancy-a-new-headache-for-doctors/article38199941.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Bus, railway stations see huge Sankranti rush||The rush ahead of Sankranti festival at bus and railway stations was visible with tens of thousands of students, professionals, and families making a beeline to travel to their native places and other destinations within Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on Saturday. As it was a weekend, the home-bound people came on to the roads around the same time after office hours, jamming thoroughfares for long hours. Traffic was chock-o-bloc from Moosapet to Miyapur which straddles many of the colonies where people of AP-origin reside. The rush at bus stations was heavy, especially at the Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (MGBS). In addition to the scheduled 4,600 buses across the city, another 600 buses were operated to ease the movement of large number of passengers on Saturday, a Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) official said. The number of buses is likely to increase till late in the night with passengers continuing to arrive at bus stations and other locations where buses can be boarded. Over a lakh passengers are estimated to have used the TSRTC’s buses till 8 p.m., sources said. Bus stations were buzzing with activity. Towards late in the evening, other places such as KPHB, Uppal and Saifabad saw a heavy rush of passengers who were waiting to board buses. Varaprasad, Regional Manager, Ranga Reddy Region, TSRTC, gave an insight into the rush. He said given Telangana government’s decision to declare holidays for educational institutions, the influx of student passengers at bus stations was noticeably heavier. Further, this being the second Saturday of the month, the number of passengers saw a significant spike. While the rush began on Friday, it increased a day later. This trend is expected to continue for the next few days. “Apart from the 4,600 regular buses, we put into service another 600 additional buses on Saturday. On Friday, we operated 243 additional buses. The number of passengers has increased because of the holidays. We saw students carrying a lot of baggage given the long holidays. Of course, buses are at full occupancy. The TSRTC is fully prepared,” he said. TSRTC sources said that in all, there were 3,400 regular buses from the MGBS and another 1,200 regular buses pressed into service from the Jubilee Bus Station. The Secunderabad Railway Station too witnessed similar scenes. Here too students were seen in large numbers waiting at platforms to board trains. While this was the case, given the COVID-19 pandemic and 2,606 cases being reported on Saturday, much was left to be desired in terms of following COVID-19 protocols, such as social distancing, at both bus stations and railway stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bus-railway-stations-see-huge-sankranti-rush/article38199962.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:50 IST,TELANGANA||Be resilient to change, Dhruva graduates told||The silver jubilee celebrations of Dhruva College of Management saw an exhibition of Indian traditions in line with the ancient Gurukul style that the college follows, and parents being honoured for the achievements of their children. Former Deputy Vice-Chancellor of Bolton University, UK, Kondal Reddy Kandadi was the chief guest at the event that also saw the participation of alumni from across the globe. In his convocation address, he shared some important messages with the graduating students and asked them to be resilient towards change and enlightened them that the term ‘perfect job’ is a myth. Telangana DGP M. Mahender Reddy and retired IIM-A professor Mathew M Monippally, who is a member of Dhruva’s governing board, congratulated the graduating students through video-conferencing. Former TPCC chief and senior Congress leader Ponnala Lakshmaiah, Vipin Gupta of California State University USA, Annam Ramaswamy of ASCI and Jagan Reddy, a US-based psychiatrist, were among other guests. College founder-chairman S. Pratap Reddy, in his welcome address, touched upon the values such as humility and love for work which Dhruva has always attempted to ingrain among students. This resonates in the mission statement of Dhruva, that is co-producing leader-managers grounded in intellectual humility and ethical profundity. Shanthi B. (valedictorian and marketing topper), Vallakathi Sai Kishore (salutatorian); V.V.S.V.S. Maheedhar (finance topper), Dheeraj Rampal S. (HR topper) and Chepuri Aravind (analytics topper) were felicitated with medals and trophies for their exemplary performance. Parents of the meritorious students were also felicitated on the occasion and shared how the Dhruva family had made a meaningful impact in their lives. The graduating students received their certificates from the chief guest. K. Pratap Reddy, director of Society for Entpp Devt and Agri Business Management, R K Jain, director- Symbiosis, Mr Pratap Reddy, chairman of Dhruva College of Management and Puspalatha Reddy, college vice-chairperson were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/be-resilient-to-change-dhruva-graduates-told/article38199951.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:07 IST,TELANGANA||TRS lashes out at Chouhan||Several TRS leaders, including Ministers, unleashed a verbal attack against BJP leader and Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who criticised the TRS government and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday. They remarked that Madhya Pradesh was no match for Telangana on several development and welfare parameters as the latter was among the top five States in the country in contributing to the country’s GDP. “Mr. Chouhan is no match for KCR regarding welfare schemes improving the living standards of people,” they said. Speaking in Siddipet, Minister Harish Rao sought to know from Mr. Chouhan as how he had come to power after being rejected by the majority. Stating that MP was no match for Telangana in any development parameter, he sought to know why the bigger State was behind smaller Telangana in GSDP, per capita income and why Mr. Chouhan was not providing uninterrupted free power to farmers, free drinking water, Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima and other welfare schemes. He recollected how the Chouhan government had shot dead six farmers when they were protesting for farm loan waiver and what action was taken against the accused in the Vyapam job scam in Madhya Pradesh, which claimed the lives of several unemployed youth. On Mr. Chouhan’s comparison of Kaleshwaram project with a bank ATM, Mr. Harish Rao pointed out that it was the Centre that had told Parliament that there was no corruption in the execution of the project. Ministers Talasani Srinivas Yadav, V. Srinivas Goud and G. Kamalakar alleged here that all BJP leaders who were visiting Telangana were ‘reciting a script’ prepared by the State BJP as dubbing artistes do in films without any knowledge about the ground reality. The Ministers observed that Mr. Chouhan can’t develop MP like TS even if he stays a Chief Minister for 10 terms. They also criticised the BJP leaders’ demand for withdrawal of GO 317 and said that withdrawing it would amount to disobeying the Presidential Order itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-lashes-out-at-chouhan/article38199967.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:05 IST,TELANGANA||Scope to sharpen Rangareddy’s export focus||Ranga Reddy, a district neighbouring Hyderabad and home to companies of varying sizes across industries, offers scope for enhancing exports in many sectors, including medical devices, processed food, agri and spices, seed as well as defence and aerospace. The room for improvement exists in various sectors, Federation of Indian Export Organisations Joint Director P.T. Srinath said, adding exports from Ranga Reddy during April-October 2021 totalled a little over $1 billion. The FIEO Telangana Head was speaking at a meeting held as part of the District asExport Hub series, for Rangareddy, with the objective to seek views of exporters, especially challenges they face, and addressing them in association with the State and district administration. The launch of the meeting series follows the Centre’s emphasis on turning districts into export hubs by engaging States actively in export promotion activities. “Earlier, export promotion was dealt by only Central government without any active, credible mechanism involving the State or district-level stakeholders into the decision making process to promote goods and services produced at the grassroots level. This has to be decentralised to boost local production and make districts active stakeholders in driving export growth of local products/services. Such a move will help filling the existing gaps and [addressing] bottlenecks in exporting the identified products/services from the districts,” FIEO said in a release on the meeting. The objective is to also enable MSMEs and farmers tap the export opportunities and thereby, for the country, to shift focus on a district-led export growth for self-sufficiency and self- reliance. Such a move would attract investment to boost manufacturing and exports and facilitate growth of an ecosystem for innovation and use of technology at the district-level to make exporters competitive, FIEO said. Inaugurating the meeting, Deputy Director General of Foreign Trade, Hyderabad, K. Hrushikesh Reddy said meeting is to improve exports of key products from the districts and to collect feedback from the industry on measures to improve exports. Union Commerce Ministry, he said, is keen on promoting exports by addressing infrastructural issues as opposed to an approach of offering incentives to exporters. Since direct subsidies result in inefficiencies, the Centre wants to utilise the funds earmarked, for incentives, for various projects such testing labs being set up at the district-level for the exporters. Deputy General Manager (SME) of State Bank of India Sudhanshu Das said SBI is keen on financing MSMEs and thus enhance exports. “Tell us where we can improve and contribute to the aim of India becoming a $5 trillion economy,” he said.  Earlier, export promotion was dealt by only the Centre. This has to be decentralised to boost local production and make districts active stakeholders in driving export growth of local products/services. Federation of Indian Export Organisations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scope-to-sharpen-rangareddys-export-focus/article38200198.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:07 IST,TELANGANA||CLP calls for meeting today to discuss Paloncha issue, farmers’ suicides||Telangana Congress doesn’t want to leave the opportunity to pin down the ruling party in the Vanam Raghavendra Rao’s atrocities episode, and as part of it, the Congress Legislature Party has called for a meeting on Sunday where all the MLAs are expected to participate. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka said that the meeting has been called to discuss not only Raghavendra Rao’s issue but also other matters haunting the State, including farmers’ suicides and paddy procurement. Political developments with the BJP upping its activities taking the centre stage will also be discussed, he said. Earlier, Sangareddy MLA Jayaprakash Reddy urged the CLP leader to call for a meeting to discuss the political developments and the rage generated by the suicide pact of a family in Paloncha where the accused is the son of Kothagudem MLA Vanam Venkateshwar Rao, who was elected on Congress symbol but shifted loyalties to the ruling party. While the party has been on the attack mode ever since the suicide issue took centre stage, senior leaders argued that a coordinated effort was needed to form a strategy to push the TRS on the back foot given the sensitivities attached to the suicide and the issues related to it. “People are angry over this and feel the Opposition parties must take it up as it is involved with the honour of a woman in particular and women in general. It is our responsibility to put pressure on the government to ensure justice and instil confidence among people,” another leader said. “The lackadaisical attitude shown by the government in the entire episode and police’s laxity in intervening to catch the culprit is a big political weapon as well,” argues another leader. “Behaviour of the ruling party and the police in the episode is unpalatable. We have never seen such blatant police bias in support of the ruling party and their total surrender. The incident is a wake up call for the society to seek accountability,” a senior functionary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clp-calls-for-meeting-today-to-discuss-paloncha-issue-farmers-suicides/article38199977.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:07 IST,TELANGANA||Mallannasagar oustees still waiting for allotment of house sites||A promise made by officials about three years ago, at the time of acquiring houses and vacant land in villages that would submerge under Mallannasagar, was that all those eligible will get houses or they can opt for house sites and the government will be extending an amount of Rs. 5.04 lakh for construction of a house. In August 2021, about 11 tmcft of water was released into Mallannasagar. At the same time, all the oustees were forced to vacate the 14 villages, including hamlets. However, the allotment of houses sites has not been completed so far and the oustees are waiting for allotment as well as physical possession of the sites to start construction. A few weeks ago, allotment letters were handed over to the residents of Pallepahad. However, they are yet to have physical possession of the sites. “We were given letters mentioning our plot numbers. Physical possession was not given while our leaders informed that the sites will be registered in our names and we can go ahead with construction. We cannot claim those houses as ours till registration is completed and we cannot even avail bank loans as the sites are not in our names. Meanwhile, the amount given by the government for land acquisition and house construction is being spent on other requirements and we may have to take loans,” said an oustee from Pallepahad. In addition to this, resentment is brewing over allotment of houses and sites at prime locations to the influential while others are being allotted sites in the interiors. “Why not make allotments through lottery instead of according priority to only a few?” asked another oustee from Vemulaghat, adding that they will not be taking possession of the sites till the entire compensation is paid. Siddipet RDO K. Ananta Reddy said they handed over the plots to community elders and elected representatives and the process of giving them to beneficiaries will be done in the next 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mallannasagar-oustees-still-waiting-for-allotment-of-house-sites/article38199970.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Two from UP held for online gift fraud||Two persons from Uttar Pradesh were arrested by the Cyber Crime police of Hyderabad in connection with online gifts fraud case. The accused are Mohammed Naim, 23 and Mohammed Farookh (22), both handloom workers from Senikpur in Bareilly. In August last, a person from Begumpet approached the police stating that he received a message from a WhatsApp number +1(585) 282-3240 wherein the sender introduced himself as Dr. Harry Robert and they started chatting, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Gajarao Bhupal said on Saturday. The accused told the complainant that he was planning to visit India for vacation and had purchased a mobile, laptop, watch and a few clothes for the latter. Dr. Robert further told the complainant that he would start on July 11, from the USA., and the next day he would land in Delhi. “The complaint got calls from a person posing himself as an immigration officer who told him that Dr. Robert was caught at the airport and he needs to pay money towards the anti-terrorist certificate, money laundering charges etc. The former was convinced to transfer Rs. 9,19,400 to various bank accounts of fraudsters only to get cheated,” Mr.Bhupal said. All for commission Based on his complaint, a case was registered and a probe was launched. During the course of investigation, police found that Naim and Farookh and two others were supplying bank accounts to Nigerian nationals for a commission of 10%, and in turn the Nigerians use the bank accounts for committing frauds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-from-up-held-for-online-gift-fraud/article38199705.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:05 IST,TELANGANA||IICT, BPCL to collaborate on agri-biomass plant||The Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) here and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) research and development centre have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding to execute an R&D project to demonstrate the potential of anaerobic gas lift reactor (AGR) technology for the generation of methane-rich biogas from agriculture biomass, on pilot basis. The project also aims to develop another novel digester in the second phase and upon successful pilot reactor demonstration at IICT, the same process/product would be scaled up, validated and deployed at BPCL R&D centre in Noida, informed an official release. Officials of the centre visited IICT a few months ago to witness the pilot biogas plant based on AGR technology installed on campus for treatment of food waste generated in the kitchen, and finalise the objectives of the proposed project. IICT chief scientist and principal investigator of the project A. Gangagni Rao, and chief scientist and business head D. Shailaja finalised the project details and entered into the pact to kickstart the project after visiting the BPCL centre. The institute to convert waste to wealth has developed and patented the high rate biomethanation technology based on AGR and had successfully demonstrated at various waste generation sources such as the NGOs, vegetable market yards, educational institutions and other government and private enterprises. The 10 TPD biogas plant in Bowenpally market has even won Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s praise in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’. The institute is now geared up to help BPCL in installing a commercial-scale Compressed Biogas (CBG) plant using agriculture biomass. “Teams at IICT and BPCL R&D centre are keenly looking forward for fruitful product/process as an outcome. The successful execution of this project would create a paradigm shift in biomass burning issue,” said IICT director V.M. Tiwari, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iict-bpcl-to-collaborate-on-agri-biomass-plant/article38199947.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||NH-65 bracing for Sankranti traffic||The National Highway-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada), the connecting link between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, is bracing for its once-in-a-year Sankranti rush early this year. The Telangana government’s order declaring holidays for educational institutions from Saturday onwards, adding to software and technical employees who are already in work-from-home mode in the wake of the rising COVID-19 cases, is keeping highway and toll gate officials busy. Toll plazas on this highway in the last season had logged more than 30,000 vehicles in the Sankranti week, as against the average of about 27,000 passenger car units on a busy day. In contrast, the volume during return journey after the conclusion of festivities at the busiest Pantangi toll plaza at Choutuppal was at least 50,000 vehicles on a single day. Although FASTag, the electronic toll collection method, made festival journeys smoother, traffic bottlenecks such as through junctions, village intersections, wrong route entries, FASTag failures and accidents, had been reported. The National Highway Authority of India and GMR Infrastructure – the concessionaire of the highway project, however, believe the current season would be made free flowing and incident-free for motorists. And several arrangements are being put in place. Of the nearly 250-km-long highway stretch, about 150 km being in undivided Nalgonda, the toll plaza at Pantangi receives the maximum flow and then the traffic diverts towards Khammam, Nellore, and the most part towards Vijayawada. The stretch in Telangana limits also has Korlapahad toll plaza near Suryapet. Learning from the past, officials are now focussing on preventive measures such as keeping ambulances and cranes available for speedy intervention. Two emergency vehicles will be available for every 30 km distance. Toll managements are also employing additional staff to prevent wrong route entries near the plazas and FASTag failures. Emphasis, with coordination of the local police, will also be on at least 12 village and town junctions on the full stretch to forecast and prevent traffic swelling. Officials estimate that traffic flow would see a rise Sunday after morning hours once the fog dissipates with the sunlight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nh-65-bracing-for-sankranti-traffic/article38199955.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:50 IST,TELANGANA||Numaish traders prefer online trading after closure||On Saturday, some traders packed up and began leaving with their goods. Other traders are awaiting confirmed news about the cancellation of Numaish or the All India Industrial Exhibition 2022. While some other traders are trying to hawk their wares through social media. An air of uncertainty has gripped the Numaish at Nampally after word spread that the exhibition is closed. “The police commissioner issued orders for closure till January 10. Everything else is rumours,” said Aditya Margam of Exhibition Society. “I have set up my stall and am waiting for January 10 for the exhibition to restart. Even on the day people were allowed in, there was very good screening for masks and sanitisation. Hopefully they will reopen on Jan 10,” says Mehboob who set up the home-grown success story badam ki jaali stall. One of the dry fruit traders from Kashmir put out a word through social media about losses if the exhibition was wound up early. The blitz of calls put the trader’s phone out of action. “My stall is ready but I have not unloaded the stock. My losses would mount if I unloaded the stock and the exhibition does not take place. They should allow it for a few hours for a few weeks,” said Vikas Jain, a sari trader from Secunderabad who readied his stall near Gate No. 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/numaish-traders-prefer-online-trading-after-closure/article38199960.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:05 IST,TELANGANA||Banks surpass street vendor scheme target||Banks in Telangana have disbursed loans under PM SVANidhi scheme first tranche to 3,45,100 street vendors, surpassing the target of extending the special micro credit facility to 3.40 lakh such beneficiaries. The banks aim to clear the pending applications under the first and second tranche by January 15 and disburse the sum by January 25, the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) of Telangana said in a release on a review meeting. Additional Secretary to the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs Sanjay Kumar chaired the virtual meeting on the subject on January 7. Department of Financial Services official G.B. Panda, Special Chief Secretary to department of Municipal Administration Arvind Kumar, MEPMA managing director N. Satyanarayana, GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar, SBI general manager and SLBC convenor Krishan Sharma, controllers of banks and LDMs participated in the meeting. According to PM SVANidhi website, the scheme is fully funded by Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and is to facilitate working capital loan up to Rs. 10,000 for street vendors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/banks-surpass-street-vendor-scheme-target/article38199946.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Traffic restrictions in Hyderabad||The stretch between Gachibowli and Bio-diversity junctions, including the flyover, would be temporarily closed from Jan. 10 to 19 between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m., as the GHMC is taking up girder erection works at Gachibowli ORR Junction. To facilitate the above works, the following traffic diversion is planned: Traffic coming from Hafeezpet towards Tolichowki via Kothaguda main road would be diverted through Rolling Hills road - Ramky Towers - AIG Hospital Road - Mind Space Junction - Bio Diversity Junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-restrictions-in-hyderabad/article38199957.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:07 IST,TELANGANA||Bandi gets PM’s call||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Saturday, called up Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar to inquire about his recent incarceration and subsequent release from Karimnagar jail when he was staging a hunger strike in support of the employees agitating against GO 317 zonal transfers. Party sources claimed that in the 15-minute conversation, Modi appreciated the fighting spirit of Mr. Sanjay Kumar in support of the people’s causes and wanted him to continue in the same manner in a democratic way. The TS chief explained the circumstances that led him to take up the protest programme and about how the police broke open his office with gas cutters to forcibly whisk him away to prison even while thrashing other party workers mercilessly. Mr. Modi apparently was surprised over the party president going to jail nine times, two in the current regime and others during the Congress governments, for participating in agitations. The PM was said to have observed that the TRS government had targetted the MP due to the growing popularity of BJP in TS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandi-gets-pms-call/article38199971.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:07 IST,TELANGANA||‘Farmers dying and TRS celebrating Rythu Bandhu’||Former Telangana Congress committee president Ponnala Lakshmaiah has ridiculed the State government and the TRS for celebrating Rythu Bandhu programmes when farmers were committing suicides in hordes with no support coming from the government. Mr. Lakshmaiah alleged that the TRS government has turned insensitive, to say the least, to celebrate Rythu Bandhu while turning a blind eye to the increasing deaths of farmers who were resorting to the extreme step hit by nature’s vagaries. “The government that should rescue farmers is nowhere to be seen while taking shelter under the Rythu Bandhu umbrella claiming that it was the panacea for all ills,” he said. He cited several unkept promises of the TRS government like the farm loan waiver and guarantee for support price. The poll promise of farm loan waiver is forgotten while the plight of tenant farmers is totally ignored as if they don’t exist, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-dying-and-trs-celebrating-rythu-bandhu/article38199974.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:07 IST,TELANGANA||Training put off due to COVID||Telangana Congress has postponed the proposed training programme for its leaders in view of the rising cases of COVID. The dates would be announced later. The party had decided to conduct four days’ training from January 9 to 12 at a private resort to select group of its leaders as part of the AICC training cell programmes. “The party high command has decided to cancel this training programme,” said TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud and AICC Programmes Implementation Committee chairman A. Maheshwar Reddy. At a press conference on Saturday, Mr. Maheshwar Reddy accused BJP and TRS of gathering hundreds of people in the name of dharnas and Rythu Bandhu celebrations respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/training-put-off-due-to-covid/article38199973.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:05 IST,TELANGANA||MANUU silver jubilee today||Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU) will be celebrating its silver jubilee on Sunday with former University Grants Commission chairman Sukhdeo Thorat delivering a lecture on “Where do the Muslims lag behind in higher education: Lessons for Policies”. Live streaming of the programme will be available on ‘www.youtube.com/imcmanuu’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/manuu-silver-jubilee-today/article38199949.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Fake job racket busted, eight held||With the arrest of eight persons, the Cyber Crime police of Hyderabad claim to have busted a fake call centre racket operating from New Delhi. A woman from Hyderguda, who completed air hostess course and was looking for a job, approached police stating she uploaded her resume on shine.com about two years ago and that she got a call from an unknown person who told her that she was selected for the post of ticketing staff of IndiGo Airlines and was asked her to furnish details. “Later, she was convinced to pay Rs. 8,02,426 towards registration fee, document verification, certification, security deposit etc. After transferring money, she realised that she was cheated as the person’s mobile number was switched off,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Gajarao Bhupal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fake-job-racket-busted-eight-held/article38199958.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:05 IST,TELANGANA||Another day care unit at cancer hospital||One more day care unit was inaugurated at Basavatarakam Indo American Cancer Hospital & Research Institute (BIACH&RI) to reach out to more patients. There are 21 beds in the fourth unit which adds to the resources in the three existing ones. These beds will be mainly utilised to provide chemotherapy services to cancer patients. Hospital chairman Nandamuri Balakrishna, who inaugurated the day care unit, said that it will help provide timely treatment, thus reducing waiting time for the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/another-day-care-unit-at-cancer-hospital/article38199942.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:05 IST,TELANGANA||Centre for dog training and boarding opened||Doggy Ville, a canine club providing training, agility and behaviour modification to pet dogs as also boarding and grooming services, was inaugurated at TNGOs colony in Gachibowli here. It was attended by actress Amala Akkineni and DCP-Madhapur K. Shilpavalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-for-dog-training-and-boarding-opened/article38199948.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:07 IST,TELANGANA||SCCL to set up 40K tonne explosive making unit||SCCL has decided to establish an explosives making unit in association with Indian Oil Corp. Ltd. in Mandamarri area with an annual capacity of 40,000 tonnes for use of opencast mining. A meeting was held on Saturday to finalise the draft of guidelines for establishing the plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-to-set-up-40k-tonne-explosive-making-unit/article38199968.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||BRIEF||Collector R.V. Karnan called upon the beneficiaries of the Dalit Bandhu scheme to fully tap the vast potential of the dairy sector. He was speaking after inaugurating a dairy unit set up by a Dalit couple under Dalit Bandhu at Korapalli village in Jammikunta mandal on Saturday. He also visited the Maheshwari supermarket set up by the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brief/article38199979.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:05 IST,TELANGANA||Flexing muscles||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flexing-muscles/article38199953.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Former OU prof. passes away||Prof Bala Kothandaraman, former professor and Head, Department of English, Osmania University, passed away in a local hospital after a brief illness on January 8. She was known for contribution to the study of modern British, Canadian, and Commonwealth literature. She collaborated with Bernth Lindfors for ‘The Writer as Activist’. She was also the past president of The Poetry Society Hyderabad Centre, which started as a Zenana Circle in 1925 before expanding into an Open Centre in 1929 and the Poetry Society Hyderabad Centre in 1937, with Nawab Sir Nizamat Jung as the first president and Ms. Rosenthal, the Secretary. She was an active participant in academic and literary events in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-ou-prof-passes-away/article38199956.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:17 IST,||Punjab CM uses Sardar Patel’s quote to target PM||Insisting that there was no threat to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s life during his recent Ferozepur visit, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday sought to target him with a quote by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Mr. Channi took to Twitter quoting Sardar Patel to say, “One who cares for his life more than duty, he should not take big responsibilities in a country like India”.  Talking to reporters, the Chief Minister reiterated time and again that there was no threat to the Prime Minister’s life and said he was tired of saying that and was ready to perform even “ mahamrityunjay path ” for the long life of the PM.  “Where was the threat? There was no protester within one km from Pradhan Mantri. Where the PM goes, his 6,000 security personnel come. IB is there, SPG is there, ours is the largest democratic country and you are the PM. What danger could he face?” the CM asked. The Chief Minister alleged the PM apparently did not mind being stopped in Gujarat or Varanasi, but resented his convoy being held up in Ferozepur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-cm-uses-sardar-patels-quote-to-target-pm/article38199820.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:28 IST,||Demand revives for accountability law in Rajasthan||The demand has revived in Rajasthan for enactment of a transparency and social accountability law. Civil rights goups have reminded the Congress government that it had promised to bring such a legislation in its manifesto before the 2018 Assembly election. A committee had submitted a report on this, along with the draft of the proposed statute, in 2020. A ‘Jawabdehi Yatra’ (accountability march) organised by civil rights groups, which covered 13 districts in the State during the last fortnight, has once again brought the issue to the forefront. The march was suspended after it reached Kota on Friday in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had expressed his resolve to enact the legislation in his Budget speech in 2019 and later assured that the accountability law would incorporate the provisions of the Guaranteed Delivery of Public Services Act and the Right to Hearing Act. Both of these statutes were enacted during the Congress regime of 2008-2013. Committee suggestions The committee appointed by the State government had laid emphasis on evolving a legal framework to guarantee accountability to the citizens and highlighted the limitations in the existing administrative system which prevented timely delivery of services. Representatives of Suchna Evum Rozgar Adhikar Abhiyan were also the members of the committee, which was headed by former civil servant Ram Lubhaya. The draft Bill has incorporated the suggested provisions for transparency in governance, citizens’ participation, public hearing, social audit, information and facilitation centres, decentralisation of the process and establishment of an independent grievance redressal structure. The mechanism for redressing grievances will start from village panchayats and involve public hearings at the block level. Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS) leader and right to information activist Nikhil Dey said the Transparency and Social Accountability Bill should be tabled in the upcoming budget session of the State Assembly. He said there was a “strong clamour” among the public for the law, witnessed during the yatra, while several instances of people struggling to get benefits of government schemes had come to light. The social activists who participated in the march felt that countless citizens were suffering from an inability to access their rights and have their complaints redressed in a time-bound manner because of the absence of the law. A total of 2,366 complaints were registered in 13 districts during the yatra and 1,903 of them were uploaded on the State government's Rajasthan Sampark portal. Most of the complaints in the rural areas pertained to social security pensions, public distribution system, health schemes, lease under the Forest Rights Act, silicosis relief and the rural employment guarantee works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/demand-revives-for-accountability-law/article38199828.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:17 IST,||Govt. asks DMs to set up community care centres||The Delhi government on Saturday asked all District Magistrates to set up one ‘Community COVID Care Centre’ in each of the 70 Assembly constituencies. It also issued special operating procedures for setting up these centres at schools, each having 50 beds.  On Thursday, The Hindu had reported that the government was going to order all 11 DMs to identify schools and other buildings in each district, which can be converted into isolation facilities.  The surge in COVID-19 cases in the Capital continued on Saturday with 20,181 new cases being reported over 24 hours — the highest in more than seven months — according to a city government bulletin. Positivity rate 19.6%, The test positivity rate rose to 19.6%, which is also the highest in about seven months. Seven new COVID-19-related deaths were reported, taking the toll to 25,143. The active caseload increased to 48,178, from 39,873 a day earlier. Though the number of people occupying hospital beds increased to 1,390, 89.5% of the total 12,580 hospital beds for COVID patients were vacant as of Saturday, said the bulletin. The Delhi government has added 1,300 COVID-19 beds in 14 hospitals, according to an official order. Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said though the cases in Delhi are rising, the number of deaths are very less compared to the second wave. Also, no death of any patient infected with the Omicron variant has been reported so far, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-asks-dms-to-set-up-community-care-centres/article38199812.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:17 IST,||Pushed by poverty to give away their newborns||Nazma’s* son was just a day old when she told her estranged mother, a midwife, that she would not be able to raise her baby. The 28-year-old mother of five knew that the monthly income as an erickshaw driver of her husband, who was an alcoholic and often beat her up, was not enough to take care of another member in the family. In less than a week, she chose to hand over her infant to a family in west Delhi. She only wished for a good family to raise her son. She received Rs. 2,00,000 in return. Rekha, whom Nazma’s mother knew, helped her in this arrangement. “When I reached the appointed place in Uttam Nagar, Rekha was there with a couple who took my child and kissed him in front of me and then Rekha took money from the couple and surprisingly gave it to me,” she said. The Hindumet more families like Nazma’s who — driven by poverty — chose to give away their newborns. The Delhi police recently busted the gang of women who were running a racket of selling newborn babies in the city. Their modus operandi involved preying on pregnant women from economically weaker sections who were willing to give away their babies for Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 2 lakh, as their circumstances did not allow them to raise another child. Dire need In Nazma’s case, her husband’s “refusal to take contraceptive measures and her inability to undergo tubectomy owing to her religious faith” made her situation difficult. While she wasn’t looking for any monetary gain in this, Chandni*, residing in north Delhi, was in dire need. Into her seventh month of pregnancy, the mother of three realised it wouldn't be easy to raise another child. She was already struggling with the medical expenses of her four-year-old son with breathing issues. She confided in her sister-in-law Rashmi*, an egg donor at an IVF centre in Patel Nagar. Chandni knew Kajal, an employee at the IVF centre. Kajal assured her of taking the newborn provided the baby was handed over within 10 days of birth. Chandni’s husband, a drum player at weddings and a daily wager, was against his wife’s decision as he wanted to keep their son. But Chandni insisted on giving the child away in exchange for money as that could be used for treating their other son. “I asked Kajal if I would be able to see my child later but she refused. She did not share any details about the family either, only told us he will go to a good family,” she said. Ten days after her son’s birth in April, Chandni, along with Rashmi, went to meet Kajal. “She met us in a park in east Delhi, took my baby and returned with Rs. 2,00,000. “After that day, she stopped taking my calls when I tried to reach her to enquire about my baby,” she said. Jyotsna’s* fifth pregnancy was unwanted. Her neighbour Anjali – whose role is being investigated — advised her against abortion and told her to give the baby to a family in need. She also told Jyotsna that her brother and sister-in-law would adopt her child. Post-delivery in November, Jyotsna changed her mind and decided to keep her baby boy. Anjali convinced her and the child was eventually handed over to a couple. Anjali became incommunicado thereafter. Illegal adoptions When the Delhi police unearthed the racket, Jyotsna came to know that the couple who had taken her baby was not Anjali’s brother and sister-in-law but her second husband and a friend who reportedly sold the child to another couple. The child hasn’t been traced yet, the police said. The illegal adoptions came to light when Deputy Commissioner of Police Rajesh Deo’s team received a WhatsApp message from an informer about infants being bought and sold. A senior officer said the district police decided to investigate the case since children were involved. With Sub-Inspector Anita as the investigation officer, three women were arrested on December 17, followed by two more the next day and the sixth woman was arrested a few days later. According to the police, Kajal was the mastermind of the racket along with Priyanka, who is absconding. The others are Priya, Priya Jain, Rekha, Premvati and Shivani alias Bittoo, who were all working in the health sector. These women often took ownership of newborn babies, kept them in their homes till they found a family for adoption, the police said. They would feed the newborns powdered milk but in one case, one of the suspects, according to the officer, was a lactating mother and she alone fed the child she had procured. According to investigators, after these women procured the babies, they dressed them in “appealing clothes”, took videos and photos and circulated them in their circles and to prospective buyers. The selling price of a child was usually between Rs. 5 lakh-Rs. 6 lakh, of which Rs. 1 lakh-Rs. 2 lakh was given to the biological mother. The rest of the money was kept as a commission by the procurers. The women contacted each other only through mobile phones and met at the IVF centres to avoid suspicion. According to the police, the women believed they were doing no wrong but helping childless couples. The police have so far recovered three children and located 10 more. An officer said some of the children have been placed in affluent families while their biological parents struggle to make ends meet. “The unearthing of this racket also presents a moral dilemma,” said Special Commissioner of Police Devesh Chandra Srivastava. “But we have to work under the ambit of law.” Mr. Deo said the economically weaker sections also needed to be made aware of the racket of selling their children illegally. (*Names changed)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pushed-by-poverty-to-give-away-their-newborns/article38199814.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:17 IST,||‘Fake video of Cabinet meet circulated from Pak.’||The Delhi police on Saturday said primary technical investigation into a fake viral video of a Cabinet meeting from December 2021 has revealed that the accounts were being operated from Pakistan. “It was noticed that there were various accounts which had tweeted the same video with the same content and same hashtag. All the accounts were created between October 2021 to December 2021,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell Cyber Cell) K.P.S. Malhotra said. “A technical analysis has revealed that these accounts were being operated from a single browser and were being used from Pakistan. The 46 accounts are being blocked,” he said. The video showed a meeting of the Cabinet Committee held on December 9, 2021, after CDS General Bipin Rawat’s demise. The video was morphed and a new voice-over was superimposed in which the alleged persons tried to show that the meeting was against the Sikh community, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fake-video-of-cabinet-meet-circulated-from-pak/article38199819.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:17 IST,||Highest single-day rain for Jan. in 22 years||Delhi recorded its highest rainfall in a day for January in 22 years on Saturday, yielding the city’s best air quality in over two months even as the minimum temperature settled at 15 degrees Celsius, eight notches above normal. According to the IMD, the Safdarjung Observatory recorded 41 mm rainfall in a 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. The highest single-day rain for January recorded in the city was 46 mm in 1999.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/highest-single-day-rain-for-jan-in-22-years/article38199816.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:17 IST,||Taekwondo-champ-turned gangster held||A 41-year-old gangster, who is also an international taekwondo black belt holder, has been arrested for planning to harm a senior Tihar jail officer to avenge the death of Ankit Gujjar inside prison, police said on Saturday. DCP (Special Cell) Jasmeet Singh said the accused has been identified as Ajay Gurjar alias Bhaiji, a resident of Haryana’s Palwal, who is involved in more than 24 criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder, extortion and assault. Police said in a call recording that went viral in August 2021, a man named Satender alias Satte was heard asking his associate Gurjar to arrange an AK-47 rifle to kill a rival gang member. Satender also mentioned his motive to cause serious harm to a Deputy Superintendent of Tihar Jail to avenge the death of their associate Ankit Gujjar. Gujjar was found murdered inside central jail number 3 on August 4 last year and his family had alleged that he was killed in prison. Satender was arrested on August 17. Gurjar, who has connections with four underworld gangsters, was earlier arrested in 2018 and came out of jail around 10 months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/taekwondo-champ-turned-gangster-held/article38199811.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:17 IST,||Dozen graft cases against Delhi officials last year: ACB||The Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) on Saturday said it registered a dozen graft cases against Delhi government officials last year. Special Commissioner of Police, ACB, S.K. Gautam said the branch took several stringent steps to check corruption in government departments. The measures led to six convictions in two separate cases. “In 2021, we conducted 5 raids on civil servants under the Delhi government and all were successful. It is the highest figure compared with the raids conducted during the last five years,” Mr. Gautam said, adding that nine individuals were arrested red-handed for accepting bribes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dozen-graft-cases-against-delhi-officials-last-year-acb/article38199807.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:17 IST,||Duo arrested for killing cab drivers||Two men have been arrested for robbing and killing two cab drivers within a span of six hours, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Shweta Chauhan said the accused have been identified as Aakash alias Akku and Junaid, both aged 19 and residents of Anand Parbat. One cab driver was found dead near Ramjas ground while another in Bharat Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/duo-arrested-for-killing-cab-drivers/article38199818.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:17 IST,||Beat the chill with some chilli and pepper||There is something about pepper. When the temperature dips, the use of pepper in our kitchen rises as if on cue. It helps us deal with the cold through an array of heat-inducing dishes — from soups and sautéed veggies to fried egg and Chettinad chicken. Not surprisingly, the words peppered lamb jumped out and touched my heart when I went through the menu of a new delivery outfit called Asian Nomad. This is a platform for pan-Asian food. Many of the dishes have been given an interesting tweak, while some have been suitably enriched with spices and herbs. The peppered lamb (Rs. 626), wok tossed and served in pita-like pockets with lettuce leaves on the side, for instance, was delightfully hot and tasty. The lamb had been spiced just right, and the soft pita bread complemented its spiciness, while the lettuce gave it a splendid crunch. But before I write more about the food, let me tell you about Asian Nomad. Co-founded by two food enthusiasts — Shruti Jain and Sanchit Gupta — this serves Asian-fusion food, and delivers in Gurugram and south Delhi. You can order fromwww.asiannomad.in. Hot and sweet Some of its dishes are hot, which is how most of us likeour Chinese, and some have a hot-and-sweet taste, which is a flavour that I thoroughly enjoy. Asian Nomad’s chicken satay was delicious, with its chilli hot and chilli sweet flavours melding harmoniously. The pork nomad dumplings (Rs. 435) had been flavoured with chilli bean paste, home-made chilli paste and pepper and cooked with spring onions and a spice mix. Golden-yellow in colour with red specks, it was superb — and good to look at too. The jewel dumplings (Rs. 365) had the crunchy texture of asparagus and chives. Tofu has its legion of fans; sadly I am not among them. However, I must say that the golden tofu (Rs. 465) was quite invigorating. It had a light coating, and the sauce had been flavoured with lemongrass and paprika.  I enjoyed the nasi goreng (Rs. 625). The Indonesian rice dish, an old favourite of mine, had a burst of flavours — from the mildly sweet to the hot and the tart.  The fried rice was full of plump and juicy shrimps and topped with a fried egg. The grilled chicken sriracha (Rs. 625) consisted of a chicken breast that had been grilled and sliced and came with the sweet-and-hot sriracha sauce. It had a garlicky flavour that was most appetising. The chicken, I was told, had been marinated with garlic juice, chopped garlic, olive oil, chilli oil, chilli paste and annatto oil. I had the dishes with some fragrant jasmine rice, and thought I could now deal with a dip in the temperature. As long as there was pepper — and some chilli paste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/beat-the-chill-with-some-chilli-and-pepper/article38199810.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:00 IST,||Maldives inks key deals with China||Maldives and China on Saturday signed key bilateral agreements during Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s visit, on developing and maintaining infrastructure in the Indian Ocean archipelago, besides agreeing on a visa-free travel arrangement for Maldivians intending to travel to China.  Mr. Wang arrived in Male on Friday, as part of his five-nation trip to Eritrea, Kenya, the island nation of Comoros, the Maldives and Sri Lanka. Maldivian Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid and his Chinese counterpart unveiled a special official logo to mark 50 years of diplomatic relations between the countries. “For the past five decades, China has been an important partner in the socio-economic development of the Maldives, contributing immensely towards social housing, capacity building, infrastructure development, and tourism. I have no doubt that Maldives-China relations will rise to new heights under the able leadership of both President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, and President Xi Jinping,” Mr. Shahid said, at a press conference. A statement issued by the Maldivian Foreign Ministry said the visa-waiver agreement would allow Maldivians to travel to China on 30-day visa free basis once the pandemic restrictions are lifted. The two governments signed an agreement of ‘Economic and Technical Cooperation’ on grant aid, focusing on social, livelihood, and infrastructure projects. Further, the Government of Maldives signed a ‘Letter of Exchange’ on a ‘Feasibility Study of Management and Maintenance of China-Maldives Friendship Bridge’, for Chinese assistance in maintaining the 1.4-km bridge connecting capital Male with the island of Hulhumale. It was built with $200 million Chinese assistance during the term of former President Abdulla Yameen, whose government was close to Beijing. The bridge is considered China’s flagship project in the Maldives. Male owes Beijing about $1.4 billion from past loans, which President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih’s government has sought to “restructure”. China also agreed to back a sea-water desalination project and cooperate in the health sector, the Foreign Ministry said. Minister Wang’s visit would be one of “great significance to the future development of our bilateral relations”, Chinese Ambassador in Male Wang Lixin said in a tweet. Mr. Wang’s visit will be watched closely by New Delhi, which has maintained frequent contact with the Solih government that openly pursues an ‘India First’ foreign policy. Following regime change in Male in 2018, New Delhi committed $1.4 billion to development in the island nation that is home to about 5.5 lakh people. Mr. Wang’s visit also coincides with a growing ‘India Out’ campaign among sections within the Maldives that oppose “Indian military presence” in the country. The government has denied the allegation. The ‘India Out’ campaign has more recently intensified, with the backing of President Yameen, whose conviction in a money laundering case was recently overturned by the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/maldives-china-ink-key-deals/article38199526.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:00 IST,||Heavy snow kills 22 stuck in cars in Pak.||At least 22 people, including 10 children, died in a popular mountain resort town in Pakistan after being stuck in their vehicles overnight during a heavy snowstorm as temperatures plummeted, officials said on Saturday. Most of the victims died of hypothermia, officials said. Among them was an Islamabad police officer and seven other members of his family, fellow police officer Atiq Ahmed said. More than 4 feet of snow fell in the area of the Murree Hills resort overnight Friday and early Saturday, trapping thousands of cars on roadways, said Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed. The snow was so severe that heavy equipment brought in to clear it initially got stuck during the night, said Umar Maqbool, assistant commissioner for the town of Murree. Temperatures fell to minus 8 degrees Celsius. Officials called in paramilitary troops and a special military mountain unit to help. By late Saturday, thousands of vehicles had been pulled from the snow but more than a thousand were still stuck, Ahmed said. Most roads leading to the area’s resorts were largely cleared of snow by late Saturday, and military troops were working to clear the rest, Mr. Maqbool said. The military also converted army-run schools into relief camps where they provided shelter and food for the tourists who had been rescued. Emergency officials distributed food and blankets to people while they were trapped in their snowed-in vehicles, but many died of hypothermia. Others may have died from carbon monoxide poisoning after running their car heaters for long periods of time, said rescue services physician Abdur Rehman. As of late Saturday, the death toll included 10 men, 10 children and two women, Mr. Rehman said. In one instance, a husband and wife and their two children all died in their car. In another, four young friends died together, he said. Located 46 km north of Islamabad, Murree is a popular resort town that attracts well over a million tourists annually. Streets leading into the town are often blocked by snow in winter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/heavy-snow-kills-22-stuck-in-cars-in-pak/article38199528.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:00 IST,||Sudan talks aim at salvaging political transition: UN||The United Nations said on Saturday it would hold talks in Sudan aimed at salvaging a fragile democratic transition amid a grinding stalemate following an October coup and the prime minister's resignation last week. Volker Perthes, the UN envoy for Sudan, said in a statement the UN-facilitated political process would seek a “sustainable path forward towards democracy and peace” in the country. It wasn’t immediately clear when discussions might begin. “It is time to end the violence and enter into a constructive process. This process will be inclusive,” he said. Mr. Perthes said key players in Sudan, including the military, rebel groups, political parties and protest movements will be invited to take part in the process as well as civil society and women’s groups. There was no immediate comment from the pro-democracy movement or the military on the UN statement. The October 25 coup scuttled hopes of a peaceful transition to democracy in Sudan more than two years after a popular uprising forced the military overthrow of longtime autocrat Omar al-Bashir and his Islamist government in April 2019. Prime Minister Abdallah Hamdok resigned from office on January 2 citing a failure to reach a compromise between the generals and the country’s pro-democracy movement. He had been ousted in the coup only to be reinstated a month later following a deal with the military meant to calm tensions and anti-coup protests. But Mr. Hamdok resigned, plunging the country further into turmoil amid political deadlock and relentless street protests that have claimed the lives of at least 60 people since the coup. Mr. Perthes said repeated violence since the coup has deepened the mistrust of the military among political parties. He warned that the deadlock could push the country into further instability and “squander the important political, social and economic gains” since the uprising against al-Bashir. The protest movement insists that a civilian government lead the transition, a demand rejected by the generals who say power will be handed over only to an elected government. Elections are planned in July 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sudan-talks-aim-at-salvaging-political-transition-un/article38199535.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:00 IST,||Ethiopia grants amnesty to prominent Opposition leaders||Several high-profile Ethiopian Opposition figures were tasting freedom on Saturday after the government granted a surprise amnesty for prominent political detainees, including Tigrayan party leaders. The government said the move was designed to promote “national dialogue” and follows a dramatic shift in fortunes in the brutal 14-month war between forces loyal to Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed and the rebel Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF). TPLF fighters withdrew to their stronghold in the northernmost region of Tigray at the end of December in the face of a military offensive by government forces that saw them retake a string of strategic towns. Several TPLF figures were among those pardoned, as well as Opposition leaders from the Oromo ethnic group, the largest in Ethiopia, and the Amhara. “The key to lasting unity is dialogue. Ethiopia will make any sacrifices to this end,” the government communications service said in a statement late Friday announcing the amnesty. There has been something of a pause in fighting since the TPLF retreat, although the rebels accuse the government of still carrying out deadly drone strikes on Tigray. Among those freed were several politicians rounded up after deadly protests erupted in mid-2020 over the killing of Hachalu Hundessa, a popular Oromo singer and activist. They included Eskinder Nega, a veteran Amhara journalist. Others released were Jawar Mohammed, an Oromo media mogul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ethiopia-frees-opposition-leaders-under-amnesty/article38199531.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:00 IST,||‘Saudi Princess released after three years in jail’||Saudi authorities have released a princess and her daughter who had been held without charge for nearly three years in the capital, a human rights group said on Saturday. Basma bint Saud, 57, a royal family member long seen as a proponent of women’s rights and a constitutional monarchy, has been detained since March 2019, and in April 2020 implored King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to release her on health grounds. “Basma bint Saud Al Saud and her daughter Suhoud... have been released,” the ALQST for Human Rights said on Twitter. “She was denied the medical care she needed for a potentially life threatening condition,” the rights group added. “At no point during her detention has any charge been levelled against her.” Princess Basmah was arrested shortly before a planned trip to Switzerland for medical treatment, according to a source close to the family. The nature of her illness has never been disclosed. Prince Mohammed has overseen a reform drive since he was appointed by his father King Salman in June 2017 at the expense of the previous designated heir to the throne, Mohammed bin Nayef. Reforms have included lifting a decades-long ban on women driving and the easing of so-called “guardianship” rules that give men arbitrary authority over female relatives. But Saudi authorities have also cracked down on dissidents and even potential opponents, ranging from preachers to women’s rights activists, even royals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-princess-released-after-three-years-in-jail/article38199534.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:31 IST,||Duty calls||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/duty-calls/article38199561.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:00 IST,||ML--Egypt-Palestinian Activist||Egyptian-Palestinian activist Ramy Shaath arrived in France on Saturday after almost two and a half years in detention in Egypt, after his family said he had to renounce his Egyptian nationality. The 48-year-old was allegedly involved in the 2011 uprising in Egypt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ml-egypt-palestinian-activist/article38199530.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:00 IST,||Sri Lanka settles $6.8 mn claim by Chinese firm in fertiliser row||Sri Lanka paid a Chinese firm $6.8 million despite rejecting its shipment of organic fertiliser as substandard, officials said on Saturday. After tests in October showed the shipment was contaminated, the officials banned it from landing anywhere on the island.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-settles-68-mn-claim-by-chinese-firm-in-fertiliser-row/article38199632.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:44 IST,||Gunmen kill at least 140 people in NW Nigeria: residents||Gunmen known locally as “bandits” killed at least 140 people in multiple raids this week in northwest Nigeria, residents said on Saturday. There was no official confirmation. Gunmen rampaged through ten villages in Anka and Bukkuyum districts.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/gunmen-kill-at-least-140-people-in-nw-nigeria-residents/article38199532.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:48 IST,||Court orders GM unit to pay 50% wages||In a partial relief for 1,086 employees of General Motors India who had been laid off in July 2021, the Industrial Court in Pune has directed the Indian unit of the American auto major to pay 50% of the monthly salary to each employee till final disposal of the case. “I hold that the complainant [General Motors Employees Union] has made out prima facie case of unfair labour practice,” the court’s presiding officer said in an interim ruling. “In these circumstances, if interim relief of partial wages is not granted, then employees will suffer irreparable loss and there will be hardship to them,” the court observed. “As such, balance of convenience tilts in favour of the complainant,” the court said.  In the order, a copy of which has been seen by The Hindu , the court said, “[The] application is partly allowed. The respondent is directed to pay 50% of the salary to each employee who has been retrenched as per order dated 12.7.2021 on 7th day of each month till final disposal of the complaint. The first salary be paid on 7.4.2022.  “The prayer of the complainant to restrain the respondent from alienating its property is hereby rejected,” the court, however, added in its order dated January 5. Declines to intervene Since the case relating to transfer of plant and machinery to Great Wall Motors (GWM) of China along with 300 acres of land at the Talegaon plant, is being heard by the High Court, the Industrial Court refrained from intervening in the matter. “GM India [had] terminated services of 1,086 employees under the garb of retrenchment without complying with the provisions of Section 25-N of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 i.e., without obtaining prior permission of State government and [thus] committed unfair labour practices,” said Nitin A. Kulkarni, advocate for the employees’ union. GM India on its part submitted in the court that the lay-off was declared under the ground of natural calamity [COVID-19 pandemic] hence it was not necessary to obtain the permission of the appropriate government for the lay-off. It had submitted that it had paid compensation to the employees ranging from Rs. 4 lakh to Rs. 7 lakh. The automaker had submitted that it had suffered losses of Rs. 8,400 crore from its operations in India. Since December 2020, it had no production or work in hand. Asserting that there was no business potential for the future, GM India submitted that it would not be possible to reinstate the employees. GM India’s comment on the court order was still awaited at the time of going to the press.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/court-orders-gm-unit-to-pay-50-wages/article38199522.ece
09 January 2022||Bengaluru,||‘Employers must rejig staffing process’||Employers in India should reimagine their people supply chains by rethinking their fresher hiring, revamping training programmes, reworking their organisation structures from ‘pyramids to Eiffel towers’, according to Manish Sabharwal, Executive Vice-Chairman of TeamLease Services. On the challenges before HR managers in a post- pandemic job market, Mr. Sabharwal said, “Employers must recognise that employees have plenty of choices. There are only three solutions in front of HR managers: matching, repairing and preparing.’’ He further said, despite a booming job market, India’s staffing industry was still at an infant stage in evolution. “Our staffing industry is still a baby in diapers as we have not yet scratched the surface on our addressable market despite the current boom in employment,” Mr. Sabharwal remarked. ‘Taxicab relationship’ The phenomena of employment shifting from a lifetime contract to a taxicab relationship had been long in the making but obviously the pandemic reminded employers that they needed to view staffing as a series of concentric circles (permanent, direct contract, consultants, third-party contract, gig, etc.), he stated. ‘Challenges galore’ “I think the challenges our country is still facing are around matching (connecting demand with supply), mismatching (repairing supply for demand), pipelining (preparing supply for demand) and migrating (taking people to jobs). “Progress is happening on all fronts but it could be faster, broader and deeper,” he observed. On India’s poorly-developed apprenticeship culture, Mr. Sabharwal said, it was a ‘shame’ that the country had only seven lakh apprentices, when we could have had 1.5 crore of them. “This despite passing legislation in 1961 and identifying apprentices as the 20th point in the 20-point plan in 1975. But change is coming. We are now able to convince employers that a well designed apprenticeship programme is not charity or CSR, but the only way to create a sustainable/scalable people supply chain,” Mr. Sabharwal added.  It was a shame that the country had only seven lakh apprentices, when we could have had 1.5 crore of them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/employers-must-rejig-staffing-process/article38199508.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:48 IST,||GST evasion: notices issued, but ‘no record of outcome’||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) issued 158 show-cause notices for tax evasion, amounting to Rs. 9,359 crore in the six years to FY21, but does not maintain a record of the outcome of those cases, a reply to an RTI query has revealed. City-based RTI activist Abhay Kolarkar had sought consolidated information pertaining to the Directorate General of GST from DGGI, which disclosed that between FY15 and FY21, a total of 158 show-cause notices had been issued, involving an amount of over Rs. 9,358 crore. However, questions on SCNs (show-cause notices) decided by authorities, amount realised due to issue of SCN and number of SCN pending and the amount involved therein drew a blank, as per the copy of the RTI reply. “They (DGGI) are supposed to track all these cases and keep a record on it. But the reply clearly says ‘no such data is maintained’,” Mr. Kolarkar said. Before the introduction of GST in July 2017, the DGGI operated as Directorate General of Central Excise Intelligence (DGCEI), he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gst-evasion-notices-issued-but-no-record-of-outcome/article38199518.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:48 IST,||Return of large deals will push up realty space absorption by 15-20%: Colliers CEO||Global investors, looking for stable yields and steady returns, are expected to have strong exposure to India's new-age realty assets such as data centres, cold storage, co-living and other emerging portfolios in 2022, saidRamesh Nair, CEO, India and MD, Market Development, Asia, Colliers, in an interview. Excerpts: What are the factors that would bring back recovery for the Indian realty sector in 2022? The year 2022 is expected to see growth in real estate, after facing pandemic-led shocks in 2020. Economic activity is in full gear, with GDP growth pegged at 9.5% for 2021-22. The fast pace of vaccinations is encouraging occupiers to bring back employees to offices. Buoyed by the growth in e-commerce and the need for same-day delivery, the warehousing sector is likely to see increased traction over the next few quarters. Technology will continue to be the predominant theme across the realty sector. On the residential front, sales momentum is expected to continue in 2022. Low home loan rates, stamp duty concessions and realistic prices will give confidence to homebuyers and fence-sitters. Large deals are back in the sector and this trend will push up the absorption by 15-20% in 2022 over last year. What is the cumulative business loss of the Indian realty industry on account of COVID-19? The construction and real estate sectors came to a grinding halt on the back of the nationwide lockdown and a series of restrictions announced in the past two years to contain the spread of the virus. Reverse migration of labour added to developers’ woes. Negligible purchase and sale transactions were reported. The sluggish business environment exposed developers to a severe fund crunch. The loss of output in the sector can be gauged from the fact that gross value added (GVA) from construction contracted by a sharp 8.6% during 2020-21. At the same time, financial and professional services, which include real estate, shrunk by 1.5% during 2020-21 compared to 7.3% during the previous year (pre-COVID). Could you give us a sense of expected foreign fund flows into Indian realty by 2025? Investment inflows from foreign PE investors have visibly increased during the last two years and is likely to grow in the next 3-4 years. Over the next three years, we expect more foreign investors to enter the Indian market. We anticipate more capital to be deployed in build-to-core mixed-use, office and warehouse assets as more investment platforms are formed between global private equity funds and local developers. Also, over the years, global private equity (PE) players, sovereign wealth funds and pension funds have gradually increased their footprint across asset classes led by reforms and relaxations in FDI and the real estate sector. With the increase in digital adoption and e-commerce during the pandemic, warehousing and data centres have been drawing strong investor interest in recent times. Moreover, the success of the listed REITs has provided a new route for investments. Hence, the institutional investments have shown resilience despite the pandemic and this momentum is likely to continue in 2022 as well. How are realtors coping with post-COVID changes in customer behaviour? It is true that the pandemic triggered a massive reverse migration in the country. This only exacerbated the distress of developers who were already grappling with business challenges. However, the market started looking up with the unlocking of the economy and resultant improvement in the business environment. Developers now have recalibrated their products and pricing strategies to align with the evolving homebuyer preferences. They adopted a more flexible and amenable approach for serious homebuyers. They were timely in doling out lucrative offers, discounts and freebies during festive periods, thus clocking higher sales. Are buyers wanting increased comfort levels at homes as they are staying and working from home? The pandemic has reinforced home ownership and the desire to own a house is perhaps stronger than ever before. The combined impact of historically lower interest rates (6-7% from the highs of 11-12% a decade ago), realistic pricing and attractive offers of developers has created an affordable symphony in the market. With hybrid work and education model, there is a greater demand for larger apartments, gated communities replete with amenities and wellness features. Homebuyers are now placing emphasis on layouts to ensure the presence of balconies and an additional room for work and kids’ classes. Could you give us a realistic view on office space uptake? After facing a slowdown due to the second wave, office leasing rose by 89% QoQ in Q3 2021, with 10.3 million sq. ft. of gross absorption, the highest volume recorded since Q1 2020. We expect the optimism to further strengthen over the upcoming quarters in 2022. Large deals are back in the market, and occupier confidence is returning. However, there is some uncertainty looming around due to the new Omicron variant. Developers and occupiers are likely to remain cautious in taking decisions during the first quarter of 2022.  Low home loan rates, stamp duty concessions and realistic prices will give confidence to homebuyers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/return-of-large-deals-will-push-up-realty-space-absorption-by-15-20-colliers-ceo/article38199510.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:48 IST,||D-Mart Q3 net profit rises 23.6% to Rs. 552.53 crore||Avenue Supermarts, which owns and operates retail chain D-Mart, on Saturday reported a 23.6% rise in consolidated net profit to Rs. 552.53 crore for the third quarter ended December 31. The company had posted a net profit of Rs. 447 crore in the same quarter a year earlier, Avenue Supermarts said in a BSE filing. Revenue from operations increased 22.2% to Rs. 9,217.8 crore during the quarter under review against Rs. 7,542 crore in the corresponding quarter last fiscal. The total expenses also increased 21.7% to Rs. 8,493.6 crore in Q3 FY 2021-22, compared with Rs. 6,978 crore in the year-earlier quarter. Avenue Supermarts CEO and MD Neville Noronha said: “Revenue grew by 22% in this quarter over the corresponding quarter of last year. Inflation and lesser opportunities to go out are negatively impacting certain categories more than others,” he said. On the outlook, Mr. Noronha said that considering the current COVID wave, D-Mart’s sales and footfalls would be dependent on local regulations.  Considering the current COVID wave, sales and footfalls will be dependent on local regulations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/d-mart-q3-net-profit-rises-236-to-rs-55253-crore/article38199521.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:48 IST,||OYO booked over 5 lakh nights for New Year’s eve||More than 10 lakh people booked for more than 5 lakh nights with hospitality chain OYO for New Year celebrations, generating bookings worth about Rs. 110 crore over the weekend on its global platform, according to company founder and group CEO Ritesh Agarwal. In a social media post, he said 58% bookings for the New Year’s eve were made on the same day keeping the trend witnessed since December 2017 that reflected the “impulsive emotion and decision” related with travel. “For all of us at OYO, it was a busy NY (new year),” he wrote in his post on the LinkedIn social platform. He further said, “2021 booking was (the) highest among 90 pandemic weekends since April 2020 with total customer bookings globally on our platform worth (around) Rs. 110 crore ($14.6 million) over the weekend.” Mr. Agarwal said rooms booked on NY weekend of December 30-31 in 2021 stood at 5.03 lakh as compared to 1.02 lakh in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/oyo-booked-over-5-lakh-nights-for-new-years-eve/article38199520.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,||Bopanna & Ramkumar in final||Rohan Bopanna and Ramkumar Ramanathan cruised past fourth seeds Tomislav Brkic and Santiago Gonzalez 6-2, 6-4 in the doubles semifinals of the $521,000 ATP tennis tournament here on Saturday. The Indian pair, which has dropped one set in four matches, will challenge the top seeds Ivan Dodig and Marcelo Melo in the final. In the Challenger in Italy, Arjun Kadhe and Marco Bortolotti of Italy won the doubles title, beating Michael Geerts and Alexander Ritschard 7-6(5), 6-2 in the summit clash. It was the second Challenger doubles title for the 28-year-old Arjun. In the Challenger doubles semifinals in Traralgon, Divij Sharan, in partnership with Christopher Rungkat of Indonesia, was beaten 6-4, 6-4 by the Swiss pair of Marc-Andrea Huesler and Dominic Stricker.  The results: $521,000 ATP, Adelaide, Australia: Doubles (semifinals): Rohan Bopanna & Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Tomislav Brkic (BIH) & Santiago Gonzalez (Mex) 6-2, 6-4.   $58,320 Challenger, Traralgon, Australia: Doubles (semifinals): Marc-Andrea Huesler & Dominic Stricker (Sui) bt Christopher Rungkat (Ina) & Divij Sharan 6-4, 6-4.   $32,160 Challenger, Forli, Italy: Doubles (final): Marco Bortolotti (Ita) & Arjun Kadhe bt Michael Geerts (Bel) & Alexander Ritschard (US) 7-6(5), 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-ramkumar-in-final/article38199669.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:52 IST,||Time for India to revisit its approach||We are in the beautiful wind-swept city of sea and mountains. The rhythmic beating of the drums on the beach reflects the mood here. And the picturesque Newlands, which has the formidable Table Mountain as its backdrop, is among the great venues in cricket. India and South Africa will clash here in the decider of this fascinating Test series from January 11. The Indian bowling will have to pick itself up and coach Rahul Dravid is sure to crack the whip. He will have strong words for the batters too about building on starts and shot selection. As Dravid pointed out, the timing of a stroke, at what stage to play it, is vital. It will be hard for someone like Rishabh Pant to rein in his natural instincts. But the southpaw, with loads of natural talent, needs to apply himself for the team. Two senior batters, Cheteshwar Pujara and Ajinkya Rahane, had departed after a long partnership and Pant needed to lock one end up and bide his time at the Wanderers. Instead, he succumbed to the mind games in the cauldron. Was he ‘softened’ up by Kagiso Rabada’s vicious lifter that struck him on the helmet grill? Then before the next delivery was bowled, there was chirping from Rassie van der Dussen from short-leg. History The two have a history. After all, Pant diving forward, almost certainly took van der Dussen’s edge off the ground, something that left the South Africans angry. Perhaps the words from van der Dussen infuriated Pant into playing a wild heave. Or did the wicketkeeper-batter not back himself to bat through the hostile spell from Rabada with the threat of physical damage. At least Pant did not, like the former India and Delhi all-rounder Madan Lal, back away to the leg side when the super quick Jeff Thomson bowled at him in Australia. To be fair to Madan, it was the pre-helmet era. Dravid is sure to have a conversation with Pant. You need to balance aggression with responsible batting and a workable defence has to be a part of your game. Washington Sundar was shaping well for India in Tests - he is a strong back-foot player who made runs in Australia with all the grace and flow of a left-hander. It’s a pity the southpaw had to be left out of the Test team owing to fitness concerns. Washington averages a whopping 66.25 with three half-centuries in four Tests, the highest being 96 not out, apart from being a handy off-spinner. Young cricketers like him, with such an outstanding record, should not be forgotten and lost to Test cricket. Pant is the lone left-hander in the line-up and India needs more of this breed to disrupt opposition’s bowling line. The South Africans countered K.L. Rahul’s ploy of leaving deliveries outside off by bowling a lot closer to the off-stump and making him play. More right-left combinations in the mix can change the dynamics of a contest, upset game-plans. Hanuma Vihari, someone who respects and learns from the game, bats for his team with a solid back-foot game and has the heart to bat in crisis, was a gain for India from the Wanderers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/time-for-india-to-revisit-its-approach/article38199627.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:46 IST,||Suheim shifts focus to Asian Regatta||For the head coach of Yacht Club of Hyderabad Foundation, Suheim Sheikh, the focus now shifts to train his wards especially Vaishnavi Veeravamsham (15), who is India No. 2 in Laser Radial, and Preethi Kongara (17) to podium finish in the Asian Regatta championship to be held in February in Abu Dhabi. “Yes, it has been a very satisfying 2021 and I am glad that the two young sailors have two bronze in the Mumbai Nationals, having just graduated into the seniors category straight from the sub-juniors,” Suheim said on Saturday. “Our intense and scientific training with emphasis on economically challenged youth who are picked in the age group of nine to 10 years are proving to be very effective,” he said. Phenomenal success “The Naavika Program launched in 2016 for the girl sailor has been a phenomenal success, having trained about 100 girls and selected 12 of them for advanced high performance training,” the head coach said. “That Telangana produced 100 medallists in the last decade and someone like Jhansi Priya taking part in international meets in five countries is itself a noteworthy feat,” he said. “Importantly, four of the girls have joined the Indian Navy at Mumbai wherein they help the 470 Mixed Olympic Class of boats and recently Sudhanshu Shekar (24) of the Navy, our own product, has won a bronze in the YAI Sail India National ranking event in Mumbai,” Suheim said. “Similarly, 19 boys have been absorbed into the Army and Navy with their education and sailing taken care of fully,” he said. The coach also said that Ravali Parandi and Jhansi Priya Laveti graduated from the under-15 category with two medals each in the recent Nationals and now moved into the Olympic Class boats even before they are 16 years of age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suheim-shifts-focus-to-asian-regatta/article38199931.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 05:22 IST,||Yuvan, Tejasvi clinch maiden titles||Yuvan Nandal defeated Daksh Agarwal 6-0, 6-4 to clinch the boys’ title in the ITF grade-3 junior tennis tournament at the CLTA Complex on Saturday. It was the maiden singles title from five finals in the ITF junior circuit for the 16-year-old Yuvan. It was the first crown for Tejasvi Dabas too in the girls’ section, as she beat Vaishnavi Adkar 6-4, 6-4 in the sumit clash. In doubles, Manas Dhamne and Aryan Shah finished runner-up to Fadi Bidan and Thanaphat Boosarawongse, the Indian pair losing 10-12 in the match tie-break. Vaishnavi and Rutuja Chaphalkar lost in the girls’ doubles final to Anya Murthy and Lanlana Tararudee.  The results:   Boys (final): Yuvan Nandal bt Daksh Agarwal 6-0, 6-4.   Semifinals: Daksh bt Aayush Bhat (US) 4-1, 4-2; Yuvan bt Saheb Sodhi 5-4(1), 4-1.   Doubles (final): Fadi Bidan (Lbn) & Thanaphat Boosarawongse (Tha) bt Manas Dhamne & Aryan Shah 7-5, 6-7(3), [12-10].   Girls (final): Tejasvi Dabas bt Vaishnavi Adkar 6-4, 6-4.   Semifinals: Tejasvi bt Anya Murthy (US) 5-3, 4-2; Vaishnavi bt Lanlana Tararudee (Tha) 4-2, 4-1.   Doubles (final): Anya Murthy (US) & Lanlana Tararudee (Tha) bt Vaishnavi & Rutuja Chaphalkar (US) 7-5, 7-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yuvan-tejasvi-clinch-maiden-titles/article38199803.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:52 IST,||Ryhana has the final say; Prabhu sizzles||Ryhana Bee (RACR Castrol Power Ultimate) regained the girls’ title after a two-year gap as the fourth round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Motorcycle Racing Championship 2021 ended at MMRT on Saturday. The 29-year-old Prabhu Arunagiri scripted a maiden win for Pacer Yamaha, competing in the National Championship after a 12-year break. Prabhu prevailed in the second race of the Pro-Stock 165cc Open category beating a quality field. The 41-year-old Rajini Krishnan (RACR Castrol Power Ultimate) moved to 168 points in the premier Pro-Stock 301-400cc, 47 more than Anish Damodara Shetty of Race Concepts. Ryhana, 24, who sat out the 2020 season owing to injuries after winning the title in 2019, staged a remarkable recovery to catch up with early leader and defending champion Ann Jennifer before making a decisive pass on the final lap for her fourth consecutive win. Ryhana (100 points) is way ahead of Mumbai’s Jagruti Kiran Penkar (Sparks Racing, 57 points) with a race to go. Alwin Sundar (AS Motorsports) won the Novice (Stock 165cc) race, his fourth victory of the season. With 128, he is level with Anfal Akdhar (Rockstar Racing).  The results (provisional, six laps unless mentioned): Pro-Stock 301-400cc (Open): Race 1: 1. Vorapong Malahuan (TVS Racing, Thailand) (11m 18.244s); 2. Rajini Krishnan (RACR Castrol Power Ultimate, Chennai) (11:18.657); 3. Anish Damodara Shetty (Race Concepts, Bengaluru) (11:18.921); Race 2 (8 laps): 1. Rajini Krishnan (15:04.127); 2. Anish (15:04.297); 3. Deepak Ravikumar (TVS Racing, Chennai) (15:04.454); Pro-Stock 165cc (Open): Race 1: 1. Deepak (TVS Racing, Chennai) (11:48.162); 2. Jagan Kumar (TVS Racing, Chennai) (11:48.484); 3. Rajiv Sethu (Idumitsu Honda SK69 Racing) (11:50.454); Race 2 (5 laps): 1. Prabhu Arunagiri (Pacer Yamaha, Chennai) (09:57.247); 2. Sethu (09:57.505); 3. Jagan (09:57.655).   Novice (Stock 165cc): 1. Alwin Sundar (AS Motorsport, Chennai) (13:03.215); 2. Sarvesh Balappa (Sparks Racing, Hubbali) (13:05.798); 3. Anfal Akthar (Rockstar Racing, Thrissur) (13:05.856).   Girls (Stock 165cc, 5 laps): 1. Ryhana Bee (RACR Castrol Power Ultimate, Chennai) (11:02.702); 2. Ann Jennifer (Sparks Racing, Chennai) (11:02.886); 3. Lani Zena Fernandez (Speed Up Racing, Puducherry) (11:03.512).   Idemitsu Honda India Talent Cup – NSF 250: Race 1: 1. Sarthak Chavan (Pune) (11:11.037); 2. Kavin Quintal (Chennai) (11:14.091); 3. Geoffrey Revinen Emmanuel (Chennai) (11:15.060); Race 2 (8 laps): 1. Sarthak (14:47.030); 2. Kavin (14:47.277); 3. Revinen (14:59.460); TVS One-Make Championship – Open (RR 310): Race 1: 1. Amarnath Menon (Kozhikode) (11:46.925); 2. Jagadeesh (Bengaluru) (11:47.761); 3. Manoj Yesudian (Chennai) (11:47.899); Race 2: 1. Manoj Yesudian (11:47.967); 2. Ananthraj (Chennai) (11:48.088); 3. Amarnath Menon (11:49.172).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ryhana-has-the-final-say-prabhu-sizzles/article38199629.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,||Surekha’s 2022 target: Asian Games gold||Jyothi Surekha, who is taking part in the NTPC National-ranking archery championship at the Gachibowli Stadium here, said it was important to perform well in 2022. She felt that there was no better way to start the season than by competing in the compound category here on Sunday.  “This is my first competition after almost two months. I was keen to get a feel of competition again,” Surekha told The Hindu on Saturday.  “With the specific objective of winning an Asian Games gold this year, I feel it is imperative to take part in as many events as possible though the pandemic threat looms large,” said the archer, who has won a silver and a bronze in the women’s teams events in the Asiad. “For us, the next major event is the World Cup Stage I in Turkey this April. It will be followed by events in Korea, Paris and Columbia. “We also have the World Games in the USA in July and then the Asian Games,” said Surekha about the hectic schedule ahead. “I am pretty impressed with a lot of young talent in this championship and I am sure many of them will go places with exposure and training,” Surekha said. Though she has won seven World Cup medals (three silver and four bronze) and six World Championship medals (four silver and two bronze), Surekha revealed that she wanted said to keep going and win more. ‘As long as I enjoy’ “I will continue to compete as long as I enjoy it. I just can’t think of being away from archery for too long,” said Surekha. About what has kept her going in the international circuit for 10 years, she said: The intense desire to win medals for the country is the biggest motivation. Like for many athletes, there is no better joy than to bring laurels to the country.” No regrets Asked if she has been disappointed with anything, Surekha said: “I have no regrets at all. I take things as they come and I am really happy with what I have been able to achieve so far. I am also keen to keep improving.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jyothi-surekhas-2022-target-asian-games-gold/article38199734.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:48 IST,||Nadal enters the summit clash||Top seed Rafael Nadal held off a resurgent Emil Ruusuvuori of Finland on Saturday to earn a 6-4, 7-5 win and book his place in the final of the Melbourne Summer Set 1 ATP 250 event, where he will take on American qualifier Maxime Cressy. The Spaniard, playing his first competitive tournament since August, was given a stern examination by the dogged Ruusuvuori. Both players were solid on serve in the opening exchanges before Nadal's superior quality shone through as he secured a crucial break in the ninth game and closed out the set with ease. Ruusuvuori never allowed Nadal to settle in the second set, matching him from the baseline with a string of searing winners. The World No. 95 broke back at 3-5 but was left to rue a number of break point opportunities. Former World No. 3 Grigor Dimitrov lost 5-7, 6-7(9) to the big-serving Cressy, who fired 17 aces past the Bulgarian and won when he converted his fourth match point to advance to the final. In the women’s event, defending Australian Open champion Naomi Osaka withdrew from her semifinal with an abdominal injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-enters-the-summit-clash/article38199672.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,||Schopman eyeing WC berth for India women through Asia Cup||Indian women hockey team chief coach Janneka Schopman says qualifying for the World Cup is a key objective for her side at the upcoming Asia Cup, where she will also assess her players’ style and standard, going forward. India will enter Asia Cup, to be held in Muscat from January 21 to 28, as defending champion. The winner of the event will qualify for the World Cup, which will be held in Netherlands and Spain from July 1 to 17 this year. Schopman, for whom the Asia Cup will only be her second assignment with the team, is eager to make a positive start. “First of all, our key objective will be to qualify for the World Cup. That is most important because that is where the best teams in the world come together to compete,” Schopman said in a Hockey India release. “I am also very keen to see the level where we are at the moment and whether we can execute the style of play that I envision for the team. “I am not looking to measure my team against our opponents in the competition, but instead against my own expectations of how I want my team to play. I am eager to see how the team will perform in Oman as it will be really challenging,” Schopman added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/schopman-eyeing-wc-berth-for-india-women-through-asia-cup/article38200122.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:52 IST,||Jansen grabs the opportunity||Despite problems on several fronts, the Proteas continue to churn out exceptional pacemen. The assembly line never dries out. In recent times, the fast and furious Anrich Nortje and, now, beanpole left-armer Marco Jansen have emerged. Paradoxically, had Nortje been fit for the series, we might have not seen Jansen at all. In fact, had Duanne Olivier not suffered from Covid after-effects, Jansen would not have made his Test debut at Centurion. Destiny’s child So, in several respects, Jansen’s destiny’s child. The talent in the left-armer was recognised early. He was among those who bowled at the Indians in the nets during the 2018 tour. His bowling left Virat Kohli impressed. He bowled at the Royal Challengers Bangalore nets but was eventually bought by the Mumbai Indians. Jansen makes great use of his height with a high-arm action. He has a lovely side-on release, bowls from close to the stumps and brings with him the left-armer’s angle. He generates good pace, achieves natural bounce, has an effective short ball and moves the sphere. He is a potent package. Importantly, he can bring the ball into the right hander from over the wicket and take it away from the left-hander. In fact, Jansen reminds one of Bruce Reid, the tall Australian left-armer who bowled in the 80s and early 90s. He picked up 113 wickets in just 27 Tests. Jansen came into his own in the second innings at Centurion. He pitched the ball up and moved it away from Kohli who perished to a cover-drive. Jansen finished with four for 55. Skipper Dean Elgar called him the “Player-of-the-match for us”. He caught the eye at the Wanderers too. K.L. Rahul had just reached 50 when Jansen scalped him on the pull. Hooking, pulling or slashing Jansen is hazardous since the ball comes at varying heights. And he took out Mayank Agarwal on the drive, angling the ball across the right-hander and pitching it up. The free-stroking R. Ashwin fell to a slash off a short ball — once again it was a case of varying bounce — and Jansen dismissed Rishabh Pant with a delivery that came in with the angle and held its line on the left-hander’s off-stump. And he bowled close to Rahul’s off-stump to have the key batsman held in the cordon in the second innings. Jansen is versatile, can bowl from round the wicket too but needs to work on control. South Africa does not have a great history of left-arm quicks. Brett Shultz was fast but fitness concerns terminated his career. Jansen, who needs to put a lid on his temper, could lend the Proteas attack variety and thrust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jansen-grabs-the-opportunity/article38199626.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,||‘Determined’ Djokovic will be unstoppable if he is cleared to play in the Australian Open: Kyrgios||Nick Kyrgios on Saturday warned that Novak Djokovic would be unstoppable at the Australian Open if cleared to play, predicting the World No. 1 would use his predicament as fuel to win another Grand Slam title. The Serbian superstar was set to spend the weekend in a Melbourne immigration detention facility pending an appeal after he was dramatically refused entry to Australia over his COVID-19 vaccine status. Kyrgios has feuded with Djokovic in the past over his response to the coronavirus pandemic, but has softened his stance, saying on Saturday he was “feeling for him”. Djokovic’s visa was revoked after he failed to meet the country’s tough pandemic restrictions, with a court challenge to overturn his visa cancellation set to be heard on Monday. If successful, he will be gunning for a 10th Australian Open crown and a record 21st Grand Slam title — a milestone that Spanish great Rafael Nadal is also chasing at Melbourne Park. Fellow 20-time Grand Slam winner Roger Federer is injured and not in Australia. “If he’s allowed to play the Australian Open, I don’t want any bar of him. I reckon he’s going to be pissed off,” Kyrgios said in Sydney ahead of a warm-up tournament before the Australian Open on January 17. Added fuel “He’s going to be very determined to play well, and stick it to everyone (because) of what’s going on. I think this is just all added fuel for him, in my opinion.” “We all know how good of a competitor he is,” he added. “You don’t become a great champion like that without being able to overcome some adversity like this. I’m sure he’s overcome a lot more challenging times than, you know, spending a couple more extra days in hotel rooms.” Kyrgios on Friday called Australia’s treatment of the Serbian “really bad” and doubled down Saturday, saying it was “not really humane, is it, what’s going on”. “I think like it’s just, if this was a normal person they wouldn’t have to deal with all this. His life’s probably hard enough as it is, and I know what that’s like. I just hope it all gets sorted soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/determined-djokovic-will-be-unstoppable-if-he-is-cleared-to-play-in-the-australian-open-kyrgios/article38199670.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,||Kerala girls edge out Tamil Nadu||Defending champion Kerala girls edged out Tamil Nadu 76-75 to enter the semifinals of the National Junior Basketball championships here on Saturday. Kerala came back from behind to stun the in-form Tamil Nadu side. Kerala girls, who trailed by seven points at half-time, won the third and fourth quarters by decisive margins to score a one-point win. Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan completed the semifinal line-up in the girls’ section. In the boys’ category, Karnataka beat Delhi 77-68 to enter semifinals, while Uttar Pradesh edged out Kerala 68-65.  The results (quarterfinals):   Quarterfinals: Boys: Karnataka 77 (B.M. Manoj 31, Achintya Krishna 16, Pratam Shetty 10) bt Delhi 68 (Sushanth Dhanda 29); Uttar Pradesh 68 (Kushal Singh 18, Aman Kaushik 11, Robin Banerjee 11) bt Kerala 65 (Pranav Prince 22, C.K. Abhinav 19).   Girls: Punjab 90 (Kavya Singla 17, Manmeet Kaur 17, Kanishka Dhir 12) bt Maharashtra 69 (Aanya Bhavsar 20, Sameeksha 15).   Chhattisgarh 69 (Riya 22, D.Kirti 14, Amisha Gaikwad 12) bt Madhya Pradesh 61(Manvi Srivastava 23, Prathana Salve 12); Kerala 76 (P.S. Jesely 21, R. Abhirami 14, Irin Elsa John 11) bt Tamil Nadu 75 (K. Sathya 24, Yuvashree 16, Angel Jeevanath 14); Rajasthan 42(Rashi 14) bt Karnataka 41 (Sanjana 19, Pavana 12).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-girls-edge-out-tamil-nadu/article38199665.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:33 IST,||Bangladesh ready for Oval test||Bangladesh’s young guns have dismissed talk of Hagley Oval being a graveyard for visiting teams ahead of the second Test against New Zealand on Sunday. The Black Caps see the picturesque central city ground as a safe haven and point to an impressive Test record of six wins, a loss and a draw at the Oval. The emerald wicket suits their swing and seam attack and they expect to atone for their shock loss to the tourists in the first Test. But Bangladesh coach Russell Domingo said his side had the confidence of youth and were not worried about Hagley Oval’s reputation. “They want to try and do what no other Bangladesh side’s done before and that’s win a series in New Zealand,” he said. New Zealand captain Tom Latham said he expected Bangladesh to be full of confidence but maintained that the Oval will favour the host. “It’s a completely different surface and we know we’ve played some really good cricket here in recent years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-ready-for-oval-test/article38199619.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:52 IST,||Depleted Bayern humbled at home||A makeshift Bayern Munich team conceded two goals in four minutes to suffer a shock 2-1 loss to visitors Borussia Moenchengladbach on Friday as the Bundesliga resumed following a three-week winter break. Robert Lewandowski cracked in his 20th league goal this season to give Bayern an early lead, but Gladbach hit back with two goals in four first-half minutes by Florian Neuhaus and Stefan Lainer.  The results:   Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 1 (Lewandowski 18) lost to Borussa Monchengladbach 2 (Neuhaus 27, Lainer 31); Freiburg 2 (Haberer 6, Jeong 46) drew with Bielefeld 2 (Okugawa 60, Lasme 87); Leverkusen 2 (Schick 38, Tah 84) drew with Union Berlin 2 (Proemel 45, 49); Fuerth 0 drew with Stuttgart 0; Hoffenheim 3 (Bebou 38, 44, Raum 90+3) bt Augsburg 1 (Gregoritsch 5); Leipzig 4 (Silva 21-pen, 61, Szoboszlai 47, Nkunku 58) bt Mainz 1 (Lee 57)   LaLiga : Levante 2 (Soldado 47, Morales 90+7) bt Real Mallorca 0; Real Sociedad 1 (Oyarzabal 13) bt Celta Vigo 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/depleted-bayern-humbled-at-home/article38199622.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:08 IST,||Blasters lock horns with Hyderabad||Statistics tell us that Kerala Blasters and Hyderabad FC are the toughest teams to beat at the ISL this season. They have lost just one game each, less than all other teams. And that sole defeat came in their opening matches for both. That means neither side has lost in its last eight games. It would indeed be interesting to find out what happens when these two in-form sides come face to face on Sunday at Vasco. Hyderabad is placed second in the table with 16 points, just one behind the leader and defending champion Mumbai City. Blasters is lying fifth with 14 points. Both will be looking for a victory. In order to win, the men from Kochi will have to come out of their recent habit, though: they drew their last two matches — against Jamshedpur FC (1-1) and FC Goa (2-2). Though Hyderabad had to be content with a 2-2 draw with ATK Mohun Bagan in its last match, that was preceded by a 6-1 rout of Odisha. Two of those goals were scored by Bartholomew Ogbeche. With nine goals from as many games, the Nigerian is the league’s leading scorer. He no doubt poses the biggest threat to the Blasters goal. Blasters too has reasons to be happy with its foreign signings this season, especially Adrian Luna. The Uruguayan midfielder has been remarkably consistent and at times, spectacular. No defence could breathe easy when he is around.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-lock-horns-with-hyderabad/article38199929.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:52 IST,||Canada dethrones Russia to make the final||Felix Auger-Aliassime and Denis Shapovalov stunned defending champion Russia on Saturday in a decisive doubles rubber to send Canada storming into an ATP Cup final against Spain. Their Sydney showdown went to the wire after Shapovalov neutralised Roman Safiullin 6-4, 5-7, 6-4 in the opening singles match. But World No. 2 Daniil Medvedev then thrashed 11th-ranked Auger-Aliassime 6-4, 6-0 to level it up with a flawless performance in an ominous warning ahead of the Australian Open later this month. It forced the match into a doubles shootout which looked to be going Russia’s way, but Canada found an extra gear and grind out a 4-6, 7-5, 10-7 win to make its first-ever final in the event.  The results (semifinal): Canada bt Russia 2-1 (Shapovalov bt Safiullin 6-4, 5-7, 6-4; Auger-Aliassime lost to Medvedev 4-6, 0-6; Auger-Aliassime & Shapovalov bt Safiullin & Medvedev 4-6, 7-5, [10-7]) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/canada-dethrones-russia-to-make-the-final/article38199631.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:52 IST,||Ortiz strike shocks CFC||FC Goa managed a 1-0 win against an overtly defensive Chennaiyin FC, securing its first victory under Derrick Pereira, at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Saturday. CFC began the contest with a free-flowing attack as Mirlan Murzaev tried to score an early goal the way he did against Bengaluru FC. The Kyrgyzstani made a run in front of the box, and using Nerijus Valskis, running along the right, as a decoy, tried to go for glory only to see the ball fly miles away from the target. After that wayward attempt, it was Goa took charge and came close to scoring in the 39th minute. Glan Martins’ long-ranger, initially saved by CFC ’keeper Debjeet Mukherjee fell to Jorge Ortiz, but he ended up side-netting the ball. When the second half began, Edu Bedia almost scored an Olympic goal (a strike directly from the corner) only to be denied by the woodwork. It was Ortiz who found the breakthrough with a superb left-footer from outside the box in the 82nd minute to seal the issue.  The result: FC Goa 1 (Ortiz 82) bt Chennaiyin FC 0.   Sunday’s match: KBFC vs HFC .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ortiz-strike-shocks-cfc/article38199641.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:52 IST,||ATK-OFC game postponed after positive test||The ISL fixture featuring ATK Mohun Bagan and Odisha FC scheduled at Fatorda on Saturday evening was postponed after a player from the former team tested positive for COVID-19. “The decision has been taken in consultation with the League’s medical team after an ATK Mohun Bagan player tested positive for COVID-19. The Indian Super League (ISL) will be looking to reschedule the fixture to a later date,” said a statement from the ISL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/isl-game-postponed-after-positive-test/article38199625.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:52 IST,||Mayank shortlisted for ICC award||India opener Mayank Agarwal was on Saturday nominated for the ICC Player of the Month award for December following his stellar performance in the Test series against New Zealand and South Africa. Besides Mayank, New Zealand spinner Ajaz Patel and Australian pacer Mitchell Starc were also short-listed for the award. With regular openers Rohit Sharma, Shubman Gill and K.L. Rahul all missing games at some point last month, Mayank grabbed the opportunity with both hands against New Zealand and South Africa. In two matches, he scored 276 runs at an average of 69.00, which included two fifties and a century. Mayank was the architect of the win in Mumbai against New Zealand with a Player of the Match-winning performance of 150 and 62 in the two innings. He also played a crucial role in India breaking the Centurion hoodoo for the very first time. India-born Kiwi spinner Ajaz Patel's name was immortalised in cricketing history in December, when he picked up 10 wickets in an innings against India, becoming the third player to achieve the feat after Jim Laker and Anil Kumble. Starc also had standout performances with bat and ball as Australia retained the Ashes with two games to spare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mayank-shortlisted-for-icc-award/article38199624.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:08 IST,||Pogba return a month away, says Rangnick||Paul Pogba is not expected to return from a thigh injury for at least another month, Manchester United interim manager Ralf Rangnick has confirmed amid mounting speculation over the French midfielder’s future. The 28-year-old last played in early November before pulling up with the injury during training with the French team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pogba-return-a-month-away-says-rangnick/article38200068.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:59 IST,||Djokovic had COVID-19 in December||Novak Djokovic won a COVID-19 vaccine exemption because he was infected with the virus in December (as per positive Covid PCR test), his lawyers said in a court filing on Saturday while seeking to overturn the cancellation of his Australian visa||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-had-covid-19-in-december/article38199735.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 04:45 IST,||Osmania wins gold||Osmania University won gold in the South Zone inter-university women’s tennis tournament defeating University of Madras 2-0 in the final at SRM University in Chennai on Saturday.  The results: Final: OU bt University of Madras 2-0 (B. Srivalli Rashmika bt Lavanya 6-0, 6-0; Sama Satwika & Shrivalli bt Tintu & Sharanya 6-0, 6-0 .    JNTU Hyderabad suffered its first defeat in three games when it lost to Annamalai University 0-7 in the third round of the South Zone inter-university football championship for men at Mahatma Gandhi University in Kottayam (Kerala). Vinod scored a hat-trick and Martin and Midhun struck twice each for the winner.  The result: Annamalai University bt JNTU, Hyd, 7-0 .      Sports Authority of Telangana State will organise four-day Sports Meet in seven disciplines from Feb. 14 to 17 as part of the birthday celebrations of Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao, according to SATS chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy. Competitions will be held in athletics, kabaddi, football, handball, boxing, wrestling and weightlifting. Similar sports meets will also be held at school, mandal and district level across the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/osmania-wins-gold/article38199928.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:08 IST,||Kochi Eng||At Kochi Football: Kerala Premier League, Kovalam FC v Muthoot FA, Maharaja's Stadium, Ernakulam, 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kochi-eng/article38200067.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:52 IST,||Dabang Delhi, U Mumba win in Pro Kabaddi League||Dabang Delhi eked out a 37-33 win over UP Yoddha while U Mumba thrashed Telugu Titans 48-38 in the ProKabaddi League here on Saturday. Naveen Kumar scored 18 points for Dabang, which regained the top spot. Abhishek Singh (13 points) starred for U Mumba. Patna Pirates pipped Gujarat Giants 27-26 in the final match of the day.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dabang-delhi-u-mumba-win-in-pro-kabaddi-league/article38199630.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:47 IST,||Danushka Gunathilaka, 30, retires from Test cricket||Sri Lanka’s opening batter Danushka Gunathilaka has decided to retire from Test cricket at the age of 30 to focus on the white ball formats, Sri Lanka Cricket said on Saturday. In eight Tests, Gunathilaka gathered 299 runs, including two half-centuries with a career-best score of 61.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/danushka-gunathilaka-30-retires-from-test-cricket/article38199667.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 07:19 IST,||Sudoku — January 9, 2022||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-9-2022/article38200275.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:42 IST,||Blazing powerful trails||In 1948, C.B. Muthamma was the first woman to join the Indian Foreign Service. Three years later, Anna George was the first woman to join the Indian Administrative Service. Both women had to sign undertakings that they would quit if they chose to marry; but no such conditions were imposed on male officers. Years later, when Muthamma was passed over for a promotion as Ambassador, she challenged the discriminatory rule in the Supreme Court. She won in a landmark judgment. The order began by wondering “whether Articles 14 and 16 belong to myth or reality.” The last line was equally unforgettable: “We dismiss the petition, but not the problem.” Remarkable achievements When Anna George was posted as subcollector to Hosur, she made history by bringing electricity to the border subdivision. She was also making history as a woman in a position of authority. Other women came to look at the rare sight. “She looks just like us,” said an old woman sceptically. The sexist service rule ensured that George would not marry her batchmate R.N. Malhotra until much later. Nevertheless, when Malhotra was appointed RBI Governor, entailing their move to Bombay, the government posted George to set up a modern port at Nhava Sheva. This was no “trailing spouse” appointment: in 1989, after setting up the port, George was awarded the Padma Bhushan. These women, and others after them, blazed powerful trails.  In Women of Influence , retired civil servant Rajni Sekhri Sibal describes the career trajectories of some of the women who followed.  The first narrative is about Otima Bordia, first woman Collector in Rajasthan. Otima was posted to the border district of Bikaner in 1965. Her batchmate and husband Anil Bordia was posted as Additional Director, Education. Typically — because no one hesitates to make a sexist statement out loud — everyone wanted to know: how could a woman be given a Collectorship before her husband? Intrigued by the idea of a woman as Collector, Rajasthani women in ghoonghats (veils) walked across the sands to meet her. “We heard there was a woman Collector Sa in Bikaner, and came to see her for ourselves.” It was a challenging tenure. Anil supervised the digging of trenches as air raid shelters at home while Otima was out on patrols. When war broke out, and the Food Corporation of India godown manager fled with the keys, Otima literally broke the lock of the godown to distribute foodgrains and prevent hunger in the district. Eyes on the invisible Sibal writes about others who found ways to reach out to the marginalised who had hitherto been invisible to policy. Anuradha Gupta addressed the problem of exclusion by turning the focus of the polio immunisation campaign to children who had not been covered. B. Bhamathi issued a key advisory for cases of trafficked women and children from other countries who had been languishing in Indian jails for years. The most remarkable story Sibal tells is of Anita Kaul, a very unusual IAS officer. “Anita did not quite fit the idea of an archetypal bureaucrat. She was passionate about reforms, change and education. ‘Almost like an activist,’ a colleague had once sneered. To Anita, that was a beautiful compliment.” Anita was deeply involved in the design and implementation of many pathbreaking reforms: the total literacy campaigns, which regarded literacy as the people’s right, and brought civil society organisations and mass movements to partner with the state; the grassroots women’s empowerment work of Mahila Samakhya; the joyful, child-centred and world class pedagogy of Nali Kali; and the Right to Education Act 2009, which for the first time made free and compulsory education a justiciable right of the Indian child. It seems incredible that one person could impact so many lives — but Anita was relentless in her efforts to bring change. “Within the bureaucracy, Anita Kaul was known to possess the traits of an activist, and amongst the stakeholders and people at large, she was the medium through whom their issues would be heard and understood in the government circles. Once she decided to get something done, she would never give up.” Key to social justice Anita Kaul believed that education was the key to achieving social justice and deepening democracy. She also believed that education had to face up to the reality of caste, gender and other disparities: “There is a complex caste-based exclusion we need to address in policymaking. We need to address the failure of the universalisation of primary education along with the complex socio-economic issues and the issue of systematic discrimination in which such failure is grounded.” Despite many challenges, public service continues to offer unique opportunities to drive social change. Sibal herself topped the civil service examination in 1986 and worked as Secretary to the Government of India. Her book reminds us that while women civil servants have contributed in extraordinary ways to nation-building and development, women in general are under-represented in the civil service, particularly at senior levels. This matters because the civil service must represent, understand and respond to the concerns of all those whom it serves. The reviewer is in the IAS. Views are personal.  Women of Influence: Ten Extraordinary IAS Careers Penguin India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/blazing-powerful-trails/article38199488.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:42 IST,||Mandalites and their reluctance to invoke V.P. Singh’s legacy||At the very start of this eminently readable biography of former prime minister V.P. Singh, author Debashish Mukerji states that the commemoration of this particular prime minister of India has not been a project of any political party otherwise engaged in a tussle on icons and their legacy. Not even a stamp has been released in V.P. Singh’s memory, a shocking oversight considering how his actions impacted the political and social history of contemporary India. While, as Mukerji states, it is obvious that the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress would have no interest since V.P. Singh managed to rile both the parties, it is surprising that Singh’s inheritors, the so-called ‘Mandalites’ like Mulayam Singh Yadav and Lalu Prasad Yadav, who headed governments in two of the most politically significant States in India — Uttar Pradesh and Bihar — have been strangely reluctant to invoke his legacy or mark it in any way. Astute politician The biography, intensely researched and undoubtedly enriched by Singh’s own recorded interviews for the archives of the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, provides a good picture of V.P. Singh as a person, who was a bit awkward in social interactions, part idealistic, part shrewd reader of political tea leaves. His early years, when he was adopted by the royal family of Manda, is lonely and leads to a problematic relationship with his father that persists through his life. Singh’s political enterprise, the Janata Dal party he helped found, and the National Front government he headed, was a conglomeration of strong personalities, with well documented fallouts among the main players. Behind the scenes Any biography of V.P. Singh has to deal with the whys and wherefores of the biggest decision he made as prime minister and one which has had a lasting impact on Indian politics — announcing the implementation of the recommendations of the Mandal Commission report.The book does not disappoint with regard to what went on behind the scenes of that decision, and presents interesting insights on how, even while high minded idealism may have propelled the decision, the timing of it was largely informed by the face-off between Singh and his colleague, former deputy prime minister in his government, Devi Lal. There are claims, on record by Singh’s then Cabinet colleague Sharad Yadav, that the final push for announcing the move came from him and a couple of others. The enduring mystery of course is why V.P. Singh, the author of the OBCfication of Indian politics and public life, never got enough credit for it or was not lauded even by those who built their political careers around Mandal politics. ‘Friendship of porcupines’ Some hints are given in the description of the way personal differences between various players in the once powerful socialist bloc of Indian politics came in the way of any consolidated political legacy being institutionalised. What former BJP ideologue K.N. Govindacharya once told me was the friendship of porcupines, of belonging to the same species but liable to sting with quills if theydrew too close. Whatever be the case, V.P. Singh’s own disillusionment and decision to retire despite the Supreme Court upholding his decision on the implementation of the Mandal Commission report (Mukerji quotes him as saying “I am like a rocket that burns away after putting the satellite in orbit”), put an end to his political career. He kept away from holding office even when the United Front government went looking for a prime ministerial face, hiding out till the choice finally evolved around then Karnataka Chief Minister H.D. Deve Gowda. His death during the Mumbai terror attacks of 2008 went largely without an eulogy or even an assessment of his legacy. Mukerji himself acknowledges that the book is an attempt to redress that lack, but here he is being modest. This life history of V.P. Singh also illuminates through its telling, how Indian politics was turned on its head, due to those brief months between 1989 and 1990.  The Disruptor: How Vishwanath Pratap Singh Shook India HarperCollins||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mandalites-and-their-reluctance-to-invoke-vp-singhs-legacy/article38199483.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:43 IST,||Leopards in the city||The leopards of Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), Mumbai, are “hardcore Mumbaikars,” says Nikit Surve. “Like me, they were born and raised here.” They are as used to bright lights and big city as the human residents. The 100-sq km park’s 40 to 45 leopard inhabitants dodge humans within their territory. You’d think nothing good ever happens when lots of people meet plenty of predators. But most folks rarely, if ever, see their shy animal neighbours, as they walk past Surve’s camera traps, often within a minute, of a razor-clawed cat. “Leopards jump off the road and hide in bushes when people come by,” says Surve. “And when the coast is clear, get back to their business. They definitely see us more often than we see them.” In tiger reserves, several safari jeeps, laden with raucous tourists, corral tigers, which seem bored with the celebrity-worthy attention. Such a situation would never arise with a leopard, says the researcher. Their shy nature is one factor that enables them to thrive in the metropolis. Their resilience, a trait they share with their fellow citizens, is another. Can human Mumbaikars adjust to the situation as leopards do? At one time more than a decade ago, that seemed impossible. Many encounters resulted in injuries and deaths on both sides. Residents demanded the removal of leopards while conservationists wanted people to be evicted. “Removing leopards is a short-term solution,” says Surve. “If you don’t remove the cause [of their presence], leopards will continue to return.” Resident cats The sylvan grounds offer plentiful prey, round the clock security, and proximity to others of their kind living in neighbouring forests to the east, key criteria conducive for leopard occupancy. The park management started a collaborative programme called ‘Mumbaikars for SGNP’ (See ‘Predator on Our Porch’, October 27, 2017) involving the public, police, media, and researchers such as Surve. “It took seven to eight years for the programme to pay off,” he says. “Now the city has also accepted leopards as fellow Mumbaikars.” When leopards stride along compound walls or sprawl on ledges, people have learned to keep their cool. Residents, including celebrities such as actor Siddharth Chandekar, whose apartments overlook the park, have turned fans, posting photos of the cats on social media and gushing about the feline beauties. The Warli adivasis and other communities living in flimsy shacks within the park don’t have the advantage of safety by distance, living alongside these predators. One family had the fright of their lives when a leopard crash-landed inside their hut. A woman was cooking dinner in the kitchen when she heard a commotion in the other room where her two children were completing their homework. The 50-kilogram cat dangled from the ceiling fan, which luckily, wasn’t working. It had been stalking rodents on the rickety roof when it gave way. The inhabitants ran outside while the leopard charged out minutes later. The frightened predator didn’t return again in more than two months of camera trapping. Icons around The indigenous community worships Waghoba or Waghdevi, a deity of large cats represented by the striped avatar of a tiger or the spotted pattern of a leopard. About 50 such icons adorn the park, evidence that human interaction with the animal world takes different forms. This bonhomie didn’t prevent leopards from sneaking into the city surrounding the park. Were they unable to find food? After studying the wild prey of the park, Surve concluded there were ample deer to keep the leopards sated. “It’s down to the cost-benefit ratio,” he says. “Rather than chasing after a deer, they prefer snatching a stray dog.” One dog can feed a leopard for five to seven days. “There’s a hawker selling vada pav every 300 metres in the streets of Mumbai,” he says, referring to a popular burger-like snack with spicy fried potato filling. “Dogs are as easily available along the periphery of the park.” Like their human counterparts, leopards have adopted the ease of city life: street food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/leopards-in-the-city/article38199506.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:41 IST,||‘Some stories stay with you forever’||Scientist and fiction-writer Indira Chandrasekhar is founder-editor of the online literary magazine Out of Print , which celebrated its tenth anniversary in December 2020. The occasion was marked with the publication of Out of Print — Ten Years: An Anthology of Stories, which showcased some of the best works of short fiction that have appeared in the magazine over the years. The book didn’t get the attention it deserved as the pandemic intervened. Chandrasekhar is the author of Polymorphism: Stories, published in 2017 . She has been associated with the G5A Foundation for Contemporary Culture, a non-profit focusing on experimental contemporary art, since its inception. In this interview, she explains what Out of Print means to her. Excerpts:  What prompted you to startOut of Print?  At the time we started Out of Print , I was beginning to write fiction seriously myself and discovered that there were few spaces in India for publishing short stories, and almost no online platforms. The latter bring such immediacy and reach, which create a certain energy in itself. I felt a burst of conviction that we would be able to start and sustain an online magazine for short fiction and I just plunged in.  The submission guidelines forOut of Printspecify that the stories need to have a connection with the Indian subcontinent. How do you define this connection? We don’t have a set of rules for this. It is usually self-evident, emerging from geography, character, narrative... However, what it means in a deeper sense is something more elusive and less easily explained. Perhaps one way to grasp that connection is to read the anthology, with its many stories and nuanced realities. What are some of the other parameters for selection in your publication?  Wearedrawn to works that have an inherent integrity, a lack of self-consciousness, an exploration of complex human emotions and relationships. They should have those “shadowy links that connect us to other people, to our pasts,” as Shashi Deshpande puts it in her essay, ‘Why Read?’ ( Subversions: Essays on Life and Literature). And, if I may add, to our imagined futures and to our places in the universe.  Is running an online literary magazine different from running a print one?  The chief difference in the two media lies in the post-edit process. I have not run a print magazine, but in bringing out Pangea: An Anthology of Stories from Around the Globe (2012), Polymorphism and the Out of Print anthology, I have experienced the limitations that a physical page imposes that are not there in the online format. The writer need not be careful of the word count when writing for online publications.  Can you list some short stories that have stayed with you? Why are they unforgettable?  Some remarkable things have stood out — stories that have found new futures after being published in Out of Print, like the ones that initially appeared in a Lahore newspaper and in a higher-education textbook on English writing in Norway; stories by exciting new writers whom we develop, who go on to have notable writing careers; translations that bring works from other languages to a new audience. Even some stories we have not featured but which have stayed with me and moved me — like lost children, they stay with you forever.  What is the targeted readership ofOut of Print? Is the short story getting enough love from readers, in your opinion? How can it not? It is such a fine form — concise, succinct, essential, yet revealing the complexities of love, happiness, loneliness and isolations. Place, history, tradition, family can all be explored with a sharp focus. We do not really target any specific readers. We simply offer the work to any reader, and our readership widens, which is most gratifying as it shows that there is a continuing need for us to know who we are as people, as communities, as societies, through our stories. The interviewer is the author of A Happy Place and Other Stories.  We do not really target any specific readers. We simply offer the work to any reader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/some-stories-stay-with-you-forever/article38199473.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:41 IST,||Sailing towards the horizon||As visual media hijack shrinking attention spans, modern-day writers, forced to compete for survival, opt for motion-picture-like storytelling formats with a jackrabbiting cadence. Gautam Bhatia steers clear of the pitfall this poses for literature — in The Horizon , sequel to The Wall , he eases new readers into the complex universe of The Chronicles of Sumer through a narrative full of gravitas and a charismatic kind of solipsism. The layered story unfolds at a pacy gait underpinned by a cinematic feel and lively repartee between characters.  The series has the usual tropes of speculative fiction (SF) — revolutionism, sociopolitical churn, allegory, world-building (including etymologically-sound nomenclature and other markers of a historied fictional civilisation), alchemy, metaphysics. A quick synopsis: Sumer, a walled and self-contained city, is a strictly controlled pre-industrial society stratified by labour and governed by propaganda, which is reinforced by strong-arm methods and preserved through secrecy. Its citizens consist of a conservative faction intent on maintaining the status quo; a group of radical idealists determined to remake their world; and a general populace too busy fulfilling its duties to be of any relevance to the narrative. Just like our world. Within the broad category of SF, the book is versatile in its scope in terms of genre and tone. Providing chills and thrills are action-packed battle scenes, stunts and dynamic PoV sequences; the solace of poetry is available almost at every turn of the page; philosophical arguments over social and civic reform serve as a throwback to the Greek agorae that birthed the Socratic method and promoted democratic discourse; emotionally-charged relationships frayed by the intensity of their bonds add spice and make the characters relatable; strategic machinations, fluctuating allegiances, inscrutable motives keep readers on their toes; scientifically plausible alchemical magic punctuates depictions of warped reality to remind us that it is a fantasy novel after all. At times, the dialogues strike you as overly self-indulgent and self-important before you remember the high stakes involved. Scoring high The very purpose of SF is to reimagine the workings of the real world through the prism of alternative realities, wherein the author and readers can together engage in thought experiments and dissect their ramifications in the safety of a hypothetical environment. The book scores high on this front. Past literary works and historical archetypes lend credibility and a frame of reference to any SF work — the challenge for writers is to decide on the degree of intertextuality and eclecticism. But Bhatia has painstakingly constructed an intricate and cogent world in its own right.  Bhatia himself lists the bibliographical references used in the novel. The series also seems to draw inspiration from venerable works of SF — in the idea of venturing beyond the perimeter of the known world to transcend one’s existential binds, there’s a parallel to The Truman Show ; in the idea of martyring oneself to save one’s people, there’s a link to what drove the cosmonauts in Christopher Nolan’s Interstellar ; the medieval cityscape governed by an elite power centre is reminiscent of King’s Landing from Game of Thrones (including a shout-out disguised as battle cry, “For the Wall!”). The scenes of vociferous debates among Sumer’s policymakers trading barbs and biases pay direct homage to the sessions regularly telecast on Sansad TV.  Have you ever wondered about the boundary between Being and Nothingness? The immutable wall of Sumer sheltering and sequestering its inhabitants from the unknown world beyond serves as an exciting microcosm of this idea. If the axiom of Time can be viewed as an emergent construct (the poets of Sumer seem to reimagine it as an architectural feature manufactured by the divine ‘Builders’ and subject to collapse as such), the notion of Nothingness can be conceived and befriended. That’s a nice piece of metaphysics to chew on and a worthy distraction from all the earthly bickering that goes on, on this side of the wall.  The Horizon HarperCollins India    The layered story unfolds at a pacy gait underpinned by a cinematic feel and lively repartee between characters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sailing-towards-the-horizon/article38199470.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:41 IST,||Tasting radiance||Can’t travel? Read a book. Can’t get gourmet food? Read a book. Better still, read a travel book that delves into food.  I have been doing just that and getting succour from a delightful volume called A Moveable Feast: Life-changing Food Adventures Around the World . This Lonely Planet publication takes you to distant lands and food, through the eyes and words of some remarkable writers.  Take the opening lines of Pico Iyer’s essay, ‘Daily bread’. He is in a Benedictine hermitage in California. “The quiche is as soft as hope itself, and the long spears of asparagus are so elegant on the plate that to pick one up feels like messing with the symmetry of a Klee. There are bowls of lettuce in our midst, and the chunky vegetable soup alone would make for a hearty meal. Bottles of salad dressing crowd the blond-wood table, large enough for six of us, while early-spring sunlight streams into the window-filled refectory, so that it feels as if we’re tasting radiance and taking a long draught of the sun.” Each chapter is a beautifully crafted essay that looks at people, food, culture and memories. And some of the recollections are not just about food but also about circumstances in which it was consumed. Curiously relaxing “Like most of us, I enjoy eating while actually in motion,” writes author Jan Morris. “An Indian curry is best of all when it has been thrust urgently through your compartment window at Hooghly Station the very moment before your great train leaves for Mumbai.” She recalls boarding the “last frail remnant” of the Orient Express, where she was handed a paper bag containing an apple, cheese and half a bottle of excellent white wine — “what could be a better munch while we laboured across Europe?” There is something curiously relaxing about these dream-like chapters. You are locked indoors, thanks to a seemingly unsquashable virus, but see yourself in the Italian Riviera with American author and journalist David Downie. He stands in front of a vegetable patch that has been destroyed by boars and watches the farmer snip off, one after the other, the damaged plants. “He rummaged among the artichokes, snipping and yanking, before turning to a lemon tree hung with yellow orbs. Soon the basket was bursting, its contents carefully arranged. He handed it up to us.” Little asides I then find myself in French Guiana with journalist-author Mark Kurlansky, as he recalls his favourite restaurant in Cayenne. “It specialised in the game of the forest: gamey little agoutis, succulent tapir stews, an occasional python or an iguana, foods you can’t get in many places... I couldn’t understand why everyone else wasn’t eating there too... Instead, they crowded into French restaurants to eat northern foods ill-suited to the tropics, sweaty pâtés and gloppy sauces that languished in the heat — and later in your stomach. Well, I concluded, that is what the French are like — as with most cultures with good cuisines, completely hung up on their own.” It’s the subtext — such as the little aside about cuisine snobbery — that makes this book so very readable. The link between food and culture is the thread running through the essay, ‘Cooking with Donna’, by travel editor William Sertl too. He is in a luxurious Caribbean estate and has just been handed an elegant bell that he must ring for the next course. “At first, I laughed, without meaning to. Then I baulked, and stood up, pushed my chair under the table and marched directly into the uncharted territory of the kitchen. Donna was stirring the contents of a pot on the stove. I approached, picked up the lid, and said, ‘What’s for dinner?’” Food, he holds, is the key to culture — “the easiest way into a relationship with folks you’ve yet to meet”. Especially, I would add, food that you still have to try out (python, anyone?) and journeys you still have to make.  You are locked indoors, thanks to a seemingly unsquashable virus, but see yourself in the Italian Riviera||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tasting-radiance/article38199468.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:43 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On January 9, 1960, President of Egypt Gamal Abdel Nasser opened the construction on Aswan Dam by detonating 10 tonnes of dynamite on river Nile. Since this dam would deluge a valley, which was home to the Abu Simbel temples, an international organisation launched a campaign that resulted in the Abu Simbel and Philae temples being taken apart, moved to a higher location, and put back together piece by piece. The success of this effort led to the campaign becoming a global movement to safeguard cultural heritage. What campaign is this that protects 40 such sites in India? 2 The Three Gorges Hydroelectric dam retains an amount of water with a surface area of 1,036 sq. km., extending 600 km upstream. The water weighs more than 39 trillion kg, now raised 175 m above sea level. A shift in a mass of that size impacts the rotation of the Earth due to a phenomenon known as ‘the moment of inertia’, and thus slows its rotation. NASA says the shift of such a mass will increase the length of day by about 0.06 microseconds, and shift the pole position by about two centimetres. In which country, and across which river is this massive dam? 3 The Qattinah Barrage or Lake Homs Dam located in Syria, was constructed during the reign of the Egyptian Pharaoh, Sethi, between 1319-1304 BC. The 2 km long masonry gravity dam impounds Orontes river and creates Lake Homs, which holds 200 million cubic metres and supplies water to the city of Homs through canals to this day. What record does this dam hold? 4 The Kallanai dam was constructed by King Karikala Chola of the Chola Dynasty in the 2nd century AD. Also known as Grand Anicut, it is the fourth oldest still functional dam in the world and provides water for the irrigation of one million acres of land along the Delta region. The river on which it is built splits in two just 30 km upstream where Srirangam is found. Downstream from the dam, the river splits into four streams. Which river is this on which the Kallanai dam is built? 5 Arch Dams consist of a curved arch supported by the walls of the canyon in which they are built. It is designed so that the force of the water presses against the arch, causing the arch to straighten slightly, and strengthening the structure as it pushes into its foundation. One of the earliest of these is the Kebar Dam in Iran which is 26m tall and built in 1300 AD. Which empire, which was the largest contiguous land empire in history, built this engineering marvel during the peak of its powers? 6 The Boulder Dam in Arizona, when built in 1936, was both the world’s largest concrete structure and largest hydroelectric power station. It is 726 feet tall, has a base 660 feet thick and was built to last 2,000 years. The concrete in it will not even be fully cured for another 500 years. Constructed during the Great Depression it was later named after the President who passed the bill for it in Congress. What is the name of this massive dam you would have seen in many movies? 7 The Jinping-I Dam is a arch dam on Yalong river in Sichuan, China. It powers a hydroelectric station that produces 18 TW·h (billion kW·h) annually. The reason it produces such a high amount of power is because of the elevation drop of 310m. What record does this dam hold? 8 The Contra Dam in Switzerland is a slender concrete arch dam standing at a height of 722 feet. It has a slender design that reduced construction costs. Located in the beautiful Val Verzasca valley, it has become a huge tourist attraction after a stuntman did a bungee jump in 1995. This stunt, voted the ‘best movie stunt of all time’, was part of the debut of Pierce Brosnan as James Bond. Which movie is this, now used to refer to this dam as well? 9 The Gordon Dam is an arch dam located in southwest Tasmania in Australia, with an amazing feature that allows it to resist large hydraulic pressures coming from the 12,359,040 megalitres of water in Lake Gordon, the largest lake in Australia. The dam generates 13% of all electricity in Tasmania, thanks to an underground power station. Technically known as a ‘double curvature’, what is special about this arch dam? 10 The Tarbela Dam is an amazing piece of engineering as it is the largest earth-filled dam in the world. The main dam wall stretches almost 9000 ft and stands 486 ft high. The reservoir formed has a surface area of 250 square kilometres. The dam was designed to use water from a certain rover as a means of flood control and generation of hydroelectric power. Located in Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, which river does this massive dam span? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article38199503.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:41 IST,||Absent-minded? Forget it||Nearly six decades ago, a professor in a Walt Disney comedy bequeathed immortality to a mental failing that has been a recurring cause of red faces.  The professor was bright and brainy but so single-mindedly focused on high matters of science that he could never remember the more mundane “asides” of life — including his forthcoming wedding. The Absent-Minded Professor may have been a laugh riot, but absent-mindedness is no laughing matter.  At work, if you misplace a file or stand up to make a presentation only to realise that your notes are in the drawer at home, you will be deemed slack and clearly unfit for what HR departments describe as “higher responsibilities”. Present day society with its fetish about practical efficiency does not readily forgive us — the serial forgetters. Word goes around that our memory has more holes than a mosquito net. The extended family will then stand on the sidelines and snigger while the spouse, out of wifely concern, suggests consulting the friendly, neighbourhood neurologist, just in case it’s an early warning sign of dementia. Relax, it’s nothing of the sort. Listen to the experts. George Grossberg, Director of Geriatric Psychology at the St. Louis University School of Medicine, says: “Someone who misplaces his keys, gets frustrated, and runs around looking for them is (just) absent-minded. On the other hand, a person who misplaces his/her keys, doesn’t know that they are lost, and after they are found, forgets what they are for, that’s cause for concern.” If you haven’t gone that far, you are in safe territory. We of the forgetful fraternity also have historian-cum-philosopher Yuval Noah Harari on our side. He says that the human mind is not designed to “think like a filing cabinet”. A normal mind does not move like a regiment on parade. Rather, like a Jaspreet Bumrah run-up, our line of thought hops, stops, and pops as memory surrenders to our poet-like imagination. There are many ways of polishing a rusty memory. These range from regular meditation to de-clutter your top storey to eating brain food like almonds every morning. If you tend to forget the names of people you have met, you are told to repeat the name under your breath till your mind has got it pat. More discretion is advised. Suppose you are repeating ‘Rooprani’, make sure your wife is not within earshot. If none of this works, do not despair. Not everything in this world is of lasting significance. Why carry around the burden of unpleasant remembrances or the overhang of guilt? As Khalil Gibran said: “Forgetfulness is a form of freedom.” jairam.menon@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/absent-minded-forget-it/article38199461.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:41 IST,||Sepia-tinted memories||My countenance is neither attractive nor photogenic. Therefore, I always try to evade group photos with friends or relatives. But when the situation cannot be skipped in any way, I position myself in the neglected zone in the rearmost line when others compete for the front rows. However, on one occasion, a photograph of mine left me in bliss. It was January 1993. I was then a regular reader of a magazine published from New Delhi. It held an essay contest asking the participants to send their entries with a passport-size black & white half-bust photograph by post. Frantic effort The essays of the first two winners would get published with their photographs. Only the photographs of the next 16 “highly commendable contributors” would be published with their names and those of their districts or towns.  The topic of the essay was “Future of democracy in India”. I decided to participate and wrote and rewrote every sentence with intense care. Page after page was wasted. I can still remember that I started my essay with the Latin phrase on democracy vox populi, vox dei .  I finished the essay and jotted it down neat and clean on one side of paper with a fountain pen gifted to me by my father on my birthday. The pages with a short biodata and photograph were put in a brown envelope and sent to the magazine. After the harrowing process for days, I heaved a sigh of relief. The thought of the essay lingered for a few more days in my head. The process of editing and re-editing continued in my mind, though of no use. Many new thoughts, sentences, phrases, idioms and words that eluded me before sending the essay sprang up in my mind now. However, the whole matter disappeared from my head gradually. In January 1993, the special number manifested. Paying little attention even to the cover page, I turned over to the pages where the winning essays were published. To my utter disappointment, my essay was not adjudged for the first two positions. One from Kerala stood first and another from Indore second. Then I turned to the next page reluctantly to see whether I was selected as a “highly commendable contributor”. I felt fortunate when I found that my photo was published and my essay got the third position. My regret doubled as I missed the chance of getting my essay published, thinking a little more effort would have realised my dream. However, I was extremely elated to find my photo in a magazine. After a month, the postman delivered a large envelope to my address sent by the publisher. My nimble fingers tore open the envelope hurriedly to find the certificate for my essay. I spent many hours gazing at my photo. It was my first photo to which I felt a narcissistic attachment. nandi.budha@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sepia-tinted-memories/article38199463.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:43 IST,||Extra chance missed||Today’s deal is from a team competition some years ago. Both tables reached four hearts and both West players led the five of diamonds. Paths diverged from there. At one table, East won the ace of diamonds at trick one and shifted to the nine of clubs to the queen and king. Declarer ducked in dummy and won the jack of clubs continuation with dummy’s ace. South cashed dummy’s ace of hearts and led a heart, rising with his king when East showed out. He then led the jack of hearts to West’s queen. That was it for the defense and declarer had 10 tricks and his contract. At the other table, East ducked his ace at trick one. South won and played hearts the same way – ace, king, and jack to West’s queen. West led his remaining diamond to East’s ace and ruffed the diamond return. He exited with the queen of spades to South’s ace. There were not enough entries to develop a spade trick and South drifted down one from there. South could have run the jack of hearts at trick two, extracting all of West’s low trumps before giving him the queen. This would not be normal play. However, South could have and should have cashed the ace and king of spades before giving West the queen of hearts. West would have to lead a club after ruffing the diamond. Even if West had a spade to play, he would likely be setting up a spade trick in dummy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/extra-chance-missed/article38199496.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:42 IST,||Child of war to man of peace||Former UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s memoir, Resolved: Uniting Nations in a Divided World ,is a candid and incisive account of his 10-year stint at the helm of the UN. His history-shaping tenure as UNSG leads us through exciting global developments and interactions with world leaders.  Ban’s memoir captures his childhood struggles caught up in the horrors of the Korean wars and poverty. He was a child of war but turned a man of peace whose belief in the UN was reinforced when it stopped the Korean War and helped rebuild institutions in his country. A chance encounter with President John F. Kennedy during a brief student exchange programme in the U.S. taught him to think beyond national boundaries and see humanity as one family. Some trade-offs In the run-up to the UNSG elections in 2006, Ban reveals some interesting insights. Although late in the game, he used his position as Foreign Minister of his country to make trade-offs with world leaders to advance his candidature. The full backing of President Roh Moo-hyun, he admits, played a crucial role in his winning while other candidatures, including that of Shashi Tharoor, he notes, lacked strong support of their governments. An experienced diplomat when he assumed charge as UNSG, Ban believed “diplomacy is the art of the possible while negotiation is diplomacy in action.” His compassionate approach to global and regional issues is moulded by the wisdom of the ancient Chinese philosopher Lao Tzu, who taught the virtues of being like water in life to be able to adapt to situations rather than confront. Ban’s quiet diplomacy helped to rally world leaders to craft a global agenda that prioritised Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and The Paris Accord on Climate Change, two notable achievements of his tenure, to bring focus on the need for a broader agenda for human development and preservation of the planet through collective actions. His UN peace-keeping operations, driven by optimism and pragmatism, were largely successful in pacifying many disturbed parts of the world, barring West Asia and Dafur etc. On North Korea, he harboured no illusions that it wanted to enter into a deal for denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula, despite the U.S.’ carrot and stick approach. In a first-ever visit by a UNSG to Iran and Myanmar, in defiance of western pressures, he engaged with the leadership there for extracting concessions for political prisoners, including Aung San Suu Kyi who was under house arrest. He pointed at the alleged crimes against Sri Lankan Tamils in the final stages of the conflict. The controversial UN provision ‘Responsibility to Protect’ (R2P), endorsed by all nations in 2005, he observes, remained mired under suspicions of being used for regime changes in Libya, Syria, Sudan etc. Missed opportunity The notable missed opportunity of Ban’s tenure was UN reforms, especially democratisation of the UNSC that does not reflect contemporary realities. He tamely gave up pursuing this important agenda on the feeble reasoning that the ‘veto power’ creates inevitable logjams to reform.It’s a surprise too that he didn’t acknowledge India’s contribution toUNpeace-keeping operations and human development through MDGs/SDGs commitments.And yet, in the 21st century, Ban asserts, “somewhere else” just isn’t as far away as it used to be and, therefore, global problems require global actions with a sense of collective responsibility and urgency for saving the future of our children. The reviewer is a serving Foreign Service Officer currently working in the Ministry of External Affairs.  Resolved: Uniting Nations in a Divided World HarperCollins||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/child-of-war-to-man-of-peace/article38199481.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:43 IST,||‘I am not an object,’ says artist’s muse||For art aficionados, she’s a Blue Woman featured in dozens of French artist Yves Klein’s ‘Anthropometries’ — conceptual paintings of nudes achieved by daubing models in blue paint and having them press their bodies on paper. But Elena Palumbo-Mosca rejects being called Klein’s “living paintbrush”. She sees herself as an artistic “collaborator” who played a key part in the artist’s famous oeuvre, which today sell for fortunes. “I am not an object, but a person who shared with Yves specific ideas and who helped him to create them out of friendship and out of curiosity,” Palumbo-Mosca, who turned 87 on January 7, said. The Italian muse did not earn money from sales of the “20 or 30” works to which she contributed. She spent three decades working as an interpreter for European Union institutions in the Belgian capital. But her home is strewn with art. Her memories are too: a French Riviera stint as an au pair to a couple who were friends with Klein, then her youthful Paris student days she funded by working as a cabaret dancer. It was in February 1960 that Klein unveiled his conceptual art in his studio, using Palumbo-Mosca and other women. In March, she took part in his first public presentation, held in a Paris gallery, which critics described by using the term “living paintbrush”, which she came to resent. The invited audience, she said, was electrified by the performance during which Klein directed his paint-slicked models. “Some tore out their hair. Others applauded,” she recalled. “It was clear that we were doing something that nobody had ever done. As soon as we’d finished our work, we went to wash ourselves off-stage — the paint, after all, was toxic.” Patented paint Klein had patented the ultramarine hue of the special thick paint he developed for his paintings, calling the mix of synthetic resin, matte and pigment ‘International Klein Blue’ or IKB. The task of applying the paint was very physical, but Palumbo-Mosca was well prepared, having spent a childhood skiing and ice-skating, and having been a champion artistic diver as a teenager. Klein died in 1962 of a heart attack, just 34 years old. Today, his works — particularly ‘Anthropometries’ — can sell at auction for tens of millions of dollars. — AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/i-am-not-an-object-says-artists-muse/article38199501.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:42 IST,||Read Between the Lines||Rachel Lacey Montlake Rs. 814 Books are the life of Rosie Taft, a Manhattan bookstore owner. She falls in love with her favourite lesbian romance author, Brie, with whom she has a flirty online relationship. Then her bookstore’s lease is terminated by Brie’s family business in real estate and romance takes a hit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/read-between-the-lines/article38199477.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:43 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3184||Across 1 Academic point of view produces sympathy (6,7) 8 Post-It’s regularly showing trident shapes (4) 9 Bungling tail captures spy concealing note that’s irrelevant (10) 10 One might add fine powder; more often, one removes it (6) 11 A performance-enhancing drug for a flier (8) 12 However casually learner is given direction, styles ensue (9) 14 Misfortune: Everyman is going to speechify at the opening (4) 15 Seamen like part of a church, we’re told? (4) 16 Genova resort with boy making safe journey (3,6) 20 Most expensive horse doesn’t finish – bother! (8) 21 Greek island reportedly closes? (6) 23 Walk Amelia round body of water (4,6) 24 Enclosed by what pyramids must enclose (4) 25 Battered half of old sign seen in cataclysmic weather (5,8) Down 1 Fussier tailoring producing slit (7) 2 Catalogue includes unknown composer (5) 3 Wore pants with gut that’s got too big for? (7) 4 Loyal staff running with baton in team-building exercise (7,8) 5 Fixtures in north taken on by northbound Redgrave? (6) 6 Dramatist not beginning his work, ‘Give And Take’ (9) 7 Some detecting rat in some French dishes (7) 13 Revolutionary operatives losing power: it ended with glasnost (6,3) 15 Tense following refusal. Little drink? Absolutely (3,4) 17 From advert, I got a queasy feeling (7) 18 What gingery may become? (7) 19 Supremely ethereal, revered angel playing horn, primarily? (6) 22 Yemeni’s neighbour soon to be rising (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3184/article38199499.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:42 IST,||Atal Bihari Vajpayee||Sagarika Ghose Juggernaut Rs. 799 The first non-Congress Prime Minister to serve a full five-year term, Atal Bihari Vajpayee represents a bridge between the Nehruvian age and the Modi years. Vajpayee, Ghose writes in her portrayal, also had contradictions — he was a Hindutva loyalist but also a liberal centrist, for example.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/atal-bihari-vajpayee/article38199494.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:41 IST,||Song of the Soil||Chuden Kabimo, trs Ajit Baral Rachna Books Rs. 399 Set in the town of Kalimpong, this novel tells the story of the fight for Gorkhaland in the late 1980s. The many faces of the movement — its suffering, promise, betrayals — are painted vividly. And running through it all is the vital question: who ultimately wins and who loses?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/song-of-the-soil/article38199466.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:42 IST,||The Gorakhpur Hospital Tragedy||Kafeel Khan Pan Macmillan Rs. 499 On August 10, 2017, liquid oxygen ran out at the state-run Baba Raghav Das Medical College’s Nehru Hospital in Gorakhpur, U.P. This is Dr. Kafeel Khan’s first-hand account of the events and the turmoil that followed — suspension, jail-term and a fight for justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-gorakhpur-hospital-tragedy/article38199492.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:41 IST,||Forest of books||Norwegian architecture firm Snøhetta is building a library in Beijing that might well become a reference point for future designs. The project, called Beijing Sub-Center Library, has a 16-metre-high glass façade supported by a ginkgo forest-like canopy of columns. At its heart is a huge open area, entirely visible from outside. The idea is to have an unfettered space filled with natural light for the free sharing of knowledge. Incidentally, ginkgo, among the oldest living trees, is believed to restore memory, without which there would be no literature. The tree-like columns are more than aesthetic elements — they are technical components controlling temperature, lighting, acoustic, and rainwater disposal within the building. Snøhetta, which has designed landmarks such as Oslo Opera House and the September 11 Memorial Pavilion in the U.S., is known for its extensive use of glass and mirrored metal, associated with reflection. The library, currently under construction, opens at the end of 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/forest-of-books/article38199459.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:42 IST,||Race for Tomorrow||Simon Mundy HarperCollins Rs. 397 (Kindle edition) In this journey through 26 countries, Mundy meets the people on the front lines of the climate crisis, showing how the struggle to respond is already reshaping the modern world. The fight for survival is shattering communities, shaking up global business, and propelling a drive of innovation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/race-for-tomorrow/article38199490.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:41 IST,||The Last Rose of Shanghai||Weina Dai Randel Lake Union Publishing Rs. 1,131 In Japanese-occupied Shanghai of 1940, a young Chinese heiress and a penniless Jewish refugee are drawn together by music. They share a passion for jazz but their differences seem insurmountable. Then the war intervenes, changing their lives forever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-last-rose-of-shanghai/article38199475.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:42 IST,||Four and Twenty Blackbirds||Godfrey Joseph Pereira Speaking Tiger Rs. 499 Based on real events, this is the story of a renegade Englishman, Charlie Strongbow, who set up an independent community of desperados in Cross Island, near Bombay, in 1947. Operating a black-market trade, Charlie couldn’t be stopped by anything save his inner demons and alcohol addiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/four-and-twenty-blackbirds/article38199479.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:42 IST,||The COVID Spectrum||Edited by Kanchana Mahadevan & Others Speaking Tiger Rs. 799 This anthology of essays on the pandemic and its aftermath has a foreword by Slovenian philosopher Slavoj Zizek. He warns of “multiple dangers”: the threat of new pandemics and the devastating economic effects of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-covid-spectrum/article38199485.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:41 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article38199457.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:47 IST,||Conflicting signals from drug regulator, COVID-19 task force||On December 28 last year, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted saying that in further strengthening the fight against COVID-19, the Indian drug regulator has granted emergency use approval for the antiviral drug molnupiravir. He also mentioned that molnupiravir will be manufactured by 13 generic drug manufacturers in India. “Considering the emergency and unmet medical need in COVID-19, the SEC on December 27 recommended for grant of permission to manufacture and market molnupiravir for restricted use under emergency situation in the country for treatment of adult patients with COVID-19,” the drug regulator said in a statement. A week later, on January 5, at a press conference, the Director-General of ICMR Dr. Balram Bhargava said molnupiravir has major safety concerns and therefore was not included in the national protocol for treatment of coronavirus. “We have to remember that this drug has major safety concerns. It can cause teratogenicity, mutagenicity... cartilage damage and can also be damaging to muscles. Contraception will have to be done for three months for male and female if this drug is given because the child born could [have problems] due to teratogenic influence… We have concerns about the drug and its use during lactation, in children, soft-tissue injuries, reproductive age group,” he said. Public health problem “After the EUA, Indian generics are now aggressively launching the drug, and it is likely to be prescribed widely to patients diagnosed with COVID-19 with mild/moderate disease in the private sector. This may be problematic from a public health point of view, because of concerns regarding the inherent capacity of molnupiravir to cause viral mutations and its risk to induce more viral mutants,” says Ms. Leena Menghaney, South Asia Head of Médecins Sans Frontières’s Access Campaign. “The drug is already available and pharmaceutical companies are aggressively marketing it. In all likelihood, the drug is abused already,” says Dr. Lancelot Pinto, Consultant Respirologist at P.D. Hinduja National Hospital and Medical Research Centre, Mumbai. “Drug companies are aggressively marketing the drug with blatant lies and tall, unsubstantiated claims [such as] reduction of post-COVID-19 anxiety, depression and fatigue but without a word on potential risks,” says Dr. Shriprakash Kalantri, Professor of Medicine at Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Sevagram, Maharashtra. “Why do the two highest scientific bodies — the drug regulator and ICMR — take such conflicting positions. This sends a confusing signal to the public and physicians.” Not the first time This is not the first time that the national COVID-19 task force has refused to include drugs/vaccines granted an EUA by the regulator. On August 20, 2021 Zydus Cadila’s COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D was granted an emergency use approval by the Indian regulator. The vaccine was approved for use in adults and children 12 years and above. However, in a letter dated December 28 last year, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said Covaxin will be the only option for vaccination of children 15-18 years that was set to begin on January 3. He also said Covaxin is the “only vaccine with EUL [emergency use listing] for the age group 15-18”. The same message was conveyed by the guidelines released by the health ministry. But speaking to CNN News18 on December 27, Dr. R.S. Sharma, CEO of the National Health Authority and Chairperson of the Empowered Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (Co-WIN) said both Zydus’s vaccine (ZyCoV-D) and Covaxin will be available for vaccination and children will have an option to choose between the two vaccines depending on availability. For reasons not known, the health ministry has not only declined to use Zydus vaccine in adolescents but has not even recognised the emergency use approval granted to ZyCoV-D by saying Covaxin is the only vaccine that has an EUL. Incidentally, emergency use listing or EUL is a term used by the WHO and not by Indian authorities or the drug regulator. In the second case, itolizumab, a monoclonal antibody originally developed by Biocon and sold under the brand name Alzumab to treat psoriasis, was granted an EUA on July 11, 2020 to treat patients with moderate-to-severe COVID-19 disease. The subject expert committee greenlighted the drug the previous day despite the very small size of the study and inconclusive data. But three days after approval, Dr. Bhargava said trials have not yet demonstrated that the drug can reduce mortality. On July 27, 2020, it became clear that the drug will not be included in the national treatment protocol. Absence of data Strangely, ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine and convalescent plasma therapy were included by ICMR in the recommended treatment guidelines even in the absence of data. Hydroxychloroquine was approved in end-March 2020 primarily for ICMR to carry out studies. Convalescent plasma was dropped from the guidelines only in mid-May last year. Ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine were dropped from the revised clinical guidance for management of adult COVID-19 patients only on September 24 last year. WHO had on March 31, 2021 said there is inconclusive evidence of benefit in the case of ivermectin. “Even after a year of COVID-19, the ICMR guidelines in May 2021 advised ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine which were well known to have been useless for COVID-19 treatment,” Mr. Murali Neelakantan, Principal Lawyer at Amicus, Mumbai says in an email. “On the other hand, the drug regulator had approved favipiravir and itolizumab to treat COVID-19 but they don’t find place in the ICMR protocol, even though hundreds of crores of rupees worth of these two drugs were being consumed in India. It says something about the Indian drug regulator that favipiravir and itolizumab are not being prescribed for COVID-19 anywhere else in the world.” Remdesivir and favipiravir were approved by the Indian regulator and included in the treatment guidelines even when supporting data were not available or were inconclusive. In fact, on November 20, 2020, WHO recommended against the use of remdesivir in hospitalised patients, regardless of disease severity. Yet, the revised clinical guidelines of September last year have retained remdesivir for use in specific circumstances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/conflicting-signals-from-drug-regulator-covid-19-task-force/article38199598.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:46 IST,||Omicron epidemic: third wave or new pandemic?||India is facing an epidemic wave of Omicron disease presenting mostly with sore throat, nasal discharge – without cough or high fever. Pneumonia is uncommon. Blood oxygen level remains normal. Some senior citizens and those with diseases or therapies that weaken the immune system do get severe disease requiring hospitalisation. Altogether, Omicron disease is a milder version of COVID-19 with Wuhan-D614G or Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta variants. Mutational changes All previous variants had few mutational changes of the spike protein, Omicron has many more, particularly in the ‘receptor-binding domain’ (RBD), the ligand that binds to host cell receptor, ACE-2. While earlier variants have 8-9 mutations on the S1 portion, Omicron has 32-37 in different studies. On RBD, Omicron has 15 mutations, while others have only 1 to 3. This many mutations have resulted in several alterations in the virus-host cell interactions. For example, the viral load in saliva is high, allowing high sensitivity in RT-PCR of saliva samples. Much virus is broadcast into air even without cough. Obviously, the need for face masks cannot be overemphasised, to block virus shedding (by the infected) and to prevent inhaling air-borne virus (by others). Coronaviruses have two cell entry processes – the major one by fusion of virus envelope with the cell membrane and the minor one by fusion with the endosomes within the cytoplasm. Virus multiplication is far more efficient with major than minor process. All previous variants use the major cell entry process. Omicron uses the second process, as elucidated in laboratory experiments. After receptor-binding the receptor–virus complex is ‘swallowed up’ by the cell through ‘endocytosis’ without affecting the cell membrane. The endocytotic vesicle (invagination of cell membrane) then fuses with subcellular organelle called endosome, a normal process. The virus coat now fuses with endosome membrane, releasing the virus genome into the cytoplasm. In the first process with cell-surface fusion, all adjacent cells also fuse with the infected cell and form a ‘syncytium’ – giant cell with multiple nuclei. Syncytia are closely associated with disease severity, particularly with lung pathology. In laboratory experiments with Omicron, syncytium formation does not occur. This change presumably leads to less virus production in the body, less invasion of organs and tissues, lower severity and duration of symptoms, decreased need for hospitalisation and low case-fatality ratio – altogether a watered down 2021 version of COVID 2019. Omicron resembles influenza virus infection that remains mostly confined to upper respiratory tract. Immunity evasion Omicron has a propensity for immunity evasion. Virus neutralising antibodies induced by infection by all earlier variants or any of the available vaccines are far less effective against Omicron disease. Most monoclonal antibodies that were effective to treat COVID-19 are no longer effective to treat Omicron disease. However, the world over, high degree of protection against severe disease requiring hospitalisation by enhanced antibody levels achieved by a booster dose, is observed. Experience from the U.K. is instructive. Vaccine effectiveness against Omicron disease requiring hospitalisation was 72% during 2-24 weeks after second dose, but only 52% after 25 or more weeks – significantly increasing to 88% two weeks after a booster dose. Even when antibody fitness to the virus (affinity) is low, the sheer magnitude of antibody level enables antibody-binding to more viruses, thus enhancing functional effectiveness as shown in the U.K. Had India gone on a massive public education on the importance of two doses of vaccine to mitigate the impact of Omicron wave, and also on the value of booster doses to increase protection, we could have had a relatively normal life in India during January–February of 2022 – many scientific meetings and other events scheduled for these months could have proceeded unhindered, instead of getting postponed. These many changes – genetic, fundamental cell–virus interactions, pathology, virulence, disease characteristics, immunity evasion – set Omicron apart from all other variants. To emphasise its greater deviation than other variants, imagine the term ‘deviant’. The term deviant indicates the high degree and abruptness (non-continuum) of change – in virology, the terms used to represent substantial genetic differences are: lineage, sub-type or serotype – depending on the degree of deviation. We expect the International Committee of Taxonomy of Viruses will address this question without delay, as we have already alerted the WHO and the International Society of Infectious Diseases. If we consider Omicron disease sufficiently different from Coronavirus disease of 2019 (COVID-19), perhaps it deserves the name COVID-21. If it is considered a deviant with antigenic shift, rather than drift, as is the case in all variants, the current upsurge of disease overcoming high population immunity can be considered a new pandemic, not simply a wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Influenza pandemic Analogy with Influenza Type A virus epidemiology is interesting. The 1957 pandemic due to a subtype H2N2 emerged when the H1N1 of 1918 pandemic was still circulating as endemic/seasonal. H2N2 with antigenic shift not only spread globally, but it also displaced H1N1 from circulation – why? Immunity induced by H2N2 was sufficient to prevent H1N1 circulation. In 1968, the next pandemic started with H3N2 subtype; it displaced H2N2, presumably due to cross-immunity. The 2009 pandemic was with a new variant of H1N1, with borrowed genes from swine influenza, and named H1N1pdm09 to distinguish it from the earlier H1N1. Antigenic cross-reactivity with H3N2 was not strong – hence both H3N2 and H1N1pdm09 are in co-circulation globally as endemic/seasonal. While Delta variant overshadowed all earlier variants that are nowadays infrequently found anywhere, we anticipate that Omicron with antigenic shift and compromised cross-reactivity may not displace Delta. Omicron being more transmissible than Delta, we speculate: (1) In 2022, both Delta and Omicron might co-circulate, and (2) we may need vaccines against all variants of SARS-CoV-2 as well as against Omicron and its future variants, if any. (T Jacob John and M S Seshadri are former (retired) Professors of Virology and Endocrinology, respectively, at Christian Medical College, Vellore and Dhanya Dharmapalan is a pediatric infectious diseases specialist in Navi Mumbai.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/omicron-epidemic-third-wave-or-new-pandemic/article38199584.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:46 IST,||NCBS: Zebrafish study reveals how the brain makes its connections||Neurons, or nerve cells, in the brain connect by means of junctions known as synapses through which they transmit signals. Recent work by researchers at the National Centre of Biological Sciences, Bengaluru, has thrown light on what stimulates these synapses to form. There are two types of synapses – chemical and electrical. In chemical synapses, there is a space of about 20 nanometres between two neurons, and the way they communicate is this: One neuron converts electrical signal into chemical signals and this chemical is released into the synaptic space and the receiving neuron converts the chemical signal back into an electrical signal. As far as the electrical synapse goes, this is not the way it operates. In these synapses, the two neurons have a physical connection and the conversion of electrical to chemical need not occur, and they communicate directly. Electrical synapses are like a physical wire, communication is faster but they are also fewer in number. Neuron handshake It was shown that electrical synapses are formed before chemical synapses, they are like a blueprint in which neurons make a handshake. This results in the making of chemical synapses. Research on organisms such as leeches showed that if you remove electrical synapses, the chemical synapses do not form. However, the mechanism of how it happens in higher organisms such as vertebrates was not known. Researchers from TIFR-National Centre of Biological Sciences, Bengaluru, have chosen Zebrafish as a model organism to study this process. Zebrafish are transparent and neuron development in larval zebrafish can be observed from day to day by injecting a dye or by engineering the fish to express fluorescent proteins. Purkinje neurons The group observed that knocking out a particular protein known as the gap junction delta 2b (gjd2b) in the cerebellum of zebrafish affected levels of an enzyme CaMKII. Levels of CaMKII were seen to increase in the Purkinje neurons in the cerebellum. These neurons and the cerebellum itself control co-ordination of movements in the organism. In humans for example, excess abuse of alcohol leads to damage of these cells, which results in lack of co-ordination in movement. As Prof. Thirumalai explains, the cerebellum shows an evolutionary continuity in all vertebrates, so, too, the Purkinje neurons. Even though fish and humans diverged from a common ancestor about 500 million years ago, the cerebellum has been evolutionarily conserved. While zebrafish have about 300-400 Purkinje neurons, humans have thousands of these. Dendrite arbours “Normally, levels of CaMKII are low in developing (immature) neurons and high in mature neurons, and the increased level actually freezes the development of dendrite arbours,” says Vatsala Thirumalai of NCBS, who led the work published in eLife. Dendrite arbours are branched ends of neurons, given this name because of their tree-like structure. “In the absence of gap junction protein, camk2 levels prematurely increase, preventing arbours from forming. Thus, chemical synapses do not form.” The work uses advanced techniques such as time-lapse microscopy and confocal microscopy which allowed the group to observe how the neuronal cells grow in the fish brain day after day. Electron microscopy was used to view slices of the brain to count the number of synapses present. To make the mutant fish with gjd2b protein knocked out, the group used the genome editing tool TALEN (Transcription Activator-Like Effector Nuclease). “It is possible to do such exciting research using the latest and most advanced tools and techniques in India today. I hope this trend will encourage more students to take up a career in research,” says Prof. Thirumalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/ncbs-zebrafish-study-reveals-how-the-brain-makes-its-connections/article38199588.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:46 IST,||Amazing and rare microbes||Can microbes produce oxygen in the dark? Scientists say there would be no oxygen on Earth were it not for sunlight: the key component in photosynthesis. Now researchers from University of Southern Denmark have discovered that oxygen is also produced without sunlight, possibly deep below the ocean surface. Researchers have discovered that some of the invisible microorganisms living in water columns produce oxygen in an unexpected way. Nitrogen cycle A few microbes are known to make oxygen without sunlight, but so far they have only been discovered in very limited quantities and in very specific habitats.  But the ocean living microbe Nitrosopumilus maritimus and its cousins, called ammonia oxidising archaea play an important role in the nitrogen cycle. For this, they need oxygen. So it has been a long-standing puzzle why they are also very abundant in waters where there is no oxygen. The researchers found that these micro-organisms make their own oxygen, according to a University of Southern Denmark press release.  Keeps it going  The researchers conducted tests in the lab and found that N. maritimus was using the oxygen present in water but the oxygen levels started increasing again in water. They micro-organisms were able to make oxygen even in a dark environment. Not sufficiently high to influence oxygen levels on Earth, but enough to keep itself going.  N. maritimus couples the oxygen production to the production of gaseous nitrogen. By doing so they remove bioavailable nitrogen from the environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/amazing-and-rare-microbes/article38199586.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:29 IST,||Meet the 3 Shettys changing Kannada cinema||In October 2021, Kannada star Rakshit Shetty — known for backing and being a part of ‘thinking projects’ — tweeted about a film that had blown his mind and that his production house Paramvah would be collaborating with. On November 19, when Raj B. Shetty’s Garuda Gamana Vrishabha Vahana ( GGVV ) released, viewers could relate to that emotional announcement.  The film marked the coming together of three talents from Dakshina Kannada, the coastal southern tip of Karnataka. It starred Raj (34) and Rishab Shetty (38), and was presented by Rakshit (38). “It stayed with me for more than three days, which is very rare for me,” says Rakshit, who watched it during the COVID-19 lockdown, in June 2020. “I knew this was special and that I had to become a part of it.” The film has now been picked up by Zee5 — the third Kannada film that the OTT platform has chosen recently — and hopefully will see Kannada movies gain the kind of national popularity that Malayalam and Tamil films are experiencing at the moment. Spearheading a revival Dakshina Kannada has slowly been reclaiming its space in mainstream Kannada cinema. Though actor-directors Kashinath and Upendra had paved the way a few decades ago, unfortunately, the region’s unique dialect and sing-song diction soon found itself being used just to elicit laughs rather than to serve as a cultural indicator.  Quite like what happened to the deep south in Tamil Nadu and to the Hindi hinterland, before the revival (in Tamil, it was the ‘Madurai Triumvirate’ — as Anurag Kashyap calls Bala, Ameer and Sasikumar — with films such as Subramaniapuram , Sethu , and Paruthiveeran ; in Hindi, filmmakers like Kashyap, Prakash Jha and Anand Rai went back to small-town India in movies like Gangs of Wasseypur , Gangaajal , and Tanu Weds Manu .   What brought the spotlight back on Dakshina Kannada was Rakshit’s 2014 debut directorial, Ulidavaru Kandanthe. The crime drama inspired others in the industry such as Rishab ( Kirik Party , Sarkari Hiriya Prathamika Shaale… Kasaragodu ) and Raj. Today, the trio is ensuring the region’s stories, language, food and distinct culture (think tiger dance or pili vesha ) get noticed across Karnataka and beyond.  All things local GGVV references the trinity of Shiva, Vishnu and Brahma. Not unexpected, as all three actor-directors grew up surrounded by Yakshagana, the theatrical dance drama, and other local art forms. Udupi boy Rakshit recalls watching pili vesha artistes getting painted outside his house. “When I write my films, these images float in,” he says. Rishab was in Class 6 when he played the role of Lord Subramanya in a Yakshagana performance in his village of Keradi, in Kundapura, about 40 kilometres from Udupi.   Raj, the youngest of the Shetty trio, grew up in Bhadravati, near Shivamogga, before moving to Mangaluru. “I wonder if any other region in the country offers this kind of cultural smorgasbord, featuring so many performing arts: Yakshagana, bhootakola , dance and music, and festivity,” says the actor-director, who also fell in love with Mangaluru Kannada.  The language factor  In fact, it was language — specifically Mangaluru and Kasargod Kannada — that Raj and Rishab bonded over in 2017. Impressed by Raj’s OMK, the latter asked him to write a few dialogues for Sarkari… , a 2018 film about a lone Kannada medium school struggling to survive in the border district of Kasargod. The ‘deal’ was signed in Bengaluru, over rice and leftover fish curry (without the fish). “I think our boys [Raj and his team] were just happy to get ooru -style curry and boiled rice in the city,” smiles Rishab, adding that Raj “wrote the dialogues for 10 scenes in 10 minutes, and tweaked them in another five.”   Rishab and Rakshit’s friendship, meanwhile, goes back to their struggling years, specifically 2011-2012. Rakshit, an engineering graduate, was trying to make a mark in cinema, and Rishab, who had a diploma in direction from the Government Film and TV Institute in Bengaluru, was doing everything from real estate to selling water cans in Bengaluru when the two met on the sets of Aravind Kaushik’s Tughlak — Rakshit’s debut as hero, with Rishab as antagonist.   In 2014, they would collaborate on Ulidavaru Kandante , now a cult classic, and in 2016, the two came together for Kirik Party . Rakshit is now working on Richard Anthony , Ulidavaru ’s possible prequel and sequel of sorts (which takes the story forward, but also delves into the past). Meanwhile, I learn, Raj was initially wary of interacting with Rakshit — he stayed away from stars. “But when I finally met him during the COVID-19 lockdown and we discussed cinema, I saw a kindred soul. I wrote an idea he had for an OTT project, and he loved what he saw of GGVV and offered to present it,” he says.  A growing community  Each of them, in their own way, has helped create an ecosystem of like-minded creators. Rakshit invests heavily in writing and his team, Rakshit and the Seven Odds, is quite popular in the industry. One of the reasons he decided to make Ulidavaru Kandanthe in the Dakshina Kannada dialect was because he was tired of hearing bad versions of the dialect on screen. “That is not the language we speak,” he insists.   Rishab has been producing films and backing new talent from across the State. He does this so “no one has to monkey pedal for 10 years before they get to ride a cycle!” — he got to make a movie ( Ricky , 2016) after 10 years of struggle.  For Raj, his ecosystem is his friends and his cinematographer-editor Praveen Shriyan with whom he has worked since his first short film. “When like-minded people are involved in a project, it becomes more valuable... I feel I am giving in to the selfish motive of witnessing pure art being created,” he says.  ‘ Writing is deep catharsis’  Rakshit, Rishab and Raj — who write, act, direct and produce films — learn from each role of theirs. “When I direct someone like Anant Nag [ Sarkari Shaale ], I subconsciously pick up something I can use as an actor. Likewise, when I act with someone like Raj, I am in awe of what he manages to do as a director,” says Rishab.  For Raj, the stories come from his lived experiences. So, writing is deep catharsis. He calls himself a writer first, then a director and actor. “Producing my films gives me the freedom to write without worrying about selling. My friends take on the hard side of production. I only lend my name. So when someone like Rakshit offers to present the film, I am delighted, because that frees me up to just be creative,” he smiles. Rakshit considers himself a writer first. “I am constantly observing and absorbing stuff. And so, writing happens very naturally. As a producer, I have an eagle’s eye perspective — I don’t micromanage. As an actor, I just have to come to the set and be the character,” he says. Do the three men hope to collaborate more often? Yes, but only if the script demands it. They want to work with filmmakers from other parts of Karnataka so that they can give others a leg-up and help narrate their stories in a commercial format.  Garuda Gamana Vrishabha Vahana premieres on Zee5 on January 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/meet-the-3-shettys-changing-kannada-cinema/article38200051.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:33 IST,||Curfew: Delhiites keep indoors as police step up patrol||Delhi roads wore a deserted look on Saturday following the weekend curfew imposed by the city government in a bid to curb the rising number of COVID-19 cases. The curfew came into effect across the Capital from 10 p.m. on Friday and will remain in force till 5 a.m. on Monday. To ensure strict compliance with the restrictions, the Delhi police stepped up patrolling, erected barricades and cautioned citizens of legal action if they stepped out of their homes without any reason. On Sunday, however, devotees will be allowed to visit gurdwaras to be able to observe Prakash Purab of Guru Gobind Singh, according to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). On Friday evening, a senior police officer said barricades were put in place across several locations in the city and especially at arterial routes to check vehicular movement and ensure that no person was moving unauthorisedly during the curfew period. Deployment of personnel has been increased in several police districts for the entire 55-hour curfew period to ensure that the order was not violated. “No major violations were reported by any of our 40-45 odd enforcement teams that kept a watch during the day. Rain and cold also contributed to keeping people indoors,” said a senior south Delhi district officer. Roads in many parts of the city remained empty and market places fell silent following the curfew. Many DTC buses were seen plying empty and bus stands too wore a deserted look on Saturday. In view of the surge in COVID-19 cases due to the Omicron variant, the Delhi government had announced the weekend curfew on Tuesday. “A weekend curfew has been imposed to minimise the spread of the coronavirus in Delhi. Visit the hospital only if you have severe symptoms. Treatment is possible under home-isolation. Wear a mask and follow all the COVID-related protocols,” Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain tweeted on Saturday morning. During the curfew, only those involved in essential services and those facing emergency situations are allowed to step out of their homes while others venturing out have to produce e-passes issued by the government or valid identity cards if they fall under the list of exempted categories. There were some complaints regarding the issuance of e-passes during the curfew and the National Restaurant Association of India said it might be compelled to shut down home delivery due to the problem. Following the NRAI tweet, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal promised to look into the matter. E-passes on website Officials involved in essential and emergency services are included in the exempted category and can move out by showing their identity cards. Individuals can apply for an e-pass for the weekend curfew and the night curfew on weekdays on http://www.delhi.gov.in. People coming from, or going to, airports, railway stations and inter-State bus terminuses will be allowed on the production of valid tickets. Pregnant women and patients going to get medical and health services, along with attendants, are exempted on the production of valid identity cards and a doctor’s prescription. During the weekend curfew, only shops dealing in essential items such as groceries, medical equipment, medicines will be allowed to open. The DDMA is scheduled to meet at noon on Monday to assess the COVID situation amid surging daily cases and more restrictions are likely to be announced, according to government sources. “Anyone having any kind of emergency like going to a hospital etc. will be allowed to move. We request the citizens not to come out of their homes without any reason during the curfew and to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour,” Delhi Police public relations officer Chinmoy Biswal had said on Friday. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/weekend-curfew-delhiites-keep-indoors-as-police-step-up-patrol/article38199817.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:34 IST,||‘Response from people shows BJP will form next govt. in Goa’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will win a majority in the 40-member Goa Assembly, polls for which will be held on February 14, the party’s State unit chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade said on Saturday. ‘BJP ahead of others’ Addressing a press conference, Mr. Tanavade and Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said the BJP was ahead of all others as far as campaigning was concerned, with booth level workers already on the ground. Mr. Tanavade said from the response the BJP was getting State-wide, it was certain the party will retain power easily. “Different political parties are forming pre-poll alliances with the sole aim of defeating the BJP. But the people of Goa have understood this entire game plan,” he claimed. Mr. Sawant said the people of Goa understand the need for a stable government to bring about development, and their vote was not for a BJP candidate but for a stable and efficient government. Final list Mr. Tanavade said the party’s State election committee, which will recommend the names of the candidates, will be formed on Sunday, and the final list will be announced by the parliamentary board in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/response-from-people-shows-bjp-will-form-next-govt-in-goa/article38200064.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:34 IST,||Snowfall, rain, hail in several States||Snowfall and rain continued in Uttarakhand while Shimla in Himachal Pradesh received the first snowfall of the year on Saturday. Highways in hilly areas in Uttarakhand were blocked and high altitude villages were covered in snow. Lower areas and the plains were lashed by rain including Dehradun where light showers continued throughout the day. Inconvenience caused The Gangotri Highway was blocked by snow at Gangnani and Sukki Top on way to the Himalayan temple while Yamunotri Highway was blocked at Hanuman Chatti and Rari Top, Uttarkashi District Disaster Management officer Devendra Patwal said. The pedestrian routes to local villages were also blocked, causing inconvenience to the residents, he said. The workers of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) are busy clearing the roads with the help of JCBs, Mr. Patwal said. Badrinath, Kedarnath and most places located at a height of above 3,000 metres were lashed by snow. Chopta and Auli in Chamoli district also received snow. The Meteorological Department had predicted a wet spell for Uttarakhand till January 9. Cold wave Most places in Himachal Pradesh too are reeling under severe a cold wave, the Met Department said. Some upper parts of Shimla city, including Jakhoo, the Ridge, Benmore and Sanjauli received light snowfall on Saturday morning. Welcoming the first snowfall of 2022, Benmore Councillor Kimi Sood posted a live video on her Facebook page. However, several parts of Shimla city, including Chhota Shimla, Khalini and Dhalli, did not receive any snowfall. Most places in the State continued to reel under severe cold as the upper reaches are experiencing intermittent snowfall while the plains are getting rain. Tourist destinations Kufri and Narkanda in Shimla district also received snowfall. Normal life in tribal districts Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur and Pangi, and Bharmour of Chamba district was thrown out of gear due to snowfall. The lowest temperature in the State was recorded at minus 5.1 degree Celsius in Lahaul-Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong. Normal life hit Normal life was affected in parts of Rajasthan as light to moderate rainfall with hailstorm triggered by the western disturbance lashed many parts of the State, officials said on Saturday. Kishangarh-Renwal in Jaipur district recorded the maximum 8 cm rainfall while Behror and Neemrana in Alwar saw 7 cm rain. The rainfall at other places was below 7 cm. Hailstorms also occurred at several places damaging standing mustard crops. The State recorded a minimum temperature between 7 deg C (Jaisalmer) and 17 deg C (Dungarpur) on Friday night. The department has predicted rain at a few places in Bharatpur and Jaipur on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/snowfall-rain-hail-in-several-states/article38200066.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:33 IST,||BJP trying to divert attention from basic issues, says Patole||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Saturday said the BJP was trying to divert attention from the basic issues faced by the country by indulging in drama. He added that change is certain in the upcoming polls in five States. Speaking to the reporters here, Mr. Patole said, “The Congress is ready... However, the BJP is trying to divert attention from the basic issues by indulging in drama,” he said. “When they are out of power, they want to save the country, and when in power, they want to save themselves. People have understood this type of thinking, and hence, change is certain,” he said. Speaking about the Prime Minister’s ‘security breach’ row, Mr. Patole said, “We have been saying that the Congress and the country have lost two PMs to security lapses. Hence, the party has taken the issue seriously and is not looking at it politically.” Mr. Patole asked why the route given by the MHA was changed at the last moment and how the BJP supporters reached the place where the convoy was stranded. “These points should be investigated and the Supreme Court has ordered a probe.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-trying-to-divert-attention-from-basic-issues-says-patole/article38200061.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:33 IST,||Ban on movement of people in groups during daytime||Maharashtra government on Saturday announced more restrictions in light of surging COVID-19 cases. While night curfew has been imposed from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m., no one will be allowed to move in groups of five or more from 5 a.m. to 11 p.m. However, public transport will be open, but only for fully vaccinated passengers. As per the latest orders, all school and colleges will remain closed till February 15 except those required by various boards for Class 10 and Class 12. All swimming pools, gyms, spas, wellness centres and beauty saloons will remain closed. Hair cutting saloons, however, can run on 50% capacity, but should remain closed between 10 p.m. and 7 a.m. Number of attendees at marriages, social, religious, cultural and political gathering has been restricted to 50, while for funerals this will be 20. All entertainment parks, zoos, museums, forts and other ticketed places or events for general public and local tourist spots will remain closed. Shopping malls, market complexes, restaurants, eateries, theatres and drama theatres can run at 50% capacity with only fully vaccinated people. All these establishments should display the number of visitors present on a notice board outside and they will remain closed from 10 p.m. to 8 a.m. While the State government said that the Government of India guidelines for international travellers will remain in place, it has made double vaccination or negative RTPCR report from up to 72 hours mandatory for domestic travellers arriving in the State by air, train and road. It will also apply to drivers, cleaners and other support staff. Construction activities, cargo services and industrial activities can continue but only with fully vaccinated staff. All competitive exams such as UPSC, MPSC, or for public institutions or statutory authorities at national level will be held as per central government guidelines and hall tickets of the same will be considered as valid documents for travel. All government offices have been barred from entertaining any visitor, except with explicit and written permission from heads of departments. Private offices have been asked to ensure not more than 50% of staff at a given time and managements have been advised to consider flexible working hours. Only fully vaccinated employees may attend office physically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jabs-negative-rt-pcr-made-must-to-enter-maharashtra/article38199824.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:33 IST,||Netai row: Dhankhar seeks details from CS, DGP||A day after Leader of the Opposition in West Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari, in a letter, complained that he was stopped from attending a programme in Jhargram, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday asked the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police to provide him all details of the incident by January 10. Written report sought Mr. Dhankhar also sought a written report from them in the matter. “In view of highly disturbing scenario, reminiscent of emergency, in Jan 07 communication @SuvenduWB WB Guv has directed CS @MamataOfficial & DGP @WBPolice to brief him, fully updated, with written report, on Jan 10 at 11 am (sic),” he tweeted. In an earlier tweet, he said Mr. Adhikari was “ill-treated by the administration”. Mr. Adhikari, in his letter to Mr. Dhankhar, said he was prevented from visiting Netai, where he sought to pay respects to those killed on January 7, 2011. Court order The Nandigram MLA alleged that he was stopped by the police despite a Calcutta High Court order stating that “there is no restriction on my movement”. In 2011, nine people were killed in Netai in indiscriminate firing by alleged CPI(M) activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/netai-row-dhankhar-seeks-details-from-cs-dgp/article38199821.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 03:44 IST,||The Devas arbitration||The story so far: On Monday (January 3), Devas shareholders said they had won an order allowing seizure of $30 million worth of properties of Air India and the Airports Authority of India after a Canadian court’s order in connection with the arbitration award it had won against the Indian government. Both Indian entities have sought quashing of this order and the court has reserved its decision.  What happened in Canada? A court in Canada had ordered seizure of amounts collected by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) on behalf of Air India and AAI. Separate orders were passed on November 24 and December 21 on pleas by Devas’s shareholders. This is the latest attempt by Devas shareholders to enforce the arbitration awards it won at international tribunals after India cancelled the Devas-Antrix deal in 2011. So far, Devas has moved to seize U.S. $17.3 million of ticketing fees collected on behalf of Air India and U.S. $12.76 million of air navigation and aerodrome charges international airlines owe to AAI. Air India and AAI have sought quashing of the seizure order and the Quebec Superior Court held hearings on January 4 and January 5. The court has reserved its decision. What was the Antrix-Devas deal and why was it cancelled? Telecommunications firm Devas Multimedia signed a contract with Antrix (ISRO's commercial arm) in 2005 under which the latter would build and launch two ISRO satellites and lease the corresponding S-band satellite spectrum to Devas, which in turn would use it to provide its Internet services. Following a leaked draft CAG audit report that pointed to a number of potential irregularities in the deal, including alleged financial mismanagement and violation of standard operating procedures the UPA government cancelled the Antrix-Devas deal in February 2011 citing “force majeure". However, the final CAG report and a number of other panel probes did not find any evidence of quid pro quo or bribery. Questions have also been raised about the calculation of losses by the CAG in the Antrix-Devas deal as it compared satellite spectrum with telecom spectrum. Why has Devas sought to attach AAI and Air India assets overseas? After the Devas-Antrix deal was cancelled in 2011, Devas Multimedia Private Limited and its shareholders won three arbitration awards at international tribunals. Despite the compensation awarded to Devas shareholders, India has not paid any money yet and challenged the awards multiple times. Devas says that in 2020 the BJP government agreed to a negotiated global financial settlement, but walked away from it and until India returns to the negotiating table, it has no alternative but to move against India’s assets globally. The first award on September 14, 2015 by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Tribunal, seated in New Delhi, unanimously rejected Antrix's defence of “force majeure” for cancelling the deal and held that it had wrongfully repudiated the agreement and awarded Devas U.S. $562.5 million in damages plus 18% interest per annum. ISRO's commercial arm, Antrix, has filed a petition to set aside the ICC award which is currently under adjudication before the Delhi High Court. In 2012, shareholders of a Devas arm incorporated in Mauritius moved the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) against India, alleging violation of the obligation to protect their interest as guaranteed under the India-Mauritius Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT). The PCA Tribunal, seated at The Hague, on July 25, 2016 found India liable for breaching its obligations. On October 13, 2020 the PCA Tribunal awarded Devas shareholders over U.S. $111 million plus interest as compensation. A third arbitration by one of the other shareholders of Devas —Deutsche Telekom (DT)—under the India-Germany Bilateral Investment Treaty at the PCA, won DT more than $132 million plus interest (in December 2017 and May 2020).  Meanwhile, in January 2021, after a plea from Antrix, the National Company Law Tribunal ordered winding up of Devas on grounds of being fraudulent, which was upheld by NCLAT in September, 2021. NCLAT has also held the Antrix-Devas agreement to be illegal. Devas has moved the Supreme Court and its appeals are pending.  What about Air India’s sale to the Tatas? Devas's move to seize Air India assets comes just weeks before Tata Sons is set to take over the airline. However, the events in Canada are unlikely to hamper the transfer of the airline as Tata Sons has been granted indemnity from past legal claims in the shareholder's agreement. "Expect a smooth transition by January-end," Kapil Kaul, CEO, CAPA India, said.  The move to seize Air India assets comes weeks before Tata Sons takes over the airline. But events in Canada are unlikely to hamper the transfer as Tata Sons has been granted indemnity from past legal claims||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-devas-arbitration/article38199524.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:32 IST,||Probe graft in pandemic purchases, says Satheesan||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has warned of strong protests by the United Democratic Front (UDF) unless a probe is ordered into what he alleges as corruption of Rs. 1,600 crore in the irregular purchases made during the COVID-19 outbreak. Talking to reporters here on Saturday, Mr. Satheesan said substandard PPE kits of Rs. 550 each were bought for a three-fold inflated price of Rs. 1,600. He also alleged corruption in the purchase of one crore gloves. “More than 3,000 computer files and 500-odd other files were destroyed to keep the corrupt deals under the wraps. Besides, 500-odd files had gone missing from the Health department. The corruption had taken place with the knowledge of the political leadership,” he said. By suspending just one person, the government was trying to pin the blame on him alone. The purchases of Rs. 1,600 crore had been made from a single laptop. The companies that usually supplied medicines were bypassed and a file noting was made to give 100% advance to the newly chosen ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/probe-graft-in-pandemic-purchases-says-satheesan/article38199607.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:33 IST,||Model code will be strictly enforced, says poll chief||With the Election Commission of India announcing dates for the Goa Assembly polls, the State Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) on Saturday said the model code of conduct will be strictly implemented to ensure free and fair elections. CEO Kunal said the average number of voters per booth in the State is 672, lowest in the country, while the average number of voters per constituency is 28,912. Vasco constituency has 35,139 eligible voters, the highest in the State, while Mormugaon has the least at 19,958, he said. “The focus is to tag (include) persons with disability. There are 10,318 voters who come under this category,” Mr. Kunal said. The model code of conduct will be strictly followed, and several teams have been formed to oversee its implementation, he said. Public rallies and meetings will not be allowed till January 15 in view of the COVID-19 situation, he said. Warning political parties against violating the Prevention of Defacement Act, 1988, during the campaign, Mr. Kunal said, “I would like to instruct stakeholders to adhere to law of the land.” Two flying squads will be formed for every constituency and they will operate round the clock, the CEO said. A list has been prepared of people who have offences registered against them and the District Magistrates have been directed to take necessary action, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/model-code-will-be-strictly-enforced-says-poll-chief/article38200062.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:33 IST,||Mass isolation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mass-isolation/article38200060.ece
09 January 2022||January 09 2022 06:33 IST,||BJP MLA says family being threatened on phone||A day after reports of terrorists conducting recce of the headquarters of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in Nagpur emerged, a BJP MLA from Mumbai wrote to Maharashtra’s Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil informing him that he and his family members are being threatened over the phone. In the letter to Mr. Walse-Patil, Bandra (West) MLA Ashish Shelar said he has been receiving threats from two different mobile numbers and has given details of those numbers to the police. “The manner in which me and my family are being given death threats is extremely serious. The language used by the person and the extreme anger are not ordinary,” he said. One arrested Later in the day, a 48-year-old man, Osama Shamshad Khan, was arrested for allegedly threatening and abusing Mr. Shelar, the Mumbai police said. Khan, a resident of Mahim, was tracked down and held on the basis of technical inputs gathered during a probe by the Crime Branch. The Nagpur police on Friday stepped up the security outside the RSS headquarters following reports of operatives of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed conducting a recce of the building. Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said such reports are worrying and the government as well as the police should take necessary precautions over these threats. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-mla-from-mumbai-says-family-being-threatened-on-phone/article38199829.ece
