10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:17 IST,||NEET-PG counselling from January 12: Centre||The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Postgraduate) counselling will begin from January 12, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Sunday. NEET-PG is a qualifying and ranking examination for postgraduate medical courses in government or private medical colleges. The Supreme Court on January 7, in an interim order, allowed resumption of counselling for NEET-PG admissions for 2021-22 while upholding the validity of 27% Other Backward Classes (OBC) and 10% Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota. Results of the NEET-PG were declared in the last week of September 2021, following which students had been waiting for the counselling to begin for nearly 45,000 postgraduate seats. The process was stalled after the Health Ministry’s proposal to reserve seats for EWS was challenged in court. Last month, resident doctors of various medical colleges held protests and boycotted work demanding speeding up of the counselling. The Health Minister tweeted on Sunday: “As assured by the Ministry of Health to the resident doctors, following the order of the Supreme Court, the NEET-PG counselling is being started by the Medical Counselling Committee from January 12, 2022. This will give more strength to the country in the fight against Corona. My best wishes to all the candidates.” The NEET-PG was held on September 11, 2021, after having been rescheduled twice in January and April last year. The counselling was postponed due to a petition in the Supreme Court. The plea challenged the new OBC and EWS reservation policy announced by the Central government and the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC). Now, there will be 27% reservation in undergraduate and postgraduate medical seats of the all India quota. For the EWS, 10% reservation has been permitted for this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/neet-pg-counselling-from-january-12-centre/article38212185.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:55 IST,||Precautionary dose for over three lakh people in Dakshina Kannada||A total of 3.37 lakh health care workers, frontline workers and those over 60 with co-morbidities will be administered precautionary dose of COVID-19 vaccine in Dakshina Kannada starting Monday. According to Dakshina Kannada District Health and Family Welfare Officer M. Kishore Kumar, there are 2.69 lakh people aged 60 and above, 52,523 health care workers and 15,924 frontline workers eligible for receiving the precautionary dose of the vaccine. Dr. Kumar said that the precautionary dose will be given to those who have taken the second dose of the vaccine nine months ago. The precautionary dose will be the same vaccine which the beneficiaries have taken earlier, as in the first two doses. The beneficiaries will be receiving an SMS from the Health and Family Welfare Department. The beneficiaries can directly go to the vaccination centre or book an appointment online. A formal function to launch the administration of the precautionary dose will be organised at the Government Wenlock Hospital. The district administration has so far administered vaccine to 30.58 lakh people of which 16,97,435 have received their first dose and 13,61,274 their second. While 16.90 lakh are in the 18-44 age category, 8.04 lakh are in the 45-60 age category. And, 5.02 lakh among these people are aged above 60. As many as 60,929 students aged between 15 and 17 have received their first dose so far since January 3. In Udupi As many as 23,125 health workers and 7,311 frontline workers are among those who will receive the precautionary dose in Udupi district. Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said that the district administration has planned to give the precautionary dose to all eligible beneficiaries in the next seven days. Stressing on the importance of guarding health workers and frontline workers, Mr. Rao asked all beneficiaries to visit the nearest vaccination centre and get their precautionary dose. Special vaccination camps will be organised to reach out to all beneficiaries. A total of 18,57,919 people have received the vaccine in Udupi district so far of which 10,06,195 have received their first dose and 8,51,724 their second. While 9.53 lakh are in the 18-44 age category, 4.99 lakh are in the 45-60 age category. As many as 3.73 lakh people are aged 60 and above and 31,931 in the 15-17 age category. A formal function to launch the drive to administer precautionary dose will be held at the District AYUSH hospital at Ajjarkadu on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/precautionary-dose-for-over-three-lakh-people-in-dakshina-kannada/article38212654.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:17 IST,||India adds 1.79 lakh COVID-19 cases||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to rise on Sunday, with 1,79,339 new infections, taking the total number of active patients in India to over seven lakh. The steep rise in the past week was primarily due to the case surge in urban centres such as Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru, and Chennai.  Between January 4 and 8, Mumbai recorded more than 86,000 cases, a 150% increase in infections compared to the week before. Delhi recorded about 68,000 new cases, a 350% rise. Bengaluru registered close to 24,000 cases, a 400% increase. In the same period, Chennai saw 17,247 infections, a 350% increase compared to the past week. Notably, the test positivity rate crossed the 10% mark in the country. That is, every 100 tests now yield 10 positive cases. The numbers are based on State bulletins released until 11.30 p.m. on Sunday. Ladakh, Lakshadweep and Tripura had not yet released data for the day. Andhra Pradesh reported 1,257 COVID-19 infections and two deaths in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The single-day tally crossed 1,000 for the first time in 101 days since October 1, 2021. At 3.27%, the positivity rate was also the highest in the past 180 days. The number of active cases tripled in just five days from 1,848 on January 5 to 4,774 on Sunday. (With inputs from The Hindu Data team)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-adds-162-lakh-covid-19-cases/article38212187.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:19 IST,||‘Ensure good publicity ahead of booster’||District in-charge Minister Shankar Patil Munenakoppa chaired a meeting of officers in Hubballi on Sunday, on the eve of booster vaccination drive for frontline workers and senior citizens with co-morbidities. He asked officials to ensure that good publicity and counselling, which, he said, can lead to larger coverage under the vaccination drive. He also asked officers to spread awareness about COVID-19 protocol, among the general public and school and college students.Proper treatment should be provided to COVID-19 patients, including those who come from other districts, States or countries.Health Department officers should ensure proper functioning of oxygen units and ventilator beds in hospitals, he said. He expressed gratitude to ASHAs and anganwadi workers for the contribution in the fight against COVID-19. The Minister said that 269 cases have been detected in Dharwad district this week and 76 of them have been cured. As many as 33 are under home isolation. Member of Legislative Assembly Jagadish Shettar asked officers to follow best practices from other States. He pointed out that the Government is yet to pay personnel who are managing the COVID-19 helpline and also the helpline 104. He expressed the confidence that they will be paid soon. He said that the helpline has remained non-operational due to non-payment. Operators told me that they are attending between 17,000- 50,000 calls per day. They related to complaints about lack of beds and oxygen and for general advice. The helpline needs to be operationalised again, he said. Member of Legislative Assembly Prasad Abbayya complained that the Government’s assurance of paying compensation to workers and labour who lost livelihoods in the first wave is yet to be kept. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said that cases are doubling every two days, compared to every week in the past. He, however, said that the situation is under control in rural areas. “We have increased testing. We have appointed nodal officers to private hospitals. Officers are ensuring proper availability of oxygen. Nutritious food is being supplied to inmates of residential schools and hostels. All fairs, festivals and celebrations are banned. An online system has been put in place to issue licences for weddings.” Member of Legislative Assembly Arvind Bellad, Member of Legislative Council Pradeep Shettar, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Superintendent of Police Krishna Kant and others were present. In Belagavi, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath visited the border check-posts in Kuganoli and other places. He asked officers to strictly enforce COVID-19 protocol related to entry of people from outside the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ensure-good-publicity-ahead-of-booster/article38212548.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:47 IST,||Maximum toll lanes opened towards Vijayawada due to Sankranti rush||Festive toll collection at plazas on the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) and the connecting State highways in undivided Nalgonda district picked up on Sunday with Andhra Pradesh-origin people heading to their home towns for Sankranti. In the wake of holidays for educational institutions in Telangana, and the combining weekend dates, the rise in volume of motorists at the plazas began on Saturday, a few days earlier than the previous seasons. While about 27,000 passenger car units per day being the busy average, officials at Pantangi toll plaza estimate that an additional 5,000 units were added in the 24 hours till the wee hours of Sunday. The toll complexes would be busy and the overall daily figure would continue to hover around the 30,000-mark over the next two days too, say plaza operators. On Sunday, poor visibility due to morning fog discouraged fast travel on the highway. Although there was no traffic congestion, queues at toll plazas took more than the prescribed waiting time, mostly for reasons of ‘inactive FASTags’. Pantangi toll plaza at Choutuppal and Korlapahada toll plaza near Suryapet, except for the slack in the afternoon, showed continuous activity for the rest of the day. Operators, forecasting increasing numbers, have also kept the maximum lanes open for vehicles going towards Vijayawada. Ten of the 16 lanes at Pantangi and nine lanes at Korlapahad were kept open for seamless transit. Besides arrangements such as employing additional staff at the entrances to plazas, project concessionaire GMR Infrastructure is also popularising the 1033 helpline. The toll-free emergency highway helpline not only alerts officials for ambulance and crane service, kept available at every 30 kms on the stretch till Vijayawada, but also comes to the aid of aggrieved motorists, whose FASTag stickers for whatever valid reasons are not accepted by plaza operators. Meanwhile, Rachakonda and Cyberabad police commissionerates have issued advisory to festival travellers. The commissionerate limits include colonies that are located along the city borders and has sizeable population of residents from Andhra Pradesh. In addition to increased patrolling in the week, as locked houses are easy targets for burglars, police in a set of to-dos and tips also said residents could pass on travel information to the respective police station. Rachakonda police control room can be contacted at 9494721100 and Cyberabad police control room can be contacted at 9490617100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sankranti-rush-maximum-toll-lanes-on-nh-65-opened/article38212561.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:47 IST,||TSGenco completes BTPS with commercial operation of 4th unit||Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TSGenco) has completed the execution 4×270 (1,080) megawatt Bhadradri Thermal Power Station, a greenfield project near Manuguru in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, with the commissioning of fourth unit of the project on Sunday. The commercial operation date (COD) of fourth unit was declared at 08:37 hours on January 9 after required trial run of the unit for 72 hours continuously with full load. The first three units commenced commercial operation on June 5, 2020, on December 12, 2020 and on March 27, 2021, respectively. According to the Genco officials, the fourth unit has generated about 35 million units of in-firm energy till its COD. “We have been able to complete the project despite National Green Tribunal stay on works initially, COVID-induced delays and other elements who tried to scuttle the progress of the project,” a senior executive of the power utility said. After the NGT stay secured by an NGO against the project conceived with sub-critical technology, works commenced in October 2017 with an estimated cost of Rs. 25,000 crore and due to delays the cost was revised to Rs. 29,700 crore including Rs. 680 crore allocated for flu gas desulphurization (FGD) plant to remove sulphur dioxides from the gas produced by boilers and furnaces to check the air pollution. Peak demand The first three units of the power plant have so far (till January 8) generated nearly 4,300 million units since their commercial operation commenced. Availability of 270 MW capacity is expected to help the Discoms during the peak demand periods in summer and peak of agricultural seasons. It is the first power plant to be conceived and completed after formation of Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/commercial-operation-of-fourth-unit-of-ts-gencos-btps/article38212571.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||Amarinder dismisses challenge from Cong., AAP||With Punjab Assembly election scheduled for February 14, former Chief Minister and chief of nascent Punjab Lok Congress Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.), in an exclusive interview to The Hindu dismissed any challenge from opponents.  The political veteran of over five decades said while the key political parties are nowhere in the reckoning, the farmers, if they contest, will lose credibility. Captain Singh asserted that while the Congress is in a state of continuous civil war, the Shiromani Akali Dal led by ‘Badals’ is nowhere in the picture, and the Aam Aadmi Party’s bubble was burst in the 2019 parliamentary elections with their vote share tumbling to a mere 7% from 25% in 2017 Assembly polls. “As far as the farmers, if they contest, will lose credibility as the majority of their leadership is opposed to participating in elections," he added. Alleging that the ruling Congress government in Punjab is scared of his alliance, he said the State government had sponsored protests and disruption during the recent visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which was a grave security lapse. “It was not actually the farmers’ protest. It was the State government-sponsored disruption. They were quite wary of the Prime Minister’s Ferozepur rally fearing that this will build up our campaign,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amarinder-dismisses-challenge-from-congress-aap/article38212189.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||PM for non-stop research to manage the pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while reviewing the measures being taken to counter the steep surge in COVID-19 infections, on Sunday stressed the importance of non-stop scientific research in testing, vaccines and pharmacological interventions, including genome sequencing, to deal with the evolving virus. At the meeting, Mr. Modi directed officials to ensure adequate health infrastructure at the district level; further accelerate the vaccination for adolescents; and leverage tele-medicine platforms to provide help to people in remote areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-for-non-stop-research-to-manage-the-pandemic/article38212188.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:17 IST,||Indore techie arrested for offensive app||Delhi Police on Saturday arrested Aumkareshwar Thakur, a 25-year-old web designer from Madhya Pradesh’s Indore, for being the alleged developer of the abusive ‘Sulli Deals’ app. The arrest comes over five months since the app held an ‘auction’ of Muslim women online, using and morphing photographs without permission, and FIRs were lodged against those responsible in Delhi and Noida. Police said Thakur, who has a BCA degree, created the app aimed at “defaming and trolling Muslim women”. During preliminary interrogation, Thakur admitted that he was the member of a trad-group (Tradmahasabha) on Twitter and an idea was shared on it to “defame and troll Muslim ladies”, officials said. Thakur was produced before a Delhi court late on Sunday and has been sent to four days’ police custody. “He developed the code for the application on GitHub and access was with all members of the group,” DCP (Special Cell Cyber Unit) K.P.S. Malhotra said. The officer said Thakur had shared the app on his Twitter account and the photos of Muslim women were uploaded by other members of the group. After the social media uproar over the ‘Sulli Deals’ app, “he had deleted all his social media footprints”. The arrest comes days after 20-year-old Niraj Bishnoi was arrested from Assam’s Jorhat for being the “mastermind” behind the recent ‘Bulli Bai’ app, which also “auctioned” several Muslim women online. He is now in seven-day police remand. ‘Met Bishnoi online’ During Bishnoi’s interrogation, the police claimed to have found that he used to interact with various virtual identities on social media and engage in several group discussions. Police said in July last year, Bishnoi and Thakur came in contact when a member of the group that the former belonged to shared the details of the ‘Sulli Deals’ app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indore-techie-arrested-for-offensive-app/article38212183.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:05 IST,||Steering for action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/steering-for-action/article38212218.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:05 IST,||Partial relief for Air India in Devas case||In partial relief for India, a court in Canada has said that investors of Devas Multimedia can seize only 50% of Air India’s assets held by the International Air Transport Association (IATA). It has also quashed the order permitting seizure of funds belonging to the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Earlier, in two separate orders on November 24 and December 21, Devas shareholders had received permission from the Quebec Superior Court to seize assets of AAI and AI held by IATA in connection with the two arbitration awards it won for wrongful cancellation of its deal with ISRO’s arm, Antrix, in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/partial-relief-for-air-india-in-devas-case/article38212219.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:14 IST,||CAA rules not notified as third deadline ends||The Ministry of Home Affairs did not notify the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, rules till Sunday, the third extended deadline after the Act was passed. January 9 was the last day of an extension the Ministry had sought from the two parliamentary committees in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha to frame the rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/caa-rules-not-notified-as-third-deadline-ends/article38212611.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:08 IST,||CAA rules not notified as third deadline ends||The Ministry of Home Affairs did not notify the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, rules till Sunday, the third extended deadline after the Act was passed. The extension had been sought to frame the rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/caa-rules-not-notified-as-third-deadline-ends/article38212457.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:56 IST,||Cong. has no respect for law of the land: Kateel||State president of the BJP Nalin Kumar Kateel said here on Sunday that the Congress has no respect for the law of the land. Responding to the Congress padayatra, he said that the State Government had imposed weekend curfew to safeguard the health of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-has-no-respect-for-law-of-the-land-kateel/article38212656.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:08 IST,||Not increasing curbs to protect jobs: Kejriwal||There is no plan to impose a lockdown in the Capital and the Delhi government is not increasing restrictions in order to protect the livelihood of people, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/not-increasing-curbs-to-protect-jobs-kejriwal/article38212459.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:19 IST,||162 new fair price shops in Kalaburagi district||People in remote areas heaved a sigh of relief with the district administration planning to soon set up 162 new fair price shops in hamlets and remote areas in Kalaburagi district. The objective is to ensure avoidance of hardships for people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/162-new-fair-price-shops-in-kalaburagi-district/article38212545.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:52 IST,||21 lakh people eligible for precaution dose||As many as 21 lakh people in Karnataka are eligible for the precaution dose of COVID-19 vaccine that will be provided from Monday. They include healthcare workers, frontline workers, and persons aged 60 and above with comorbidities. They will get the same vaccine that was administered previously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/21-lakh-people-eligible-for-precaution-dose/article38212352.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:19 IST,||Parents see malpractice in Sainik School test||Some parents on Sunday complained of malpractice in the admission test to Sainik Schools at a private school in Belagavi. They said that the authorities of Jain Heritage School leaked question paper to some select parents and made an exclusive seating arrangement for some children to allow them to copy. They also said that the school authorities allowed Shashidhar Kurer, senior KAS officer, inside the school premises after the examination began, despite knowing that his daughter was writing the test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parents-see-malpractice-in-sainik-school-test/article38212544.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:13 IST,||Arvind Kejriwal calls for door-to-door campaign||AAP volunteers have been asked to take a month off from work to conduct door-to-door campaigns in States where the party is contesting Assembly elections. AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the campaign was not to change the ruling party in the States or grab power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arvind-kejriwal-calls-for-door-to-door-campaign/article38212609.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||‘Trinamool’s presence will only help BJP in Goa Assembly poll’||Eschewing the recent bonhomie with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress, the Shiv Sena on Sunday lashed out at the Trinamool Congress, alleging that it was trying to split the Congress in poll-bound Goa by poaching its leaders.  In his weekly column Rokhthok in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana  , party leader and MP Sanjay Raut criticised Ms. Banerjee’s “resolve” to finish off the Congress in Goa.  He also hit out at the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), alleging that both the Trinamool and the AAP were using money to woo voters and poach established leaders. “The state of affairs in Goa is such that all parties have made it a ‘political laboratory’,” the Sena’s chief spokesperson said. Mr. Raut said while uprooting the Congress could be the BJP’s dream, it did not behove of someone like Ms. Banerjee, who too was fighting the BJP, to adopt such a stance. The Sena leader said the Trinamool’s politics would ultimately benefit the BJP. “The lack of a strong leadership in Goa has led to the Congress coming down to a mere two MLAs from its strength of 17 after the 2017 Assembly election…moreover, as Goa has never had much relevance in Delhi politics, there is not much overseeing of the Congress at the national level. As a result, ‘outside parties’ like the Trinamool and the AAP are now suddenly talking about the welfare of Goans and are eyeing Christian votes,” he said. The Goans would nonetheless stand by the Congress, Mr. Raut added. Ms. Banerjee, in her attempts to project the Trinamool as a national party and stitch-up an anti-BJP coalition, had met Mr. Raut and Minister Aaditya Thackeray in Mumbai and also Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar but conspicuously snubbed the Congress leadership. The Sena, the NCP and the Congress share power in the ‘Maha Vikas Aghadi’ coalition in Maharashtra. Questioning the Trinamool’s source of funds used in the Goa election, Mr. Raut also hit out at the ruling BJP for freely misusing money to cling to power in the coastal State.“The BJP, which has ruled Goa for the last decade, has been ‘buying out’ legislators from other parties with abandon as it had failed to secure majority in the 2017 election... but this time, people whom I met [in Goa] say the BJP will not get a majority even this time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamools-presence-will-only-help-bjp-in-goa-assembly-poll/article38212112.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||Devas can seize only 50% of Air India’s assets, says Canada court||In partial relief for India, a court in Canada has said that investors of Devas Multimedia can seize only 50% of Air India’s assets held by the International Air Transport Association (IATA). It also quashed the order permitting seizure of funds belonging to the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Earlier, in two separate orders on November 24 and December 21, Devas shareholders had received permission from the Quebec Superior Court to seize assets of the AAI and Air India held by the IATA in connection with the two arbitration awards it won for wrongful cancellation of its deal with ISRO’s arm, Antrix, in 2011. Subsequently, Devas shareholders moved to freeze $30 million belonging to the two entities, including $17.3 million of ticketing fees collected on behalf of Air India. Both Air India and the AAI then moved the court seeking quashing of its orders. On January 8, the Quebec Superior Court rejected Air India’s plea for quashing, but amended its earlier order and reduced seizure amounts to 50% of the funds held by the IATA retrospectively and prospectively. The relief came after Air India argued that its operation would be put in jeopardy especially given the global interruptions to the airline industry due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the court granted the AAI its motion to quash the November 24 order after it said that it was an entity of the Indian state, enjoyed state immunity and that navigational charges and aerodrome charges collected by the IATA on behalf of the AAI were related to sovereign functions and not commercial functions. Queries sent to the Ministry of Civil Aviation and Air India on the future course of action remained unanswered till the time of going to print. “Without going into detail into the extensive factual allegations aiming to establish India’s wrongful and abusive conduct towards Plaintiffs, the many actions, direct or indirect, of India within its country’s boundaries to attack, inter alia, the Treaty Awards and to prevent their execution by Plaintiffs is simply mind-boggling to say the very least,” the court observed. The setback for Air India comes weeks before it is to be handed over to Tata Sons as part of the airline’s privatisation, though the new buyers enjoy indemnity from past legal claims. The three Devas shareholders (Devas Mauritius Ltd., Devas Employees Mauritius Private Limited and Telcom Devas Mauritius Limited), who moved the Canada court, won two international arbitration awards for wrongful termination of its deal with Antrix — $563.5 million from the International Chamber of Commerce in September 2015 and $111 million from the Permanent Court of Arbitration in October, 2020. Shareholders are seeking to enforce the latter one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/devas-can-seize-only-50-of-air-indias-assets-says-canada-court/article38212104.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,||400 Parliament staffers test positive for COVID||Nearly 400 personnel working at Parliament tested positive for COVID-19 between January 4 and 8, sources said on Sunday. The crucial Budget Session of Parliament is scheduled to begin in the last week of January. Out of these, 65 are from the Rajya Sabha secretariat, 200 from the Lok Sabha Secretariat and 133 belong to allied services. New measures As a precautionary measure, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat has introduced a host of measures, including restricting the physical attendance of its staff. As per the latest directions, 50% of officials and staff below the rank of Under Secretary are required to work from home till end of the month. They constitute about 65% of the total employees. The decision was taken at a meeting of Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu with Secretary General P.C. Modi and Adviser P.P.K. Ramacharyulu. Those with disabilities and pregnant women are exempted from attending office. The starting and closing timings of the Secretariat are staggered to avoid crowding. All official meetings will be held virtually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/400-parliament-staffers-test-positive-for-covid/article38212138.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,||‘Congress is in a state of continuous civil war, it is no longer the party I headed’||Ahead of the Assembly election, former Chief Minister and chief of the nascent Punjab Lok CongressAmarinder Singh, who has tied up with the BJP and the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), is confident that the people of Punjab will vote for his alliance because people identify more with the leader than with the party. It is the leader who has to own up to whatever it is, success or failure, he says. Excerpts: What would be your party’s key agenda to seek votes in the upcoming Assembly election? I have already spelt out that national security and revival of Punjab’s economy will be our top most priorities. Punjab is a border State, bordering a perpetually hostile neighbour. Pakistan and its deep state will never rest and they are in continuous pursuit of creating trouble and turmoil in Punjab. They are sending across weapons using sophisticated technology. Recently, our security personnel found a Pakistani boat in the Satluj river. These are all ominous signs. Plus, there are anti-India propagandists being supported and patronized by the ISI. Second, the economy. Punjab has a cumulative debt burden of about Rs. 5 lakh crore. How will you repay that? It is a vicious cycle we will have to get out of and it is a tall order. And for all this, we need complete peace, as peace is the prerequisite for progress and prosperity. You have been claiming that once the model code of conduct is in place, several Congress leaders will join you. When can we expect that to happen? Wait and watch. I can’t tell you the specific numbers. We are in regular touch with not only Congress leaders and legislators, but also those from other parties. You will get to know very soon. The time has come. You are fighting polls in alliance with the BJP [but] the farmers have been angry with the BJP over the three farm laws, which were eventually repealed. Do you think the anger will mellow down? Of course, the farmers have mellowed down. Their main demand was repealing the three laws, which stand repealed. There is already a committee in place to look into the issue of legal guarantee for the minimum support price (MSP). The Prime Minister has shown magnanimity, and I am sure the farmers will also reciprocate. How do you react to farmers’ protest in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent Ferozepur rally and the security lapse? It was a grave security lapse. It was not actually the farmers’ protest. It was a State government-sponsored protest and disruption. They were quite wary of the Prime Minister’s Ferozepur rally, fearing that this will build up our campaign. They asked the police to block the way of people coming to the rally. The same way they tried to disrupt the Prime Minister’s cavalcade. They are lying when they say there was no security threat to the Prime Minister. You remember how some mischievous people almost lynched BJP MLA from Abohar Arun Narang or Congress MP Ravneet Bittu. It is good that the Prime Minister’s cavalcade stopped at a distance. Otherwise, the worst might have happened. The Congress and other Opposition parties accuse you of being hand in glove with the Badals and hence not acting against former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia in the drugs-related case. After your removal from CM post, the Channi government has filed an FIR against Mr. Majithia. What do you have to say? Just because they have nothing against me, they are saying, I was hand in glove with the Badals. Because, it does not cost them anything to say that. Anyway, I really don’t care. Regarding Majithia’s case, there was an investigation carried out by the Special Task Force. The investigation report is pending in a closed envelope in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Till the time you don’t open it, how do you know how a case can be made against Majithia, or for that matter against anyone else? Justice should not only be done, it should seem to have been done. Just because they would say I am hand in glove with the Badals, does not mean I would have jumped the due process of law to appease them. Law of this country does not work according to the whims and fancies of anyone. There is a due process that has to be followed. Which according to you is a greater challenge for your alliance in the poll — the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal-BSP or the Aam Aadmi Party? Also, what do you think would be the political fallout of 22 farmers unions contesting the polls? Honestly, I do not see any contest with anyone. I will tell you why. Take the Congress. It is in a state of continuous civil war. The Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu cannot see eye to eye with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. The PCC president is behaving like a pampered child, putting forth one demand after another, and he will never be satisfied. Now he wants himself to be declared as the chief ministerial candidate. If the Congress does that, it loses the strong Scheduled Castes (SC) vote base and if it does not, Sidhu will run away. Akalis are nowhere in the picture. People have not forgiven them for the way they handled the sacrilege cases and the subsequent protests by people. I don’t see them reaching even the last time figure of 13 or so. The AAP bubble was blasted in the 2019 parliamentary election. Their vote share tumbled down to a mere 7% from 25% in 2017. They may not even cross the double-figure mark this time. Farmers, if they contest, will lose credibility as the majority of their leadership is opposed to participating in elections. Moreover, they had maintained an apolitical character all through the agitation. If and when they join the electoral process, they will face tough questions. You have been claiming that as the Congress Chief Minister you fulfilled around 90% of election promises of Congress party. If that is the case then why should people not vote for the Congress again in the upcoming polls? People identify more with the leader than with the party. It is no longer the same Congress that I headed. Navjot Singh Sidhu has been in the party for not even five years and Mr. Channi joined the party in 2012. They cannot claim the credit. It is the leader who has to own up to whatever it is, success or failure. When is your alliance expected to announce the candidates? What would be the seat arrangement ? We have held a few rounds of talks already. This is an ongoing process. I have said it many times, numbers do not matter for us as who contests how many. Our sole criterion is winnability of the candidates no matter which party he or she may be from, whether the PLC, the BJP or the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sankyukt).  People identify more with the leader than with the party||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-is-in-a-state-of-continuous-civil-war-it-is-no-longer-the-party-i-headed/article38212119.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,||Fading colour of Buddhist monks’ saffron robe puts Assam village on a green path||A creeper that once gave a monk’s robe its saffron hue has made a Buddhist village in eastern Assam’s Charaideo district adopt a forest.  Five years ago, the bhikkhu s of a Buddhist monastery in the 152-year-old Chalapather Shyamgaon had bemoaned the near-extinction of bhungloti , a creeper that in combination with the pith of the roots of a jackfruit tree yielded a saffron dye for their robes.   The women of the village too lamented how getting vital ingredients from four indigenous plants for dyeing their mekhela , a traditional garment, indigo blue, was getting increasingly difficult.   “The concern of the monks triggered a movement for conserving the adjoining Chala Reserve Forest, the traditional source of most of the colours in our lives. And in September 2018, the people of 10 villages in the vicinity converged to do something about it,” Pyoseng Chowlu, secretary of Chala Village Sanctuary Conservation Society, told The Hindu .  The society was formed a month after that meeting, where the 683.173-hectare reserve forest under the Sivasagar Forest Division was declared as the Chala Village Sanctuary. A forest protection party comprising 22 members from the villages was also constituted to help the understaffed Forest Department keep loggers and poachers off. Forest protection party “We have only three staff to manage Chala and only one of them is permanent. The village sanctuary initiative, albeit non-notified, has yielded some green soldiers who are helping us check tree felling,” Dhimangshu Saikia, the Forest Division’s Ranger, said. Each member of the forest protection party has been given an identity card to guard the green space that houses at least 1,000 types of trees, medicinal plants, and 67 species of orchids — down from 130 less than a decade ago — besides leopard, black panther, hog deer, and a range of birds and butterflies. Apart from guarding, the society has been re-greening some 30 hectares denuded by timber smugglers and a few oil rigs planted by the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation decades ago. “We are maintaining more than 20,000 saplings the Forest Department gave us to plant. We have also established a 2.5-hectare biodiversity park in a part of the forest with an assortment of orchids and indigenous trees,” Prachurjya Shyam, the society’s executive member, said. The Chala Reserve Forest is about 100 metres above sea level. But it houses a few orchids that are usually found in higher altitudes. Orchid altitude mystery  “We are documenting the plants and herbs of our village sanctuary. They include the now rare Gnetum gnemon , a nutrient-rich plant locals have consumed for ages,” Mr. Chowlu said.   But plant experts engaged by the society have found it intriguing that the sanctuary sustains the Tainia penangiana , an orchid found at altitudes beyond 500 metres.  The society has been conducting periodic awareness campaigns to underscore the need for conserving such orchids and the plants that yielded the villagers’ dyes. Their initiative has earned the sponsorship of organisations such as the World Wide Fund for Nature-India.  The village sanctuary initiative, albeit non-notified, has yielded some green soldiers who are helping us check tree felling Dhimangshu SaikiaRanger, Sivasagar Forest Division||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/buddhist-monks-saffron-robe-gives-green-spin-to-assam-village/article38212133.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,||Rafale-M compatibility with aircraft carrier to be tested||Beginning Monday, French aircraft maker Dassault Aviation will fly its Rafale-M fighter jet from the Indian Navy’s Shore Based Test Facility (SBTF) in Goa to demonstrate compatibility and suitability to operate from the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier Vikrant’s deck.  The Rafale-M arrived in Goa last Thursday and the demonstration starting from Monday is expected to go up to February 1, two Defence officials independently said. Boeing will also demonstrate the compatibility of its F/A-18 Super Hornet on the SBTF likely in March, it has been learnt. These trials are part of demonstrations by aircraft manufacturers to showcase the compatibility of their aircraft to fly from Indian Navy’s aircraft carriers which use a ski-jump to launch aircraft, one official explained. Both the Rafale-M and F/A-18 are originally designed to operate from carriers with a catapult launch mechanism. The carrier would thus require minor modifications to operate the aircraft, officials said. A government-to-government agreement could be signed based on the aircraft selected to speed up the process, an official said. Boeing has taken a lead in the race having already demonstrated the ability of F/A-18 to take off from a similar shore based facility at Naval Air Station Patuxent river in Maryland, U.S. in December 2020. However, each fighter brings certain advantages while having some limitations. For instance, Rafale-M does not have a twin seater while its acquisition would mean commonality with the Indian Air Force which will soon complete inducting the 36 Rafale jets contracted in 2016. On the other hand, the F/A-18 is a much widely employed platform with a twin seater trainer and also has an electronic warfare version which might be of interest to the Navy. There is also the issue of the size of the aircraft and their fit on the carrier and its lifts which would also be factored in the final evaluation. In 2017, the Navy had floated Request For Information (RFI) to procure 57 twin-engine carrier fighters which is now set to downsized to around 26, including few twin-seater trainer variants. The revision is in the backdrop of a new indigenous Twin Engine Carrier Based Deck Fighter (TEBDF) being designed and developed by the DRDO and Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA). However, the procurement has now gained urgency as the Navy is short of aircraft to operate from both the carriers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rafale-m-compatibility-with-aircraft-carrier-to-be-tested/article38212128.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||Do not view Trinamool as a threat in Meghalaya, says BJP||The Meghalaya unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party has said the “backdoor entry” of the Trinamool Congress may harm the Congress and other political parties in the hill State. The BJP has also sniffed an opportunity in the 2023 Assembly election because of the possibility of the Trinamool adding to the dilemma of the people in choosing a party that would best serve their interests. “We don’t view Trinamool as a threat. It may threaten the prospects of the Congress and others in Meghalaya,” State BJP president Ernest Mawrie said. Among the “others” is the National People’s Party, which is the largest constituent of Meghalaya’s ruling alliance. The BJP is a minor partner in this alliance. Insisting that the Trinamool would not make much of a mark beyond West Bengal, he said the Mamata Banerjee-led party’s performance in theTripura civic body polllast year was a case in point. Mr. Mawrie had earlier said many within the State BJP who campaigned for his removal as the Meghalaya unit president have joined the Congress while the remaining dissidents would join the Trinamool. “I came to know that many of them will not remain in the party. Some of them are set to join the AITC,” he said, claiming that the BJP’s central leadership was happy with his performance and banking on him to lead the party in the 2023 Assembly poll. “We are optimistic about doing well in the elections this time unlike in 2018. We have already started our groundwork and have reconstituted 26 of the 60 Assembly constituency-based committees,” Mr. Mawrie said. The Trinamool became Meghalaya’s principal opposition party overnight afterformer Chief Minister Mukul M. Sangma and 11 other MLAs switched over from the Congress. An assembly line of Congress leaders, members of Youth Congress and National Students’ Union of India followed them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/do-not-view-trinamool-as-a-threat-in-meghalaya-says-bjp/article38212114.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||Centre yet to notify rules of Citizenship Amendment Act||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) did not notify the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 rules till Sunday, the third extended deadline after the Act was passed. January 9 was the last day of an extension it sought from the two parliamentary committees in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha to frame the rules. It was not imminently clear if the Ministry had sought more time from the committee on subordinate legislation in the two Houses of Parliament to notify rules that will govern the CAA. Without rules, the Act cannot be implemented. Earlier, it had sought time till April 9, 2021 and then July 9, 2021 from the committees to notify the rules which are to be published in the Gazette of India. The MHA did not respond if an extension has been sought from the committees. On November 30 last, Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai informed the Lok Sabha: “The persons covered under the CAA may apply for citizenship after the rules are notified under the CAA.” Earlier on August 4, the Minister had informed the Rajya Sabha that, “Eligible person covered by this Amendment Act may submit applications for grant of citizenship after appropriate rules are notified by the Central government.” As per the Manual on Parliamentary Work, in case the ministries/departments are not able to frame the rules within the prescribed period of six months after legislation is passed, “they should seek extension of time from the committee stating reasons” which cannot be more than for a period of three months at a time. The CAA was passed by Parliament on December 11, 2019 and the Act was notified within 24 hours on December 12. In January 2020, the Ministry notified that the Act will come into force from January 10, 2020. The CAA provides citizenship on the basis of religion to six undocumented non-Muslim communities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh who entered India on or before December 31, 2014. It exempts the members of the six communities from any criminal case under the Foreigners Act, 1946 and the Passport Act, 1920. The two Acts specify punishment for entering the country illegally and staying here on expired visas and permits. 83 killed As many as 83 persons were killed in protests and riots from December 2019-March 2020 in Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Meghalaya and Delhi after the CAA was passed. There are apprehensions that the CAA, followed by a country-wide compilation of the National Register of Citizens (NRC), will benefit non-Muslims excluded from the proposed citizens’ register, while excluded Muslims will have to prove their citizenship. The government has informed Parliament that “till now it has not taken any decision to prepare the NRC at national level.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-yet-to-notify-citizenship-amendment-act-rules/article38212109.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||Former RBI Governor Urjit Patel joins Beijing-based AIIB||Former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Urjit Patel has been appointed vice-president of the Beijing-based Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB). Mr. Patel will serve a three-year term as one of the multilateral development bank’s five vice-presidents, and will take the place of former Gujarat Chief Secretary D.J. Pandian who had been, as Vice-President, leading the AIIB’s investment operations and all sovereign and non-sovereign lending in South and Southeast Asia. Mr. Patel had resigned as RBI Governor in December 2018 in a surprise decision, citing “personal reasons” after serving for two years. The AIIB, launched in Beijing in 2015, has approved more loans for India than any other member of the bank. China is its biggest shareholder and India is the second-largest. The U.S. and Japan are not among its 104 members.  The AIIB has funded 28 projects in India amounting to $6.7 billion. In an interview with The Hindu last year, Mr. Pandian, the outgoing Vice-President, had said the bank had “a very strong pipeline of projects” with regard to India and had transitioned away from mostly co-financing projects with the World Bank or the Asian Development Bank (ADB). Initially, 70-80% of the projects were co-financed but now that share of projects is standalone.  It has recently emphasised green projects and supporting public health initiatives during the COVID-19 pandemic, besides infrastructure. In October, India applied for loans from the AIIB and ADB to procure 667 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines with the ADB expected to lend $1.5 billion and the AIIB around $500 million, under the ADB’s Asia Pacific Vaccine Access Facility (APVAX) initiative. Last year, the AIIB also approved a $356.67 million loan to the Indian government to support the expansion of the Chennai metro rail system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-rbi-governor-urjit-patel-joins-beijing-based-aiib/article38212095.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||No PM photo in vaccination certificates in poll-bound States||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s name and photo will be removed from the COVID-19 vaccination certificates issued in the five poll-bound States since the model code of conduct has come into force there, official sources said on Sunday. The Union Health Ministry would apply the necessary filters on the CoWIN platform to remove Mr. Modi’s photo from the certificates issued to people in Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, the sources said. The Election Commission of India had announced the poll schedule for the five States on Saturday. Polling would take place in seven phases from February 10 to March 7 and counting would be on March 10. Similar step Similar changes were carried out during the Assembly elections in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala last year, after the Election Commission wrote to the Health Ministry reminding it of its standing instructions against the use of photos of political leaders on government advertisements during elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-pm-photo-in-vaccination-certificates-in-poll-bound-states/article38212343.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||Pak. boat with 10 crew caught off Gujarat coast||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has apprehended a Pakistani fishing boat named Yaseen with 10 crew members in Indian territorial waters in the Arabian Sea off the Gujarat coast.   The boat was intercepted by the ICG vessel Ankit during an operational patrol on Saturday night, an ICG statement said.  On being intercepted and questioned, the crew members of the boat failed to justify their presence in Indian waters. Moreover, the crew members tried to flee, heading the trawler towards Pakistani waters, but they were cornered and apprehended with quick response by the ICG ship. During a search of the boat, ICG personnel found around 2,000 kg fish and 600 litres of diesel, which was seized. The boat is registered at Keti Bandar in Pakistan.  The apprehended boat with its ten crew members is presently being towed to Porbandar for detailed investigation and joint interrogation of its crew. “Indian Coast Guard ship ‘Ankit’ during an operational patrol at the Arabian Sea apprehended a Pakistani fishing boat Yaseen along with 10 Pakistani crew, operating in Indian waters during the intervening night of January 8, 2022,” the ICG said in a release.  Sometimes, Pakistani fishing boats cross the notional international maritime boundary line and enter Indian territorial waters during fishing expeditions. Lately, there have been several instances of fishing boats being used to smuggle contraband drugs via the Gujarat coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-trawler-with-10-crew-caught-off-gujarat-coast/article38212106.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||Reach out to Goa voters, Kejriwal tells AAP workers||Urging the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to practise ‘positive campaigning’, Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the AAP’s objective in the forthcoming Goa Assembly election was to usher in a systemic change in the State. In a video address to AAP volunteers, Mr. Kejriwal exhorted party workers to take election campaigning as “an opportunity to serve people”. Speaking of the need to change the entire political system in Goa, Mr. Kejriwal said that the AAP was contesting the polls to root out “a corrupt party” and install an “honest one”. “Change is possible, though it requires hard work. The AAP has proved so in Delhi that parties can function honestly,” Mr. Kejriwal remarked. The party on Sunday released its second list of 10 candidates for the 40-seat Goa Assembly election slated to be held on February 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reach-out-to-goa-voters-kejriwal-tells-aap-workers/article38212117.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,||Omicron effect: IndiGo to cancel 20% of its flights||IndiGo on Sunday announced that it would withdraw 20% of its flights as the surge in COVID-19 cases had hit travel demand. The airline will also offer free changes for all new and existing bookings made before January 31 for travel until March 31. “Where possible, cancellations of flights will be done at least 72 hours in advance and customers will be moved to the next available flight and will also be able to change their travel through the use of Plan B on our website,” said the airline, which normally operates nearly 1,500 flights per day. The revision in capacity from the airline that caters to every six in 10 domestic passengers comes at a time airlines are being forced to fly relatively emptier aircrafts. The surge in cases has also brought down the number of domestic travellers — from above three lakh daily passengers to 2.6 lakh passengers on January 7. Passenger traffic in the first seven days of January had dropped by 16% compared to the same period last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-scare-indigo-to-cancel-20-of-its-flights/article38212131.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||Veer Baal Diwas to be observed on Dec. 26: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday declared that December 26 shall henceforth be marked as Veer Baal Diwas to pay homage to the courage of the Sahibzades , four sons of Guru Gobind Singh, the last Sikh guru. While all four were martyred, the date has been chosen as it was the day observed as the martyrdom day of the Sahibzadas Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh, who were killed at the tender age of six and nine in Sirhind by Mughal forces.   In a series of tweets, PM said: “Today, on the auspicious occasion of the Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Gobind Singhji, I am honoured to share that starting this year, December 26 shall be marked as Veer Baal Diwas . This is a fitting tribute to the courage of the Sahibzades and their quest for justice.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/veer-baal-diwas-to-be-observed-on-dec-26-pm/article38212107.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||Govt. issues revised plans of universal accessibility||The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) released the Harmonised Guidelines and Standards for Universal Accessibility in India 2021 through its website in December 2021. However, an official associated with the project said a few minor tweaks were pending. The guidelines are a revision of the Harmonised Guidelines and Space Standards for Barrier-Free Built Environment for Persons with Disabilities and Elderly Persons released by the CPWD, under the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) in February 2016. Drafted by a team of the Indian Institute of Technology-Roorkee and the National Institute of Urban Affairs of the MoHUA, the revised guidelines aim to give a holistic approach.  “Earlier, the guidelines were for creating a barrier-free environment, but now we are focusing on universal accessibility,” Prof. Gaurav Raheja, principal invetsigator and consultant of the project, told The Hindu .  The guidelines say ramps are extremely crucial for providing an accessible mobility option, but it is equally important to understand that ramps have to adhere to given guidelines. The guidelines provide the gradient and length of ramps — for example, for a length of six metres, the gradient should be 1:12. The minimum clear width of a ramp should be 1,200 mm, the guidelines say. The guidelines are not just for persons with disabilities (PwD), but for those involved in planning projects, from the construction of government buildings to master-planning cities, Prof. Raheja said. While making public buildings and transport fully accessible for wheelchair users is covered in the guidelines, other users who may experience temporary problems have also been considered. For instance, a parent pushing a child’s pram while carrying groceries or other bags, and women wearing saris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-issues-revised-plans-of-universal-accessibility/article38212100.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||Indore techie arrested for offensive app||Police said Thakur, who has a BCA degree, created the application aimed at “defaming and trolling Muslim women”. Thakur was produced before a Delhi court late on Sunday and has been sent to four days’ police custody. “He developed the code for the application on GitHub and access was with all members of the group,” DCP (Special Cell Cyber Unit) K.P.S. Malhotra said.The officer further said Thakur had shared the application on his Twitter account and the photos of Muslim women were uploaded by other members of the group.  After the social media uproar over the “Sulli Deals” application, “he had deleted all his social media footprints”. The arrest comes days after 20-year-old Niraj Bishnoi was arrested from Assam’s Jorhat for being the “mastermind” behind recent Bulli Bai application which also “auctioned” several Muslim women online.  During Bishnoi’s interrogation, the police claimed to have found that he used to interact with various virtual identities on social media and engage in several group discussions. Police said that in July last year, Bishnoi and Thakur came in contact when a member of the group that the former belonged to shared the details of the “Sulli Deals” application. “That was the first time Niraj Bishnoi or other group members had heard about the application on GitHub,” police alleged. Police added that Thakur has allegedly confessed to creating the “Sulli Deals” application.  Speaking to The Hindu from Indore, Thakur’s father, Akhilesh Thakur, however, said his son was being “framed” in the case and had nothing to do with the co-accused arrested so far. “You can ask anyone in our locality, he was an introvert and didn’t have a lot of friends and mostly kept to himself,” he said.  “Some police officials came to my house while I was out on a work-related tour…my son told me over phone that he is being taken to Delhi for interrogation. I only asked him if he had done anything wrong and he said he didn’t… I believe him,” Mr. Thakur added. “He was an IT expert and was a successful web designer, he cannot be involved in developing such an application.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indore-techie-arrested-for-offensive-app/article38212096.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||NEET-PG counselling from Jan. 12: Centre||For the upcoming years, the criteria of the quota will be decided at the next court hearing scheduled for March this year. The decision by the Supreme Court and the announcement by the Health Minister come as a relief for the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA), which had recently protested over the delay in NEET-PG counselling. Every year, about 45,000 candidates are selected as postgraduate (PG) doctors through the NEET-PG and the delay in counselling has led to a situation where no junior doctors have been inducted by 2021. “Second and third year PG doctors are facing increased workload due to the COVID-19 pandemic,” the FORDA said. The Federation had called off its strike recently after the government assured that its demands would be looked into. The FORDA also welcomed the Supreme Court order allowing NEET-PG counselling for 2021-2022 based on the existing EWS/OBC reservation and said: “It’s a relief for us. When the country is suffering from the third wave of COVID such a decision is extremely valuable for all the doctors.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/neet-pg-counselling-from-jan-12-centre/article38212098.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,||Vikrant heads out for next set of sea trials||Indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant headed out for the next set of sea trials on Sunday, shortly after two high-profile visits — by the President and the Vice-President of India within a span of about two weeks.  The maiden sea trials in August 2021 were to establish propulsion, navigational suite and basic operations, while the second sea trial in October-November saw the ship being put through various machinery trials and flight trials. The ship was out for 10 days, proving its sustenance in the very second sortie. Various seamanship evolutions were also successfully cleared during the second sortie. Vikrant now sails to undertake complex manoeuvres to establish specific readings of how the ship performs in various conditions. Scientists from the Naval Science and Technological Laboratory — a DRDO laboratory based at Visakhapatnam — would embark the vessel during the trials, the Navy said.  A landmark That the ship was able to carry out basic flying operations from its very first sortie itself is a landmark in Indian warship construction history. Despite surging COVID cases in the country and the resultant challenges, the combined teams from multiple organisations associated with the project are upbeat and committed to meet the timelines.  On successful completion of a series of progressive sea trials, the ship is scheduled to be commissioned later this year, as the nation commemorates ‘ Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav ’.  The ship would operate a mix of MiG-29K fighter aircraft and various helicopters, ranging from the Kamov-31 Air Early Warning helicopters, the soon-to-be inducted MH-60R multi-role helicopters and the indigenously developed Advanced Light Helicopter Mk III, the Navy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vikrant-heads-out-for-next-set-of-trials/article38212140.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||‘Non-stop research to manage the pandemic’||“A meeting with Chief Ministers [should] be convened to discuss State-specific scenarios, best practices, and the public health response,” he said at the meeting during which the Health Secretary gave a presentation on the surge in cases being reported globally. The Prime Minister was apprised of the steps being taken to support the States for an upgrade of health infrastructure, testing capacity, availability of oxygen and ICU beds, and buffer stock of COVID-19 essential drugs under the emergency COVID-19 response package. “The presentation brought attention to India’s consistent efforts towards the vaccination campaign, with 31% adolescents aged 15-18 years having been administered with the 1st dose so far within seven days,” a press release said. Mr. Modi directed that intensive containment and active surveillance should continue in clusters reporting higher cases and the required technical support be provided to the States concerned. “While conveying his gratitude for the relentless services provided by healthcare workers in managing COVID-19 so far, he suggested to ensure that the vaccination coverage through precaution dose for healthcare workers and frontline workers should also be taken up in mission mode,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/non-stop-research-to-manage-the-pandemic/article38212102.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||India adds 1.79 lakh COVID-19 cases||The number of active cases in Bihar until January 8 was 12,311, with over 7,000 in Patna district. More than 350 doctors and medical staff in the state have tested positive, most of whom were from Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. In addition, some staff of a private airline working at the Patna airport was also tested positive. In Gujarat, the case count increased by 6,275, while 1,263 patients recovered. As a result, active cases neared the 28,000-mark, of which 26 patients were on ventilator support. Kerala’s COVID-19 graph was on a slow rise and on Sunday, the State reported 6,238 new cases with 54,108 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The number of patients in the State’s active case pool has risen to 34,902, of whom, 2,538 persons are being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals across the State. Between January 2-8, new cases went up by 82% in comparison to the previous week. New hospitalisations in Kerala on Sunday was 261, while 2,390 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State showed a nominal increase and stands at 435 cases, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support showed a slight increase to 157 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-adds-162-lakh-covid-19-cases/article38212101.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||BJP MLA held in Bengal for flouting norms||Five BJP members, including Pursurah MLA Biman Ghosh, were arrested on Sunday on the charge of violating State Election Commission (SEC) guidelines during electioneering for civic polls in the Chandannagar area of West Bengal’s Hooghly district. Elections to municipal corporations of Chandannagar, Bidhannagar, Siliguri and Asansol are slated to be held on January 22. According to an officer of Chandannagar police commissionerate, Mr. Ghosh was leading a rally of 100 people in ward number 26, where Sandhya Das is the BJP candidate, flouting the COVID-19 guidelines. An altercation broke out when an official told the MLA that he was violating the rules. Five BJP members, including Mr. Ghosh and Ms, Das, were then arrested. They were released on bail later in the day, the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mla-held-in-bengal-for-flouting-poll-norms/article38212116.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||20 fishermen handed over to Bangladesh||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) repatriated 20 Bangladeshi fishermen, who were drifting without food in their fishing boat in the Bay of Bengal for a week, before being rescued by Odisha fisherfolk near the Indo-Bangladesh International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL) on Sunday. The 20 fishermen set out for fishing in the Bay of Bengal by a boat on December 7 from the Bangladesh coast. Around December 11, the boat developed technical snag in the engine. Adding to their misfortune, the batteries of their walkie-talkie and mobile phones got drained without any power back-up, disconnecting their communication with the outside world. The ICG said here: “The ICG ship Sarojini Naidu undertook successful repatriation of one Bangladeshi fishing boat ‘Allahar Daan’ along with 20 Bangladeshi fishermen at INDO-Bangladesh IMBL. They were formally handed over Bangladesh Coast Guard Ship Shadhin Bangla.” “The Indian fishermen displaying humanity provided necessary assistance to the boat and towed the distressed boat to Paradip on December 26,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/20-fishermen-handed-over-to-bangladesh/article38212097.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,||Tusker pushes passenger bus in Odisha||Passengers of a bus had a narrow escape when a wild tusker was seen pushing the vehicle along a road in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district on Sunday. The bus was on its way from Olamara in Balasore district to Rasagobindapur in Mayurbhanj district in the morning when the incident took place. The wild elephant came behind the vehicle at Tikapada and rammed the bus. Passengers panicked when they saw the elephant charging at the bus. The rear windshield shattered due to the impact. The elephant shoved the moving bus with its trunk and tusk for quite a distance. Passengers urged the driver of the bus to speed away from the animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tusker-pushes-passenger-bus-in-odisha/article38212345.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:07 IST,||Odisha nears 5,000 COVID cases a day||Odisha approached 5,000 COVID-19 cases per day when the State reported a jump of over 1,000 cases in 24 hours to 4,714 new cases on Sunday. In one day, 4,714 persons tested positive for the coronavirus registering 28.13% growth in cases. Khordha district reported 1,619 cases — 34.34% on Sunday. The State has 16,117 active cases, 15,640 of which are being treated in home isolation. “The trend shows that around 97% of the patients can be managed without hospitalisation. Only around 3% of the available beds, 11% of the ICUs and 3% of the ventilators are being used,” the government said. The Test Positivity Rate has increased to 6.71% from below 1% in a week .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-nears-5000-covid-cases-a-day/article38212126.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||Garments firm booked for Rs. 161 cr. fraud||The CBI has booked Rama Krishna Knitters Private Limited, which once enjoyed the status of an “export trading house” as recognised by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), for allegedly cheating a consortium of four banks to the tune of Rs. 161.91 crore. Among the accused persons named in the FIR are Shallu Gupta and Narinder Chugh. The case has been registered on a complaint lodged by the Punjab National Bank on behalf of the lenders, alleging that the fraud was committed from August 2010 to March 2016. The firm was granted a loan to expand its business. The bank classified this account as non performing asset in March 2016. A forensic analysis revealed several financial irregularities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/garments-firm-booked-for-rs-161-cr-fraud/article38212093.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:18 IST,||PM’s security breach: SC to hear plea today||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday a plea on the recent breach in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security in Punjab. On January, the Prime Minister’s convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur after which he returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending the planned events, including a rally. A three-judge Bench, comprising Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, is likely to take up the plea filed by an organisation, Lawyers Voice. The top court on Friday had directed the Registrar-General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to “secure and preserve” the records pertaining to arrangements made for the Prime Minister’s visit to Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pms-security-breach-sc-to-hear-plea-today/article38212110.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,||Bihar man who took 11 jabs booked||Days after an octogenarian from Madhepura district of Bihar admitted to have taken 11 doses of COVID-19 vaccine, he was booked for cheating under various sections of the Indian Penal Code. An FIR was filed against Brahmadeo Mandal, 84, at the Puraini police station in Madhepura district on Saturday on a complaint filed by District Medical Officer Vinay Krishna Prasad. He was booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 419 (cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. “We are investigating the case. Mr. Mandal is likely to be arrested soon,” Dipak Chandra Das, the Puraini police station in-charge, said. Mr. Mandal earlier said he had taken the jabs in Madhepura, Khagaria and Bhagalpur districts using his Aadhaar and voter ID cards. “I benefited a lot from vaccines as I got relief from my back and waist pain. Everyone should get the vaccine,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-man-who-took-11-jabs-booked/article38212125.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:07 IST,||Curb misuse of religion in politics, BSP chief urges ECI||Bahujan Samaj Party(BSP) chiefMayawation Sunday expressed concern over the “increasing” use of religion in politics during elections and said the Election Commission of India must curb this “worrying” trend. Her remarks came a day after Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the Assembly Election in the State will be an “80% versus 20%” one, alluding to the roughly 20% Muslim population. “In the past few years, during the elections, there have been attempts to derive electoral advantage using religion. This impacts the election and the entire country is worried about this,” Ms. Mayawati told reporters on Sunday. “The Election Commission should take serious steps to curb the narrow politics of selfishness as was evident in the past few years,” the BSP supremo added. Accusing the Adityanath government of foisting a “jungle raj”, Ms. Mayawati also claimed that the BJP will lose the 2022 election “if there is no misuse of government machinery and there are no discrepancies in EVMs”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curb-misuse-of-religion-in-politics-bsp-chief-urges-eci/article38212115.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,||SKOCH Award for Assam mission on malnutrition||A mission to combat malnourishment among children aged six months to 5 years has earned the SKOCH Award for southern Assam’s Cachar district. The SKOCH Award recognises people, projects and institutions that go the extra mile to make India a better nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/skoch-award-for-assam-mission-on-malnutrition/article38212134.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,||MP cop grows hair and moustache, suspended for indiscipline||The Madhya Pradesh Police have suspended a constable for indiscipline as he grew his hair and moustache despite being told to trim it, an official said. The suspension order issued on Friday to constable Rakesh Rana, posted as a driver in the motor transport wing, surfaced on various social media platforms.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-cop-grows-hair-and-moustache-suspended-for-indiscipline/article38212120.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,||Amazon moves tribunal against CCI order||Amazon has filed an appeal in the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) against the Competition Commission of India (CCI) order that suspended the over two-year-old approval for its deal with Future Coupons Pvt Ltd, according to sources. The NCLAT is an appellate authority for the orders passed by the CCI.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amazon-moves-tribunal-against-cci-order/article38212136.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,||AYUSH Ministry to hold global Surya Namaskar event on Makar Sankranti||The Ministry of AYUSH will be organising a global Surya Namaskar demonstration programme for 75 lakh people on January 14, the day of Makar Sankranti. The mass Surya Namaskar demonstration programme also intends to carry the message of climate change and global warming, the AYUSH Ministry said in a statement.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ayush-ministry-to-hold-global-surya-namaskar-event-on-makar-sankranti/article38212121.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Astrologer’s son arrested in Bengaluru for blackmailing son of Minister||The cybercrime police arrested the 22-year-old son of a city-based astrologer for allegedly blackmailing the son of the Minister of Cooperation with a video clip. Based on a complaint by Nishanth Somashekhar, son of S.T. Somashekhar, the cybercrime police tracked down Rahul Bhat, based on the mobile number he used to allegedly blackmail the complainant and took him into custody for five days on Saturday. Rahul Bhat is the son of well-known astrologer ChandrashekarBhat, better known asChandrashekar Swamiji from R.T. Nagar. Mr. Nishanth Somashekhar, in his complaint, stated that Rahul Bhat had contacted the PA of his father and blackmailed them with a fake video and threatened to upload it on social media. This, he alleged in his complaint, “is a deep-rooted conspiracy to scuttle my political growth and tarnish the image of my father.” The police are now trying to ascertain the conspiracy behind the incident and the possible involvement of others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/astrologers-son-arrested-in-bengaluru-for-blackmailing-son-of-minister/article38212152.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hospital admissions for COVID-19 low||The government hospitals in the city are seeing fewer admissions after the recent spike in COVID-19 cases in the last few days. Most of those admitted are the middle aged persons and senior citizens who refused to get vaccinated. In the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, where 240 patients are under treatment, 70 are unvaccinated. All the patients in intensive care unit in the hospital have contracted the delta variant, said Dean E. Therani Rajan. Of the 17 patients in the ICU, only two have taken both doses of the vaccine but in these people age and comorbidities were a factor, he said. On why the remaining 15 were not vaccinated, the Dean said they were apprehensive of the comorbidities becoming worse. These patients had cardiac ailments, diabetes, hypertension and stroke. A centenarian who got infected had refused to get vaccinated, he said. At the Stanley Medical College, 190 patients have been admitted. Of these, 12 are in the ICU and seven are fully vaccinated. Three persons had taken one dose and only two persons were unvaccinated. Dean P. Balaji said the lower literacy level among the residents of the localities the hospital catered to had ensured greater focus from the government to get them vaccinated. Persons who were admitted to the ICU had co-morbid conditions and had been transferred from private hospitals. “They were found to have been infected while being taken for surgery,” he added. At the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, which is a dedicated COVID care hospital, 141 persons have been admitted and 10 are in the ICU. “Eight of them are not vaccinated. As many as 20 are not on ventilator but on oxygen support. Of these, 10 are not vaccinated. Generally, it is only lethargy and fear arising from comorbidities,” said Dean R. Jayanthi. As many as 115 COVID-19 patients have been admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, said Dean Santhimalar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-admissions-for-covid-19-low/article38212400.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four lakh eligible for booster dose on day 1||Four lakh persons will be eligible for the booster vaccine dose on Monday, the first day of its administration. In the whole of January, 10.7 lakh persons can avail themselves of it, Director of Public Health T.S. Selvavinayagam has said. The beneficiaries include 2.7 lakh frontline workers; 2.7 lakh healthcare workers; and five lakh persons aged above 60. “As per the above statistics and the guidelines provided by the Union government, 9.1 lakh beneficiaries will be administered Covishield and 1.5 lakh persons are eligible for Covaxin,” he said. “As on date, we have 71 lakh doses of the vaccines...” People may check out their eligibility by visiting the CoWIN website and they may get their doctor’s advice as a precaution. Beneficiaries may approach the centre where they had received the first two doses or any government healthcare facility or private hospital for the booster dose. All that they have to produce is their mobile numbers or identity cards. Private hospitals may administer the booster dose to their frontline and healthcare workers. There is no need to get a medical certificate, however. A total of 36.26 lakh persons are eligible for the booster dose. They include 5.65 lakh healthcare workers; 9.78 lakh frontline workers; and an estimated 20.83 lakh persons aged above 60 with co-morbidities. Dr. Selvavinayagam said all those vaccinated before April 14 would be eligible for the booster dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-lakh-eligible-for-booster-dose-on-day-1/article38212386.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. likely to borrow Rs. 25,800 crore in Q4, 2022||The Tamil Nadu government has indicated that it will borrow Rs. 25,800 crore in Q4 (January-March) of the financial year 2021-22 by auctioning bonds, called State Development Loans, according to the Reserve Bank of India’s borrowing calendar. This is marginally higher than the about Rs. 25,000 crore borrowed during the same period last year. From April to December 2021, the State had borrowed Rs. 52,000 crore, slightly higher than the Rs. 51,950 crore indicated for the period. However, it was 17% lower than Rs. 63,000 crore borrowed during April-December 2020. The State Development Loans are the major source of borrowing for the States to fund their fiscal deficit that arises when total expenditure exceeds total revenue. A senior State government official said Tamil Nadu’s borrowing plan was in line with what had been indicated in the revised budget estimate for 2021-22. Excluding the GST compensation of Rs. 8,095 crore received as back-to-back loan, Tamil Nadu’s fiscal deficit is estimated to be Rs. 92,529.43 crore in 2021-22, which is 4.33% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Accepting the 15th Finance Commission’s recommendations, the Union government has allowed the States to borrow up to 4% of the GSDP for 2021-22, with an additional 0.5% limit for those undertaking critical power sector reforms. And one of the reforms is the introduction of direct benefit transfer to all farmers. In his Budget speech, Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan had said the State was confident of availing itself of 0.35% of the additional 0.5% of the GSDP allowed, without compromising on the State’s core principle of maintaining free electricity supply to the farm sector. So far in the financial year 2021-22, the State’s revenue has improved, but expenditure has remained higher. The total revenue receipts stood at Rs. 1,18,992.48 crore in April-November 2021, up 22% from last year, while the total expenditure was Rs. 1,49,044.19 crore. This has resulted in a fiscal deficit of Rs. 30,051.71 crore as in November 2021. Revenue deficit (which implies revenue expenditure is higher than revenue receipts) stood at about Rs. 7,869.87 crore. According to the RBI, the quantum of total market borrowings by the States and the Union Territories for January-March 2022 is expected to be Rs. 3,09,971.74 crore. According to ratings agency ICRA, States such as Karnataka and Maharashtra have indicated substantially higher borrowings in Q4, 2022. This may be due to the concerns that the GST compensation would be discontinued beyond June 2022 and the apprehension that the borrowing ceiling would be reduced in 2023. The Tamil Nadu government has urged the Union government to continue the GST compensation at least till June 30, 2024, arguing that its revenue is yet to recover from the blow dealt by the COVID-19 pandemic. At a pre-budget meeting with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Mr. Rajan had urged the Centre to allow borrowing of 5% of the GSDP for the financial year 2022-23, without any condition. His point was that the States had incurred a huge expenditure to fight COVID-19 and suffered a substantial reduction in revenue. Any severe impact of the third wave of the pandemic would further stress Tamil Nadu’s finances.  From April to December 2021, the State had borrowed Rs. 52,000 crore, slightly higher than the Rs. 51,950 crore indicated for the period||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-likely-to-borrow-rs-25800-crore-in-q4-2022/article38212393.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu reports 12,895 fresh infections||The number of persons infected with the novel coronavirus so far in Tamil Nadu crossed the 28-lakh mark and the persons under treatment breached the 50,000-mark on Sunday when 12,895 fresh COVID-19 cases were found among 1,47,705 persons tested. A total of 51,335 persons are under treatment, and the total number of persons infected so far stands at 28,00,286. Among the fresh cases were eight travellers from the United Arab Emirates, and one passenger each from Oman, Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom. As many as 23 persons who came by road from Bangladesh also tested positive. Among the domestic travellers were six from West Bengal; five from Jharkhand; three from Kerala; two from Andhra Pradesh; and one each from Maharashtra and Delhi. As on Sunday, 185 persons were found to have been infected with the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus. They include six cases cross-notified to Kerala (1), Puducherry (3) and Andhra Pradesh (2). So far, 179 persons have been declared to have recovered. In Chennai, 6,186 persons were found to have been infected, and the number of active cases stood at 25,798. In Chengalpattu, 1,512 persons were infected. Tiruvallur reported 702 cases. In Madurai, 348 cases were detected. Kancheepuram reported 343 cases. As many as 1,808 persons were discharged, and the total number of recovered patients went up to 27,12,096. The official daily bulletin recorded the death of 12 persons, including four at private hospitals and eight at government hospitals. All the deceased had pre-existing health conditions. So far, 36,855 persons have succumbed to the infection. The youngest person to lose his life was a 45-year-old diabetic man from Theni, a person living with HIV/AIDS and on anti-retroviral therapy. He was admitted to the Theni Medical College Hospital on January 6 and tested positive for COVID-19 the next day. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on January 8.  Among the fresh cases were eight travellers from the United Arab Emirates, and one passenger each from Oman, Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-reports-12895-fresh-infections/article38212384.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Transpersons play eco warriors||On Saturday morning, 33-year-old Rakshitha Prabhakaran left Perumbakkam at 5 a.m. for the beach near Nemili. Soon after her friends joined her, a group of persons playing football stared at them and murmured about their presence. But, they joined the transgender persons in picking up plastic waste. Eight transgender persons collected close to 50 kg of plastic waste during the beach clean-up organised by Pharm Foundation and Utkarsh Global Foundation, a non-profit organisation. “We were more than thrilled that they joined us in the cleaning process. Earlier, we were casual about disposing plastics and didn’t have any awareness about its implications on the environment. But now that we engaged in this initiative, it changed our perception and the need to be careful and do little things to protect the environment,” Rakshitha, a postgraduate in Chemistry, said. M. Shivapriya, 21 and a transwoman, said by being a part of such activities, people’s opinion about transgender persons would change with time. “They always associate many of us with sex work and begging. But that is not the case; many of us work hard and somehow find other opportunities and jobs,” said Shivapriya, who works as an office assistant. M. Nila, 36 and herself a transwoman, who started Pharma Foundation said such events give an opportunity for the community to give back to society. “During several crises, be it the pandemic or the floods, when many in the community needed groceries and other essentials, there were many who decided to lend a helping hand. Now, these are ways we love to give back to our city,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transpersons-play-eco-warriors/article38212714.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Passengers struggle for local transport||A large number of passengers, who arrived by long-distance trains, had a tough time in reaching their destination with the buses of the Metropolitan Transport Corporation, Chennai (MTC) staying off the road in view of the lockdown on Sunday. Those without personal transport had to bargain hard with the fleecing autorickshaw drivers at Chennai Central and Egmore railway stations. Although minimum number of suburban and Metro trains were operated, the absence of MTC buses left a large number of passengers stranded. The taxi aggregators — Uber and Ola — plied on their misery. M. Suryaprakash, who reached the city from Salem, said most autorickshaw drivers at the Central station demanded double the normal fare to go to Virugambakkam. Even if some commuters agreed to pay, the autorickshaw drivers refused the ride. Many daily wage workers walked in groups to their destinations in the absence of MTC buses. The police officials had been asked not to stop autorickshaw and taxi drivers if the passengers showed their travel ticket which came as some relief. Most of the passengers were uspet that the MTC did not operate buses at least from Central and Egmore railway stations. A senior official of the MTC said the buses were not run as there were no direction from the State government in this regard. He said 120 buses were operated for the frontline staff of the Greater Chennai Corporation and other government agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passengers-struggle-for-local-transport/article38212405.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. hopes to meet its rice production target||With several spells of heavy rain during the northeast monsoon having damaged crops on thousands of hectares, policymakers are keeping their fingers crossed that the State will meet its rice production target of 75.5 lakh tonnes this time. Though the paddy coverage during the ‘Samba’ cultivation season has exceeded the target by nearly 80,000 hectares, the crop planted on nearly 48,000 hectares was damaged, in varying degrees, during one phase of the monsoon alone. However, officials hope there is scope for salvage in parts of the affected areas. Besides, in the third season of ‘Navarai’/’Kodai’, there exists the possibility of making up, to some extent, for the loss that the State may suffer. As for the total extent of farmland affected after the monsoon started on October 25 last year, an estimate puts the figure for paddy at 97,500 hectares, including the areas covered in the latter part of the ‘Kuruvai’ season. For 2021-22, the State has fixed an overall target of 125 lakh tonnes of grain, including 42 lakh tonnes of millets and 7.5 lakh tonnes of pulses. For the three previous years (from 2018-19 to 2020-21), the State’s rice production ranged from 61.32 lakh tonnes in 2018-19 to 72.83 in 2020-21.  According to the Reserve Bank of India’s publication, Handbook of Statistics on Indian Economy for 2020-21 , Tamil Nadu’s highest rice production since 2001-02 was 75.17 lakh tonnes during 2015-16.  The officials are of the view that given the government’s emphasis on millets and pulses, their production will help the State meet its overall grain target.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-hopes-to-meet-its-rice-production-target/article38212395.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||30% of patients contracted COVID-19 at home||Over 30% of the patients who tested positive for SARS CoV-2 on Saturday contracted the infection from family members who were in isolation at home. According to data compiled by the Greater Chennai Corporation, 1,502 of the 5,040 patients in the 15 zones of the city on Saturday were infected because of family contacts at home and located in containment zones. “It is very important to wear mask at a home where patients are in isolation. We got 30% of cases from family contacts, 19% from extended contacts and 29% as index cases (means source not sure),” said Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. As many as 297 people in Anna Nagar were infected at home which already had patients. Four family contacts tested positive in Tiruvottiyur, 11 in Manali, 20 in Madhavaram, 88 in Tondiarpet, 111 in Royapuram, 42 in Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, 118 in Ambattur, 185 in Teynampet, 108 in Kodambakkam, 29 in Valasaravakkam, 209 in Alandur, 67 in Perungudi and 26 in Sholinganallur. Teynampet zone reported 212 index cases on Saturday, the highest in the city. The source of the infection was not clear in zones such as Perungudi, Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Ambattur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-of-patients-contracted-covid-19-at-home/article38212397.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Teachers seek clarity on final exams||As teachers prepare senior students to take the revision exams from January 19 in State Board schools, they are still awaiting clarity on the final schedule this year. Following the cancellation of quarterly and half yearly exams, the School Education Department announced two rounds of revision exams in January and March for Classes X and XII. “The first round of exams will cover portions that we completed till the end of December. The reduction in syllabus and six working days a week helped most schools complete the portions in time,” said A. Ramu, State President, Directly Recruited Post-Graduate Teachers Federation. But the students still need a lot of motivation to take the exams seriously. “We are trying to help them prepare better by giving practice questions and by clearing their doubts, but some are yet to take it seriously,” he said. Schools are functioning only for Classes X, XI and XII to prepare the students for the board exams later this year. A week ago, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said that the public exams would be conducted this year. A science teacher from a government school said that in the absence of a schedule for the board exams, many students were yet to start serious preparation. “Despite the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the State, we are hoping that in-person classes are not cancelled for senior students. For government school students in particular, we cannot have online classes effectively,” he said. In-person classes began for senior students only from September last year and many teachers hope that the classes continue with adequate safety measures in place. With Classes I to IX now in online mode, the extra space has come as a boon to ensure physical distancing in many schools which have a large strength in senior classes. “While we hope that in-person classes continue, the State Government should announce the public exam schedule at least three months in advance. We understand that owing to the pandemic, there might be last minute changes but having the schedule will help teachers plan classes and revision sessions for students who have been affected due to the closure of schools last year,” said S.N. Janardhanan, State President, Tamil Nadu Vocational Teachers Kazhagam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-seek-clarity-on-final-exams/article38212411.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown yields Tasmac a bumper||A day before Sunday’s total lockdown in the State, the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) sold liquor worth Rs. 217.96 crore, much higher than what it sold on New Year’s Eve when celebrations were restricted for the COVID-19 pandemic. On December 31, 2021, it sold liquor worth Rs. 147.69 crore, lower than in the previous two years. According to data provided by sources in Tasmac, the Chennai zone on Saturday sold liquor worth Rs. 50.04 crore and the Tiruchi region netted Rs. 42.59 crore in sales. Rain-induced dip The sales in Salem stood at Rs. 40.85 crore. Madurai and Coimbatore sold liquor worth Rs. 43.20 crore and Rs. 41.28 crore respectively. Asked why the sales were down during New Year and had shot up now, the source said, “Sales are generally good on Saturdays, and since there was a total lockdown on Sunday, people rushed to stock up on liquor. And New Year’s Eve fell on Friday, and the rain also dampened the consumption.” Tasmac sells liquor worth Rs. 130 crore-Rs. 140 crore a day through over 5,300 outlets across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-yields-tasmac-a-bumper/article38212387.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ensure distribution of Pongal gift: Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday requested his Cabinet colleagues, MLAs and District Collectors to monitor the distribution of the Pongal gift hampers to beneficiaries and ensure that quality products are delivered to them. “I visited ration shops to inspect the distribution of the Pongal gift. Some miscreants are spreading malicious comments about this scheme. So, we have to ensure proper distribution of quality goods without giving room to any complaints,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. Ahead of Pongal, the Chief Minister had announced that gift hampers would be distributed to help the people of Tamil Nadu, who had been affected by COVID-19 and floods. “The Pongal gift is being provided to over 2.15 crore rice ration cardholders at a total cost of Rs. 1,297 crore despite the heavy financial crunch,” Mr. Stalin said.  Some miscreants are spreading malicious comments about this scheme. So, we have to ensure proper distribution of quality goods M.K. Stalin Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-distribution-of-pongal-gift-stalin/article38212388.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||12 Madras High Court judges to retire from service in next one year||As many as 12 out of the 60 judges of the Madras High Court will retire in the next one year. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari, who is expected to be made the Chief Justice soon, is one among them. Among the 45 permanent judges, Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana will be the first to retire on February 27 this year. She would be followed by Justices V. Parthiban, V. Bharathidasan, R. Pongiappan, M. Govindaraj and K. Kalyanasundaram on April 23, May 6, May 11, May 18 and May 26 respectively. Later in the year, three senior judges, including the incumbent Acting Chief Justice (hailing from Rajasthan), Justice M. Duraiswamy (who, too, had held the post of the Acting Chief Justice until Justice Bhandari took over) and Justice Paresh Upadhyay (hailing from Gujarat) will retire on September 12, September 21 and December 13 respectively. Further, two additional judges, Justices S. Ananthi and S. Kannammal, too, are due to retire on July 30 and July 19 this year. Apart from these eleven retirements due by this year-end, Justice P.N. Prakash will retire on January 11, 2023. The High Court now has a working strength of 45 permanent judges and 15 Additional Judges, taking the total to 60 as against its sanctioned strength of 75 judges. Further, four other judges from the court are serving in other States. They include Kerala High Court Chief Justice S. Manikumar and the second judge of the Calcutta High Court, Justice T.S. Sivagnanam. Justices M.V. Muralidaran and Subramonium Prasad have been transferred to Manipur and Delhi respectively.  Among the 45 permanent judges, Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana will be the first to retire on February 27 this year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-madras-high-court-judges-to-retire-from-service-in-next-one-year/article38212407.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hotels ready to become COVID-19 care centres||Several hotels in the city are tying up with hospitals to host asymptomatic COVID-19 patients. During the last wave, many business-class hotels had become quarantine centres. “We have already started a facility in Royapettah with a hotel. We have 60 rooms there and patients are being admitted. The facility is being used for those under corporate care, healthcare staff and walk-in patients who are unable to stay at home under quarantine,” said G. Ramakrishnan, senior manager marketing, Apollo Hospitals. MGM Healthcare CEO Harish Manian said they were in talks with a couple of hotels where doctors, nursing staff and oxygen cylinders could be stationed. “We are waiting for instructions from the State government about this and waiting and watching the situation. However, at present, with hotels having regular guests, it would be difficult for them to give us entire blocks since COVID-19 patients cannot be housed with others,” he said. Kauvery Hospitals has tied up with a hotel in Mylapore and has started admitting patients there. “They come to hospitals seeking guidance by doctors and since there is 24x7 medical assistance in the hotel facilities, they feel comfortable. If the person requires further care, we shift them to the hospital,” said a source. Bills pending While a section of hotels offered quarantine facilities to patients last year, another section had offered rooms to healthcare professionals. However, this year they were hesitant to offer rooms to doctors since bills were yet to be settled at least for four months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotels-ready-to-become-covid-19-care-centres/article38212401.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Teachers’ union writes to Governor on varsity advt.||The Aided College Teachers’ Association has appealed to the Governor to intervene and ensure that Periyar University reconsiders the eligibility criteria for senior administrative positions in the university. The association has cited notifications advertised by the university on December 15, 2021 for the post of registrar, controller of examinations and director of the Periyar Institute of Distance Education (PRIDE). It contended that the advertisements were in violation of the norms of the University Grants Commission. The advertisements for the posts have sought applications only from candidates who are “academician not lower in rank than that of professor of a college/university”. This is in violation of the UGC regulations and the established eligibility norms followed by other State universities, said T. Balasaravanan, association general secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-union-writes-to-governor-on-varsity-advt/article38212406.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Factory worker found dead in Thiruverkadu||A worker of an industrial unit in Ambattur Estate was found dead at Perumal Agaram, Thiruverkadu, on Saturday evening. A police official of Thiruverkadu station said the victim, identified as Sudhir Kumar, 36 from Bihar, was residing along with a few friends in Ayanambakkam. On Saturday, the station control room received a call that a body was found in the bushes at Perumal Agaram. The police rushed to the spot and sent the body to post-mortem. The police have detained a few persons who were residing with the victim for inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/factory-worker-found-dead-in-thiruverkadu/article38212409.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Panneerselvam calls for closure of Tasmac shops||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Sunday insisted that the DMK government close the State-run liquor shops, also known as the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) shops, until the COVID-19 spread comes under control. Since about 8% of the people whose samples were were tested are positive now, Mr. Panneerselvam said the shops should be closed, at least until the test positivity rate falls below 5%. Though several restrictions were imposed in the State, including night curfew and a complete lockdown on January 9, the State Government had not mentioned anything about the liquor shops run by the Tasmac, he said in a statement. “Within three days, those tested positive for COVID-19 have more than doubled. The State Government, allowing these shops to function is the reason behind such an increase in numbers,” Mr. Panneerselvam contended. Mr. Pannerselvam said though Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had staged a protest, demanding the closure of Tasmac shops on May 7, 2020, when he was the Leader of the Opposition and the total number of cases were only 580, when he became the Chief Minister, he went on to announce on June 14, 2021 that these liquor shops would continue to function between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m., even when the total number of cases touched 12,772. On June 23 last year, the Minister for Prohibition had contended that the total number of persons who tested positive for the virus among those whose samples were tested should be considered, instead of the number of people who tested positive, Mr. Panneerselvam pointed out. “Going by the argument made by the DMK, liquor shops should have been closed now that it is 8%. But, they remain open across Tamil Nadu. “On behalf of the AIADMK, I condemn the DMK government for not taking steps to close the liquor shops,” he said.  Within three days, the number of COVID-19 positive cases has more than doubled. The State Government, allowing these shops to function is the reason behind such an increase in numbers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-calls-for-closure-of-tasmac-shops/article38212403.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||370 kg of ganja seized, 10 arrested||Based on a tip-off, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Chennai, intercepted a multi-utility vehicle at the Karanodai toll plaza on Saturday and seized 370 kg of ganja. Ten persons, who were part of the network to finance, transport and distribute the contraband, were arrested. According to a press release, the NCB Chennai team found the contraband stuffed in packets in jute bags. Based on the interrogation of the persons who were travelling in the vehicle, the NCB officials seized a car that was escorting them and arrested three persons. During interrogation, the NCB officials learnt that the consignment was meant for aTiruchi. The information was shared with NCB Madurai sub-zone officials, who nabbed seven persons from a Tiruchi lodge. The officials learnt that the ganja was procured from Andhra Pradesh and was bound for Sri Lanka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/370-kg-ganja-seized-ten-arrested/article38212408.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police ensure complete lockdown in Coimbatore district||The State-wide Sunday lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic was almost complete in Coimbatore district. Around 1,500 police personnel were deployed in city and rural areas to enforce the 24-hour-long total lockdown. Essential services and people who ventured out for emergencies were exempted at checkpoints. Around 700 personnel were engaged at 30 temporary checkpoints, 11 permanent posts and for vehicle patrols in the city. The police registered cases against some people who ventured out unnecessarily. City Police Commissioner Pradip Kumar and senior officials inspected important places to oversee the lockdown enforcement. In Coimbatore rural, the police stopped vehicles from Kerala at border check posts. Vehicles plying for essential services and emergencies were allowed to enter the district while others were sent back. The police said the lockdown enforcement was incident-free in rural parts of Coimbatore. Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam and Additional Superintendent of Police R. Sughasini oversaw the enforcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-ensure-complete-lockdown-in-coimbatore-district/article38212446.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Official visits Vellalore to take stock of progress of various projects||Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department Secretary Shiv Das Meena on Sunday visited Vellalore to take stock of the progress made in the execution of various projects, said a press release from the Coimbatore Corporation. Accompanied by Director, Municipal Administration, P. Ponniah and Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, he visited the site where the Corporation was constructing the Rs. 168-crore integrated bus terminal. After asking engineers supervising the project to ensure quality in construction, he went to the site where the Corporation bio-mined the accumulated waste, the release said. The contractor should complete bio-mining the waste within the project period, he said. The contractor should segregate the accumulated waste into degradable and non-degradable and send the latter to cement factories to be used as fuel. Timely completion of the project would help the Corporation retrieve 68 acre, the land on which it had dumped the waste, he added. The Secretary then visited the site where the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board was constructing a sewage treatment plant under a scheme to provide underground sewer services for Kurichi and Kuniamuthur. From the engineers concerned, he learnt about the progress made in giving house service connections, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/official-visits-vellalore-to-take-stock-of-progress-of-various-projects/article38212454.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Markets remain closed in city||Vegetable, fish and other markets, almost all commercial establishments barring pharmacies and restaurants remained shut on Sunday in view of the surging COVID-19 spread. The city’s streets on the winter morning were deserted. The only people on road were workers returning home after night shift, private security personnel leaving work, food delivery personnel and Coimbatore City Police personnel. The M.G.R. wholesale vegetable market on Mettupalayam Road was closed. Gates locked at the entrance indicated no activity inside. The otherwise busy Anna retail vegetable market in Saibaba Colony too was closed. There was almost nobody in the Coimbatore Corporation fish market in Ukkadam. In flower market on Mettupalayam Road, while no largescale sale happened, a few traders were seen selling flowers from behind the curtains they had hung in front of the shops. The scene in farmers’ markets in R.S. Puram, Vadavalli, Singanallur and other places was no different. The Coimbatore Corporation had in a tweet appealed to people stay indoors and observe all COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. On Sunday, the Corporation slapped Rs. 15,100 fine on city residents for not wearing mask and Rs. 17,800 on 14 commercial establishments for violating the complete lockdown. In all, the Corporation had recorded 114 violations and collected Rs. 32,900 as fine, said sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/markets-remain-closed-in-city/article38212444.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. carries out special cleaning drive||Capitalising on the complete lockdown enforced in the city on Sunday, the Coimbatore Corporation carried out a special cleaning drive on the city streets. Five zones Sources said based on Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara’s order, zonal sanitary officers in the five zones had deployed around 20 contractor workers a ward each to remove sand accumulated on road margins, medians and clear garbage dumped in the open. The 2,000-odd contract conservancy workers went about cleaning all the major roads , including the arterial ones like Avinashi Road, Trichy Road, Thadagam Road, and Sathyamangalam Road. The Corporation also cleaned the Avinashi Road flyover using water sprayer to clean the parapet. The sources said the workers, who otherwise only removed garbage on Sundays, were asked to clean roads as the lockdown had ensured near-zero vehicle movement. Also, using the lockdown, the Corporation cleaned the T.K. Market, the sources said and added that the civic body hoped to clean markets and other important places, if the lockdown were to continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-carries-out-special-cleaning-drive/article38212450.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Periyar statue defaced in Coimbatore||A statue of social reformer Periyar E.V. Ramasamy at Vellalore in Coimbatore was found defaced on Sunday morning. The statue in front of the Periyar study centre was found garlanded with a pair of slippers. The head was splashed with a saffron-coloured powder. People in the locality alerted Dravidar Kazhagam workers who rushed to the spot.They informed the Podanur police station and a team of personnel reached the spot. The police and DK workers inspected the statue and removed the slippers apart from clearing the saffron-coloured powder. The DK workers staged a protest in front of the statue demanding that the police arrest those involved in the desecration. They withdrew the protest after the police assurance. The police examined visuals from a few surveillance cameras in the area. AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran said the police should take strong action against those responsible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/periyar-statue-defaced-in-coimbatore/article38212392.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seven booked for assault on Dalit youth||The Anamalai police have registered a case against seven persons on charges of assaulting an 18-year-old Dalit youth. The police said that Kesavan, Kalimuthu, Raman, Rasathi, and Ramasamy of Makkal Sakthi Nagar and two guest workers were booked based on a complaint lodged by S. Hariharasudhakar. The police said that Hariharasudhakar had earlier worked in the farm of Ramasamy aka Major Ramasamy. He said that he was in love with a girl working as housemaid at Ramasamy’s house. The complaint said that Hariharasudhakar went to the house of Ramasamy on January 6 following which the group assaulted him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-booked-for-assault-on-dalit-youth/article38212434.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Booster dose vaccination to start today in Coimbatore||The district administration will start on Monday the booster dose vaccination for health and frontline workers and those above 60 years of age with comorbidities, said a release. The administration had identified 70,000 persons to be eligible for the booster dose. At the time of administering the booster dose, they should have completed the second dose 39 weeks or nine months ago, the release said and added that of those over 18 years of age, the administration had vaccinated 96% with dose and 80% with second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/booster-dose-vaccination-to-start-today-in-coimbatore/article38212441.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||AR platform inaugurated||Doon Public School – Junior Wing recently inaugurated Skylogy, an augmented reality platform based on artificial intelligence, for training kindergarten students in the school. A press release from the school said that the institution collaborated with the Arthur Rock Centre for Entrepreneurship, Harvard University to implement this project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ar-platform-inaugurated/article38212537.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for impersonation||A 46-year-old man was arrested by Coimbatore rural police on Saturday on charges of demanding Rs. 3 lakh from a textile shop owner by posing as a central government official. V. Rajkumar of Sirumugai was arrested based on a complaint lodged by M. Nagaraj who runs a textile showroom at Sirumugai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-impersonation/article38212536.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two die after being hit by locomotive||Two youth were killed after being hit by a speeding locomotive at Nallampalayam, near here, late on Saturday. The Government Railway Police (GRP) said that D. Manikandan (17) of R.S. Nagar and S. Vijay Krishnan (18) of Kamaraj Nagar at Kavundampalayam were killed, while their friend R. Srikanth (18) escaped with minor injuries. The police said that the youth went to an unused well at Nallampalayam to catch pigeons. The incident took place around 9 p.m. when they were on the railway bridge at Nallampalayam. Manikandan and Vijay Krishnan were watching a video on the mobile phone when a locomotive used for checking track hit them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-after-being-hit-by-locomotive/article38212439.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Teacher arrested in Udumalpet||The All Women Police Station (AWPS), Udumalpet, arrested a teacher of a government-aided school in Tiruppur district on charges of sending vulgar messages to a girl student. The police said that P. Ashokkumar (37), a Tamil teacher in a school in Udumalpet, was arrested on Saturday based on the complaint lodged by the ChildLine coordinator of Tiruppur district. According to the police, ChildLine received a call on January 4 that said that the teacher sent inappropriate messages to the 17-year-old student through WhatsApp in July 2021. The District Child Protection Officer was informed of the incident, who ordered an inquiry on January 5. Though the incident was brought to the attention of the parents of the affected girl, they did not come forward to lodge a complaint with the police. Complaint lodged Hence, ChildLine coordinator lodged a complaint with the AWPS, Udumalpet, on Saturday. A team led by AWPS inspector R. Rajeshwari Ashokkumar arrested the teacher under different Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the Information Technology Act late on Saturday. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-teacher-held-for-sending-vulgar-messages-to-student/article38212453.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP alleges fraud in Pongal gift distribution||State president of BJP’s Agricultural Wing G.K. Nagaraj has alleged irregularities in the distribution Pongal gift hamper to ration rice card holders in the State. In a statement, he said that the quality of the items in the gift hamper such as rice and jiggery were sub-standard and that the sugarcanes were not procured from the farmers in the State at a lower price. Mr. Nagaraj also alleged that the quantity of items in the Pongal gift hamper varied from one district to another.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-alleges-fraud-in-pongal-gift-distribution/article38212533.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for impersonation||A 46-year-old man was arrested by the Coimbatore rural police on Saturday on charges of demanding Rs. 3 lakh from a textile shop owner at Sirumugai by posing as a central government official. V. Rajkumar of Sirumugai was arrested based on a complaint lodged by M. Nagaraj. The police said that Rajkumar visited Mr. Nagaraj’s store on December 21, 2021, and introduced himself as an officer of a consumer body. demanded Rs. 3 lakh for not to take action on complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-impersonation/article38212438.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||MG Pudur sub-station from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Jan. 11 : Neelambur, Anna Nagar - Neelambur, Lakshmi Nagar, Kulathur, Muthugoundenpudur Road, part of bypass road, and part of Kurumbapalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article38212452.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pongal gift hampers distributed to 2.15 lakh PDS cardholders in Dharmapuri||A total of 2.15 lakh PDS cardholders in the district have received the Pongal gift hampers distributed by the State government, District Collector S. Divyadarshini said in a release here on Saturday. Ms.Divyadarshini along with senior officials inspected the distribution of hampers at ration shops in Pappiradipatti and Nallanur . According to the officials, there are 1,071 ration shops in the district. As many as 4,60,825 rice cardholders and 718 rice cardholders in Sri Lankan refugee camps were eligible to receive the hampers. As on Saturday, 2,15,200 rice card holders have received the hampers in the district. The public were advised to adhere to COVID-19 safety protocols at the ration shops while collecting the hampers.  As many as 4,60,825 rice cardholders and 718 persons in Sri Lankan refugee camps to receive the hampers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pongal-gift-hampers-distributed-to-215-lakh-pds-cardholders-in-dharmapuri/article38212543.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of Pongal, harvest of palm sprouts under way at Kovilpatti||With Pongal fast approaching, farmers in Kovilpatti region in Thoothukudi district are busy digging out palm sprouts ( panankilangu ) from their fields.   Before harvest, it is a custom for farmers to perform puja with paddy grains, vegetables, turmeric bunch, along with palm sprouts. The puja makes the celebration complete for Pongal, a quintessential Tamil festival, which falls on January 14.   The ‘State tree’ for Tamil Nadu is the Palmyra tree. Every partof the tree — neera ( padhaneer ), palmyra fruit ( nongu ), palm candy ( panangarkandu ), the fronds, the trunk — is used by people for different purposes, besides the edible portion.   There are lakhs of palmyra trees in Kovilpatti, Kamanayakkanpatti, Muthulapuram, Ayanvadamalapuram, Vembar, and Vilathikulam. Farmers here plant palm seeds by the end of the Tamil month of aavan i.   After the rainy season, by the Tamil month of purattas i, the palm sprouts will be ready for harvest. So, the time is ripe now for harvesting the sprouts.  According to a farmer, Maharaja, palm sprouts are believed to have medicinal properties and they are tasty too. Hence, they are much sought after. A bunch of 25 palm sprouts is sold for about Rs. 80 by farmers. He says those who are involved in palm farming have been shifting to other occupations, which provide better income, in the past 10 years. If the government procures the palm sprouts from the farmers and gives them Pongal gift hampers, it will help in protecting the ailing palmyra sector. It will also improve the economic conditions of a large number of poor palmyra workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ahead-of-pongal-harvest-of-palm-sprouts-under-way-at-kovilpatti/article38212510.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Allotment of EVMs to polling booths begins in Krishnagiri||The allotment of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) to polling booths began at Krishnagiri panchayat union office here on Thursday. District Collector V. Jayachandra Banu Reddy along with representatives of recognised political parties oversaw the allotment of EVMs and control units after first level checks to polling booths for the upcoming urban body elections. The elections will be held to Hosur Corporation, Krishnagiri Municipality and six town panchayats in the district. The first randomisation of machines to polling booths was conducted on Wednesday. According to a release, there are 248 booths in Hosur Corporation and 299 machines and control units have been allotted to the booths. In Krishnagiri Municipality, 80 machines and control units have been allotted to 66 booths, and 134 machines were allotted to 110 booths in the six town panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allotment-of-evms-to-polling-booths-begins-in-krishnagiri/article38212532.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring teams set up at all 100 wards in Corporation||The Madurai Corporation has set up monitoring teams across all the 100 wards, which would primarily keep a close tab on people in isolation at homes and ensure that their basic requirements were fulfilled without any of them stepping out of their houses. The teams will comprise nine members from anganwadi, health, sanitary and volunteers. By having the list of patients ward-wise, it would become easy to have an eye on the people. After getting in touch with them, the team members would help them dispose of garbage from their premises. In case, they require food or any medicine, they would be delivered through contactless mode by the stakeholders, said Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan here on Sunday. He said that, in a simultaneous drive, the civic authorities were engaged in offering counselling to people, who were still unvaccinated. After disseminating information about the consequences and merits of inoculation, the eligible people were given the doses. Persons in the age group of 15 to 18 years too were getting the vaccine shots. Collector S Aneesh Shekhar inspected the Covid Care Centres being readied at Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College and at the American College campus. He appealed to the people to get vaccinated at the designated vaccination points without delay. Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) Dean Rathnavel, who inspected the Covid Clinic which has been set up temporarily at the Ilango Corporation School near the GRH campus, said that people with ailments such as fever, cold and cough can make use of the school campus from January 10. The clinic would function from 8 a.m. onwards. The GRH was fully geared to take COVID-19 patients who require oxygen, the Dean added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-teams-set-up-at-all-100-wards-in-corporation/article38212647.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sunday lockdown total in southern districts||The Sunday lockdown announced by the government was total in southern Tamil Nadu. Collectors and Superintendents of Police across the districts said that all activities except movement of essential goods, which were exempted from the lockdown, were suspended. In a bid to contain the COVID-19 spread, the government had taken a number of measures. Already, the shrines were ordered to be shut from Friday to Sunday. The Covid Care Centres were spruced up in many districts and in corporation limits. So far, no cluster formation was seen in the Madurai city, said Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan in a press release. The health department officials had identified volunteers in all the 100 wards who would primarily coordinate with the COVID-19 patients in isolation at their respective dwellings. The Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Shekhar said a special control room had been opened for people to stay in touch over phone. Counselling would also be offered to the needy. He appealed to the people to cooperate with the officials in fighting the big challenge. There was no need for panic, he added. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean Rethnavel said they had sufficient bed strength and oxygen facility at the isolation wards. Thanks to the government initiative and generous contributions from service organisations and private sector with which new oxygen generation plants had been installed. Dindigul Collector S. Visakan said only essential commodities were moving across the district. The shops were shut in Kodaikanal and Palani. Thai Poosam festival Though elaborate arrangements had been made for the Thai Poosam festival, beginning on January 12 with the hoisting of the holy flag, with rising COVID-19 cases and Omicron, the HR&CE officials said that they might take a relook on the issue in a day or two. Padayatris from various destinations were going towards Palani. The police said that they were monitoring the movements. Many voluntary organisations were giving masks to the devotees. In Thoothukudi, ahead of the Chief Minister M. K. Stalin’s programmes, works were going on in full swing in the city. Some roads which were badly damaged were being given a patch. Similarly, the public parks waiting for inauguration by the Chief Minister too were being given final touches. In Virudhunagar district, the officials heaved a sigh of relief as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled visit on January 12 had been cancelled. In Sivaganga district, the officials said there were no movements on account of the lockdown. In Ramanathapuram district, the fishermen were instructed to stay off the sea on Saturday as they had to return on Sunday. Fisheries Department officials said they had not issued tokens and all the mechanised boats were anchored. The Pamban bridge and a few beaches in Rameswaram wore a deserted look as visitors and tourists were not permitted, the police said. In Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari, the inter-State movement of vehicles came under strict vigil. Similarly, the police and health staff were vigilant round the clock in Kumuli, Bodimettu and Cumbum Mettu, where vehicles from Kerala used to enter. Only after thorough checks and screening of the crew, the vehicles were allowed to enter. Railway stations in southern districts witnessed activity only when trains arrived in the early mornings in Dindigul, Madurai, Virudhunagar districts, railway officials said and added that only pharmacies were kept open in and around railway stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sunday-lockdown-total-in-southern-districts/article38212521.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two die as family of five attempts to end life||Two persons died when a family of five attempted to end their lives after one of them tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The police said that Nagaraj (46) lived in Sakkimangalam Panchayat Kalmedu MGR Nagar in Madurai East with his family comprising wife Lakshmi (41), two sons - Sibiraj (13) and Athiswaran (15), married daughter Jothika (23) and her son Ritish (3). It is said that in December 2021, Nagaraj died due to some ailment. The family, which depended on his earnings were in a state of shock since then. Jothika, who was married, had separated from her husband and lived with her parents. Under such circumstances, two days ago, when Jothika fell sick, she went to the nearby hospital. Her samples were sent to the laboratory and the results came as positive. Shocked, the family decided to end their lives and had reportedly consumed poisonous liquid on Saturday night. However, Athiswaran spat out the liquid. Battling for life Police said that Jothika and her little son died, while her mother Lakshmi and younger brother Sibiraj were battling for their lives at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). Athiswaran was seen standing in despair at GRH. Meanwhile, social activist Hakeem in a press release appealed to the district administration to give adequate counselling to the teenaged boy Athiswaran. Plea for compensation AIADMK MLA and former Revenue Minister R B Udaykumar in a press note urged the State government to give compensation to the young lad and also appoint counsellors to engage with such COVID-19 victims. Mr. Udaykumar said that COVID-19 inflicted patients need not panic and take any extreme decision. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-as-family-of-five-attempts-to-end-life/article38212516.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 138.50 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 203 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 69.42 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 989 cusecs and a discharge of 569 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,993 mcft. Thekkadi recorded 1.6 mm and Periyar recorded 1 mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday.     Unidentified men have decamped with gold jewellery, silver and cash valued around Rs. 15 lakh from two locked homes in Ramanathapuram district. According to police, Ahamed Ali of Melakottai was employed in Malaysia and had left his house locked. Unidentified persons gained entry possibly on Friday night and escaped with 40 sovereigns of gold jewellery and cash kept in the locker. In another incident, which was reported in the same locality, police said burglars gained entry into the house of Seeni Mohamed employed in Dubai. His relatives said gold coins, silver items and Rs. 50,000 in cash were missing. Kenikarai police have registered a case.     In a surprise check, a team of officers led by DSP (Vigilance and Anti-Corruption) Nagaraj raided the premises of the office of the Divisional Engineer, Highways Department, here on Friday night following complaints from a few contractors that an official demanded hefty bribe for issuing pay orders. On information, the officials conducted search and seized Rs 4.70 lakh said to be unaccounted. About 10 staff and some senior officials were let off after interrogation, while the top official was detained for discreet probe and recording statements. Further investigation was on Saturday, too, V&AC police told reporters on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38212512.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects COVID-19 war room||District Collector Shreya P. Singh inspected the COVID-19 war room here and reviewed the arrangements on Saturday. The public could contact the war room in the phone numbers 1077, 04286-299135, 04286-299137, 04286-299139, 82204 02437 and get details on COVID-19 treatment facilities in the district. Doctors, health workers and revenue officials had been working in shifts in the 24-hour war room. Details of patients in home isolation could also be collected. Ms. Singh checked the calls received at the centre and reviewed the measures taken to provide assistance to the callers. She later visited the Vinnaithirthapuram primary health centre and checked the arrangements for COVID-19 treatment. The Collector along with senior officials inspected shops and other businesses in the weekly market, China Kadai Street, Kandhu Muthusamy Street, Thupan Kumarasami Street and a few other places. The businesses were advised to strictly follow COVID-19 safety protocols while attending customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-covid-19-war-room/article38212542.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Child Helpline Centre inspected||Collector Shreya P. Singh on Thursday inspected the Child Helpline Centre on Trichy Road here and reviewed the calls received at helpline number 1098. Ms. Singh checked the measures taken to resolve the issues of children in distress. According to a release, the centre has received calls regarding child marriages, child labour, sexual harassment to children, orphaned children and psychiatric counselling to children. Regarding child marriages, the Collector advised officials to take action against parents, relatives and others involved in the conduct of marriage. The officials were instructed to alert the respective Revenue Divisional Officer, tahsildhar and the police regarding the distress calls received. They were told to the monitor the affected children until they completed 18 years of age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-helpline-centre-inspected/article38212541.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Unlicensed meat shops in Puducherry a cause for concern||In a clear violation of all existing rules and regulations, Puducherry has witnessed a mushrooming of unlicensed meat shops in the last few years. The roadsides, even in residential areas, have slaughterhouses that sell mutton and chicken in unhygienic conditions, exposing people to zoonotic diseases. “The recent Madras High Court order asking the Director of Tamil Nadu Rural Development Department to crack down on all meat shops without a valid licence, is applicable to Puducherry too. We have witnessed mushrooming roadside meat shops in the last few years. In fact, on particular days, especially Sundays, every 500 m or so, we could see herds of goats being bundled into a temporary shelter for slaughter. The animal will be slaughtered on the road for selling the meat. It is against rules and increases health risk,” said a retired government employee. As per Prevention of Cruelty to Animal (Slaughterhouse), Rules, 2001, animals should be slaughtered in licensed houses, he said. “No persons shall slaughter any animal within Municipal areas, except in a slaughterhouse recognised or licensed by the concerned authority, empowered under the law of the time being in force to do so,” the act says. The act, among other guidelines, prescribes that a veterinary doctor should give a fitness certificate of the animal. No animal should be slaughtered in sight of other animals. “It prescribes several things for slaughtering to prevent cruelty to the animal. The unlicensed slaughterhouses will certainly cause more cruelty to the animal during its slaughter. It also poses health risk to meat-eaters,” said a government veterinarian. NOC required The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) stipulates that a slaughter house should have a no objection certificate (NOC) from a local authority. The slaughterhouse should be a unit of a meat market, located away from vegetable, fish or other food markets, and must be free from “odour, smoke, dust or other containments. The premises should be located at an elevated position in a sanitary place.” According to a retired municipality staff, as per rules, an animal, “suspected of contagious or infectious disease should be segregated and kept in isolated pens, which should have arrangements for watering and feeding.” He said no rules are being followed in keeping a check on the meat shops. The Local Administration Department, in 2012, had formed a State Level Committee to monitor the functioning of slaughterhouses. The State Level Committee for Slaughterhouses, headed by Secretary to Government, LAD, was entrusted with the task to prepare the list of slaughterhouses and confirm whether they are functioning within the ambit of laws. “One of the mandates of committee was to recommend modernisation and relocation of slaughterhouses, far away from residential areas. The committee was also entrusted with the task to crackdown on unlicensed and unlawful establishments with slaughter animals, with the assistance of the District Magistrate. In the last few years, we have only seen slaughterhouses mushrooming in roadsides and residential areas. Every day we could see a slaughterhouse-cum-meat shop, violating all rules, coming up,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unlicensed-meat-shops-in-puducherry-a-cause-for-concern/article38212722.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Border surveillance tightened in Puducherry||As part of measures to contain the spread of COVID-19, the administration has strengthened border surveillance at several check points to ensure that only those who have had at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine are allowed entry. After chairing a meeting of officials of the Revenue, Police, Health, Labour and Local Administration Departments, District Collector E. Vallavan said surveillance teams would be constituted to ensure that only vaccinated people are allowed entry and to detect those with symptoms. Hotels/lodges shall bring in necessary changes to the booking system to ensure that only vaccinated people are accommodated on their premises, the Collector said. Besides, taluk- and firka-level joint inspection teams, which would also comprise municipal/commune panchayat officials, would be constituted to keep a strict vigil on hotels, malls, marketplaces, cinemas and wedding halls to ensure COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. These teams are empowered to seal premises for repeated violations and issue challans for not wearing masks and not maintaining physical distance. All commercial establishments should ensure that sanitisers and thermal scanners are available on their premises and markings to ensure distancing are made. The Collector urged the public to comply with COVID-19 guidelines and help contain the recent spike in cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/border-surveillance-tightened-in-puducherry/article38212716.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||L-G reviews arrangements for National Youth Festival||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday held a meeting to review the arrangements for conducting the 25th National Youth Festival, which starts on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to virtually launch the event, which was moved online following a resurgence in COVID-19 cases across the country. Its duration was also curtailed from five days to three days. The launch coincides with the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, while the event coincides with the 75th anniversary of Indian Independence. The Lt. Governor, after presiding over the high-level virtual meeting, said special broadcasting software was being deployed to facilitate widespread viewing of the launch. Among the facilities set up are a website for the National Youth Festival, online seminar rooms, an internet platform for Olympians and Paralympians, yoga classes and traditional sports areas for the event. About 5 lakh youth are expected to participate in the festival online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-reviews-arrangements-for-national-youth-festival/article38212719.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 444 fresh COVID-19 infections||The Union Territory recorded a new single-day high of 444 COVID-19 cases at a test positivity rate of 13.87% on Sunday. No death was reported. Puducherry accounted for 350 of the fresh infections, followed by 84 in Karaikal, nine in Mahe and one in Yanam. The case fatality rate was 1.44% and the recovery rate 97.60%. With 19 patients recovering from COVID-19, the active cases stood at 1,250. The number of patients in hospital touched the 100 mark again, after showing a declining trend for several months, while 1,150 were in home isolation. The cumulative toll remained at 1,882, with Puducherry logging 1,470, Karaikal 251, Yanam 109 and Mahe 52. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,30,722 cases and 1,27,590 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 20.70 lakh tests conducted to date, over 17.58 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 12,017 persons took COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered an aggregate of 14,63,660 doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-444-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38212724.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM launches distribution of Pongal kits||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Sunday launched the distribution of Pongal gift kits to ration cardholders. The kits, containing 10 items worth Rs. 490, will be available at fair price shops from Monday. Mr. Rangasamy launched the scheme by distributing the kits at a fair price shop near Thillaiyadi Valliammai Government High School in Kadirgamam. Civil Supplies Minister A.K. Sai Saravanan Kumar, Government Whip V. Aroumougame, MLA S. Ramesh and Civil Supplies Secretary C. Udayakumar took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-distribution-of-pongal-kits/article38212717.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Schools closed for Classes I-IX to curb COVID-19||All public and private schools conducting offline lessons for students of Classes I-IX will remain closed indefinitely from Monday in Puducherry and Karaikal regions as a precautionary measure against COVID-19. Home and Education Minister A. Namassivayam said online classes will therefore resume for students of Classes I to IX.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-closed-for-classes-i-ix-to-curb-covid-19/article38212723.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector on a bicycle||While law enforcers were ensuring enforcement of lockdown all over the district, Collector Kavitha Ramu went around Pudukottai ridinga bicycle to ascertain firsthand the ground-level situation on Sunday.“I just wanted to make sure everything was in place during the lockdown,” she said over phone. She said that barring medical shops no other outlet was opened in the town during her rounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-on-a-bicycle/article38212498.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation Commissioner inspects COVID-19 treatment facilities in Salem||Salem Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj inspected the COVID-19 treatment facilities here on Sunday. Mr. Christuraj visited various colleges and reviewed the possibilities of setting up COVID-19 treatment centres on their premises. He checked the availability of basic amenities and other requirements to treat patients. Facilities for stay of medical teams were also reviewed. According to Corporation officials, 214 beds have been arranged at Thoongum Poonga multi-purpose hall to treat COVID-19 patients. Facilities were checked at Sona College, CSI Polytechnic College, Mahatma Gandhi stadium, Sri Shakthi Kailassh Women’s College and various other institutions here. The Commissioner also checked the facilities for providing food to the patients. The Commissioner along with officials later inspected the disinfection activities at the bus stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-commissioner-inspects-covid-19-treatment-facilities-in-salem/article38212534.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Booster dose vaccination for frontline workers in Salem from today||The district administration will start administering the precaution dose of COVID-19 vaccine to frontline workers from January 10 (Monday). District Collector S. Karmegham will launch the vaccine administration at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. According to the officials, persons who have completed nine months or 39 weeks after second dose will be eligible for the precaution dose. Health workers, frontline workers, and persons aged above 60 years with co-morbidities can take he vaccine dose. Over 50,000 persons were found eligible for the dose in Salem, the officials said. During the mega vaccination camp on Saturday, 73,961 COVID-19 vaccine doses were administered in the district. The officials said, as on Saturday, 25,43,573 persons aged above 15 years had taken the first dose and 16,19,871 persons had taken the second dose of vaccination in the district. Of the eligible population, 86% had taken the COVID-19 vaccination in the district, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/booster-dose-vaccination-for-frontline-workers-in-salem-from-today/article38212531.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 149 COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Sunday reported 149 new cases of COVID-19 and one death. A total of 578 persons were under treatment in the district. Salem district reported 146 fresh cases and one death. According to the Health Department officials, all cases were indigenous and 98 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. While Namakkal district reported 87cases and one death on Sunday, Krishnagiri had 103 cases and Dharmapuri 43 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-149-covid-19-cases/article38212535.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown total in Erode, Salem districts||Lockdown was almost successful in Erode and Salem districts as the public stayed indoors on Sunday. Having experienced lockdowns earlier, the public chose not to venture out. There was minimal vehicle movement on roads except for vehicles moving for weddings, to get essentials, or for emergency purposes. The Salem City Police had set up check posts at major junctions and police personnel were deployed to check unnecessary movement of the public. According to the police, about 40 check points were set up in Salem city and over 600 police personnel were deployed. The public turned up at the farmer markets in the district during the early hours of Sunday. A sale of about Rs. 41 lakh was witnessed at 11 farmer markets in Salem. Grocery shops also remained closed on the day and only milk delivery services and milk booths functioned. However, corner shops and a few meat shops served customers discreetly. The Salem district police had set up 20 check posts and over 700 personnel were deployed. The Kurumbapatti zoological park remained closed on the day. Restaurants restricted services to takeaways. In Namakkal, the public cooperated with the lockdown measures and very minimal vehicle movement was noticed on roads here. Fifteen check posts were set up on district borders and 68 vehicle check points within the city. Over 500 personnel were deployed. In Krishnagiri, the streets wore a deserted look and only essential services were available. In Dharmapuri, lockdown was almost successful and only essential commodities were permitted. In Erode, 1,500 police personnel were deployed and strict checks were conducted on State borders such as Sathyamangalam. Motorists were checked for vaccination certificates and unnecessary travellers were discouraged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-total-in-erode-salem-districts/article38212540.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Theni police file FIR against OPS, his son||Cyber Crime Police of Theni district have registered a case against former Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK party coordinator O. Panneerselvam and his son and Lok Sabha MP O. P. Raveendranath Kumar for alleged offenses under Section 125 A of the Representation of People Act. Following a complaint by Milani, a former DMK district youth wing coordinator, the court ordered the police to register a case. The complainant alleged that the accused had knowingly furnished false information regarding their immovable properties, agricultural properties, annual income, liabilities and education qualification in the affidavits filed along with the nomination papers as per Sections 33 and 33-A of RP Act. Police to conduct probe The police said they would conduct a probe into the petition. “We have registered a case today as per the court direction. Next step will follow as per the law,” an officer said and added that there were no arrests in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fir-filed-against-ops-his-son/article38212412.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Road work taken up in Thoothukudi||The Sunday lockdown was total in Thoothukudi district. A majority of residents stayed indoors. Salt pan workers and fishermen did not go to work. Shrines were shut since Friday. Flower, vegetable, fish and other markets remained closed.  But road work was taken up along Thoothukudi-Palayamkottai Road taking advantage of the lockdown. When The Hindu inquired, the workers said they were directed to report for work on Sunday. The roads had to be set right before midnight due to instructions from officials. So, workers were busy giving final touches to the science park coming up near VOC College at a cost of Rs. 6.28 crore. Around 100 workers could be seen in both locations. None of them wore masks and or maintained physical distancing.  When contacted, an official, requesting anonymity, said the roads were in a bad condition. The recent rain had left them non-motorable. Asked about the reason for the hurry, he said the Chief Minister was likely to visit soon for the inaugural function. Police said they had collected Rs. 12 lakh by way of fine from 6,200 people over the last week for violating COVID-19 norms. Many motorists who failed to wear masks were initially warned. On Sunday, motorists, who had no reason to step out of their homes, were fined. Around 1,000 police personnel were deployed across the district since Friday night and 64 check posts were installed to check vehicles coming to the town, SP Jeyakumar told reporters near VOC Junction. In Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts too, officials said the lockdown was total. Barring movement of essential and exempted sectors, movement of the public was completely curtailed. In Kanniyakumari, tourist spots such as Vivekananda Rock Memorial wore a deserted look. Similarly, Courtallam in Tenkasi district was deserted on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-work-taken-up-in-thoothukudi/article38212514.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown complete in delta region||General public by and large remained indoors as the lockdown announced on Sunday by the State government in view of the rise in COVID-19 cases was total in Tiruchi and elsewhere in the central zone. Law enforcers positioned themselves at vantage points in the city ensuring total enforcement of the lockdown and penalising violators. Business activities came to a complete standstill as traders downedshutters heeding the governmentdirective. Barring pharmacies and outlets selling milk, other shops remained closed. With State Transport Corporationbuses, private buses and other private vehicles off road and there being virtually no movement of freight carriers barring those transporting essentials, roads wore a deserted look with sparse public movement. Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi, G. Karthikeyan, who carried out inspection at different places, including the Central bus stand here, said that around 1,000 police personnel were engaged in security duty in the city on Sunday, adding that the public had by and large extended their cooperation to the lockdown. The lockdown in the central zone was total, said the Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, V. Balakrishnan. Law enforcers booked lockdown violation cases against those found moving in public places without any valid reason in Tiruchi and elsewhere in the central zone encompassing nine districts. A press release issued by the Tiruchi City Police said that 28 cases were booked against violators of the lockdown restrictions. Ten two-wheelers were seized after the riders were found moving without any valid reason and cases booked againstthem. Fines were slapped on 600 persons as they were not wearing masks in public places. The fine collected from them was Rs. 1.2 lakh and cases were booked against them too. Fine amounting to Rs. 5,000 each were imposed on three shops in Tiruchi City which were found open during the lockdown period. Lockdown violation cases were also booked in other districts in the central zone, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-complete-in-delta-region/article38212502.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Food bloggers a big hit among locals||While people were confined to their homes during the lockdown as a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19, social media became a platform for quick recipes, budding home chefs and the most popular- food bloggers. People who would have otherwise spent their time doing regular jobs began to, through their videos, entertain people and also showcase food trends in the city. A. Rowland Burges, a 27-year-old businessman, gained popularity through recipes he would prepare along with his mother. "Like everyone else, we would look up videos on YouTube, prepare the food and share the videos. For me it was just a way to document the time and the growth was unexpected," he said. Mr. Burges goes by 'The Trichy Foodie' on Instagram, which has around 1 lakh followers. He has recently been nominated for an award in the Food Blogging category. V. Hariharan and V. Sridharan -a pair of twins, also use the platform as a way to spend time with their parents. They operate 'Twin Food Delight' which has nearly 23,000 followers. Apart from preparing home cooked food, the bloggers also purchase takeaway orders from restaurants and try them out. "We make it clear that we pay for the food, and therefore our opinions are ours. However, many refuse to believe us," Hariharan said. For K. Vedha, one of the city’s only female food bloggers, the process was different. Unlike her counterparts, she began a YouTube channel where she posted homemade recipes of food that was rare in restaurants in the city and eventually made the transition to Instagram. The food blogging community has been welcoming, but a girl going by herself to take videos and photos, especially of street stalls at night is unheard of. “I usually go along with other food bloggers,” she said. Yukesh Raaj, a techie by day, spends weekends on food blogging- what he calls his passion. He believes that the food scene in Thanjavur needs to improve to catch up with Tiruchi. "Everyone seems to make only a few dishes. There needs to be variety and also an attempt at new cuisines so the people can try something new," he said. However, he takes pride in the pocket-friendly nature of the items in his city. Most bloggers have become a close-knit community and share tips and tricks, feedback and even shoot for one another at times. Their families too have become involved in their work. Hariharan and Sridharan's parents purchased cookware to serve the food, and even shot meals they ate when their sons did not accompany them. Their viewership is not restricted to youth as many including their relatives, neighbours consult them before going out to eat. Investing in good quality equipment has been a game-changer, they say. Mr. Burges has even hired a team of photographers to shoot his videos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-bloggers-a-big-hit-among-locals/article38212494.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Delta districts report rise in fresh cases||The number of COVID-19 cases reported in the delta region depicted a steep rise on Sunday as 627 persons tested positive - a majority of them from Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts. One death was reported- in Mayiladuthurai district, as per the bulletin issued by the Health Department. In Tiruchi, where the spike was the highest, 275 patients tested positive. Thanjavur too witnessed an increase with 118 fresh cases. In Tiruvarur, 51 patients reported COVID-19 positive and Perambalur, 50. Nagapattinam registered 48 COVID-19 cases, while Karur reported 32. In Pudukottai, 20 cases were reported, in Mayiladuthurai 19 and Ariyalur, 14 - the lowest among the delta districts. Booster dose The Tiruchi district administration has received nearly 50,000 doses of the COVID-19 vaccine to inoculate healthcare and frontline workers with a booster dose. A total of 36,000 Covishield doses and 14,000 Covaxin vials have been provided to begin the drive, while necessary arrangements will be made for more when required, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-districts-report-rise-in-fresh-cases/article38212499.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thirunavukkarasar tests positive for COVID-19||Tiruchi Lok Sabha Member of ParliamentSu Thirunavukkarasar tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. Mr. Thirunavukkarasar, who is in Chennai, said he had running nose and cough for the past two to three days following which he had subjected himself to COVID-19 test. The result turned out to be positive. His son and Congress Aranthangi MLA S.T. Ramachandran had tested COVID-19 positive recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thirunavukkarasar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article38212492.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 safety measures help in preventing other respiratory ailments, say doctors||COVID-appropriate behaviour can help in minimising the spread of other respiratory ailments and also control co-morbidities during winter, say doctors in the city.  “Common cold, influenza and bronchial asthma are usually high during winter. Many people develop wheezing and bronchial asthma. This may lead to dyspnea (shortness of breath). Early morning pollen dust also causes problems for many people. But adhering to COVID-19 safety measures such as maintaining social distance, wearing masks and frequently washing hands can easily prevent these problems, because most of these infections are spread through droplets,” E. Arunraj, Medical Superintendent in charge, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH), told The Hindu .  Even though public attention has been focused on COVID-19, Omicron and variants, other health problems need equal attention, especially during winter, said Dr. Arunraj, a neurologist. “The adherence to safety protocols during the pandemic could be a blessing in disguise for both the public and physicians,” he added. Besides allergies, overexposure to cold air could also put many people at risk, said Dr. Arunraj. “We always advise people to wear dress for warmth and headscarves or woollen caps that cover ears, throat and chest during winter. Cases of Bell’s palsy (paralysis of the facial nerve causing muscular weakness in one side of the face) are quite common among those who travel without adequate protection in the cold morning air,” he said. The increased moisture in the air due to rain during winter this year has aggravated many respiratory allergies. “We are seeing infections in the extremes - either very old people or very young children, possibly because a few water-borne infections are also active in this type of weather,” said G. Kamal, asthma allergist. Senior citizens, especially those with existing health problems, should be extra careful during winter, said Dr. Kamal. “Besides regular medication and check-ups, they should take care to do their morning ablutions in warm water. They should switch to drinking warm filtered water to avoid throat infections,” he said. A more recent problem in Tiruchi has been that of smog generated by burning of garbage. “We should avoid breathing in the air from such bonfires because many viruses get activated in the heat. I hope the authorities and public will seriously consider a smokeless Bogi to reduce the chances of smog exposure,” he said.  Problems now||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-safety-measures-help-in-preventing-other-respiratory-ailments-say-doctors/article38212507.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bangladeshi student found dead in hostel||A 20-year-old student from Bangladesh, pursuing engineering course at the National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi, allegedly ended his life in the hostel room on Saturday evening. Police gave the name of the deceased as B. Sourav Sen, a second year B.Tech student of Computer Science. Police sources said no suicide note was recovered from his hostel room. The hostel mates of Sourav apparently got suspicious as there was no response from his room as it was bolted from inside. The door was broken open and the student was found dead. The body was sent to the Thuvakudi Government Hospital for post mortem. Police sources said information about Sourav's death had been conveyed to his parents. The exact reason for the student to allegedly end his life was under investigation, although it was suspected that he had not written the exams well. Forensic experts inspected the spot. The Thuvakudi police have registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bangladeshi-student-found-dead-in-hostel/article38212488.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Research scholars breathe easy during pandemic||Research scholars on the verge of completion of their Ph.D. programmes are not unduly worried about the possible lockdown due to the third wave of COVID-19 pandemic, now that online viva-voce exam has come to stay. It was through online viva-voce exam that Ph.D. qualification was awarded to at least one-fourth of the 2,139 candidates who received their doctorate degrees recently from Bharathidasan University, Controller of Examinations S. Srinivasa Raghavan said. This factor is common for all other universities as well. According to senior professors, online viva-voce for Ph.D. scholars has meant saving on huge expediture that is otherwise incurred towards cost of travel and accommodation of guide and external examiners some of them who come from other States. "It is easier for the people to take part in the viva-voce session with smart phones. All they need to do is to spare their time wherever they are. Candidates usually take part in the viva-voce sessions sitting in front of laptops of desktops," said Prof. Raghavan. He added that colleges in their quest for improving their rating by NAAC have put in place sufficient ICT infrastructure that are well-suited to conduct the viva-voce sessions. It is, of course, disadvantageou for students from rural parts where Internet connectivity is low. Otherwise, this system is as much effective as offline viva-voce sessions, college heads acknowledge. The University had, last year, issued an instruction to universities to conduct PhD and MPhil viva exams through video conferencing, in the interests of the students. The UGC had suggested that the Ph.D. and M. Phil. viva-voce Examinations could be conducted through video conferencing using Google, Skype, Microsoft Technologies or any other reliable and mutually convenient technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/research-scholars-breathe-easy-during-pandemic/article38212491.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cargo terminal to resume operations||Operations at the air cargo terminal at Tiruchi airport will resume on Monday. Airport Director S. Dharmaraj has requested airlines , IATA agents and consoles to book / accept cargo for exportthrough the terminal with effect from 2 p.m. In an earlier circular, he had stated that the cargo terminal would be closed with effect from January 9 due to administrative reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cargo-terminal-to-resume-operations/article38212497.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owner found dead in water body||A man who was reported missing a couple of days ago was found dead in a waterbody at Vadakku Echampatti near Manachanallur on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as R. Sathish Kumar, 32, a lorry owner. The body was found with hands and legs tied. Locals noticed the body in the waterbody and informed the police.The Manachanallur police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-owner-found-dead-in-water-body/article38212503.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 116.58 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 2,936 cusecs and the discharge 1,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article38212505.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Short film on human-elephant conflict in Tamil Nadu receives international praise||“One of the most startling things we observed while filming this movie, is how humans are completely altering elephant behavior in different landscapes,” says Santhosh Krishnan, one of the directors of the film “Kaliru” – a documentary, charting problematic human-elephant interactions in some of the most conflict-prone landscapes of Tamil Nadu. “In the forests bordering Sathyamangalam and Hasanur, elephants routinely wait for trucks carrying sugarcane, by the side of the road. When the vehicles stop at the check post, they take sugarcane from the trucks. At least 20 such elephants exhibit this kind of behavior. They have have come to rely on these trucks as a source of food and rarely venture into the forest,” said Mr. Krishnan. The film was made by Mr. Krishnan and Jewsin Kingsly, a naturalist from the Kanha Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh. “Kaliru”, meaning bull elephant, is around 18 minutes long and is narrated by renowned wildlife photographer and conservationist Belinda Wright. It is garnering plenty of attention and acclaim by conservationists in India and abroad. It has won and been nominated for multiple short film awards, and was made to sensitise young people about the threats that elephants in India face, said Mr. Kingsly, who is a resident of Mettupalayam. It was during one of his visits back home that Mr. Kingsly hit upon the idea to make the film. “On the day I came home to Mettupalayam, our family had eaten a jackfruit and had disposed of the peels in a community dustbin outside our house. Late at night, we found an elephant rummaging through the bin, and that’s when I decided to start working on the film to highlight how altered elephant behavior and conflict go hand-in-hand in places like Mettupalayam,” he said. Development-induced woes Filmed over a period of six months, with a budget of around Rs. 80,000, the film focuses on problematic elephant-human interactions in Mettupalayam, Valparai and a few other areas. “Each area has its own set of problems and it leads to elephants altering their behavior. In Mettupalayam, the Kallar corridor, which was already known to be a bottleneck, has now almost been completely lost due to development in the form of farms, construction projects and fences, leading to elephants entering human habitations to circumvent the blocked migratory routes they have been using for millions of years,” said Mr. Kingsly. “There is one elephant in Mettupalayam, locally known as Bahubali, who has become totally fearless of humans and fireworks, and he only leaves a settlement after eating his fill,” said Mr. Krishnan, who adds that the loss of fear among elephants usually leads to bad outcomes. “Ultimately, such elephants face retaliation from farmers or get captured, and are made to live out their life in captivity. While in places like Valparai, elephants are routinely harassed and driven away from plantations by the owners. They force the forest department to chase away the elephants, most of whom are passing through, during their annual migration,” he added. The two filmmakers hope that the movie will lead to better understanding of pachyderms among people who live in close proximity to them. “We hope that ‘Kaliru’ will spur introspection among communities living in these areas where there is a high degree of problematic human-elephant interactions, and how people need to alter their behavior to live in peaceful co-existence with these magnificent animals,” said Mr. Kingsly. The film can be watched on YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/short-film-on-human-elephant-conflict-in-tamil-nadu-receives-international-praise/article38212437.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown leaves tourists in the Nilgiris disappointed||Tourists who travelled on board the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) faced a hard time during the total lockdown on Sunday. One of the tourists said all restaurants, hotels and tourist spots were closed. It made travelling to the district on Sunday not worth the effort. “We enjoyed the NMR ride to the Nilgiris, and had brought our own food. However, there were a lot of people who came unprepared and were left disappointed that the tourist spots were closed,” he said. As buses, taxis and autorickshaws too stayed off the road, tourists were also unable to travel very far from the railway station. Meanwhile, the police kept a strict vigil against people venturing out of their homes. The Nilgiris District Collector, S.P. Amrith, inspected shops in the Udhagamandalam municipal market and is expected to hold discussions about shifting some of the stalls to an alternative site to prevent overcrowding. Around 50 stalls at the farmers’ market in Charring Cross are to be moved to the NCMS parking lot nearby, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-leaves-tourists-in-the-nilgiris-disappointed/article38212448.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jallikattu banned in Vellore, nearby districts||With a steep rise in the daily cases of COVID-19, the district administration in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur, have banned the conduct of Jallikattu events, ahead of Pongal festival, as part of safety measures. A large group of Jallikattu enthusiasts gheraoed the Vellore Collectorate a few days ago, seeking permission from Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian, to organise the event during the festival. As the daily cases touched 295 in Vellore on Sunday, the administration has banned the event by directing revenue officials and police to prevent any such activities, especially in remote villages of the district.  “During the pandemic, such large public events are automatically banned to prevent the spread of the infection. Special health and police teams were formed to check any violations on COVID-19 norms,” Ranipet Collector D. Bhaskara Pandian told The Hindu .  Special revenue and police teams were also deployed in Jallikattu hotspots like Arani, Polur, Chengam, Cheyyar and Vandavasi to prevent the conduct of the event in remote villages, especially along Jawadhu Hills in Tiruvannamalai during the festival. After meeting with the event organisers, the revenue divisional officers (RDOs) also got a written undertaking from the organisers in these areas that they will not hold such events due to the pandemic. Shops at crowded towns in the Ranipet district, including Arcot, Walajah, Arakkonam, Ranipet town and Sholingur, are allowed to operate with adequate social distancing. On an average, a 20-30 feet distance between each shop in these markets, with social distancing circles at the shopfront, have been planned. Mobile health and police teams will be patrolling these congested spots. Currently, 3,750 beds in hospitals are available with seven COVID-19 care centres, covering all seven taluks in the district. The neighboring district of Tiruvannamalai, the largest among the four, had a series of meetings with traders and small businessmen on relocating the existing market to the outskirts of the temple town. Accordingly, the common market for flowers and vegetables will start functioning from two playgrounds from Monday, with one opposite to the Municipal office and another near the Gandhi Nagar Bypass Road in the town. Tiruvannamalai Collector B. Murugesh inspected these temporary markets, which will accommodate 340 shops, including 150 flower shops. “Basic amenities like water, toilets, bus services and public addressing systems, were provided in these markets. From Monday (January 10), devotees will be allowed to visit Arunchalaeswarar temple, only after showing two doses of vaccination certificate,” said Tiruvannamalai SP A. Pavan Kumar Reddy. Peaceful lockdown Meanwhile, the complete lockdown in all the four districts on Sunday was peaceful. Around 2,750 police personnel were deployed for enforcing restrictions. Each barricaded checkpoints had a team of four policemen in these districts. Only emergency services and competitive examinations, with valid documents, were allowed. Essential services like milk, food delivery by online portals, parcels from hotels and pharmacies were allowed to operate. A total of 253 patrolling teams were involved in ensuring zero violation on lockdown restrictions in theVellore. “Travelers, except for medical services, were asked to return at six border checkposts in the districts. Drones were also roped in to ensure 100% compliance,” said Vellore SP S. Rajesh Kannan. Helplines for issues related to COVID-19, including availability of beds, were also introduced in Tirupattur and Ranipet. The helpline numbers for Ranipet are 04172-273188; 04172-273166; 9489668833; 9443093916 and the ones for Tirupattur are 04179-222111; 04179-220020; 04179-226666; 04179-229008; 04179-1077.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jallikattu-banned-in-many-tn-districts/article38212369.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||295 fresh COVID cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 51,891, with 295 new cases reported on Sunday. While a total 49,417 patients have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 1,329. The death toll is 1,145. Nearby districts In Ranipet district, 184 caseswere reported, taking the total to 44,321. In Tirupattur district, 184 fresh caseswere reported, taking the tally to 29,686.In Tiruvannamalai district, 102 fresh cases took the total to 55,733. Of them, 54,726 patients have been discharged, and the number of active cases stands at 334.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/295-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-vellore/article38212712.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Complete lockdown passes off peacefully||A total of 318 cases were registered for violation of the lockdown restrictions and 53 cases for not following physical distancing norms, and 761 vehicles that violated the standard operating procedure were seized, the police said. More than 13,000 policemen were deployed in the Greater Chennai Police limits to monitor the movement of people. Checking was done at over 370 spots. Vehicles stopped In Coimbatore district, wholesale and retail vegetable, fish and flower markets, restaurants and commercial establishments remained closed. Over 1,500 police personnel were deployed to enforce the lockdown. The police stopped vehicles from Kerala at border checkpoints. Vehicles plying for essential services and emergencies were allowed to enter the district, while others were sent back. The lockdown was almost total in Salem and Erode, too. The lockdown was total across the central zone encompassing nine districts. Busy thoroughfares and highways wore a deserted look as public and private buses stayed off the roads. Freight carriers transporting essentials were allowed. Police personnel were deployed at vantage points to ensure compliance with the regulations. Traders downed shutters and wholesale markets remained shut. However, pharmacies, outlets supplying milk and hospitals worked. The lockdown was complete all over the central zone, police sources said, adding that cases were booked against those found violating the restrictions and venturing out without any valid reason. Cases were also booked against those found not wearing masks. The lockdown was peaceful in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts, with around 2,750 police personnel deployed to enforce the restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complete-lockdown-passes-off-peacefully/article38212389.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hospitals advised not to take in the asymptomatic||“We will take action against private hospitals that admit asymptomatic patients. Such patients should be sent to COVID-19 care centres,” said Dr. Radhakrishnan. Only 1% of cases with co-morbidities and those infected with the Delta variant are in intensive care. At least 6% of patients need oxygen support. “This wave will not last long unlike the second wave. The increase in cases will register a sharp decline if the residents cooperate. Residents are requested to call 104 to complain about private hospitals. The details of the bed availability and occupancy at hospitals have been prepared for each district,” said Dr. Radhakrishnan. Chief Minister M. K. Stalin has ordered the launch of a war room to monitor bed occupancy at hospitals. Experts say the infectiousness would be high this time. But more than 85% of the cases pertain to S-gene dropout. No death has been reported in the State because of such cases. As many as 1.21 lakh beds have been readied in the State. A total of 40,192 active cases were reported on Saturday. Officials have made arrangements for increasing 1,500 oxygen tank capacity, 17,960 oxygen concentrators and 217 oxygen generators. Mr. Subramanian said the lockdown had been successful because of the cooperation by residents and traders. “Those who are on the way to the airport and the railway station have been allowed. Senior officials, including the Health Secretary and the Corporation Commissioner, have checked the vehicles and found that most motorists were travelling with valid permission,” said Mr. Subramanian. “The Corporation has taken action against persons responsible for violations at 13 marriage functions. Only 100 participants are allowed at marriage gatherings,” said Mr. Subramanian. Precautionary dose Mr. Stalin will launch the booster doses for four lakh eligible persons, including frontline workers, healthcare workers and senior citizens aged above 60, at 9 a.m. on Monday. “Eligible residents should not hesitate to get the booster dose,” said Mr. Subramanian. Mr. Bedi said residents should wear masks in households with active cases. “There are nearly 15,000 active cases in Chennai. Most of the new cases are relatives of persons on home isolation. So they should wear a mask at home,” said Mr. Bedi. Over 8,000 persons were being fined every day in Chennai, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospitals-advised-not-to-take-in-the-asymptomatic/article38212390.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||608 new COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||New cases of COVID-19 in Coimbatore registered a further increase on Sunday with 608 persons testing positive for the disease against the 585 cases it had on Saturday. The Health Department said 169 persons recovered from the disease on Sunday and the district had 2,474 active cases. The district’s test positivity rate (TPR) increased to 5.6 % as of Saturday when 10,482 swab samples were subjected to tests. Tiruppur district reported 219 new cases. The district had 899 active cases of the disease on Sunday while 48 persons recovered. Tiruppur district’s TPR stood at 4.8 % on Saturday when 4,723 swab samples were subjected to test and 226 persons tested positive for the disease. In the Nilgiris, 23 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 34,672. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the district stood at 220.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/608-new-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article38212440.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Locomotive hits two youths near Coimbatore||Coimbatore rural police arrested a class XII student, an ITI student and a class XI student in connection with a clash that took place on the premises of a school at Alandurai on Saturday. According to the police, the ITI student had dropped out of the government higher secondary school at Alandurai and he was teased by the class XI student near a tea shop on January 5 evening. The boy informed the incident to his friend, the class XII student of the same school. The class XII student and the ITI student approached the class XI student and his friends near a tea shop and challenged them for a fight. The students decided for a fight in the backyard of the school. During the clash, the ITI student assaulted three class XI students with a knife. The villagers informed the Alandurai police. Among the injured, who were admitted to the CMCHl, one student was in serious condition, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-students-arrested-following-clash/article38212455.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||The ancient Sama Vedheeshwarar Temple at Thirumangalam village near Lalgudi requires renovation. Devotees are wondering why the Hindu Religiois and Charitable Endowments Department has not undertaken maintenance despite growth of vegetation atop the temple tower. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti   Spread of the highly contagious omicron variant of coronavirus has put to risk of infection even fully vaccinated people. A booster is given to people with weak immunity, especially the elderly, and those with low antibody levels. Residents aged above 60 years facing co-morbidities will have to exercise the option of taking precaution dose on the advice of doctors. M.A. Aleem, Tiruchi   A section of people does not seem to care about taking the second dose of COVID vaccination. Compliance with wearing of face masks leaves much to be desired. Social distancing appears to be a distant dream. No wonder, the authorities are helpless. The routine of deploying workers for door to door check on unvaccinated people has not worked well. The situation is tough indeed for the health authorities to combat the pandemic. T.M. Ranganathan, Srirangam   The residents of apartments in EVS Street, Renga Nagar and other localities behind the Srirangam Government Hospital are going through a harrowing experience of inhaling the fumes of burnt medical wastes. Residents are increasingly apprehensive as the stench emanating from the hospital premises of late has become unbearable. There is every likelihood of health hazards if such frequent burning of waste is resorted to by the hospital authorities. It is imperative that proper incineration of harmful materials is carried out by the authorities concerned. Cleanliness inside the hospital premises and also ensuring a safe environment outside is essential in these days of pandemic. J. Anantha Padmanabhan, Tiruchi   The end of the Warners Road at Cantonment presents the picture of a dumpyard. Heaps of waste materials and liquor bottles present an unhygienic picture. The garbage heaps have turned into breeding spots for mosquitoes and poisonous reptiles, aggravating the fear of the spread of COVID pandemic as well. One wonders about the relevance of 'Clean City' slogan. The spot warrants immediate attention by the authorities. The cleaned-up space, in fact, could be utilised as a park or commercial shopping complex fetching revenue for the government. S. Raghavan, Cantonment   The renovated Chathiram Bus Stand has sufficient bays for buses bound for various locations. But, inadequate seating facility for passengers is quite glaring. Quite often, elderly people, patients and pregnant women and children forced to stand for long durations due to the inadequacy. Also, basic facilities for differently abled people and transgenders need to be improved. M. Raja, Tiruchi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article38212490.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - Madurai||After opening of the renovated Periyar bus stand, entry to Ellis Nagar bridge from West Veli Street (railway junction side) is barred. If the city buses coming out of Periyar bus stand also use the Ellis Nagar bridge to go towards Kattabomman statue and continue on their way either towards railway junction or towards TPK Road or South Gate, the traffic can move continuously and there will be no need for automatic traffic signal. B. Devi Prakash Kovalan Nagar   The TNSTC has suspended the Mattuthavani to Idaikattur city bus service without assigning any reason. It was used by many people, particularly those who were working in SIPCOT and K. Pudur industrial estates. So I request the TNSTC-Madurai division to resume the service. S. Saravanakumar Tiruppachethi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-madurai/article38212650.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Trust: Margazhi programme, Sree Vengupalaperumal and Sree Kalyanavenkataperumal Temple, Kovaipudur, 5.30 a.m. onwards||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article38212451.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:21 IST,KARNATAKA||Parents see malpractice in Sainik School entrance test||Some parents on Sunday complained of malpractice in the admission test to Sainik Schools at a private school in Belagavi. They said that the authorities of Jain Heritage School leaked question paper to some select parents and made an exclusive seating arrangement for some children to allow them to copy. They also said that the school authorities allowed Shashidhar Kurer, senior KAS officer, inside the school premises after the examination began, despite knowing that his daughter was writing the test. Vishwanath Patil, a parent, said that Mr. Kurer went inside after all other parents were sent out. “We also saw four students coming out of the examination hall, carrying question papers. This is in clear violation of the law,’’ he said. But some parents stopped Mr. Kurer, who was on his way out of the centre, after a few minutes. He evaded questions and denied any wrong doing. The KAS officer defended his stand saying that he had gone there to check on his daughter who was suspected to have COVID-19 symptoms as her friends had them. Basavaraj S., another parent, said that the school allowed malpractice as it gave special treatment for children of government officials by seating them separately and leaking question paper. This altercation led to some confusion in the school. Some parents called journalists while others called the police. Meanwhile, the school authorities called four students back to the school, the parents said. Police officers from the Udyambag Police Station, who rushed to the spot, called Block Education Officer Ravi Bhajantri to the venue. Mr. Kurer, who is Administrative Officer, CADA and father of the candidate, denied the allegations. “I was allowed inside the school campus as I am a government officer on duty. I went there only to check if my daughter was alright. As a parent, I was slightly worried about her health as some of her classmates in KLE School had COVID-19-like symptoms a day before. But some parents misunderstood this. When they started making baseless allegations, I took my daughter away from the examination centre as I did not want to create any controversy,” Mr. Kurer said. However, Mr. Ravi Bhajantri said that two aspirants, including the daughter of Mr. Kurer, were disqualified. He also said that an inquiry will be ordered into the allegations. Principal Manjit Jain denied the allegations. He said that two students were called to his chamber just to test their temperature, after someone complained that they had come from KLE School where some students had had COVID-19-like symptoms. When their temperature was found to be normal, they were sent back to the examination hall. No separate seating arrangements were made. Nor was any question paper leaked, he said. Deepak Mokashi, who handles the school’s public relations, said that there was some misunderstanding about the incident among some parents initially, but the examination was held as scheduled. “We will issue a detailed press release explaining all the facts,” he said. An email sent to the Defence Secretary, who is an ex-officio member of the Sainik School Society Board of Governors, is yet to evoke any response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parents-see-malpractice-in-sainik-school-entrance-test/article38212555.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:21 IST,KARNATAKA||Basavalingaiah Hiremath, folk artist, passes away||Basavalingaiah Hiremath, theatre personality, actor, singer, director and folklore expert, died in Bengaluru on Sunday morning. The 65-year-old artist was under treatment in a private hospital for some time. The award-winning folk artist was known across the country for his performance of Sri Krishna Parijata, a classic Kannada play. The three-hour-long drama about the life of Lord Krishna and his wives Rukmini and Satyabhama was peppered with song and dance and long dialogues. The performance was in Doddata folk theatre style.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/basavalingaiah-hiremath-folk-artist-passes-away/article38212380.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||21 lakh people eligible for precaution dose||As many as 21 lakh people in Karnataka are eligible for the precaution dose of COVID-19 vaccine that will be provided from Monday onwards. These include healthcare workers, frontline workers, and persons aged 60 and above with comorbidities. A press release by the Department of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday stated that six lakh healthcare workers, seven lakh frontline workers, and eight lakh persons aged above 60 with comorbidities will get the dose. They will get the same vaccine that was administered previously. These are people who have completed nine months post the previous dose. Those who have been administered Covaxin and Covishield are eligible, while those who have taken Sputnik are not eligible as of now. The press note also states that no medical certificate is required for eligible beneficiaries to get the precaution dose. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will receive the precaution dose at 10 a.m. on Monday at Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College and Research Centre, Bengaluru. There will be a launch of the programme in all districts by the district in-charge Ministers and the taluk launch will be by MLAs. The vaccination will be done free of cost at all government COVID-19 centres. “Beneficiaries will be able to book online appointments for precaution dose from January 10,” the press release said. While walk-in appointments will be available from Monday once the vaccination starts, the Co-WIN portal opened for bookings on Saturday [January 8]. Many private hospitals have geared up to deal with the rush and are taking up several measures to maintain physical distancing Meanwhile, the department has stated that 99% of the 4.89 crore beneficiaries in the age group above 18 have received their first dose and 81% of them have received the second. Though it has been only a week since vaccines for the 15 to 18 age group have rolled out, 49% of the total 31.75 lakh beneficiaries have received their first dose.  Shots||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/21-lakh-people-eligible-for-precaution-dose/article38212356.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:46 IST,KARNATAKA||In a shrewd move, Govt. holds itself back from scuttling padayatra||Sensing that the padayatra of the Congress over the sensitive issue of the Mekedatu project turned out to be politically tricky, the BJP Government changed its strategy and desisted from scuttling the event on Sunday as senior party leaders felt that such a measure would have given more political mileage tothe Opposition party besides showing the ruling party in a bad light. There has been a fight over political optics since the announcement of the padayatra by the Congress, resulting in a tightrope walk for the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP Government. While the Government’s failure to prevent a massive congregation on Sunday could be scorned at by the common people affected by the stringent weekend curfew measures, any action against Congress leaders could lead to sympathy among the electorate for the Opposition party in the Old Mysore region. “The failure to take action sends a wrong signal to the general public that the lockdown measures and fines for disobeying rules are not meant for politicians,”a Government source said. Soon after the padayatra was launched at Sangama, Mr. Bommai held a closed-door meeting with several of his Cabinet colleagues to devise a strategy to mute the Congress’ effort. The public perception of a perceived failure of the Government was also discussed, sources said, adding that exposing Congress’ adamant stand over the pandemic was also discussed, sources said. The Karnataka Government, sources said, was expecting the padayatra to fizzle out in a couple of days as tougher measures that are closer to lockdown are expected to be announced by the Centre in a day or two. In the run-up to the padayatra, Government functionaries, including the Chief Minister, had warned of action and cited rules to prevent such a huge congregation, hoping the padayatra could be cancelled. However, despite a notice issued to Congress leaders on Saturday, the party managed to successfully start the padayatra on Sunday morning that also attracted a huge crowd, mostly not following COVID-appropriate behaviour in times of rising number of infections.The Government at the face of it looked helpless. Government sources said: “By taking action against the Congress, the BJP Government did not want its Opposition to glorify the action and play the sympathy card. On the otherhand, the Government wanted to expose the Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge as those leaders who do not abide by the law of the land”. As the principal Opposition, the Congress will lose moral ground later to question the Government if the COVID-19 numbers increase, sources said. While the notice has been issued to Congress functionaries, action such as fine could be followed up later, sources said, adding that not to react to the situation was also part of the Government strategy. Home Department sources said that the decision to not initiate anyaction against the padayatra was taken since there were women, actors, and religious leaders in the congregation. “Any mishandling on the ground would have put the Government in a tight spot. They would hold the Government accountable for any trouble.” BJP leaders were apprehensive that any use of force to scuttle the padayatra may project them as those opposed to Karnataka’s interests with respect to protecting its share of the Cauvery waters, at a time when the party’s national unit is making efforts to find a foothold in Tamil Nadu. Minister for Major and Minor Irrigation Govind Karjol told reporters that taking action against COVID-19 violations would also not offer any solution, indicating the changed strategy of the Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-a-shrewd-move-govt-holds-itself-back-from-scuttling-padayatra/article38212377.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Solar-powered EV charging reduces carbon footprint’||With the transport sector widely acknowledged as a significant contributor to air pollution in cities, electric vehicles (EVs) are being deemed as a key player in helping decarbonise the sector. But what powers EVs is a question that is haunting the sector, preventing it from being termed truly green.  The Centre for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP), recently conducted a pilot project on the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) corporate office premises to demonstrate the use of clean energy to power EVs. The report, Solar Energy–Based EV Charging: A Pilot and Techno-Economic Study , indicates that solar rooftop photovoltaic (SRTPV) energy could be an economically viable option for EV charging in addition to being a green source of energy.  “SRTPV systems offer a number of advantages in EV charging. They are easy to install because of their modular design, they are a cost-effective alternative to charging from the grid, and they could help reduce the detrimental effects of a surge in EV charging demand on the grid,” the centre said. The mismatch between solar energy generation and consumption could be solved by deploying net metering at charging stations, it suggests. The study examined the commercial aspects of using grid-connected SRTPV with and without a battery energy storage system (BESS) to power an electric vehicle charging station (EVCS). A parameter used in the study to estimate the economic benefits of using solar energy and BESS for EV charging was the levelised cost of charging (LCOC) - which considers all the costs incurred over the lifetime of assets. CSTEP’s analysis included the effect of charger utilisation, initial subsidies, and the contribution of grid electricity on the LCOC. “The levelised cost of energy generated by the solar plus storage power plant is strongly influenced by the utilisation of the battery storage. Higher utilisation of battery storage increased the cost of energy from the power plant,” CSTEP explained.  Key authors of the study, Vinay S. Kandagal and Milind Ravindranath, told The Hindu that the study was borne out of the idea of systematically assessing the benefits of using solar energy and stationary battery energy storage for EV charging, with the cost of SRTPV energy increasingly competing with rates of grid electricity, and battery costs reducing. BESCOM was also especially interested in the role of battery storage in smoothening out demand peaks due to EV charging, they said.  But with solar rooftop scheme and EVs yet to become popular, how will the scenario improve? “EVs are picking up at a fast pace, especially two-wheelers. Adoption of EVs in the light and heavy commercial vehicle segment and personal car segment might take a little longer. Wider deployment of charging infrastructure, especially fast-charging and ultra-fast-charging points, can really unlock the value of EVs and accelerate adoption,” they said. But they acknowledged that both these technologies have upfront cost barriers that hinder their adoption. “However, certain schemes can help to distribute the associated ownership, and hence, the investments, of the technologies and effectively pair them to achieve the desired goal. Virtual metering, group net metering, peer-to-peer energy trading, and open access procurement of renewable energy are few examples of such mechanisms that can effectively link the two technologies across the electrical grid,” they explained. With concerns also being raised about how green the technology really is in terms of solar farms as well as EVs, the authors said many of these challenges are being addressed at the research, technology, and policy levels - and product innovation is constantly tackling these issues. “Solar-powered EV charging reduces its carbon footprint and enables true green mobility. It can also help reduce the detrimental effect of EV charging demand spike on the grid. This can in turn help defer the costs associated with upgrading the existing electrical infrastructure,” they concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/solar-powered-ev-charging-reduces-carbon-footprint/article38212367.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:46 IST,KARNATAKA||Concern over norms violation||Being held in the midst of a spike in COVID-19 cases across the State, the Congress padayatra on Sunday flouted COVID Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) as well as the weekend curfew in place, heightening fears of the spread of the pandemic. The State Government, which had so far threatened action against the violators of COVID norms, looked mute in its response to handle the situation. Despite appeals by the BJP Government, which had threatened to stop the padayatra, the Congress had remained adamant about taking out the march. It had said it would strictly follow CAB. However, it turned out to be a nightmare as thousands thronged Sangama and joined the padayatra. Without mask While Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah urged the workers to wear masks and gloves, and threatened to throw out those not following the guidelines, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, whose brainchild is the padayatra, was seen moving around without a mask. Though most leaders on the dais were seen with masks, thousands of workers who participated in the padayatra, did not wear masks and given the huge surge of crowd, social distance norm was thrown out of the window. When the response of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was sought by reporters in Bengaluru, he said a notice had been issued, and action would be initiated as per law. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said the district administration had been asked to take action since children were also seen in the padayatra. However, appealing to the Congress to reduce the number of participants and be responsible to limit the pandemic surge, Minister for Major and Minor Irrigation Govind Karjol said any action would not provide a solution. “Leaders have to be a model for society,.” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/concern-over-norms-violation/article38212371.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Huge difference in positivity rate among districts||While the number of positive cases reported in the State has been increasing, analysis by the State COVID-19 War Room shows that there is a huge difference in the positivity rate across different districts. Bengaluru Urban, with 10.39%, recorded the highest positivity rate as on January 8, while Haveri reported the lowest on the same day with 0.2%. The average positivity rate of Karnataka on Saturday stood at 6.77%. On Saturday, five districts reported a positivity rate over 5%. These districts are Bengaluru (Urban), Bengaluru (Rural), Shivamogga, Mandya and Mysuru district. Meanwhile, four districts recorded a positivity rate of less than 1% . These are Bagalkot, Gadag, Raichur and Haveri.  H.M. Prasanna, President of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), however, said that the positivity rate in other districts too would increase shortly. “Many people have gone to their native places during the weekends due to the curfew and the trend will change by next week,” he predicted.  In some districts, there is a huge difference in Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) positivity rate and RT-PCR positivity rate. For instance, in Ramanagaram, the RT-PCR positivity rate is 0.93%, while for RAT it is 12.32%. The overall positivity rate in this district is however 1.88%. Munish Moudgil, who is in-charge of the State War Room, said that RAT is for symptomatic people and hence patients are more likely to be COVID positive when they undergo this test, while RT-PCR is done for both symptomatic and asymptomatic. An official in the Department of Health and Family Welfare said that the RAT positivity rate could be higher as they have several false negative results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/huge-difference-in-positivity-rate-among-districts/article38212363.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Airport taxis adding toll to fare without taking toll road’||Airport taxi drivers are fleecing air passengers by charging the toll without taking the toll road, passengers have alleged. While coming from the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), without informing the passengers, the drivers use the toll-free alternative road to reach the National Highway (Ballari Road). However, while collecting the fare, passengers are forced to pay Rs. 95 as the toll, they alleged. Priyanka A. ,who recently travelled with her familyfrom KIA to Allalsandra in a KSTDC Airport taxi, said after leaving the terminal, near a circle, the driver took a left turn and moved towards the alternative road. “When I asked him why he is not taking the toll road, he said there is no traffic on this road. The alternative road is very narrow and traffic was quite high. It took more than 25 minutes to reach the highway. By the time I reached my home, it was more than 40 minutes,” she said. She added, “The driver collected a fare of Rs. 850. When I collected the fare slip, to my shock, the fare collected included the toll of Rs. 95. When I asked about the toll, the driver did not give a proper answer and left. This is nothing but cheating the passengers.” Air passengers travelling from the airport to the city face these problems with other taxis as well. “Booking a taxi on a mobile app is always a problem at the airport. One has to wait a long time to get a taxi. I have faced this issue multiple times. Some drivers agree to come only for cash payments. In addition to this, some drivers refuse to use the toll road but add the toll to the taxi fare,” said Navaneeth. ‘Reduce the fee’ Responding to the allegations, Basavaraj of KSTDC Airport Taxi Union, said, “May be a few airport taxi drivers charge the toll without taking the toll road, but others are taking the blame.Because of taxi aggregators, we are facing a lot of problems. They are not following the government rules on fares and indulging in price wars. For example, when there is increased footfall, they charge up to Rs. 1,200 from the airport to Hebbal and when there are fewer passengers, it is reduced to Rs. 700 to Rs. 800. Because of this, we are not getting enough bookings and our drivers are struggling a lot,” he said. “We demand the State Government to end the price war and also demand the NHAI to lower the toll which is almost Rs. 100. It should be reduced to half. We have been paying a toll for more than a decade now. For how long the collection of toll should continue,” he asked. Asked about the complaints, Hemantha Kumara, additional commissioner and secretary of the Karnataka State Transport Authority, said, “We have not received complaints from the public on excess collection of fee. Aggrieved passengers can reach out toRTOs to file complaints against the drivers who demand excess fare and necessary action will be taken.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/airport-taxis-adding-toll-to-fare-without-taking-toll-road/article38212359.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:46 IST,KARNATAKA||Cong. leaders close ranks for a cause||Sangama — the confluence of Cauvery and Arkavathi rivers in Kanakapura taluk of Ramanagaram district, near here —seems to have brought together rival leaders in Congress, who on Sunday sent out a strong message of unity. The Mekedatu padayatra, seeking early implementation of the project, brought together Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar — both seen as contenders for the Chief Minister’s post, and Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge on the same platform. Seen as an event that is a precursor before the poll bugle is blown, the padayatra brought several ambitious party leaders from Bombay Karnataka, Kalyana Karnataka, and coastal Karnataka regions of the State together. The event brought former KPCC chiefs R.V. Deshpande in whose tenure Mr. Siddaramaiah took off the padayatra to Ballari against illegal mining, and G. Parameshwara in whose term the Ballari to Kudalasangama padayatra had been taken out,were also present along with the three current working presidents of the party and a host of legislators and former legislators. Former Chief Minister M. Veerappa Moily was also present.  Multiple Congress sources in the run-up to the padayatra had told The Hindu that both Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Shivakumar had realised the importance of remaining united to come to power. “Both have the bitter experience of power sharing with the Janata Dal (Secular) after the Congress headed by Mr. Siddaramaiah lost power. The selection of the Chief Minister is only after the victory in the election and both are looking to put up a joint fight for that victory in the Assembly elections in 2023,” said a senior leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-leaders-close-ranks-for-a-cause/article38212378.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||‘ Reduce isolation period for healthcare workers’||The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that the isolation period for doctors and other healthcare professionals who have tested positive for COVID-19 and are asymptomatic should be reduced to five days. The move comes after a shortage of staff in hospitals was noted. The committee had its meeting on Sunday. “The employers must provide COVID care facilities at hotels if healthcare workers test positive. After the isolation period, they can resume duty without undergoing a COVID test,” a source said. The source added that all healthcare workers had completed their two doses of vaccination. The recommendation was mooted as it has been approved by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the State Government is expecting a spike in cases due to the increase in the number of cases of the Omicron variant. Apart from healthcare workers, the isolation period for administrative staff involved in COVID duty who are positive but asymptomatic is also recommended to be five days. Symptomatic healthcare workers and administrative staff however will have a longer isolation period. However, this recommendation will have to be approved by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. The doctor of a private hospital said that even if the TAC’s recommendations are approved, they are unlikely to reduce the isolation period to five days as the staff needs rest. The committee has also recommended that a designated maternity and pediatric hospital having Intensive Care Unit facilities be set up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reduce-isolation-period-for-healthcare-workers/article38212365.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Karnataka reports 12,000 new cases||Karnataka on Sunday reported 12,000 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30.51 lakh. Of these, 9,020 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With four deaths, the toll rose to 38,370. There were 29 deaths due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 901 persons were discharged on Sunday, taking the total to 29.63 lakh. The State now has 49,602 active patients. So far the number of Omicron cases in Karnataka stand at 333.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-reports-12000-new-cases/article38212364.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:44 IST,KARNATAKA||Six IPS officers transferred||The State Government transfered six IPS officers on Sunday. Sharanappa S.D., Deputy Commissioner of Police, East Division, is now Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime- I, Bengaluru city. D. Devaraj, DCP, Whitefield, has been posted as Superintendent of Police, Kolar district. Anoop A. Shetty, Commandant of KSRP Battalion, Bengaluru, has been transferred as DCP, North-East Division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-ips-officers-transferred/article38212675.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||4 arrested for drug peddling||The Kempe Gowda Nagar police on Sunday busted an inter-State drug racket and arrested four persons who were allegedly supplying marijuana to rowdies and gangsters in the city.The accused Pothaiah, 19, Pallem Vara Prasad, 19, Vanthala Ramesh, 19, Kondajji Prasad, 19 from East Godavari were arrested while they were waiting near a park to deliver the consignment in a goods vehicle, the police said, adding that they seized 200 kg of marijuana stuffed in sacks concealed under the vegetables.Investigations revealed that the accused sourced the drugs from Andhra Pradesh and with the help of a few gangsters smuggled the drugs into city and supplied it to rowdies.In another incident, the Siddapura police arrested a foreign national and seized 103 grams of cocaine from him. The accused was caught while waiting near Lalbagh or his customers, the police said.The accused, Zago Constant, 37, was arrested earlier by Hennur and Sanjaynagar police in similar offence.After coming out on bail, he continued to peddle drugs, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4-arrested-for-drug-peddling/article38212357.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:21 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 patient dies, 107 new cases in Ballari and Vijayanagara||In a considerable increase in COVID-19 cases, Ballari and Vijayanagara districts jointly reported 107 new cases and one death on Sunday taking the number of active cases in the twin districts to 394 after 12 people were discharged. Of the new cases in the twin districts, Ballari reported 82 and Vijayanagara 25. As per media bulletins released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the twin districts reported 43 new cases on Saturday and 62 new cases on Friday. With Sunday’s spike, the number of infected persons in the twin districts rose to 98,156, including 1,688 deaths, in all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-patient-dies-107-new-cases-in-ballari-and-vijayanagara/article38212550.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:21 IST,KARNATAKA||162 new fair price shops in remote areas of Kalaburagi||People in remote areas heaved a sigh of relief with the district administration planning to soon set up 162 new fair price shops to distribute essentials to cardholders in hamlets and remote areas in Kalaburagi district. The prime objective of establishing new shops is to ensure the supply of ration and avoid hardships being faced by people in remote and far-off places as they have to travel to nearby villages to procure essential supplies. With the existing 983fair price shops in Kalaburagi district, the district will get 162 new fair price shops, Deputy Director, Department of Food and Civil Supplies, Shantgouda G. Gunaki said. Of the newly sanctioned 162 shops for the district, the highest number of 63 has been sanctioned for Chincholi taluk, followed by 29 for Chittapur taluk, 17 for Shahabad taluk, 15 for Kalagi taluk and 13 for Aland taluk. Kalaburagi taluk will get nine fair price shops, whereas eight will go to Yadrami taluk and four each will go to Afzalpur and Jewargi taluks. Earlier, the government sanctioned one each fair price shop to cater to nearly 800 cardholders in urban areas and one outlet for every 500 cardholders in rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/162-new-fair-price-shops-in-remote-areas-of-kalaburagi/article38212551.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:21 IST,KARNATAKA||BJP strength goes up to 20 in Hosapete CMC||With another Independent member of Hosapete City Municipal Council (CMC) joining its ranks on Sunday, the BJP increased its strength to 20 in the civic body. Kiran, who had won the civic body polls from Ward No 18, joined the BJP in the presence of district in-charge Minister B.S. Anand Singh. Mr. Kiran was originally an activist of the BJP and wanted to contest the polls on BJP ticket. However, he had to contest as an Independent after the party denied him ticket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-strength-goes-up-to-20-in-hosapete-cmc/article38212549.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Paryaya to be a low-key affair this time in Udupi||The Paryaya Mahotsava of Udupi Sri Krishna Temple/Mutt will be conducted in a simple manner this time, according to Udupi MLA and working president of Paryaya Mahotsava Committee K. Raghupati Bhat.He told presspersons in Udupi on Sunday that the Pura Pravesha of the next Paryaya seer, Vidyasagara Tirtha of Krishnapura Mutt, to be held at Jodu Katte at 3 p.m. on Monday will also be a low-key celebration. A meeting the committee members had with Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao and Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan on Paryaya celebrations has decided not to celebrate the Pura Pravesha and other events in a grand manner. Not many cultural troupes will be participating in the celebrations on Monday. A civic felicitation on Monday will be held, but it will not prolong and end by 6 p.m. to adhere to night curfew rules. Even though Hore Kanike processions will be taken out starting Tuesday, they will not be held on the weekend, the MLA said.On January 17 night, the cultural events of the Paryaya Committee will end by 10 p.m., he added. Mr. Bhat said that special permission from Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has been sought to organise Paryaya procession in the early hours on January 18, the Paryaya day. The go-ahead is expected within two or three days, he said. Meanwhile, the Krishnapura Mutt seer was given a public felicitation in a simple manner on the premises of Sharavu Mahaganapathi Temple in Mangaluru on Sunday. Mayor Premananda Shetty presided over it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/paryaya-to-be-a-low-key-affair-this-time-in-udupi/article38212664.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||TPR continues to be high in Mangaluru taluk||With an average of over 100 COVID-19 cases and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 3.17 %, Mangaluru taluk has registered a high number of new COVID-19 cases among the five taluks in Dakshina Kannada for the week ended on January 8. The highest number of 267 new cases was reported in Mangaluru taluk on Saturday when 4,431 samples were tested and the TPR stood at 6.03%. The taluk reported 188 new cases and a TPR of 4.26 % on Friday and 98 new cases and a TPR of 2.24 % on Thursday, 103 new cases and a TPR of 2.72% on Wednesday, 66 cases and a TPR of 2.11% on Tuesday, 46 new cases and a TPR of 1.89% on Monday last, while it was 53 new cases and a TPR of 1.59 on January 2. The average TPR in Bantwal, Belthangady, Puttur and Sullia taluks for the week ranged between 0.08% and 0.36%. New cases have been in single digits every day during the week in these taluks, except in Bantwal taluk where 12 and 11 new cases were reported on Friday and Saturday, respectively. District COVID Nodal Officer H. Ashok said that nearly one-third of the new cases are coming from educational institutions. “As these students move around a lot, it is difficult to find their primary and secondary contacts,” he said. Of the total of 1.17 lakh COVID-19 cases between March 2020 and January 8, 2022, 23,613 cases are in the 21-30 age category, followed by 20,860 in 31-40 age category, 18,042 41-50 age category, 16,628 51-60 age category and 11,579 in the 61-70 age category. As many as 34,441 new cases and 740 deaths were reported during the first wave between March 2020 and February 2021. There were 82,902 new cases and 964 deaths between March 1, 2021 and January 8, 2022, according to the figures provided by the District Health and Family Welfare Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tpr-continues-to-be-high-in-mangaluru-taluk/article38212666.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Train halt||Train No 16347 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mangaluru Central Express leaving Thiruvananthapuram Central and Train No 16630 Mangaluru Central-Thiruvananthapuram Central Malabar Express leaving Mangaluru Central, will, on January 24 and January 25, have a one-minute temporary stoppage at Ettumanur. Train No 16347 will arrive at Ettumanur at 6 a.m. and Train No 16630 will arrive at 4.23 a.m., a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-halt/article38212660.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:46 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Congress has no respect for law of land’||State president of the BJP Nalin Kumar Kateel said here on Sunday that the Congress has no respect for the law of the land. Responding to the Congress padayatra from Makedatu to Bengaluru, Mr. Kateel, who is also Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament, said in a statement that the State Government had imposed weekend curfew to safeguard the health of the people in view of increasing cases of COVID-19. But the Congress has not followed the COVID-19 protocol and has thus flouted the law. The party has exhibited its “goondaism” and “audacity” by taking out the padayatra. “It reflected the culture of the Congress,” he said. Mr. Kateel said that the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar was keen on taking out the padayatra to prove his leadership over the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. “It is a drama,” he said. The State Government will take an appropriate decision on implementing Makedatu project once the matter before the court is settled. Though the court is seized of the matter, the Congress is taking out the padayatra to misguide people for political gains, he said. The BJP wants to know why the Congress Government, led by Mr. Siddaramaiah, withheld the detailed project report [DPR] of the proposed project from 2014 to 2018. Mr. Shivakumar should make it clear to the people, Mr. Kateel said. The BJP State president said that the Congress will to have pay a heavy price if its padayatra resulted in the spread of the infection. People in the State have been watching the conduct of the Congress and they will reply suitably in the coming days.  The State Government will take an appropriate decision on implementing Makedatu project once the matter before the court is settled; though the court is seized of the matter, the Congress is taking out the padayatra to misguide people for political gains Member of Parliament, Dakshina Kannada||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-has-no-respect-for-law-of-the-land-says-kateel/article38212662.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Training from today on using carbon fibre crooks||Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative Ltd. (CAMPCO) and All India Areca Growers Association will impart training for three days to farmers and farm workers on the use of “dotis” (long carbon fibre crooks) in harvesting arecanut and also, on spraying fungicides on areca palms from Monday. Training will be given in arecanut plantations of the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI), Regional Station, at Vitla. The initiative is to meet the shortage of skilled manpower to climb up palms manually to harvest the produce and also spray fungicides. According to CAMPCO, “dotis” can help carry out farm operations from the ground itself without having to climb up palms. By providing training, the cooperative and the association are planning to create a pool of manpower to handle these “dotis”. Vice-President of the cooperative Shankaranarayana Bhat Khandige said that CAMPCO had conducted training programmes for planters and workers on how to climb up arecanut palms manually as a part of skill development in the sector a few years ago. Those who learnt the skill then are earning their livelihood now with this skill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-from-today-on-using-carbon-fibre-crooks/article38212669.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:44 IST,KARNATAKA||Traders want weekend curfew revoked||The second day of the weekend curfew in Mysuru and surrounding regions saw commercial and industrial establishments remaining closed with people by and large complying with the government directives. Markets remained shut while public transport system had a skeletal presence. As announced by the government only establishments coming under essential category such as pharmaceutical and grocery shops, hospitals and clinics, milk parlours, etc., were open and other offices were shut. Though it was a Sunday and markets tend to be crowded during evening hours , it was not the case today and people stayed indoors or preferred to go out only in case of a dire need. Efficacy questioned Meanwhile, there is growing opposition to the weekend curfew and the decision has come under flak again from a section of the stakeholders on its efficacy in preventing the spread of the pandemic. Sudhakar Shetty of the Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry appealed to the government to rescind the order on weekend curfews though he wanted curbs to be in place for jathras, festivals and mass gathering of people. He said the weekend curfew was pushing the economically vulnerable section including daily wagers, hotel workers, tourist guides, auto drivers etc, to the brink.. The State exchequer will also be affected by such frequent closures to businesses and industries, he said and suggested that it be revoked and instead called for crackdown on public functions and mass gatherings besides ensuring that wearing masks and use of sanitizers were compulsory. “We have witnessed how mass gatherings led to surge in the COVID-19 cases during the first and the second wave’’, said Mr. Shetty. He also called for curbs on political gatherings. ‘Put to hardship’ The small-scale industrial units were also put to hardship because of the weekend curfew and the sector was barely recovering from the first two waves of the pandemic. The SSIs are the largest employment generators in the country and the weekend curfew will have a bearing on their capacity to pay the workers which will have a cascading negative impact on the economy, according to Mr. Shetty. Similar views were expressed by stakeholders in the tourism and hospitality sector who wanted the weekend curfew orders to be rescinded from next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traders-want-weekend-curfew-revoked/article38212677.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:44 IST,KARNATAKA||DC visits hospitals||The district administration in Mysuru is gearing up to handle the surge in COVID-19 cases in the third wave which is already sweeping across the country and has initiated measures to cope with the possible patients rush to hospitals. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham in this connection paid a series of visits to various hospitals across the district to ensure that the facilities are in place and other protocols are in place. He told mediapersons on Sunday that the district war room and the covid care centre at Mandakalli have already been activated and he was conducting spot visits to K.R.Hospital, Beedi Workers Hospital and all the hospitals in the taluks to ensure that the facilities are in order. He said the local area MLA Tanvir Sait had apprised him of shoring up the facilities at the Beedi Workers Hospital since the last few weeks and a meeting was also conducted on Saturday. There was a follow-up meeting on Sunday and the MLA highlighted a few shortcomings including lack of adequate doctors and staff to handle the possible surge in the patients who could be admitted to the 350-bed hospital. The issues were discussed and the district health officer was directed to take steps to overcome the lacunae. Mr. Sait has also released money from the MLA-Local Area Development fund to help meet certain requirements besides promising volunteers o assist the staff on duty and hence there is no dearth of men and material, he added. ‘Anomalies rectified’ Mr. Sait said certain anomalies and shortcomings were witnessed earlier and most of them have been overcome and oxygen points have been created besides establishment of an oxygen generating plant with 850-litre capacity. In addition the MCC has installed 3 dura-cylinders apart from providing 39 jumbo cylinders all of which are expected to meet any contingency in the days ahead, said the MLA. ‘’Some of the shortcomings of the hospital including lack of adequate doctors and staff was highlighted in today’s meeting and the DC has instructed the DHO to sort it out so that patients receive the best possible treatment’’, Mr. Tanvir Sait added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-visits-hospitals/article38212680.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:44 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru logs 398 COVID-19 cases on Sunday||The district reported an additional 398 COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday even as the district administration reviewed its preparations to handle the third wave surge. While there was no COVID-19 related death reported on Sunday from anywhere in the district, the total number of active case has now increased to 1,052. Of the 398 cases reported in the district, 307 were from Mysuru city alone while T.Narsipur reported 35 new cases. The Sunday’s surge is in sync with the steady rise being witnessed in Mysuru in recent days and 203 cases were reported on Saturday. Among other taluks, H.D. Kote reported 3 cases, Hunsur 4, while there were 9 new cases from K.R.Nagar 9, Mysuru rural 24, Nanjangud 9 and Periyapatna 5 cases on Sunday. Saligrama reported 2 cases while Sarugur did not report any fresh cases. Out of 398 new cases, there were 60 cases of patients who were 17 years and below of whom 42 were from Mysuru city alone. Samples tested Out of the 1,052 active cases in the district 817 are from the city while the rest are in the other taluks. The authorities said that in all 7,070 samples were tested and the cumulative positive cases stands at 1,81,330 as on Sunday. Of the 1,052 active cases, 927 are under home isolation, 87 are in dedicated COVID hospitals and 38 in private hospitals. Meanwhile Mandya reported 261 COVID-19 cases on Sunday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-logs-398-covid-19-cases-on-sunday/article38212681.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:44 IST,KARNATAKA||KRS: second phase works to begin soon||The second phase of the rehabilitation and improvement works to Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam across the Cauvery and being implemented with World Bank funding, will be taken up in due course.  Sources in the Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd told The Hindu that KRS was one of the 22 dams in Karnataka approved under the Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (DRIP) to strengthen the structural stability and extend the lifespan of the historic dam and being implemented by the Karnataka Water Resources Department.  The first phase entailed replacement of 136 sluice gates – which is still in progress – besides taking measures to extend the lifespan of the dam which was completed in 1932. Sources said the second phase entails works worth Rs. 70 crore against which tenders have been invited to take up civil-related works valued at Rs. 33 crore and the work are expected to commence by March. The first phase of the project entailed an expenditure of Rs. 110 crore against which Rs. 83 crore has been spent so far and the remaining works including the replacement of the sluice gates are expected to be completed by 2023. Though the replacement of the sluice gates was originally slated for completion by June 2022, there was a delay owing to the onset of pandemic, to CNNL officials. The major part of the second phase includes civil engineering works to strengthen the structural stability of the dam. This includes dam body grouting to prevent seepage. “About 44000 sq m. of the dam structure has been covered by grouting and another 10,000 sq. ms has to be covered and will be completed in the second phase’’, said an official. The gates and the piers are being strengthened and the joints between the stones have to be filled up to prevent seepage which will strengthen the dam structure and covering 10,000 sq. m will take up to an year, the official added. This will cover the upstream facing side of the dam and 50 per cent of the downstream facing side of the dam has to be taken up subsequently. “Once the second phase of the DRIP is taken up and completed 95 per cent of the works related to strengthening of the dam will be over’’, the official said. A team of senior officials and technical experts from the Centre had inspected the work in progress in August last year ahead of giving the approval for taking up the second phase. When the project was initiated a few years ago, the dam safety review panel which inspected the KRS had suggested measures to arrest the seepage through the dam body by deep racking of the joints and filling with epoxy mortar, to conduct water percolation and permeability test, steel fibre reinforcement etc. This is the first major dam rehabilitation exercise for KRS being undertaken ever since it was completed almost 90 years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krs-second-phase-works-to-begin-soon/article38212673.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:44 IST,KARNATAKA||Multiple issues hampering music varsity’s growth||Lack of adequate land to establish a full-fledged campus, absence of full-fledged teaching staff, and delay in securing grants from the Ministry of Education and University Grants Commission has been hindering the growth of Karnataka State Dr. Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University in the city. This was stated by .Nagesh V. Bettakote, Vice Chancellor, while apprising the Karnataka State Higher Education Council of the challenges facing the varsity. The Council had convened a meeting of higher educational institutions and varsities to apprise itself of the problems unique to some of these institutions, in Bengaluru last week. Prof. Bettakote said securing 12 B approval and recognition from the UGC was of paramount importance to the music varsity as it will pave way for securing funding from the Commission besides making it eligible to receive grants from the Ministry of Education. But this is dependent on meeting certain criteria including availability of land, presence of at-least 7 departments and 35 full-time teachers and an equal number of non-teaching staff. Though the varsity is functioning since 2011, it has ben sanctioned 15 teaching staff including 6 for Hindustani music and 4 for music research and all the 15 posts are vacant and the responsibilities are being discharged by guest faculty and part-time lecturers. Similarly, 19 non-teaching staff have been sanctioned for the varsity of which 18 posts are vacant and employees have been hired on a contract basis. Prof. Bettakote pointed out that in the absence of full-time teaching and non-teaching staff, the varsity was outsourcing resource persons from the field of performing arts besides teachers from other universities to run the courses. But it was proving to be difficult to complete the annual academic cycle on time. Land allotment Similarly, there were no permanent non-teaching staff members, which was impeding the smooth functioning of the administrative section, said Prof. Bettakote. As per the UGC norms a university should have at least 50 acres of land to qualify for 12 B approval but the varsity’s quest for land itself is turning out to be a herculean exercise. Though it was allotted 100 acres of land near Varkodu, it turned out to be a ‘deemed forest’ and hence has not been released. Another swathe of land was sanctioned but it was almost 60 km from Mysuru and as per the UGC norms, the campus land should be within a radius of 20 km from the seat of administration. Though a 5-acre land has been sanctioned near Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Nagar adjoining the ORR, it was inadequate and the varsity has sought another swathe of land for construction of students’ hostel in the same locality. The administrative office is functioning out of a school building in Lakshmipuram and it required immediate restoration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/multiple-issues-hampering-music-varsitys-growth/article38212678.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:46 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress padayatra for Mekedatu takes off||Mr. Siddaramaiah detailed the work of his government during his five-year tenure with respect to the Mekedatu project and accused the BJP of not doing anything since the last two-and-a-half years. The BJP was delaying the project to expand its base in Tamil Nadu, he charged and said: “The padayatra will not stop at any cost.” In the morning, Mr. Shivakumar, who was among the earliest to arrive at the venue, took a dip in the Cauvery and offered pooja . He also took the padayatra flag in a coracle to the Sangama before arriving on the stage. Slamming the padayatra when there was COVID-19 surge, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said that leaders who had congregated at the Sangama should apologise to the people for delaying the project. He also warned of action against those violating the pandemic norms. Questioning the intent of the padayatra, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommaitold reporters that the march politically motivated. “Why are they taking out the padayatra? They did not do anything when in power. They took four years to prepare a DPR. During the last three years they did not raise the issue anytime. Because elections are nearing, padayatra has started. The Congress is feeling guilty that it did not do anything and it has no commitment.”The Chief Minister said that the Supreme Court ruling was expected this month in this regard and the decision of the Cauvery Monitoring Board was also expected to decide on Mekedatu. “We have got the NGT stay vacated. Congress was in power earlier and it should be responsible enough to understand the court cases and the situation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-padayatra-for-mekedatu-takes-off/article38212382.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:45 IST,KARNATAKA||Outing with caution||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/outing-with-caution/article38212158.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:21 IST,KARNATAKA||In search of customers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-search-of-customers/article38212554.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Correction||The headline for a story that appeared on page 1 of the edition dated January 9, 2022, should have read: “23,001 engineering seats left vacant”, and not as published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/correction/article38212361.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Strict vigil||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/strict-vigil/article38212668.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:46 IST,KARNATAKA||09bgsat_Snippets||After the symbolic start of the padayatra, some Congress leaders backed out owing to health reasons or harsh sun. Those who dropped out included the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, who had earlier said that he along with KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar would walk the full distance to Bengaluru if the Government did not permit crowds. The former Chief Minister, who was running temperature, was advised to take rest by doctors, following which he returned to Bengaluru.     Though the film fraternity had extended moral support for the Mekedatu padayatra, only a few made it to the launch at Sangama. Those present included actors Duniya Vijaya and Sadhu Kokila. Actors and former Ministers Jaimala and Umashree, both Congress leaders, were also present. Sadhu Kokila had composed a song specifically for the padayatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/09bgsatsnippets/article38212372.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:46 IST,KARNATAKA||09bgsat_CoP||An alleged private conversation between Tumakuru BJP MP G.S. Basavaraju (in picture) and Urban Development Minister Byrati Basavaraj before the commencement of a press conference, possibly not aware that mikes and cameras were on, about Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy triggered a controversy. In the video, the MP can be seen purportedly badmouthing Mr. Madhuswamy. The MP likened Mr. Madhuswamy to North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un. Addressing the Minister in the singular, the MP alleged that Mr. Madhuswamy had unleashed a culture of violence in Tumakuru district. The MP alleged that the Minister often uses words like “beat up” and “hit them”. “He spoiled our district; the party will not win a single seat in the district,” the MP said. Mr. Madhuswamy, who is the Minister in charge of Tumakuru district, declined to comment on the matter. While both the leaders belonged to the Lingayat community, Mr. Basavaraj joined the BJP from the Congress, Mr. Madhuswamy joined from the Janata Parivar.   The issue related to the appointment of 2011-batch of 362 candidates selected by the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) for the gazette probationers (Group A and B) posts refuses to die down even after a decade. In 2017, theKarnataka Administrative Tribunal rejected the State Government’s order on the rejection of selection of probationers. Citing “corruption” and “malpractices” in the selection of candidates by the KPSC, the Congress Government headed bySiddaramaiahhad rejected the appointment of the probationers.   With elections to the State Assembly to be held next year, the BJP-led Government is expected to face many challenges from various socio-economic groups in the coming days. The Lingayat Panchamasali community which has been seeking reservation under 2A category of the OBC list has once again decided to hold a convention to chalk out plans for fulfilling its demands. The community is expected to launch a stir if Chief Minister BasavarajBommaifails to give a firm assurance on the quota issue. The Government has referred the matter to the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes. The commission has been studying the demand of 15 other backward communities in the State. Senior BJP MLABasanagouda Patil Yatnal has been demanding 15% quota to the community under 2A category to avail of benefits of reservation in jobs and education. Presently, thePanchamasali community is included in 3B category and is eligible to avail of benefits under 5% quota. It will be interesting to see how the Government handles the reservation issue in the days to come. Nagesh Prabhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/09bgsatcop/article38212374.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:50 IST,KERALA||Bund in Kainakary breached||The outer bund of the Kanakassery paddy polder in Kainakary, which was reconstructed a year ago, has breached again. The bund has breached at least five times in the last four years. Though the latest breach has led to flooding of Kanakassery along with the adjacent Meenappally and Valiyakari paddy polders, the houses in the region have not been submerged like previous times as the water level in the lake remained low. The work to plug the breach is expected to begin in the coming days after the water in the polders reaches the same level as in the lake. The breach comes at a time when farmers at Meenapally and Valiyakari are busy preparing fields for the ‘pucha’ crop season. Farmers said that they had spent huge amounts to remove weeds and make fields ready for sowing. 600 families “Between 2018 floods and now, the outer bund of the Kanakassery polder has breached on numerous occasions. Apart from bringing hardships to around 600 families living in and around the three polders, the breaches prevented us from undertaking paddy cultivation. In the last four years, cultivation was done only once. This year, we were hoping to cultivate paddy in the puncha season. We fear the flooding of fields, which is necessary for beginning work to plug the breach, will affect the cultivation,” said a paddy farmer at Meenapally. Recently, NABARD had sanctioned funds for strengthening the outer bund of the polder. However, the work is yet to start.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bund-in-kainakary-breached/article38212627.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:59 IST,KERALA||Vet ambulance for panchayats||Veterinary ambulance service will be made available in all block panchayats in the State in two months, Minister for Dairy Development J. Chinchurani has said. She was virtually inaugurating Pattanakkad block-level dairy farmers meet at Aroor on Saturday. Ms. Chinchurani said that steps were being taken to ensure the availability of veterinary doctors in all block panchayats to provide assistance 24x7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vet-ambulance-for-panchayats/article38212711.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:55 IST,KERALA||Telangana Congress to meet Governor||The Congress Legislature Party (CLP), on Sunday, decided to meet Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and DGP Mahender Reddy seeking their intervention in ensuring that the “police come out of the clutches of the TRS government and work without bias”. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka claimed that the law and order situation in Telangana has deteriorated and they should intervene and set the police back on track. “A series of incidents showcased how the police has succumbed to the ruling party. The developments after the Paloncha family suicide pact, where the Kothagudem MLA’s son is accused, is a reflection of that,” he said. Mr. Bhatti demanded the government to suspend MLA Vanama Venkateshwara Rao and force him to resign from the Assembly to send a message of confidence to people. His son Vanama Raghavendra is the reason behind the suicide pact of a family and is taken into custody after public pressure, he said. The CLP leader added that issues like GO 317, paddy procurement, chilli farmers’ crisis, proposed hike in power charges and developments of Paloncha suicide were discussed, and the party has decided to back the people in all these issues. He demanded that GO 317, based on which the recent employees’ transfers were done, should be withdrawn immediately as the transfers were done based on seniority and not local status. The CLP has also decided to write a letter to the Union government as GO 317 has killed the very spirit of GO 371 that protects the nativity of candidates. In fact, violation of GO 371 was also one of the reasons for Telangana agitation. Stating that both the State and Central governments played with the lives of farmers on paddy procurement, Mr. Bhatti said that the State government must protect the rights of farmers by announcing support price if the Centre turns a blind eye. MLC T. Jeevan Reddy ridiculed the government for celebrating Rythu Bandhu and said it was shirking from its responsibility of rescuing farmers from crop losses due to various causes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/telangana-cong-to-meet-governor-on-law-and-order/article38212147.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:32 IST,KERALA||Stringent surveillance continues at checkpost||Stringent surveillance and checking continues at Talapady checkpost on the Kerala and Karnataka border in the wake of more cases of COVID-19 and Omicron cases detected in both States. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K. V. Rajendra said that after Bangalore, most numbers of cases have been reported in Dakshina Kannada. Both Kerala and Karnataka share about 60 km of border and there are many routes between the States. He said many students commute daily between the two States. It’s a challenging task as the people share an inseparable relationship. However, they are keeping a close watch and insisting on the RTPCR negative certificate and this will continue now, Mr. Rajendra added. Meanwhile, at the checkpost, the situation is normal and private vehicles are allowed to travel after being checked for RTPCR negative certificates. The services of Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses have also been restored and are continuing. In Kasaragod, six cases of Omricon have been detected. All positive cases arrived from abroad. There are a total of 4,514 people in the district who are under surveillance. This include 4,153 in households and 361 in institutions. Newly added 315 people are being monitored. A total of 1,695 new samples, including the Sentinel Survey, were sent for testing and results for 432 samples is yet to be received.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stringent-surveillance-continues-at-checkpost/article38212590.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:35 IST,KERALA||A year after opening of flyover, traffic snarls worsen at Vyttila||Traffic congestion has worsened at Vyttila Junction, although a six-lane flyover was commissioned on January 9 last year, at what is the biggest junction in the State. This has led to police personnel, traffic experts and others demanding that the Public Works Department (NH wing), which built the flyover, adopt drastic measures to make optimal use of the space beneath the structure. It is shocking that the PWD did little, even after agreeing over 10 months ago to reduce the extent of the roundabout and traffic medians it built beneath the flyover. That alone would considerably ease traffic movement in all directions, by opening up space for moving vehicles and for those awaiting the green signal, said police sources. Giving credence to criticism that the flyover helped just about 30% of long-distance motorists, leaving the others to jostle for space beneath the structure, Upendra Narayan, an expert on road safety and road engineering, spoke of how the situation would have been better but for slack planning by the PWD and the State government. “They dream of mega projects and not tailor-made solutions to streamline traffic flow at bottlenecked corridors.” “The junction has been designed without considering a few thousand buses that converge every day at the Vyttila Mobility Hub, the entry and exit of which are choked. Less said the better about the plight of the footpath at the junction,” said Mr. Narayan. New underpass Sunitha Dixon, the councillor representing Vyttila in the Kochi Corporation, said the PWD and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) were dilly-dallying on readying a new underpass parallel to the one beneath the Vyttila railway bridge, to ensure smooth flow of traffic in the east-west direction. PWD sources said higher-ups in the department were yet to give the go-ahead to redesign the roundabout and medians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-year-after-opening-of-flyover-traffic-snarls-worsen-at-vyttila/article38212595.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||No magic wand for tough times||The COVID-19 pandemic has derailed the lives of magicians, just like other artistes, who are struggling to find a means of livelihood in the face of a ban on large gatherings. “We can create an illusion of hundreds of currency notes on stage, but back home, we are struggling to make both ends meet,” said illusionist Samraj, one of the best known professional magicians in Kerala. He said dozens of magicians had ended their lives during the pandemic, unable to find a means of livelihood. “The condition of magicians is pathetic, and many are facing severe mental stress,” he said on Sunday on the sidelines of the ninth annual convention of Malayali Magicians’ Association here. The association has around 400 members, while it is estimated that there are over 4,000 magicians in the State, who earn a living through stage shows and public performances, said Joseph Seba, Alappuzha district secretary of the Association. He added that magicians were unable to do any other work because they did not possess the skills. Mr. Samraj said while a small group of artistes had gained from the pandemic curbs, a vast majority of them had been confined to their homes, struggling to meet their day-to-day needs. Efforts to draw government attention to the plight of magicians had failed, he added, pointing out that a group of around 2,000 artistes from all fields had put up a performance in front of the State secretariat to draw the attention of the government to their situation. Mr. Seba pointed out how magicians were finding opportunities to perform on cruise boats, but the situation had changed with tourism itself being hit by the pandemic. He said around 30% of magicians depend solely on performances for a living. Many of them have now taken up various other activities, including selling fish and painting buildings, to maintain their families. “We are not seeking any government help, but allow us to perform in public spaces,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-magic-wand-for-tough-times/article38212604.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Kochi Corporation trying to form SPV to run ro-ro vessels||After wasting five years and suffering huge financial loss, the Kochi Corporation is once again making attempts to run its roll-on roll-off (ro-ro) vessels on its own. The Corporation Council has formed a sub committee to come up with suggestions for the formation of the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for operating the vessels. Efforts by previous councils to form an SPV had reached nowhere. This time, it is the Rs. 88-lakh bill for the repair of the vessels and another Rs. 2.20-crore bill for the proposed dry-docking of the vessels that have revived attempts for the formation of the SPV. The ro-ro service, which was introduced by the civic body at a cost of Rs. 15 crore in the Vypeen-Fort Kochi sector, has failed to earn the Corporation any revenue. The civic body was forced to spend huge amounts regularly for the repair works, said Antony Kureethara, leader of the Opposition in the council. It is estimated that the average daily revenue from ticket collection of the vessels comes up to Rs. 1.45 lakh. Yet, the civic body has not benefited from the operation of the vessels. The Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation has been running the vessels since its launch. Once the SPV was formed, the civic body should be able to operate the vessels on its own, said Mr. Kureethara. ‘Public service’ While conceding that operating ro-ro vessels had been burning a hole in the Corporation’s pocket, Mayor M. Anilkumar said the civic body viewed it as a public service. There was demand for one more such vessel, he said. The permission of the State government and other clearances would be required for the formation of the SPV, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-corporation-trying-to-form-spv-to-run-ro-ro-vessels/article38212602.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Aluva certified first malaria-free town in district||Aluva has been certified as the first malaria-free town in Ernakulam district in recognition of efforts taken to weed out the disease under the State government’s Malaria Eradication Programme. According to a communication from the district administration, there has been no death due to malaria in Aluva in the last five years. Nor has any case been reported so far, though a study done by the District Vector Control Unit found the presence of Anopheles mosquitoes that transmit the disease. Ward-level malaria special group committee meetings were held in all 26 wards in Aluva Municipality, and tests were done for migrant workers. Special blood tests were conducted for selected households in each ward. A unified system was put in place to obtain information on tests done at private hospitals and labs. By March The government’s drive aims at declaring Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki and Kottayam districts as malaria-free by March this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aluva-certified-first-malaria-free-town-in-district/article38212597.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Periyar turns black again; PCB collects samples||The Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) collected samples from the Periyar river near Pathalam in Eloor municipality on Sunday after water was found to be a deep dark colour from the early hours of the day. A resident said the colour of the river had turned deep black between Pathama bridge-cum-regulator and the Pathalam bridge on the downstream while water was clear upstream. A PCB official said water samples had been collected to test what had caused the deep dark colour but did not comment on whether the pollution was being caused by discharge from industrial units located on the banks of the Periyar in the area. While the water appeared to be invaded by dark particles, there was also a thin film of oil over the water. Though initially there was a rumour of massive fish kill on account of pollution, PCB officials denied the reports and said there was no fish kill. Source of pollution The resident of the area said instances of fish kill and pollution of water were common occurrences, but the PCB officials were not taking a serious stand on the issue or trying to identify the source of pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/periyar-turns-black-again-pcb-collects-samples/article38212605.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||1,066 more test positive||Ernakulam on Sunday reported 1,066 COVID-19 cases, and the test positivity rate stood at 14.85%. As many as 1,065 persons got infected through local contact. While 410 persons recovered from the infection, 7,230 are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1066-more-test-positive/article38212599.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Youth held||The cyber police wing of the Ernakulam Rural police arrested a youth on the charge of spreading communal hatred through social media platforms. Abdul Raul, 31, of Maruthoor was arrested from Palakkad. Arrested The police arrested an underage friend of a teenaged girl from Veliyathunad who was reported missing on December 22 and whose body was found in the Periyar a day later. A post-mortem report showed the girl had been sexually assaulted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held/article38212596.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||Ex-Muslims of Kerala formed||Ex-Muslims of Kerala, a new organisation of persons who leave Islam, has been formed. In a statement, office-bearers of the organisation based at Thrikkakara said the problems faced by ex-Muslims for renouncing their religion was unmatched. They were often subjected to ostracization in all realms of social existence. This was the reason why an organisation became indispensable to safeguard their human rights and to ensure the constitutional rights promised by the country. The organisation also plans to move the court against all atrocities committed in the name of religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ex-muslims-of-kerala-formed/article38212600.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Trader told to pay damages||The Ernakulam Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has directed a furniture seller to pay Rs. 5,000 as compensation to a consumer for supplying chairs made of substandard materials. The forum chaired by D.B. Binu issued the order on a complaint filed by Thomas Paul of Kothamangalam. He said he bought six chairs from a shop run by Uwaiz. They were of bad quality, but the seller refused to replace them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trader-told-to-pay-damages/article38212598.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Socialist Conclave held||Political parties in India should take note of the victory of farmers through the Gandhian model of agitation, Socialist leader Samantha Rai has said. Speaking at the Indian Socialist Conclave 2022 here on Sunday, he said politics with roots in socialist thoughts alone could ensure development. Trade union leader Thampan Thomas presided. Binoy Viswam, MP; Hibi Eden, MP; Mons Joseph, MLA; Sandeep Pande, Shyam Gambheer, Neelalohithadasan Nadar, and C.P. John were present. Environmentalist Medha Patkar was presented with an award instituted by the Thampan Thomas Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/socialist-conclave-held/article38212601.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:59 IST,KERALA||Panel member backs late RSP leader’s kin||Kerala State Women's Commission (SWC) member Shahida Kamal has offered all support to Anjana and Amrita, granddaughters of late RSP leader and former Minister R.S.Unni, who had raised major allegations against some party leaders including N.K.Premachandran, MP. Ms.Kamal who visited the girls on Saturday added that RSP, with the knowledge of its leadership, has encroached the property of two unmarried girls. Complaint received “The commission had received a complaint stating there is threat to their lives and we found that they are the legal heirs of the property. We, after going through the documents, have found that no foundation was registered in this address,” she said. Saktikulangara police had registered a case against four persons following a complaint that RS Unni Foundation had encroached the building and 24 cents of land in Saktikulangara. ‘Threatened’ The foundation had converted the house into an office and the sisters were reportedly threatened by RSP workers. Foundation president N.K.Premachandran, Secretary K.P.Unnikrishnan and two others were booked under various sections of the IPC including 451 (house-trespass), 294 b (abusive language) and 506 (criminal intimidation). According to the sisters, though the foundation was formed in 2016 with N.K. Premachandran as president, the registration was not renewed and no norm applicable to the functioning was followed. It was also alleged that the MP used his political influence to illegally obtain power connection for the building and prevented the girls from taking any legal action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-offers-support-to-late-rsp-leaders-kin/article38212629.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:59 IST,KERALA||Rift in Knanaya church to the fore||A tense situation prevailed on the premises of the Knanaya Catholic Archdiocese in Kottayam on Sunday when a section of its laity clashed with the official group over a move by the former to install the statue of the Thomas of Cana (Knayi Thoma) here in the morning. The episode began to unfold around 10.30 a.m. when a procession taken out by the rebels along with a statue of the Thomas of Cana reached the church headquarters here. They faced stiff opposition from the official group backed by the Archeparchy leadership, drawing an intervention by the police. Discussions held Following this, a team lead by the Kottayam West Circle Inspector of Police held discussions with the protesters. As the rebels stood their ground, they were cleared off the spot by 1.30 p.m. and booked for unlawful assembly. An official statement by the Archeparchy of Kottayam later said a group of people had attempted to instal the statue without permission, defying an earlier decision by the church to erect a statue of Knai Thoma along that of Uraha Mar Ouseph (Bishop Joseph of Uraha) at the church headquarters here. “Though the Knanaya Catholic Congress reached out to them with an assurance to install the statue at some other locations, they refused to see reason and carried on. In this backdrop, the official committees and feeder organisations of the church raised an opposition. Moreover, there was no way it could have been accepted or welcomed as the move may create an unnecessary precedence,” read the statement, issued by Fr.George Karukapparambil, official spokesperson of the church. It further noted that the protest staged in front of the Archdiocese office had nothing to do with the love or respect towards the Knanaya community. ‘Incite hatred’ “The statements made by the protesters during an argument with the police sought to incite disharmony and hatred towards the community and its leaders including the Metropolitan of the Archeparchy,” it added. The protesters, on the other hand, accused the church leadership of being subservient to the Syro-Malabar church and attempting to manipulate history of the Knanaya church to suit their agenda. The installation of statue, which had been brought here in a procession from Wayanad, was intended to highlight the rights of the laity in the church administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rift-in-knanaya-church-to-the-fore/article38212631.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Sex racket busted, seven arrested||The Karukachal police here in Kerala on Sunday busted a racket that allegedly exchanged partners for sex and arrested seven persons in this connection. Official sources said the arrested persons belonged to Kottayam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts. The arrest followed an online revelation made by one of the racket’s victims. Via messenger groups Preliminary investigations revealed that the racket used to operate through various messenger groups in Facebook and Telegram. The woman, a home-maker, also lodged a complaint against her husband, accusing him of forcing her to have sexual relations with another man. Wide network The arrest of the accused, a native of Karukachal, led the police to the operation of a wider network that is reported to have over 1,000 couples from across Kerala as members. The sources said the members also include several professionals and those in the higher echelons of society. The members, who meet periodically, exchanged women between them. Money also changed hands with some men providing their wives for money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sex-racket-busted-in-kottayam-seven-held/article38212347.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:59 IST,KERALA||Erumely gears up for festivities||The intensifying restrictions on public gatherings notwithstanding, a spiritual frenzy has engulfed Erumely, the main base camp of Sabarimala pilgrims, with the town here slated to host the two-day long festivities of Chandanakudam and ‘Petta thullal’. The celebrations also mark the final phase of this edition of the annual pilgrimage season to Sabarimala. The Chandanakudam celebrations, organised by the Erumely Mahallu Muslim Jamaat, will take off with a procession from the Nainar Mosque by 7.30 p.m on Monday. Accompanied by percussion ensembles and art performances, the procession around the town will be accorded a reception and conclude at the mosque by 1 a.m. Prior to the procession, Minister for Cooperation and Registration V.N. Vasavan will inaugurate the Chandanakudam event at a public meeting, to be presided over by P.A. Irshad, president of the Jammat. Travancore Devaswom Board president A.Ananthagopan, District Collector P.K. Jayasree and Anto Antony, MP, will be also present. The Chandanakudam is being celebrated every year to relive the unique bonhomie between Lord Ayyappa and his trusted Muslim lieutenant Vavar and the tradition of communal harmony in the area. In view of the COVID restrictions, only one elephant will be paraded while the number of participants too will be restricted this time Spiritual dance The festivities on Tuesday will begin with teams from Ambalappuzha and Alangad, which represents the maternal and paternal lineages of Lord Ayyapppa, taking up the spiritual dance. The thullal by the Ambalappuzha team, led by ‘Samooha periyon’ N.Gopalakrishna Pillai, is slated to begin from the Kochamblam here after the sighting of the Brahmini Kite (Krishna Parunthu) in the skies, by noon. The Alangad team will kickstart their dance by the afternoon after sighting the ‘star’ in the day skies. The legend has it that Erumely was the scene of a fight between Ayyappa and Mahishi, the demon princess. A meeting convened by the District Collector here the other day reviewed the arrangements in place for the festivities. Attending the meeting, the District Police Cheif Shilpa Devaiah issued directions to restrict public participation in the celebrations. Meanwhile, the town has been witnessing a huge influx of devotees with the opening of the forest route to the hill temple. The entire town is full of pilgrim vehicles while the local business enterprises including the restaurants and shops have been doing brisk business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spiritual-frenzy-engulfs-erumely/article38212621.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:59 IST,KERALA||CPI(M) has its task cut out at Kozhikode meet||Stage is set for a showdown between two opposing groups in the official faction of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] with its three-day Kozhikode district conference beginning on Monday. The conference, to be monitored by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and party State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, both Polit Bureau members, assumes significance, as its outcome will broadly serve as a guiding template for the State conference in Ernakulam next month. Although the CPI(M) allows a system of internal democracy for its members, the State leadership is unhappy with indiscipline now escalating at district-levels. The apparent rise of Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas in the upper echelon has brought in a new balance of power on the complex web of politics of the CPI(M) in Kozhikode. Emerging narrative Sources said that a demonstration of strength witnessed between the nascent group led by Mr. Riyas and the combine of district secretary P. Mohanan and Central committee member Elamaram Kareem in area conferences in Kozhikode city had shed light on the emerging narrative in the party. Former Kozhikode Deputy Mayor P.T. Abdul Latheef and former councillors K.V. Baburaj and M. Radhakrishnan failed to get elected to their area committees. Seven secretaries out of the 16 area committees were replaced either because their term ended or they occupied elected bodies. Internal strife among local functionaries was seen at Kunnummel and Vadakara area committees which many believe was the reflection of the Kuttiyadi rebellion when party supporters protested against the decision of the State leadership to hand over the Assembly seat to the Kerala Congress (M) in May last. The district leadership had to intervene in Payyoli, Perambra, Kakkodi and Kunnamangalam area conferences as well, sources said. Change of guard unlikely Surely, the question uppermost in the mind of the cadre is about a change of guard in the district leadership. Chances of Mr. Mohanan being replaced remain remote, as he has completed two of the three terms as district secretary. When Mr. Mohanan, a protégé of Mr. Vijayan, was elevated as secretary in 2015, the State leadership wanted to give out a clear message that the party will not be hectored by pressure tactics after he was tried by a Special Additional Sessions Court in the murder of Revolutionary Marxist Party founder-leader T.P. Chandrasekharan on May 4, 2012. A likely contender for the post of secretary is former legislator A. Pradeepkumar who is spending time more in the wilderness these days. However, his elevation to the post is dim unless a contest becomes inevitable, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-set-to-tackle-factional-differences-at-district-meet/article38212585.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:59 IST,KERALA||Many left jobless by AIR decision||Hundreds of part-time contributors and artistes in Kozhikode have been rendered jobless with the All India Radio converting its local ‘Real F.M.’ station as just another centre to relay programmes from other stations. According to sources, this is part of a rebranding exercise by the public service broadcaster. Over 80 local stations are being merged to have 36 centralised broadcasting platforms. Decisions to this effect were taken in 2020. The role of the local stations would be confined to relaying programmes from other major centres and recording and sending programmes based on the demand from the top. In Kerala, public news service would be under the Thiruvananthapuram station, and entertainment programmes would be under Kochi. The sources said that the staff strength in AIR had been seeing a sharp decline in the past two years with many permanent employees retiring and more on the way. There are reports that a majority of the staff are aged above 50. So, the organisation is reportedly trying to sustain the coverage with limited staff and resources. The decision to stop local programmes has, however, not gone down well, as this F.M. Station had been quite popular not only among Kozhikode residents, but also with radio aficionados in adjacent districts and even abroad as well. Listeners glued into these programmes through their radio sets and mobile phones and those abroad through AIR’s mobile application. Its programmes had a mix of entertainment and information that attracted many. Those who contributed to the programmes are now left to fend for themselves. The station had good ad revenue as well, with functionaries of the Malabar Development Council claiming that ‘Real F.M.’ was at the second slot in the State. On January 2, however, listeners started hearing programmes airing from the Thiruvananthapuram station after 9 a.m. The name was changed to Vividh Bharti. Now, only the programmes relayed from other stations such as Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, and Mumbai could be heard from here. The local staff were apparently not informed in advance about this move. M.K. Raghavan, Kozhikode MP, wrote to Anurag Thakur, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, and the Chief Executive Officer, Prasar Bharti, demanding that the change be revoked. He said though similar steps had been taken earlier as well, they were withdrawn following popular protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hundreds-left-jobless-as-air-makes-fm-station-a-relay-centre/article38212588.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:33 IST,KERALA||Back to Basics campaign launched||Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) in association with The Hindu has launched ‘Back to Basics’ campaign, an initiative to refine the reading habits of the younger generation in Kozhikode district. During the 16-week-long campaign, IOCL will gift a total of 38,400 copies of The Hindu in School weekend tabloid to the target group through their 24 outlets.  Launching the initiative at an IOCL outlet at Kunnamangalam near here on Sunday, B. Arunkumar, Divisional Head (Retail Sales), IOCL, said it would encourage more youngsters to take up reading seriously in an era mostly driven by mobile phones. “We will certainly consider the continuation of the scheme if it has been found successful,” he said. N. Amaljith, Senior Manager (Retail Sales), IOCL, said there were a lot of similar customer-centric initiatives from the energy major considering the evolving requirements of society. “On Sunday, we celebrated Customer’s Day with programmes including a free medical check-up for those who visited the fuel outlet,” he said.  To mark the launch, copies of the weekly tabloid were distributed among students at the venue. Muhammed Shahin, Manager (Retail Sales), IOCL, Kozhikode; Suresh Kumar, Manager, IOCL Fleet Marketing; Kabeer Palakkal, dealer, IOCL; R. Deepu, Manager (Sales and Distribution), The Hindu ; and M. Selvaraj, Assistant Manager (Sales and Distribution) were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-to-basics-campaign-launched/article38212592.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:32 IST,KERALA||Surge in fresh infections, TPR in Kozhikode||There has been a surge in the number of people newly infected with SARS-CoV-2 in just three days in Kozhikode district, and the total number of those under treatment has gone up by around 1,000. The test positivity rate (TPR) almost doubled too at a time when the highly transmissible Omicron variant is posing a threat. According to data provided by the Health department, 451 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on January 6. The daily TPR was 6.52% when 7,033 samples were tested. The number of infected persons rose to 551, and the TPR reached 9.88% on January 7. Only 5,679 samples were tested. As many as 580 people tested positive for the virus, and the TPR was 9.86% when 5,972 samples were tested on January 8. The number of infected persons, however, surged to 740, and the daily TPR went up to 13.98% on Sunday. Only 5,391 samples were tested on the day. The number of infected persons undergoing treatment in the district is 4,349. On January 6, it was 3,366. The number rose to 3,877 on January 7, and 3,644 on January 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surge-in-fresh-infections-tpr-in-kozhikode/article38212589.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:32 IST,KERALA||Prem Nazir award for Aleppey Ashraf||Noted script writer and filmmaker Aleppey Ashraf has been selected for the Prem Nazir Award for the year 2022 instituted by the Prem Nazir Samskarika Vedi on the occasion of the 33rd death anniversary of the actor. The award will be presented at an event to be held at Kozhikode Town Hall on Tuesday at 5 p.m., which will be inaugurated by noted writer K.P. Ramanunni. As part of the event, a karaoke music competition will be held at the venue from 11 a.m. onwards. Those interested in taking part in the competition may contact 8891922573 or 9778009088 to register.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prem-nazir-award-for-aleppey-ashraf/article38212586.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:59 IST,KERALA||Revenue staff call for online transfers, postings||The State committee of Kerala Land Revenue Staff Association (KLRSA) has called upon the government to introduce online transfers and postings in the Revenue department with immediate effect. In a resolution passed at the valedictory session of the two-day KLRSA camp in Kozhikode on Sunday, association leaders said the introduction of such a system with options to mark preferences of employees would put an end to unwanted political interference in transfers. Pending requests The resolution also expressed concern over the long-pending transfer requests of several Revenue officials owing to faults in the existing system. It noted that online transfers and postings had been successfully implemented in many other departments. The proposal for an online system was put on cold storage following opposition from a few pro-Left organisations. For some, the conventional method of transfers and postings was a convenient tool to influence the process and help employees of their choice for political mileage, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-online-transfers-postings-in-revenue-dept/article38212593.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||No Muslim can be a communist: Pookkottur||Samastha Kerala Sunni Yuvajana Sangham (SYS) leader Abdussamad Pookkottur has denied news reports that quoted him as saying that the Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama can go hand in hand with communist parties in the State.  Mr. Pookkottur told The Hindu that there were no two opinions about the communist ideology, where a religious believer would have no place. However, he said that everyone who associates with the communist parties in the State could not be described as anti-religious or atheist.  “There may be people who have chosen to cooperate with communist parties because of their circumstances. They may have to leave or been expelled from one party; they may be without any choice; or they may be associating with it for some gain. They may be God-fearing and religious, and we can’t call them Communists because they associate with that party,” said Mr. Pookkottur. Cooperation with govt. He said there was nothing wrong in the Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama, the largest body of Muslim scholars in the State, cooperating with the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. “It is a government made up of different parties, including the communist parties. Rather than choosing a confrontationist path, it is sensible to adopt a cooperative line with the government,” he said. Mr. Pookkottur’s interview, given to a private television channel some days ago, was circulated on Sunday portraying him speaking in favour of tying up with the communists. “No Muslim can be a member of the communist party in true spirit, as the party ideology rejects faith in God,” he said. The Samastha was in the centrestage of news since it disproved of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML)’s call for a campaign by using mosques during Friday Juma against the government decision to leave Waqf Board appointments to the Kerala Public Service Commission. The IUML tried to overcome the embarrassment it suffered because of the Samastha stand by organising a mammoth rally on Kozhikode beach on December 9. However, the rally caused further embarrassment to the IUML when one of its speakers, Abdurahman Kallayi, personally targeted Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his son-in-law and Public Works Minister P.A. Mohammed Riyas. IUML leaders had to apologise for the vituperative remarks Mr. Kallayi made at the rally. The Samastha followed it up with a mega meeting in Malappuram, in which one of the resolutions warned the Muslim community against associating with the communist party. However, Samastha president Sayed Mohammed Jifri Muthukoya Thangal was quick to distance himself from the anti-communist resolution, saying that it was passed without his knowledge or consent. This made it clear that there was a rift within the Samastha vis-à-vis its political stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-muslim-can-be-a-communist-pookkottur/article38212635.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||Three-member family found dead||Three members of a family including an eight-year-old boy were found dead in Payanamannil village near Konni on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Soni Skariah , 53, his wife Reena, 45 and their eight-year-old son Rayan. Preliminary investigations revealed that Soni committed suicide after hacking to death his wife and son. The incident came to light on Sunday morning when a relative of the family reached their house and found two dead bodies inside one of the rooms. Soni was later found hanging from the ceiling inside another bedroom. The family which had been in the Middle East for several years had returned to Konni in March last year and was experiencing severe financial difficulties. The dead bodies will be handed over to the kin after a post-mortem examination. (State suicide prevention helpline 104, DISHA -1056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-member-family-found-dead/article38212622.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||A different space in Museum||A barrier-free park that provides the differently abled a recreational space with easy entry and free movement and a sensory garden that will provide children with autism and other intellectual challenges sensory stimulation have been set up on the Museum compound here. An initiative of the Social Justice Department as part of the Barrier-free Kerala project, the differently abled-friendly park and garden is located behind the Napier Museum, just opposite the Public Office Complex. Built by Costford, the 10,000-sq ft park provides differently abled children various kinds of sensory opportunities in an environment where they can be one with nature. Autism disorder Children with autism spectrum disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder or other sensory challenges will find the park helpful in sensory development – discovery through sight, smell, touch, and sound. Such sensory experiences have an impact on their growth and development. P.B. Sajan, Joint Director, Costford, says the garden has been designed to provide a number of sensory experiences to differently abled children. To develop their sense of touch and feel, different kinds of tiles have been used for flooring. These include granite stones, broken tiles, vitrified tiles, Kota stone, cobbled stone, marbles, GI pipes, and so on. There are also grass patches. Besides the wide-girthed trees already on the premises, a round maze-like passage with fencing bamboo to add to the greenery has been designed for children to go exploring. A tunnel has been built for children to bend down on all four years and crawl into. An arched passage covered with overhanging plants of various types, colourful flowers to help children explore the sense of sight and smell, a cascade to explore sound that would benefit the visually impaired, and a performance area with seating in various colours, lighting, and hanging planters, is also part of the park to provide children with stimulation and help them relax. One of the park entrances leads to a barrier-free section that people on wheelchairs can easily access and move about in, says Mr. Sajan. The park, department officials say, will help in physical and mental recreation of the differently abled while furthering their right to movement. Minister for Social Justice R. Bindu will inaugurate the park at 4 p.m. on Tuesday. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, will preside over the function. Minister for Museums Ahammad Devarkovil will be present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-different-space-in-museum/article38212746.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Spike in cases raises spectre of more restrictions in State||The COVID-19 flare-up and climbing test positivity rate in the State have raised the spectre of night curfew, weekend lockdown, shuttered movie theatres, reduced seating in restaurants, cancelled public transport services, skeletal staff in offices and closed parks, beaches and sports complexes. The weekend lockdown and stringent pandemic-control measures in neighbouring Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have not helped mitigate the anxiety. The contiguous States had closed their borders with Kerala and allowed only emergency services and freight movement on the weekend. Health Minister Veena George said on Saturday that a lockdown was not on the government’s immediate agenda. The arguably lower severity of the illness, reduced hospitalisation, high vaccination rate, surplus hospital beds, sufficient stock of supplemental oxygen and ventilators seemed to have influenced the government’s thinking. Nevertheless, Ms. George had counselled the public to adhere to the COVID-19 protocol strictly and not allow complacency to set in so as a protracted lockdown could be avoided. However, a government official privy to pandemic review meetings said matters could take a turn for the worse if the pandemic panned out badly for the State. A crucial online meeting between State Health ministers and the Central government on Monday would possibly chart out a roadmap to contain the Omicron-spurred third COVID-19 wave. He said the government was acutely aware of the economic fallout of a total lockdown. Hence, for now, the plan was to isolate clusters at the neighbourhood- and household-level and allow regular activity outside the hotspot. However, the strategy was subject to change as the nature of the “third wave” became more evident, he said. Oppn. slams govt. Meanwhile, the State government has come under fire from the Opposition for allegedly underestimating the peril posed by the current COVID-19 breakout. For one, television images of jostling crowds at Sabarimala had raised public concern in some measure. By one account, public health experts had reportedly expressed reservations about easing restrictions at Sabarimala for the Makaravilakku festival. Lakhs of devotees from across the country were expected to assemble at the temple to witness ‘Makara Jyothi.’ Cong. flays Riyas On Saturday, the Opposition blamed the government for throwing caution to the winds at State-sponsored functions. Congress leader Bindu Krishna slammed PWD Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas for alleged COVID-19 protocol violation at the inauguration of the flyover at Edappal in Malappuram. In an FB post, Ms. Krishna said the police, which slapped heavy fines on individuals for minor infractions of the COVID-19 protocol, had turned a blind eye to the violations at the event. Indian Union Muslim League(IUML) leader P.K. Abdu Rabb also echoed a similar sentiment. He said the police had slapped cases for COVID-19-protocol violation on Muslim Coordination Committee members who attended a Waqf protection meeting at Pukkiparambu recently. However, it had turned a blind eye to Mr. Riyas’s ‘indiscretion’. Mr. Rabb said the government insisted that expatriates returning home isolate themselves for a week. However, it had no qualms about not enforcing the pandemic code in public places. Review today Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will take a call on pandemic control measures, if any, at the COVID-19 review meeting on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spike-in-cases-raises-spectre-of-more-restrictions-in-state/article38212639.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||6,238 test positive||Kerala’s COVID-19 graph is on a slow rise and on Sunday, the State reported 6,238 new cases when 54,108 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. With the increase in new cases, the active case pool has risen to 34,902, of whom, only 6.4% are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals such as COVID-19 first line/second line treatment centres. A total of 2,390 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals showed a nominal increase and stands at 435 cases, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support showed a slight increase to 157. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 261. Hospitalisations are rising slowly, with 2,538 persons being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals across the State. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 49,591 with the State adding 44 deaths to the official list. This includes 30 deaths which occurred in the past few days and 14 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. Till now, a total of 18,919 deaths have been newly added to official list. The cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 52,85,542 cases. District-wise Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases with 1,507 cases, Ernakulam 1,066, Kozhikode 740, Thrissur 407, Kannur 391, Kottayam 364, Kollam 312, Pathanamthitta 286, Malappuram 256, Palakkad 251, Alappuzha 247, Kasaragod 147, Idukki 145 and Wayanad 119.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6238-test-positive/article38212642.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||Only marginal increase in AMRUT spendings in one year||The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation’s expenditure in projects under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme has moved up only marginally in the past one year. It reached 57.86% this Saturday, after hitting 50% last April. Though sanction has been accorded to all the projects, some of the bigger projects are behind schedule. The Corporation has now spent Rs. 208.36 crore out of the Rs. 357.50 crore allocated for the project. Of the 270 works proposed under the project, 231 have been completed but many of these being smaller projects related to sewerage, water supply, and stormwater drainage, the expenditure made would be small. Technical as well as administrative sanction have been accorded to all the projects and tendering has also been completed. Work has been awarded for 266 projects. First position The capital city still maintains the first position in fund utilisation among the bigger urban local bodies. However, it is at the fifth position, when all the smaller local bodies are taken into consideration. The maximum expenditure is in water supply projects with 82.04% of funds spent and 41 out of a total of 45 projects being completed. In the sewerage and septage management projects, 84 of a total of 114 projects have been completed with an expenditure of 47.56%. The city is lagging behind mainly in the projects related to urban transport, with 18.73% expenditure across the four projects under this head. Two projects have been completed, while two are remaining. In projects for creating green spaces and parks, the expenditure stands at 59.05%, while in stormwater drainage construction, the expenditure is 71.71%. Officials cite the delays due to COVID-19 and the local body and Assembly elections for the lag in some of the projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/only-marginal-increase-in-amrut-spendings-in-one-year/article38212751.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||AIFUCTO calls for withdrawing NEP||The All India Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (AIFUCTO) has demanded the Central government to revoke the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 which, they feared, could lead to disastrous tendencies in the education sector. A resolution to this effect was passed during the three-day 31st statutory conference of the federation that concluded at Tirupathi, Andhra Pradesh, on Sunday. According to a press note issued by the federation, the conference also urged the Central government to rein in alleged attempts being made to privatise and communalise the education sector through various statutory bodies including the University Grants Commission, All India Council for Technical Education, National Council for Teacher Education, and the AYUSH. Keshab Bhattacharya, Arun Kumar, and D. Kumar were elected the national president, secretary, and treasurer respectively of the federation. New oflfice-bearers The statutory conference also elected Association of Kerala Government College Teachers (AKGCT) president N. Manoj and All Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association (AKPCTA) president Jogy Alex as national secretary and south zone secretary respectively of AIFUCTO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aifucto-calls-for-withdrawing-nep/article38212747.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Insurance for visitors to 60 ecotourism centres||Tourists to the 60 ecotourism centres maintained by the Forest department will be covered by an insurance policy for the first time in the State. The department recently entered into an agreement with United India Insurance Company Ltd., a public-sector undertaking, to finalise a policy that would provide insurance cover of Rs. 5 lakh for a person in the case of death and total permanent disability and Rs. 2.5 lakh for permanent partial disabilities. While the annual premium has been fixed as Rs. 1.75 lakh, the maximum liability under the insurance policy is Rs. 2.5 crore. The insurance contract does not cover losses caused by communicable diseases or pandemic. The policy also does not cover liability for damage to property. While managements of some wildlife sanctuaries and ecotourism centres have extended insurance coverage separately, the State has not had an all-encompassing policy for tourists. Tourist-friendly State “The initiative is expected to go a long way in boosting the State’s tourist-friendly image. Such an endeavour could be the first-of-its-kind in the country,” Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Pramod G. Krishnan said. Idukki has the most number of ecotourism centres (11), including Periyar Tiger Reserve, Eravikulam National Park, Chinnar sanctuary and Thattekad bird sanctuary. The other popular destinations include Neyyar, Ponmudi, Palaruvi, Thommankuthu, Athirappilly, Silent Valley, Parambikulam Tiger Reserve, Aralam Wildlife Sanctuary, Kakkayam and Soochipara. Mr. Krishnan said the department had been undertaking regular safety audits and capacity assessments at each centre to ensure the safety of visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/insurance-for-visitors-to-60-ecotourism-centres/article38212640.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||Car with UP registration found abandoned||The Museum police took into custody a Uttar Pradesh-registered car that was abandoned in front of a private hotel in Pattom under mysterious circumstances on Sunday. The seized vehicle was found to be painted with slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. According to the police, the driver of the car had fled from the hotel after being involved in an argument with the employees there. The incident was reported around 2 p.m. Soon, the car was towed to the Museum police station. The dog and forensic squads screened the vehicle before it was shifted to the Armed Reserve camp in Nandavanam. Farmers’ protest The car has apparently been registered in Meerut in Uttar Pradesh under the name of a Punjab native. The paintings invoked various controversies including the farmers’ protest. The police found bags containing used clothes, electronics items and cables from the car. An enquiry has been launched into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/car-with-up-registration-found-abandoned/article38212750.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Pole-mounted EV charging points by May||The Statewide network of pole-mounted electric vehicle (EV) charging stations planned by the Power Department is expected to be ready by May. The department had announced that 1,140 pole-mounted charging points would be established across Kerala, a step which is aimed to benefit owners of two- and three-wheeler EVs. E-autorickshaw drivers are expected to benefit from the project. Online payment The KSEB decided to expand the network after a pilot scheme in Kozhikode consisting of 10 charging points for autorickshaw drivers proved a success, R. Suku, Director, KSEB (Renewable Energy and Energy Savings), said. The payment, Rs. 9 per unit, can be made online, and a full recharge allows the autorickshaws to run for 120-130 km, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pole-mounted-ev-charging-points-by-may/article38212641.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||1,507 people test positive||The COVID-19 test positivity rate jumped to 15.7% when 1,507 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Despite 647 people recovering from the illness, the active caseload stood at 5,398. According to official statistics, the death toll has grown to 6,486. Three deaths were recorded from the district during the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1507-people-test-positive/article38212749.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Ensure safety of Indians in Kazakhstan: Satheesan||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has urged the Union Ministry of External Affairs to extricate Indians, including Keralites, stuck in strife-torn Kazakhstan. In a letter to Union Minister for Foreign Affairs S. Jayasankar, Mr. Satheesan said the reports of deadly street battles between police and protesters in the central Asian republic had caused much public concern in Kerala. A sizeable segment of Indians in Kazakhstan were Keralites. Moreover, scores of students from Kerala studied in various technical and medical institutions in that country. Kin in the dark The Kazakhstan government had shut down internet services to quell the revolt. Hence, the families of Keralites working or studying in the troubled country could not contact their next of kin and were in the dark about their fate. Many parents were unable to get in touch with their wards. Some reports trickling in from the region suggested that scores were killed in the violence and many more injured. There were also reports of widespread arson and looting. Mr. Satheesan said, as per sketchy reports reaching here, Keralites could not venture out of their places of residence in Kazakhstan and remained hunkered indoors, fearing for their lives. Help desk The Central government should ensure the security of the hundreds of Indian citizens in Kazakhstan. The Union Ministry of External Affairs should immediately start a help desk for the families of those stranded in the region. It should also provide them with accurate information about the whereabouts and status of their kin, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-safety-of-indians-in-kazakhstan-satheesan/article38212644.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||‘Precaution dose’ from today||The ‘precaution dose’ of COVID-19 vaccine will be administered from Monday, Health Minister Veena George has said. Health-care workers, who number 5.55 lakh, 5.71 lakh front-line workers and those above 60 years with comorbidities are eligible. Among them, only those who completed nine months after the second dose of vaccine would be administered the precaution dose. Those above 60 years should consult their doctor before taking the dose, she said. The vaccine will be administered through the vaccination centres for those above 18, which bear blue sign boards. The booking was opened in the CoWin portal on Sunday. Even though precaution dose can also be received directly from vaccination sites, it would save time if people register ahead online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/precaution-dose-from-today/article38212645.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||Man who jumped bail arrested||The police have arrested a 45-year-old man who had jumped bail and was declared absconding. Identified as Binoy alias Bino, from Murukkumpuzha, he was involved in cases related to murder and theft, City police Commissioner G. Sparjan Kumar said. After jumping bail, he was hiding out in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Of late, he had rented a house in Murukkumpuzha. He was arrested on a tip-off received by Hari C. S., Assistant Commissioner, Kazhakootam Cybercity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-who-jumped-bail-arrested/article38212752.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||Sex racket busted in capital||The City police have busted a sex racket that was operating out of a lodge near the Government Medical College here. Nine persons including a 58-year-old woman from Attukal and a 36-year-old man from Kudappanakkunnu who reportedly were the organisers have been arrested. The arrested also include a 28-year-old Assamese woman. The police also recovered over Rs. 3.3 lakh from the accused. The raid was carried out on the basis of a tip-off received by P. Harilal, the Station House Officer of the Medical College police station. The accused were produced before the court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sex-racket-busted-in-capital/article38212753.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:55 IST,KERALA||Care with waste||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/care-with-waste/article38212755.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. begins rally for Mekedatu project||Amidst threat of COVID-19 spread and warning by the State Government on violation of the weekend curfew rules, the Congress on Sunday successfully managed to launch its 11 -day padayatra seeking early implementation of the Mekedatu drinking water project, drawing angry reactions from the Government. Despite uncertainty over participation of people and leaders following action in Ramanagaram by the Government, the padayatra started from Sangama in Kanakapura taluk of Ramanagaram district, about 100 km from the State capital, with thousands of Congress workers and hundreds of leaders, including KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar,Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah, and party leader M. Mallikarjun Kharge, MP, taking part in it. Former KPCC chiefs Allum Veerabhadrappa, G. Parameshwara, andR.V. Deshpande were present along with the three current working presidents, legislators, and a host of leaders. The nearly 170 km padayatra — ‘Our water our right’ — will pass through 15 Assembly constituencies before culminating at Basavanagudi here on January 19. On the first day, the padayatra will stop at Doddaalahalli.  Symbolically, the padayatra was launched by Hindu, Muslim, and Christian religious leadersby watering plants on the stage while political leaders marked the launch by beating a drum ( nagaari ). The Rs. 9,000 crore Mekedatu drinking water scheme involves construction of a balancing reservoir at Mekedatu to impound excess water. Besides ensuring drinking water supply to Bengaluru and other districts in the vicinity, it will also generate power. The project has been opposed by Tamil Nadu, the lower riparian state in the Cauvery river basin.  The padayatra has already raised political dust in the politically sensitive Vokkaliga dominated Cauvery basin districts in South Karnataka where water issues connect an emotional chord. It is also the area that the Congress is in direct fight with Janata Dal (S), which draws its political strength from the Vokkaliga heartland. Speaking at the inauguration, Mr. Kharge said that an unnecessary controversy had been stoked by Tamil Nadu by opposing the project that was set to help both the States. Mr. Siddaramaiah detailed the work of his government during his five-year tenure with respect to the Mekedatu project and accused the BJP of not doing anything since the last two-and-a-half years. The BJP was delaying the project to expand its base in Tamil Nadu, he charged and said: “The padayatra will not stop at any cost.” In the morning, Mr. Shivakumar, who was among the earliest to arrive at the venue, took a dip in the Cauvery and offered pooja . He also took the padayatra flag in a coracle to the Sangama before arriving on the stage. Slamming the padayatra when there was COVID-19 surge, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said that leaders who had congregated at the Sangama should apologise to the people for delaying the project. He also warned of action against those violating the pandemic norms. Questioning the intent of the padayatra, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommaitold reporters that the march politically motivated. “Why are they taking out the padayatra? They did not do anything when in power. They took four years to prepare a DPR. During the last three years they did not raise the issue anytime. Because elections are nearing, padayatra has started. The Congress is feeling guilty that it did not do anything and it has no commitment.”The Chief Minister said that the Supreme Court ruling was expected this month in this regard and the decision of the Cauvery Monitoring Board was also expected to decide on Mekedatu. “We have got the NGT stay vacated. Congress was in power earlier and it should be responsible enough to understand the court cases and the situation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-begins-rally-for-mekedatu-project/article38212154.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospitals advised not to take in the asymptomatic||Hospitals have been asked to avoid admitting asymptomatic patients to prevent crowding of healthcare facilities. At least 15% of the active COVID-19 cases have been admitted to hospitals, accounting for a bed occupancy of 7% in Tamil Nadu, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said here on Sunday. Inspecting checkpoints during the lockdown in Chennai, Dr. Radhakrishnan said 5,872 patients had been admitted to hospitals. To prevent crowding of private hospitals, all civic bodies have taken initiatives such as increasing the bed capacity at COVID-19 care centres and tele-counselling for patients in home quarantine. “We will take action against private hospitals that admit asymptomatic patients. Such patients should be sent to COVID-19 care centres,” said Dr. Radhakrishnan. Only 1% of cases with co-morbidities and those infected with the Delta variant are in intensive care. At least 6% of patients need oxygen support. “This wave will not last long unlike the second wave. The increase in cases will register a sharp decline if the residents cooperate. The details of the bed availability and occupancy at hospitals have been prepared for each district,” said Dr. Radhakrishnan. Chief Minister M. K. Stalin has ordered the launch of a war room to monitor bed occupancy at hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospitals-advised-not-to-take-in-the-asymptomatic/article38212216.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rise in infections ‘alarming’ in Chittoor district, says DMHO||The daily tally of COVID-19 infections in Chittoor district was 254 in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, which was the highest in the State, against 13 recorded on January 3, which showed the exponential spread of the virus in one week. Tirupati clocked 88 cases during the period, and it was followed by Chittoor (28) and Puttur (8). Cases were reported from the municipalities of Palamaner, Punganur, Srikalahasti, and Nagari too. Of the 65 mandals, 41 registered new infections. Pilgrim influx Officials had to grapple with twin issues – the reluctance of the people to adhere to COVID appropriate behaviour and the huge influx of people from neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka for Sankranti. Terming the spread of the virus as “alarming,” District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) U. Sree Hari said keeping in view the pilgrim influx from various parts of the country and abroad, the authorities of the APSRTC, the Railways, and airport had been instructed to ensure there were no mass gatherings and insist on travellers to produce either the vaccination certificate or a negative RT-PCR report. The DMHO also said that the RTC authorities had been asked to ensure at least one-foot distance between the passengers, besides insisting on wearing a face mask. “There should be only two passengers in a three-seater and only one in a two-seater zone. We want the RTC authorities not to allow passengers to board the bus without vaccination certificate, or a negative RT-PCR report. As almost all the passengers carry their mobile phones, it’s not difficult to verify the reports,” the DMHO said. With a spike in cases in the last few days, Dr. Sree Hari said the focus was on movement of pilgrims to Tirumala, Srikalahasti, and Kanipakam. “The authorities concerned should enforce the guidelines before allowing the pilgrims for darshan. They should also ensure that social distancing and sanitisation norms too are complied with. Negligence on the part of the authorities will not be tolerated,” the official warned. Oxygen plant Meanwhile, the government hospital at Punganur is gearing up to establish a 500 LPM oxygen plant being provided by Rajampeta MP Peddireddi Mithun Reddy from his own funds. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will inaugurate the plant through the virtual mode from Amaravati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rise-in-infections-alarming-in-chittoor-district-says-dmho/article38212700.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed in two road mishaps in Chittoor||Three youth were killed in two separate road mishaps in Chittoor district on Sunday. According to Chittoor police, two youth were killed on the spot when their motorcycle reportedly collided with an APSRTC bus at Murakambattu-Doddipalle zone on Sunday evening. The deceased, identified as Santosh and Suresh, both in their 20s, belonged to Kattamanchi locality in Chittoor. In another incident, a 23- year old youth, identified as Kupendran of Chennai, was killed on the spot in a alleged hit-and-run case at Karveti Nagaram road in Puttur town on Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-youth-die-in-two-road-mishaps-in-chittoor/article38212194.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight-member inter-State robber gang busted||A notorious inter-State nomadic gang involved in some major offences, including waylaying of couples and robbing and raping the women, has been busted by the Guntur Rural police. The gang members were arrested by special teams led by SP, Guntur Rural, Vishal Gunni. They were found to be involved in the gang-rape of a woman at Medikonduru in September 2021. The gang worked as agricultural labour and resorted to crime at night often targeting people in isolated areas.“This is the handiwork of a gang that lives far away from human settlements. They move only on foot, waylay couples who travel on motorcycles, rob them and gang-rape women,” said Mr. Gunni. The main accused are: Akula Lingaiah alias Pedda Lingaiah, son of Bhajaranga, resident of Nandyal in Kurnool district; his brothers-in-law Dasari Jammula, Sunkanna and Obulesu; China Lingaiah, son of Jammula; and their relatives Ankanna and Chenchumekala Hanumanthulu. In September, the gang targeted a man and his wife who were proceeding from Paladugu on Guntur-Sattenapalli road on a motorcycle. Perched on a tree top, the gang members pounced on the couple and hit them indiscriminately. They took away their gold ornaments and later, they raped the woman. In December, the offenders attacked two motorcyclists in separate incidents at Lingaraopalem road and robbed them of gold and cash, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-member-robber-gang-busted/article38212144.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Our primary task is to ensure BJP defeat: CPI(M)||Asserting that it will continue its efforts to maximise pooling of votes against the Bharatiya Janata Party in the coming elections to five States, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) said on Sunday that its primary task is to ensure the defeat of the BJP in these States. The party has requested the Election Commission of India to be vigilant as the BJP could resort to “all sorts of measures to pressurise and intimidate people” for electoral gains. The EC should strictly implement the Model Code of Conduct and bring to book everyone, including the Prime Minister, if found violating the code. ‘BJP facing defeat’ “The BJP is facing certain defeat in the major States that are going to polls. There is huge anti-incumbency in Uttarakhand and the situation is no better in Punjab. The party is resorting to rabid communal polarisation in Uttar Pradesh as can be seen from the hate speeches in Dharam Sansad where some leaders called for civil war,” CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said. He was speaking to reporters after the conclusion of the party’s three-day central committee meeting to finalise the draft political resolution ahead of the party’s 23rd national congress slated in Kannur in Kerala from April 6 to 10. He expressed concern that the BJP had invited another tranche of electoral bonds at a time when five States were going to elections. “More than 80 per cent of this money will be utilised to finance the electoral campaign costs of the BJP. The EC should be vigilant to protect the interests of the other political parties,” he said. The election authority should take steps to ensure that there was level playing field for every contestant as the EC could not fulfil its constitutional duties without taking steps in this direction. “The EC should not be lax in the implementation of MCC and other measures,” he said. Asked about the CPI(M) plan for the poll-bound States, he said the party would adopt a stand State-wise based on the level of influence exercised by the regional parties in the respective States. “We will support Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh as it is prime contender against the BJP,” he said. On the strategy at the national level, he said formation of a front against the BJP would be possible after the elections. He cited the experiences in 1996, 1998 and 2004 when the United Front, National Democratic Alliance and the UPA were formed after the elections. “No pre-election fronts have succeeded in the country going by past experiences,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/our-primary-task-is-to-ensure-bjp-defeat-cpim/article38212146.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||People will not tolerate dictators, says Himanta||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that people will not tolerate dictators and this was proved by history. “Former Prime Minister the late Indira Gandhi was dethroned by the public and there will be no exception even now,” he said at a public meeting in Warangal on Sunday. He said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has been working towards making his son as the next CM instead of looking after the welfare of the people of Telangana. “People are ready to teach him and the ruling party a lesson in the next elections,” he said. Mr. Himanta was the chief guest at a protest programme against GO 317 in Warangal. State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, BJP OBC Morcha national president K. Laxman, and MLA Eatala Rajender participated in the meeting. “During election campaigns in Assam, we had promised to provide one lakh jobs and we fulfilled that promise within one year. KCR had promised two lakh jobs but has not fulfilled it yet. Did the unemployed get jobs?” asked Mr. Himanta, adding that the TRS had spent about Rs. 500 crore in the elections at Huzurabad and wondered from where that money came. He expressed confidence that the BJP would come to power in Telangana. “The party is working to come to power in 2023,” he added. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said that they would continue to put pressure on the State government till GO 317 was amended. “We will hold a public meeting with lakhs of party activists after the COVID crisis gets over,” he said, questioning how many objections raised by employees and teachers were addressed by the CM. “I protested against GO 317 in my constituency camp office by following all COVID protocols. But, still gates were cut with gas cutters and we were arrested. Five party workers are still in jail. We will come to power and cancel this GO soon after that. Be patient for two years,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-will-not-tolerate-dictators-says-himanta/article38212143.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Procurement of discoloured paddy begins in Konaseema||The Agriculture Department authorities have started procuring discoloured paddy grown in the kharif season in the Konaseema region of East Godavari district. They have swung into action in response to the complaints that rice millers were unwilling to purchase the discoloured paddy. A huge quantity of paddy has been damaged due to incessant rains during the kharif. Agriculture assistant director (Amalapuram) A.M. Shamsi on Sunday said that all the hurdles have been cleared to enable procurement of the discoloured paddy by the rice millers in the region. “A 75 kg bag of discoloured paddy will be offered Rs. 1,445 as the Minimum Support Price. The Rythu Bharosa Kendras on behalf of rice millers will take up the procurement,” said Mr. Shamsi in an official release. The procurement began on Sunday in Allavaram, Ainavalli and Uppalaguptam mandals. In Konaseema, the total area under paddy in kharif is more than 9,698 hectare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/procurement-of-discoloured-paddy-begins-in-konaseema/article38212727.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala Police file new case against Dileep||The Crime Branch of the Kerala Police has registered yet another case against actor Dileep and five others based on a statement by director Balachandrakumar that the actor had threatened to endanger police officers who were probing the 2017 case of sexual assault on a woman actor, in which Dileep was arraigned as an accused. The accused in the new case are Dileep, his brother Anoop, brother-in-law Sooraj, Appu, Babu Chengamanad, and a yet-to-be identified person. The new development is said to be the fallout of a meeting on Saturday of the recently constituted Special Investigation Team (SIT) that is probing the actor assault case. Audio clip The new case has been registered under Sections 506, 34, 120, 118 of the IPC – which cover provisions including criminal intimidation, common intention to carry out a crime, and conspiracy. An audio clip handed over by Balachandrakumar to the probe team reportedly has details of the conversation Dileep had with the five others, in which there is a threat to harm Dy.SP Baiju Paulose in a lorry accident. Copy of visuals The actor assault case had recently taken a new turn, with Balachandrakumar stating that Dileep invited him to view the visuals of the actor being assaulted. An investigation is currently under way on how he obtained a copy of the visuals. What the FIR says The FIR registered on a complaint filed by Mr. Paulose says the actor spoke of endangering the lives of five police officials — A.V. George (whose visual the actor showed on YouTube, as per Balachandrakumar), Sojan, Sudarshan, Sandhya, and Mr. Paulose. The audio clip also contains a threat to chop off the hand of a police officer and of deploying a lorry to endanger Mr. Paulose, the expense for which would come to Rs. 1.5 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-police-file-new-case-against-dileep/article38212141.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medha urges CM to review SilverLine project||Eminent environmentalist Medha Patkar has urged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to take a relook at the proposed semi-high-speed rail project, SilverLine. Ms. Patkar said that the environmental impacts of the proposed project was still unknown. Besides, the social impacts of the project were also yet to be studied. No final nod yet The Centre was yet to give its final approval for the project. The Chief Minister should review the project and think of steps to improve the existing railway system, she said. Incidentally, the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) had been opposing the project highlighting the socio-economic impacts. CPI(M) stand The environmentalist also highlighted the opposition of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] to the proposed bullet train project in Mumbai, while declaring her solidarity with the protests against the K-Rail project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medha-urges-cm-to-review-silverline-project/article38212149.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||28 persons arrested for violence at Atmakur||Kurnool police on Sunday arrested 28 persons and registered five cases in connection with clashes between two groups and the attack on police station at Atmakur in the district on Saturday night. The accused had also burnt a four-wheeler and three motorcycles on the premises of the Atmakur police station late on Saturday night. At a press conference, Superintendent of Police Ch. Sudheer Kumar Reddy said that now there was no issue at all and the tense situation that prevailed overnight eased and situation was fully under control of the police. Trouble began after the BJP Atmakur in-charge Budda Srikanth Reddy objected to the construction of a mosque at Padmavathi Nagar and obstructed the work. During this incident, stone pelting happened between two groups and Mr. Srikanth Reddy arrived at the police station to save himself from the attackers. However, an angry group of youth, particularly youth that followed Mr. Srikanth Reddy, came to the police station and attacked his vehicle, Mr. Sudheer said. The mob burnt a four-wheeler and three motorcycles at the police station. The police opened three rounds of fire into the air to control the situation, the SP added. The police arrested 28 persons, including Mr. Srikanth Reddy, and deployed 500 security personnel in the town and clamped Section 144.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/28-persons-arrested-for-violence-at-atmakur/article38212694.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pig rearer killed||A youth died after his bike was hit from behind by a lorry in the early hours of Sunday at Adoni in the district. A gang of livestock thieves are suspected to be behind the incident. Adoni Taluka SI L. Vijayalakshmi said that the deceased was identified as Erukali Suresh, 19. who was trying to guard his herd of pigs from the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pig-rearer-killed/article38212193.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP govt. ushered in Gram Swaraj: Mekapati||Following in the footsteps of Mahatma Gandhi, Chief Minister Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy has ensured Gram Swaraj through the village secretariat system, said Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy. Visiting Brahmanapalli, his native village near Marripadu in SPSR Nellore district along with his father and former YSRCP Parliamentary party leader Mekapati Rajmohan Reddy, the Minister said people of the State are now seeing a vibrant local self government. The village secretariat system had ushered in a revolution in the State as denizens, who ran from pillar to post hitherto, are now hassle-free as all their needs are fulfilled at the grassroots level, the Minister said. Inspections He inspected the Rythu Bharosa Kendram, milk chilling centre and village health clinic and reviewed with local officials the progress of the ongoing Somasila High Level canal works. Mr. Rajmohan Reddy hailed the Chief Minister saying that he had made Mahatma Gandhi’s dream of Gram Swaraj come true. Meanwhile, Sankaranti fever gripped the non-descript village with the arrival of Mekapati family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-ushered-in-gram-swaraj-mekapati/article38212192.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social forestry planters look to govt. for help||Vexed with growing commercial crops like tobacco and cotton, farmers in Prakasam district switched over to social forestry plantations in a big way in the 1990s. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development(NABARD) too had encouraged farmers in the shift as many of them had committed suicides due to unremunerative prices for the two crops back then. Fall in crop area But now, farmers across the district are ruing their fate as the prices of social forestry crops like subabul, eucalyptus fell by 40% of the rates prevailing in 2014. The area taken up by these crops too fell from over 2.20 lakh acres in 2014 to about 1.80 lakh acres as a section of growers switched back to tobacco. “We have no option but to uproot the trees as we cannot realise even the cost of production after years of toil,” lamented a group of farmers in Maddipadu. The plantations are raised mostly in waste lands elsewhere. But it is not the case in Prakasam district, where the authorities themselves projected the plantations as an alternative to tobacco and cotton, they recalled. “We are now again on the verge of taking the extreme step of ending our lives,” they lamented as the price of subabul had plummeted to about Rs. 2,000 per tonne as against the promised amount of Rs. 4,200 in 2014 by the paper mills as per an agreement reached then at the behest of the State government. The plight of eucalyptus growers was more worse as the price of the logs ruled below Rs. 1,500 per tonne now as against the price of Rs. 4,400 tonne promised seven years ago. It is high time the Union and State governments come to the rescue of the growers to protect the virgin forests which indiscriminately face the axe, said Samyukta Kisan Morcha Prakasam District Convenor Ch.Ranga Rao. Farmers got a fair deal till the Agriculture Market Committees played the role of facilitator till 2007. The farmers landed in a mess only after AMCs were bypassed by paper mills which started procuring the logs from farmers through its network of brokers, recalled Social Forestry Planters Association State Secretary Vadde Hanuma Reddy. The farmers are hopeful that the YSR Congress Party government would come to their rescue as Chief Minister Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy in the run up to the 2019 elections had promised Rs. 5,000 per tonne for subabul and eucalyptus logs, association Prakasam District Secretary K. Veera Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-forestry-planters-look-to-govt-for-help/article38212191.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore’s daily tally up from 10 to over 100 in a week||Fresh COVID-19 cases continued to increase across South Coastal Andhra Pradesh even as health professionals geared up to administer the third dose of vaccine to eligible persons. For the first time after the second wave of coronavirus subsided, SPSR Nellore district reported 100-plus cases in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Sunday. New cases, which were below 10 each day during the last week, rose to 40 in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours. With this, the active caseload shot up to 447 in the region, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The coronavirus casecount in the region rose to over 2.86 lakh during the period. The number of recoveries was more than five times lower when compared to new cases in the region. Only 25 patients, 14 in SPSR Nellore district and 11 in Prakasam district, recovered during the period. “Third dose of vaccine will be administered to healthcare workers, frontline workers and those aged above 60 from Monday for 4 days,” Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer(DMHO) P.Ratnavalli said after reviewing the health situation. People falling under these categories should take the third dose on completion of 39 weeks after taking the second dose. She exhorted all sections of people to take the vaccine in their own interest and strictly observe the COVID safety norms from time to time as the new Omicron variant fuelled fresh cases across the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellores-daily-tally-up-from-10-to-over-100-in-a-week/article38212196.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leopard cubs found in deserted house||Two leopard cubs were found in an abandoned house at Ummini, near here in Kerala, on Sunday. It is presumed that a leopard gave birth to the cubs within the past 10 days in the house belonging to Madhavan Ummanazhiyil in Akathethara Gram Panchayat. The Forest and Wildlife Department took over the cubs, examined them, fed them, and are waiting for the mother to turn up. “Our veterinary surgeon examined the cubs and found them to be in good health. We expect the mother leopard to come in search of the cubs,” said Divisional Forest Officer Sreenivas Kurra. The house where the cubs were found had been in disuse for over ten years and is about three kilometres away from the forest border. Chief Wildlife Warden K.V. Uthaman said they expected the presence of the mother in the vicinity. “We are trying to help the cubs rejoin their mother and go back to the wild for their best health,” said Mr. Uthaman. He said that had the cubs not been found, the leopard would have taken them to a safer area. The wildlife personnel will wait for a few days and create a situation for the mother leopard to join its cubs. Residents in fear Ponnan, the caretaker of the house, saw a leopard moving inside the house on Sunday afternoon. He alerted other people, who informed the forest officials. “The cubs are hardly a week old. Their eyes are not yet fully open,” said Mr. Uthaman. He said people need not be scared of the leopard coming in search of its cubs. Local people, meanwhile, demanded that the Forest Department catch the mother leopard by fixing a cage or trap. Fear has gripped the people living in the neighbourhood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leopard-cubs-found-in-disused-house/article38212151.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dy. CM urges companies to allocate CSR funds for education, health||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Revenue Dharmana Krishnadas on Sunday asked all the industries to take up service activities in their vicinity and win the hearts of local people. He inaugurated a kitchen established by the Aurobindo Pharma Foundation, the CSR wing of Aurobindo Pharma Limited at Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University at Etcherla in the district. He said the kitchen set up at a cost of Rs. 2 crore would enable 300 students to have their meal at a time. He said that the establishment of an RO water plant was also a good initiative to protect the health of students. He urged other companies to allocate their CSR funds for the improvement of health and education sectors in the district. Vice-Chancellor Nimma Venkata Rao said that the kitchen would reduce the expenditure significantly. Each student had been paying around Rs. 2,000 as mess bill which would come down with little usage of electricity in the modern kitchen. Former Union Minister Killi Kruparani, MP Bellana Chandrasekhar, Etcherla MLA Gorle Kirankumar and senior executives of Aurobindo Pharma were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dy-cm-urges-companies-to-allocate-csr-funds-for-education-health/article38212729.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pandemic taught us to find opportunities amid threats’||The COVID-19 pandemic has taught us to overcome challenges and find opportunities amid lurking threats, B. Vengamma, Director and Vice-Chancellor of Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS), has said. Dr. Vengamma made the observation on changed acceptance levels and human attitude while addressing the valedictory of the 31st statutory conference of the All India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (AIFUCTO) here on Sunday. The three-day event was jointly hosted by the Andhra Pradesh Government College Teachers’ Association (APGCTA), the Andhra Pradesh Government College Gazetted Teachers’ Association (APGCGTA), and the Affiliated College Teachers’ Association (ACTA) at Sri Venkateswara University, in which 1,200 delegates from across the country took part. The meeting took up for discussion the intricacies of the National Education Policy (NEP) - 2020 and the higher education scenario post COVID-19. Recalling her experience over the last two years in the arena of medical education, Dr. Vengamma said the academic fraternity had not given in to the challenges posed by the pandemic, but attuned itself to the ‘new normal’. A neurologist by profession, Dr. Vengamma also recalled instances of high school and college students undergoing depression and mental trauma, burdened as they were with academic pressure. In this context, she expressed the hope that the NEP would bid goodbye to rote learning, focus more on creativity, and nurture lateral thinking among the students. The meeting elected professors Kesab Bhattacharya, Arun Kumar, and D. Kumar as the president, general secretary, and treasurer respectively. Similarly, Binayak Bhattacharya, M. Lokendro Singh, N. Manoj, M. Nagarajan, and Vijaykumar Piyush were elected the national secretaries. The meet demanded that the government increase expenditure on education by at least 6% of the GDP, stop clustering of educational institutions, prevent dropout of students, fill vacant posts of teachers, implement UGC regulation issued with the 7th pay revision by the States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-taught-us-to-find-opportunities-amid-threats/article38212704.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Implement UGC norms on retirement age’||Akhil Bharatiya Rashtriya Shaikshak Mahasangh (ABRSM) has appealed to the State government to implement the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) guidelines fixing the retirement age as 65 years for State universities. The Mahasangh has submitted representations on the issue to the Chief Minister, Minister for Education and officials of the Education department to implement the rules which are already in vogue in thirteen States including Uttar Pradesh, Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. The rule also applied for national institutes like the IIT, IISc, NIT and so on, said Mahasangh’s State convener Y.V. Rami Reddy on Sunday, adding that the extension of retirement age would help maintain the academic standards at a time when close to 50% of teaching positions in all the State universities are vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/implement-ugc-norms-on-retirement-age/article38212198.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati ahead in cleanliness drive: Botcha||Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana has credited the political and bureaucratic heads of Tirupati for making it to the top at the national level in Swachh Survekshan, Clean City and Citizens’ charter. Addressing the media along with Deputy Mayor B. Abhinay Reddy here on Sunday, he said the legislator B. Karunakar Reddy, mayor R. Sireesha and Commissioner P.S. Gireesha deserved due credit for taking the city to the top echelons in terms of cleanliness and sanitation. Later, he participated in the closing ceremony of the All India Invitation Kabaddi Tournament for men and women and gave away the prizes to the teams under various categories. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, TTD board Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, ace weightlifter Karanam Malleswari were among those present. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-ahead-in-cleanliness-drive-botcha/article38212197.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 200 doctors, staff, patients test positive at CMC||Over 200 doctors, staff, workers and patients tested positive for COVID-19 at the Christian Medical College (CMC) hospital in Vellore, in the past 10 days.Health officials of the Vellore City Corporation said the headquarters of the hospital on Ida Scudder Road in the heart of the fort town, has reported the maximum number of cases, with 10-20 daily infections on an average. However, the overall cases in the CMC included all those from its branches across Vellore and in Ranipet, where a new branch was built recently.  “As medical services cannot be interrupted, the CMC has been asked to attend to emergencies only. Appointments for patients from other States have been suspended in all hospitals, including CMC, within Corporation limits,” T. Manivannan, Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Vellore City Corporation, told The Hindu .  At present, the CMC has its main hospital in Vellore town, with the college campus, including its hostel in Bagayam near the Central Prison in the city’s outskirts. The CMC also has a rehabilitation centre near Bagayam and a new facility, which is coming up in Ranipet on the Bengaluru Highway (NH: 48). Corporation officials said all branches of the CMC, on an average, houses over 12,500 persons, including doctors, nurses, support staff, workers, medical students, trainees and workers. Everyday, around 8,000 out-patients (OP) and at least 2,000 in-patients, are treated at the Vellore CMC. While the Vellore Government Medical College Hospital has 800 beds, the CMC has 2,500. Health officials said during the second wave of the pandemic, the CMC had reported a similar spike in cases within its premises. As part of containment measures, especially around the CMC, Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian, who inspected two containment streets opposite to the CMC on Sunday, said special health teams are monitoring the hospital on a daily basis. Furthermore, over 250 lodges on Babu Rao Street and Sukkaiah Vathiyar Street are under surveillance by officials, after over 10 cases were reported in these streets a few days ago. These streets, located opposite to CMC’s main premises, are containment areas. Most of them are occupied by CMC patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-200-doctors-patients-test-positive-at-cmc/article38212435.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases triple in five days||The State reported 1,257 COVID-19 infections and two deaths in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. Single-day cases crossed 1,000 for the first time in 101 days since October 1. At 3.27%, the positivity rate of the 38,479 samples tested in the past day was also the highest in 180 days. The number of active cases tripled in five days from 1,848 on January 5 to 4,774 on Sunday. During the past day, 140 patients recovered and the total recovery rate and recoveries stand at 99.07% and 20,62,580 respectively. The cumulative infection tally increased to 20,81,859 while the number of fatalities stand at 14,505. Over 100 cases in 6 dists. For the first time after months, many districts reported more than a hundred fresh infections in a day. Chittoor reported 254 infections. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (196), Anantapur (138), Krishna (117), Guntur (104), Nellore (103), East Godavari (93), Vizianagaram (83), Srikakulam (55), Prakasam (40), Kurnool (29), West Godavari (25) and Kadapa (20). Active case tallies in Visakhapatnam (937) and Chittoor (895) reached close to the 1,000 mark while in Kurnool and Prakasam it was less than a hundred cases each. One death each was reported in Guntur and Visakhapatnam districts. The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,95,485), Chittoor (2,49,662), West Godavari (1,80,291), Guntur (1,79,748), Visakhapatnam (1,59,818), Anantapur (1,58,598), Nellore (1,47,468), Prakasam (1,38,920), Kurnool (1,24,337), Srikakulam (1,23,896), Krishna (1,21,263), Kadapa (1,16,112) and Vizianagaram (83,366).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-triple-in-five-days/article38212696.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book on organic farming sells more copies at mela||PrakritiVyavasayam - Palekar Vidhanam , a book by Chikati Trinadh, caught the attention of visitors at Vijayawada Organic Mela-2022 organised in the city.  Mr. Trinadh says that more than 33,000 copies were sold ever since it was first published in 2014. The State government also bought more than 11,000 copies to be distributed among the farmers, who attend the training classes in natural farming. The book is being translated into Malayalam, Kannada, Tamil and other languages. NITI Aayog has also invited him to discuss the book, he says. The book has interviews of 33 progressive farmers who excelled in organic or natural or zero budget natural farming, The author toured across Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and other States to document the success stories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-on-organic-farming-sells-more-copies-at-mela/article38212767.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||BEE selects TTD for feasibility study||The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has selected the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), along with four tourist destinations in Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir, for a feasibility study on achieving net zero energy consumption. The study will identify strategies to meet the power requirement through renewable energy and by taking energy efficiency measures. In a virtual review meeting attended by officials of the BEE, the TTD and the Energy Department of Andhra Pradesh on Sunday, TTD executive officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy said water pumping systems were planned to be replaced with energy efficient pump sets and fans with brushless direct current fans. Besides, LED lights and solar rooftop systems were being installed on a large scale, he said. Mr. Reddy welcomed the BEE’s initiative of conducting a feasibility study on ‘net zero energy tourist locations’, which would pave the way for improving energy efficiency at tourist sites and surroundings. Pat for TTD Energy Secretary N. Srikant appreciated the TTD’s commitment to energy efficiency, and said all cooperation would be extended by his department. BEE Director General Abhay Bhakre said net zero energy strategies would help in realising the objectives of sustainable and responsive tourism||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bureau-selects-ttd-for-study-on-zero-net-energy-use/article38212156.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVL sees breakdown of law & order||BJP Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, in a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, on Sunday said the assault by a mob on his party leaders at Atamkur in Kurnool district and stone pelting on policemen and journalists there was another testimony to the “complete breakdown of law and order in the State.” He said it was shocking to note that the YSRCP leaders and the local MLA had allowed construction of a mosque allegedly without permission in an area entirely inhabited by the Hindus, particularly when the proposal had been objected to more than a year ago. “The YSRCP leaders have hurt the religious sentiments of the Hindus,” Mr. Narasimha Rao alleged in the letter. Mr. Narasimha Rao alleged that in 2018 a mob had attacked a police station in Guntur, injured several police personnel and damaged vehicles. “Instead of punishing the culprits, the government withdrew the prosecution against them in August 2020,” the BJP leader alleged. A month later, in September 2020, several Hindu activists had been arrested at Antarvedi and non-bailable cases foisted on them when some miscreants allegedly pelted stones damaging a glass pane of a Church there, he alleged. Those responsible for the attack at Atmakur and the owner of the illegal construction must be booked under relevant sections of the IPC, he demanded. “If the government fails to act, the BJP will take recourse to all constitutional means to ensure the culprits are punished,” he warned. In a separate letter, BJP State president Somu Veerraju said his party would consider the government as complicit in the attack on the party leaders who fought against the illegal construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvl-sees-breakdown-of-law-order/article38212698.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu mourns actor’s death||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday condoled the death of actor-producer Ramesh Babu. He was 56. Ramesh Babu was the elder son of veteran actor G. Krishna and elder brother of actor Mahesh Babu. “I pray God to give strength to the bereaved family members in these difficult times,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-mourns-actors-death/article38212708.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Precaution dose for senior citizens from today||The State has geared up to administer the precaution dose, or the third dose, of vaccine against COVID-19 to senior citizens from Monday at village and ward secretariats, and primary health centres. As per the guidelines of the Centre to administer booster dose to senior citizens with comorbidities, healthcare and frontline workers, the government has planned to administer at least five lakh doses. Between January 10 and 13, ANMs and ASHA workers will administer doses to senior citizens while simultaneously healthcare workers will get vaccinated at their respective workplaces. A special drive will be conducted to reach out to frontline works, including employees of MAUD, Panchayat Raj, Police, Armed forces and special forces under Union Home Ministry on January 12 and 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/precaution-dose-for-senior-citizens-from-today/article38212697.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meet on maths concludes at VIT-AP||Computational methods are important in solving real world problems, said Prof. S. Srinivas from the Department of Mathematics at VIT-AP University, on Sunday. He was addressing the valedictory session of a three-day online workshop on Ädvances in Applied Mathematics and Computational Methods. Speakers from reputed institutes and the industry delivered talks and 260 participants from across the country and a few from foreign nations registered for the event. Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy, registrar C.L.V. Sivakumar, dean, School of Advanced Sciences Santanu Mandal were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meet-on-maths-concludes-at-vit-ap/article38212768.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ICET admission process begins||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has released the admission schedule for the AP ICET-2021 second and final phase. The council released the notification on Saturday to this effect. Students can register their names for MBA/MCA admissions from January 11 to 13, verification of certificates would be taken up from January 12 to 17, students can exercise web options on January 18 and make changes in them on January 19. Detailed notification is available on the council’s website:https://sche.ap.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/icet-admission-process-begins/article38212705.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 100 new infections in Krishna||Krishna district has been witnessing a rise in the incidence of COVID-19 infections. On Sunday, the district reported 117 infections, the highest single-day tally in the past 102 days. The district reported 480 infections in the past week. In the week before it (Dec. 27 to Jan. 2) only 121 infections were reported. The district now has 577 active cases. The total number of infections in the district increased to 1,21,263 and the toll reached 1,481.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-100-new-infections-in-krishna/article38212765.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Despite spurt in COVID cases, people flock to tourist places||Despite rise in COVID-19 cases across many States, domestic tourists continued to flock to local tourist places in the district. Almost all the tourism and private hotels in the city as well as the Agency areas are fully booked till the end of Sankranti holidays. “As there are no restrictions announced by the State government till now, bookings are being accepted. Till January 18, almost all the rooms, especially in Araku circuit including Ananthagiri and Tyada, have been 100% booked,” said an official from Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) Visakhapatnam. He said that these bookings were done in December 2021 or even before. COVID-19 cases began increasing in the last one week. “All the tourist places like Borra Caves, Katika waterfalls, Padmapuran Gardens, Tribal Museum, Kothapalle waterfalls, Chaparai and Lambasingi are attracting domestic tourists in droves and hundreds of tourists are thronging Vanjangi hills every weekend,” he says. The tour packages being offered by the APTDC to Araku, Vizag city(local) sight seeing, Lambasingi and others are also being received well by domestic tourists. Even Kailasagiri, VUDA Park, museums on Beach Road, Indira Gandhi Zoolocal Park (IGZP), Kambalakonda and local beaches are open and are receiving a large number of tourists. The APTDC officials say that there is a good footfall from West Bengal followed by Odisha, Telangana, Chattisgarh and a few tourists from Karnataka. “We have been receiving tourists since October 2021-end and the numbers have seen a surge since December due to the holiday season and drop in temperatures. The situation may continue till first week of March, if COVID-19 restrictions such as night curfews and closure of tourist places are not imposed”, the APTDC officials say. However, a few private tour operators express their fear on further increase in cases and possible restrictions by the government, which may affect their livelihood yet again for the third consecutive year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/despite-spurt-in-covid-cases-people-flock-to-tourist-places/article38212778.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rapid spread of Omicron is a worrying factor, say experts||The new variant Omicron has the capability of spreading rapidly and affecting thousands and even lakhs of persons within a short time. Though the virulence of Omicron is comparatively low, the rapid spread is a worrying factor, K. Phanendar, pulmonologist, and P.J. Srinivas, epidemiologist, have said. They were speaking at an awareness programme, organised by the Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV) on ‘COVID-19 third wave’, at the Public Library here on Sunday. They said that only COVID appropriate behaviour and observing protocols like wearing masks, avoiding mass gatherings and hand hygiene would go a long way in checking the spread of the virus. Dr. Phanendar said that people giving up the ‘new normal’ (observing COVID protocols) and returning back to ‘normal’ was the big mistake, which has led to a risky situation. Hospitals would not be able to accommodate more patients as the transmission rate of Omicron was very high. The non-availability of adequate medical care and services due to overcrowding of hospitals could even result in deaths, he said. He suggested that the person should go for the RTPCR test by the end of the first week after symptoms were seen. Early testing Getting tested in the first week and taking symptomatic treatment with drugs and home isolation would result in early recovery, he added. The symptoms normally seen during the first week include mild fever, headache and rash. Waiting till the second week could result in the virus affecting the lungs and causing breathlessness and may require hospitalisation, Dr. Phanendar said. This should be avoided to prevent complications and possible spread of the virus, he said. Dr. Phanendar said that the risk of hospitalisation would be greatly minimised in those who have taken the first and second doses of the vaccine. A booster dose after six to nine months, after the second dose, could save them from the impact of the impending third wave, he added. Dr. Srinivas explained that travel should be avoided to the extent possible, and those who do not have another option, should follow all protocols. PAV would organise awareness campaigns at Rythu Bazaars to educate the public, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rapid-spread-of-omicron-is-a-worrying-factor/article38212732.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel to solve irritants between warring fishermen groups||Fisheries Minister Sidiri Appalaraju has said a decision has been taken to allow traditional fishermen and also those using ring nets with transponders fixed to their boats to resume fishing from Monday. However, those using ring nets will be allowed to fish only 8 km away from the coast. On the directions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, district in-charge Minister K. Kannababu, and Ministers M. Srinivasa Rao and Mr. Appalaraju, and District Collector A. Mallikarjuna held a meeting at the Collectorate here on Sunday. They discussed various aspects pertaining to the capacity of boats, ring nets, fishing, registration of boats and other issues, and called for restraint from both the groups. Later, speaking to the media, Mr. Appalaraju announced that Sections 144 and 145 were being lifted. However, both the groups should respect the existing guidelines and, if they come across any problem, they should sort it out amicably, he said. He also said a coordination committee, with representatives of the two groups, and the Fisheries and the Police department, had been constituted to come up with an amicable and permanent solution to the problem by January 20. “If the fishermen union leaders and elders fail to come up with a solution, the law will take its own course,” he said. Mr. Kannababu said no new permission was given for the use of ring nets after the YSRCP government came to power. He appealed to the warring groups not to complicate matters, but come up with a feasible solution. Andhra Pradesh topped the country in agriculture, and the State government was implementing several welfare schemes for the farmers, he said, and alleged that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu was spreading lies against the government. He said it was wrong on the part of the village / ward secretariat staff to announce a strike though the Chief Minister had promised to solve their problems by June-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-to-solve-irritants-between-warring-fishermen-groups/article38212707.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Find permanent solution for ring net issue, CITU urges govt.||Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) State secretary M. Jaggu Naidu has demanded that the State government come out with a permanent solution to the ring net problem and strive to protect the livelihood of traditional fishermen. He demanded an end to use of ring nets, which were being used in violation of court orders. A ‘padayatra’ was organised by the CITU in which fishermen and fishermen unions participated at Peda Jalaripeta here on Sunday. The CITU workers went from door-to-door distributing pamphlets to the fisherfolk. They also held group meetings and asked the fishermen about their problem. Artistes of Praja Natyamandali created awareness among fishermen as to how the use of ring nets would deprive traditional fishermen of their livelihood. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Jaggu Naidu said that irrespective of the party in power in the State, approvals were being given for the opening of chemical industries on the coast. The untreated wastes being released by them into the sea resulting in the depletion of fish resources and depriving fishermen of their livelihood. The fishermen were unable to provide proper education to their children. The indifference of the government and officials in implementing the laws was resulting in clashes between the two different groups of fishermen, he alleged. He said that asking the warring groups to settle the dispute between themselves was nothing but the government shirking its responsibility. The clashes would not have occurred had the fishermen unions had sorted out the issue among themselves. He demanded that the State government hold discussion with the fishermen and bring out a consensus between the two groups, while ensuring that the livelihood of traditional fishermen was not affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/find-permanent-solution-for-ring-net-issue-citu-urges-govt/article38212772.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees one death, 196 new cases||The district recorded as many as 196 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning. After Chittoor district (254), the Visakhapatnam district reported the most number of infections in a day. The death toll also increased to 1,112 after one more person succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours. The active cases have increased to 937.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-one-death-196-new-cases/article38212781.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 arrested in different cases in city||The city police (Crime Wing) on Sunday arrested 13 persons, including a woman, belonging to two gangs, who were allegedly involved in several offences. Addressing a press conference, Deputy Commissioner of Police (I/c) (Crimes) Sravan Kumar said that in one case, three accused were arrested for allegedly being involved in six house break-ins and one snatching case at different areas in Parawada. The police also arrested five receivers in the case. The arrested were identified as N. Kishore Banua (28) native of Kalahandi, Odisha, residing in Parawada mandal. His wife Nandani Banua (24) and Byamokesh Chanduri (41), of Ganjam, Odisha, and residents of Parawada. In another case, the police arrested three persons who had allegedly committed theft of electrical material wire coils. The police also nabbed two receivers in the case. The arrested were identified as D. Uma Maheshwara Rao (36), K. Lakshamana Rao (30) and P. Lakshmana Rao (42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-arrested-in-different-cases-in-city/article38212779.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||VHP regional conclave concludes in city||A two-day conclave of Viswa Hindu Parishad(VHP) North Andhra region concluded at BVK College, Visalakshinagar, here on Sunday. Keshav Hegde, secretary of Karnataka, A.P. and Telangana, who participated as the chief guest, said that SCs, who convert to Christianity and Islam, were not eligible to avail of the reservation benefits. Y. Raghavulu national Karyakarini member, said that the Centre should remove STs, who converted to other religions, from the ST list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vhp-regional-conclave-concludes-in-city/article38212776.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||NPSSFW, DTFWF demand stoppage of ring seining||The National Platform for Small Scale Fishworkers(NPSSFW) and the Democratic Traditional Fish Workers Forum (DTFWF) has blamed the Fisheries Department and the State government for the clash between two groups of fishermen off the Visakhapatnam coast on the use of ring nets for fishing. NPSSFW convener Pradip Chatterjee and DTFWF general secretary D. Pal in a statement on Sunday said the conflict was caused due to the failure of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/npssfw-dtfwf-demand-stoppage-of-ring-seining/article38212775.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hearing aids distributed||Suraksha, an NGO, which has been working for the cause of girls with hearing disabilities for the past 12 years in north coastal Andhra, celebrated its anniversary here on Sunday. Raj Gorla, founder of Suraksha, who is based in Miami, USA, distributed 20 hearing aids and announced scholarships for several girls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hearing-aids-distributed/article38212774.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 arrested on charge of organising cockfights||The City Task Force (CTF) sleuths arrested 15 persons on charge of organising cockfights by placing bets at Pendurthi here on Sunday. The CTF seized three roosters, 14 mobiles and Rs. 42,520 from them. All the accused and seized property were handed over to the Pendurthi SHO for further action. In another case, the CTF teams conducted raids at Sagar Nagar and seized nine motorcycles as the riders were allegedly involved in racing, under Arilova Police Station limits on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-arrested-on-charge-of-organising-cockfights/article38212780.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag Bird Festival postponed||The Vizag Bird Festival-2022, which is scheduled to be held at the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) on January 22 and 23, has been postponed in view of the increasing COVID-19 cases, zoo Curator Nandani Salaria said in a release on Sunday. Those who have already registered their names online for the various events will be given the same priority while reorganising the festival in future. The fresh dates of the festival will be announced after the situation improved, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-bird-festival-postponed/article38212733.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan’s padayatra historic, recall YSR Congress leaders||YSRCP senior leader Avanapu Vikram on Sunday said that the historic padayatra of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had helped him to know the issues of every section and implement welfare schemes effectively. Speaking to the media here on the completion of three years of the padayatra which ended at Itchapuram in Srikakulam district on January 9, 2019, he said no leader in India could take up such a padayatra which covered 516 villages of 135 Assembly constituencies. He said that his father Avanapu Suribabu was the first person in Vizianagaram to join hands with Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy when he launched Odarpu Yatra in 2010. “All sections are happy with Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s administration. We hope Vizianagaram will be on the path of development in his tenure,” said Mr. Vikram. DCMS chairperson Avanapu Bhavana was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagans-padayatra-historic-recall-ysr-congress-leaders/article38212731.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged to hike HRA for staff||Andhra Pradesh SC and ST Upadhyaya Sangham State president Samala Simhachalam on Sunday urged the State government to revise the house rent allowance (HRA) slabs in accordance with the inflation and rising rents in urban areas. In a press release, he welcomed the A.P. government’s decision to clear all pending DAs and other benefits with effect from January 2022. “In spite of financial difficulties, the State government accepted a majority of the demands. It is a good step. The government should consider revision of house rent allowances and other pending demands. We also request the government to fill up all vacancies in schools for the effective implementation of the guidelines framed in tune with the National Education Policy,” Mr. Simhachalam added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-urged-to-hike-hra-for-staff/article38212730.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:21 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APGEA seeks 30% fitment for employees||Andhra Pradesh Government Employees’ Association (AGEA) State president K.R. Suryanarayana has said the Pay Revision Commission recommendations have disappointed the employees. Addressing the association leaders here on Sunday, Mr. Suryanarayana sought 30% fitment for the employees as 23% announced by the government would lead to reduced salaries. The APGEA would chalk out agitation programmes if the government failed to address the pending 114 issues. ‘Employees misled’ “A few employee associations have been misleading the employees saying that they could strike a decent deal with the government during the talks with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. But the fact is that 23% final fitment will have an adverse impact on the salaries,” Mr. Suryanarayana said, and added that scrapping of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), and the issues pertaining to the village / ward secretariat staff and outsourcing employees were not yet settled. “We are eliciting the opinion of the stakeholders before stepping up pressure on the government,” said Mr. Suryanarayana. Association State general secretary G. Askara Rao expressed concern over the “inordinate delay” in clearing the applications pertaining to the Provident Fund. APGEA State secretary L.V. Yugandhar said the CPS employees were shocked as their problem did not figure much in the series of meetings held on the PRC demands. APGEA Retired Employees’ Association’s Vizianagaram secretary said there was no use enhancing the retirement age to 62. Earlier, the secretariat staff expressed displeasure over the “delay” in confirmation of their services and fixation of their responsibilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apgea-seeks-30-fitment-for-employees/article38212702.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete lockdown peaceful all over T.N.||The first complete lockdown across Tamil Nadu this year to contain the spread of COVID-19 during the third wave passed off peacefully on Sunday, as people remained indoors except for those who stepped out for travel and medical purposes. Since food delivery and other such services were allowed to function, people could receive their essentials at home. Those who headed to bus-stands, railway stations and airports were asked to produce a copy of their tickets during the vehicle check-ups. In Chennai, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation Gagandeep Singh Bedi, along with senior police officers, visited the vehicle checkpoint at Saidapet. Mr. Bedi said the lockdown in the city was expected to reduce the number of cases because 70% of the infections were contracted outside home, at social gatherings and public spaces. Chennai Corporation officials did not collect fine from violators as there was fewer persons on the roads. Food for passengers Most of the one lakh commercial establishments along 40,000 streets in Chennai remained closed, except pharmacies and Aavin outlets. A few commuters who were stranded in areas like Koyambedu were offered food at Corporation shelters for the homeless. “We have 2,000 beds to accommodate the stranded persons in shelters,” said an official. After inspection of the checkpoints, Mr. Subramanian said the lockdown in Chennai was successful because of the cooperation of the residents and the traders. During the surveillance in the Greater Chennai Police limits on Saturday, cases were registered against 5,971 persons for not wearing face masks and a total of Rs. 11.94 lakh was collected in fine from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-lockdown-passes-off-peacefully-all-over-tamil-nadu/article38212215.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No room||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-room/article38212770.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:51 IST,TELANGANA||KCR sore at delay in nod for 6 projects||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed his anguish at the Central Water Commission (CWC) delaying clearances for half-a-dozen irrigation projects in the State though the detailed project reports (DPRs) were submitted five months ago. The six projects were among 11 declared as unapproved in the Central gazette notification defining the scope of Godavari River Management Board (GRMB). The projects are Sitarama, Samakka Sagar, Mukteshwar (Chinna Kaleshwaram) lift irrigation, Chanaka Korata barrage, Choutupalli Hanumanth Reddy lift irrigation and Modikunta Vagu project. Mr. Rao also asked irrigation officials to submit proposals to the CWC to delete from the gazette notification five projects — Kaleshwaram (additional one tmc scheme during flood period), Gudem lift irrigation on Ellampally project, Kandukurthi lift irrigation, Ramappa-Pakala lift irrigation project and P.V. Narasimha Rao Kantanapalli project. At a meeting to review the progress of irrigation projects on Sunday, Mr. Rao asked officials to speed up submission of the DPR of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Pranahita project to the CWC and GRMB. All the details and additional information sought by the CWC should be addressed immediately. The officials were also asked to invite tenders for lift irrigation schemes on left bank canal of Nagarjunasagar project, Gattu lift irrigation, balance works of Kaleshwaram project in Kamareddy and Yellareddy constituencies, works of Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation in Rangareddy and Vikarabad districts, barrage of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Pranahita project, Chennur lift irrigation and Kupti project on Kaddam river. The completion of these projects will end all the main works proposed by irrigation department. Thereby, the targets of cultivable areas set by the State government in irrigation sector will be over, he said. COVID review The Chief Minister also reviewed the spread of COVID cases in the State. He allayed fears of public as along as they adopted COVID appropriate behaviour. The health officials explained to Mr. Rao steps taken to address COVID related issues since the last review meeting. New Secretariat While reviewing the progress of construction of the new Secretariat complex, Mr. Rao ordered speedy completion of a 24-hour police command control equipped with modern technology in the campus. The officials were asked to consult DGP Mahender Reddy for the facilities to be created for security personnel manning the complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-sore-at-delay-in-nod-for-6-projects/article38212575.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||‘Low-income Muslims less likely to opt for higher education’||There are internal disparities among Muslims in attainment of higher education based on income-level, gender and medium of education, and institutions like Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU) must give preference to such groups through scholarships, differential fee structure, hostel facility and remedial coaching classes. This view was expressed by former chairman of University Grants Commission, Sukhdeo Thorat while delivering a lecture on ‘Where do Muslims lag behind in higher education?: Lessons for policies’ at MANUU’s 25th Foundation Day celebrations on Sunday. He said Muslims had the lowest Gross Enrolment Ratio (16.6%) in higher education among all the communities in the country while the national average was 26.3%. Muslim students depend highly on government institutions (54.1%) as compared to other communities (national average 45.2%). Only 18.2% go to private aided higher education institutions and 27.4% to private unaided higher education institutions against a national average of 24.4% and 30.1% respectively. Private aided and unaided higher education institutions are mostly English medium professional colleges, and Muslims have less access to those institutions, said Mr. Thorat. He said research shows Muslims students from Hindi or Urdu medium have less probability of getting higher education than those who are from English medium. He suggested higher education institutions like MANUU must provide English language support to students from economically weaker sections. Special courses Mr Thorat also exhorted MANUU to start special courses and diplomas, especially through distance mode, to promote production enterprises and business or trade. This will reduce drop-out rate among Muslims, which is 15.6% compared to the national average of 12.6%, he pointed out. University Vice-Chancellor Syed Ainul Hasan, in his presidential address, termed Mr Thorat’s lecture as an eye-opener and a perfect curtain raiser for the silver jubilee celebrations. He further said that MANUU is developing coordination with other institutions and experts to tackle these issues, he added. Pro Vice-Chancellor S.M Rahmatullah threw light on the objectives of the university and background of its establishment. He also underlined Mr Thorat’s role in the development of MANUU, in its initial years, during his tenure as UGC chairman. A special montage prepared by the Instructional Media Centre was also released to mark the beginning of silver jubilee celebrations. In-charge registrar Siddiqui Mohd. Mahmood also spoke on the occasion.  Higher education institutions like MANUU must provide English language support to students from economically weaker sections. Sukhdeo Thorat, Former UGC chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/low-income-muslims-are-less-likely-to-opt-for-higher-education/article38212570.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Booster doses from today||The precautionary dose of COVID-19 vaccine, to be launched on Monday, will be the same vaccine given as the first and second dose. It will be administered to healthcare workers, frontline workers and people aged above 60 years with co-morbidities. It would be given after completion of nine months or 39 weeks post the second dose administration, said Health officials. The jabs would be administered at Primary Health Centres (PHC), or Urban PHCs. Health Minister T Harish Rao would launch the precautionary dose programme at Government Unani Hospital, Charminar, on Monday morning. “Those 60+ with comorbidities who took second dose in April 2021 will be eligible for precautionary dose in February 2022,” stated the officials. The dose would be given as per willingness of a beneficiary after due consultation with their doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/booster-doses-from-today/article38212566.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:51 IST,TELANGANA||‘Alliance call with TRS only during elections’||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) made light of reports on the party’s efforts to forge alliance with the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi in Telangana in the next elections. “Any understanding with the TRS will be decided based on the situation at the time of elections. The CPI (M) welcomes anyone who is fighting against the BJP, but the decision relating to electoral understanding will be taken at the time of elections,” CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said on Sunday. He was responding to queries on the CPI (M)’s stand towards the TRS in the light of the party delegation’s meeting with TRS president and CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday. CPI (M) secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram said the party had been continuing its struggles against the policies of TRS government, but it was equally concerned about the growth of BJP in the State that was ‘dangerous’. Mr. Veerabhadram felt that KCR continued to adopt a soft attitude towards the BJP as could be seen from the party’s decision to confine itself to criticising the BJP-led Central government on certain issues. “Let TRS come out clear on its opposition to the BJP,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/alliance-call-with-trs-during-polls/article38212573.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Tests drop on Sunday, 1,673 cases recorded||A drop in COVID-19 cases was observed in Telangana on Sunday as comparatively fewer tests were performed. Following a sharp spike in new infections, the State has ramped up testing and over 54,000 samples were being examined from January 6. On Sunday, however, only 48,583 samples were tested, leading to detection of 1,673 new infections. Results of 13,162 samples were awaited. The 1673 new infections included 1,165 in Greater Hyderabad region followed by 149 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 123 in Rangareddy. Mulugu did not report any cases for the day while Rajanna-Sircilla and Jangaon districts logged one fresh infection each. The cumulative virus tally stands at 6,94,030. One more COVID patient died, taking the death toll to 4,042. Of the total cases, 13,522 were active as of Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tests-drop-on-sunday-1673-cases-recorded/article38212565.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Unidentified bodies of two women found||The body of an unidentified woman was found in a highly decomposed state in Ponnal lake under Shamirpet police station limits here on Sunday. Around 7.30 a.m., fishermen came across the body and alerted police who rushed to the spot and retrieved it. “She is aged between 25 and 30 years and her hands were tied with a rope. It is not a case of suicide. The body is decomposed beyond identification,” police said. Second case In a different part of the city, an unidentified body of another woman was found in a putrefied condition on Sunday. Police suspect the woman aged around 30 to 40 years was murdered. The body was found near Pocharamgutta in Narsingi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unidentified-bodies-of-two-women-found/article38212738.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:51 IST,TELANGANA||Huzurabad result will be repeated across TS: Eatala||BJP MLA Eatala Rajender said that the Huzurabad election result would be repeated across the State in future and people were in no way ready to trust the TRS government any more. He said that every survey has been indicating the change of guard in TS. Speaking to reporters in Karimnagar on Sunday after meeting former MLA Bodige Shoba, who was arrested and lodged in jail after the clash between police and BJP workers recently, Mr. Rajender said that the government has been trying to threaten the Opposition parties and media that are questioning it. “While Opposition leaders are being sent to jail, the media is suppressed. Districts were increased from 10 to 33 and zones from two to seven, and GO 124 was issued based on the Presidential Order. But, instead of implementing it, after three years, GO 317 was issued and transfers were being done based on seniority instead of local criteria,” he said, asking the government to do justice to employees by addressing problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/huzurabad-result-will-be-repeated-across-ts-eatala/article38212572.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:51 IST,TELANGANA||‘Why does BJP feel threatened?’||MLC Kalvakuntla Kavitha has asked Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma as to why the BJP feels so threatened by the family of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao when people of Telangana were happy with the development in the State. Reacting to Mr. Sarma’s criticism of the Chief Minister, she tweeted reminding that the BJP had lost deposits in 107 constituencies in the 2018 Assembly polls in Telangana. “Himanta Ji, your remarks today once again restated the intent of BJP to erase the glorious history of Telangana. I wonder, why you and your party are so threatened with idea of unity?” she asked in her tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/why-does-bjp-feel-threatened/article38212579.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:51 IST,TELANGANA||CPI (Maoist) targets ‘false’ campaign||The State committee of CPI (Maoist) has highlighted a couple of instances to show how the government and police were running a false campaign against the party. One of them related to a false letter from CPI (Maoist) having gone to Laxma Reddy, Sarpanch of Sirisinagandla village in Siddipet district, demanding Rs. 20 lakh. The Sarpanch approached the police and court seeking security thereafter. The letter was in the name of State committee secretary Jagan but written on the letter head of Bhadradri-Kothagudem and East Godavari division committee. How a State secretary will write on the letter of a divisional committee was unfathomable, a release of Jagan said. In the second instance, Bhadradri Kothagudem Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt linked up the killing of some traitors by public near Gangulur in Bijapur district of Chhattsigarh to CPI (Maoist) Bhadradri Kothagudem district secretary Azad and two other comrades Madhu and Ravi who were working far away. A deliberate campaign to run down the Maoist movement was carried out by police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpi-maoist-committee-targets-false-campaign/article38212576.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Platform ticket fare hiked to check crowding||In the run-up to Sankranti festival, platform ticket price has been increased from Rs. 10 to Rs. 50 with immediate effect to check the crowding of people at the busy Secunderabad railway station. At other railway stations, the cost was hiked from Rs. 10 to Rs. 20, informed South Central Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/platform-ticket-fare-hiked-to-check-crowding/article38212569.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Tipper runs over techie||A techie was run over by an unidentified tipper at KPHB Colony on Sunday. Yeddula Jagan Mohan Reddy (28), a resident of Nagole, hailed from Tadipatri of Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh. Police said the accident took place around 4.15 a.m. when the victim was going towards Road No. 1 of Banjara Hills from Kukatpally on his bike. An unidentified tipper hit him from behind, causing him to fall. He suffered severe injuries and died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tipper-runs-over-techie/article38212739.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Farmer murdered over ‘land row’||A 30-year-old farmer was hacked to death by three assailants at Dharur village in Jagtial urban mandal on Sunday. E. Rajesh of Dharur was heading to his fields on a motorcycle when the trio waylaid and attacked him with swords, killing him on the spot in public view. Police suspect old rivalry over a land dispute to be the reason for the murder. Sources said Rajesh had previous enmity with one of the assailants and was allegedly involved in a murder case over a land row in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmer-murdered-over-land-row/article38212737.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:51 IST,TELANGANA||Health authorities gear up for Medaram Jatara||Health authorities are gearing up to tackle the threat of resurgence of COVID-19 during the ensuing Sammakka-Saralamma jatara scheduled to be held in Medaram village in Tadvai mandal from February 16 to 19. The biennial tribal congregation draws multitudes of devotees to Medaram in Telangana’s tribal heartland of Mulugu district. To stem the spread of coronavirus during the next month’s jatara, the health authorities have already initiated a multi-pronged strategy to spread awareness on COVID appropriate behaviour, conduct next phase of fever survey for constant surveillance of fever cases and achieve 100% second dose COVID-19 vaccination soon. According to sources in the Health department, the district has already achieved cent percent first dose COVID-19 vaccination coverage of the eligible adults. The fever surveillance teams have conducted house-to-house survey in Medaram and its adjoining villages including Kannepalli and Jampangavai in the past few weeks, sources said. The district has only three active COVID-19 cases at present, Mulugu District Medical and Health Officer Appaiah said. All the eligible adults in the district have been vaccinated with one dose and more than 78% of the eligible population is fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Around 1100 households have been surveyed as part of the fever survey so far, Dr. Appaiah said, adding that the survey will continue in the entire district. Special arrangements have been made at the jatara site in Medaram to make frequent announcements through public address system on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and precautionary measures such as wearing of masks ahead of the next month’s jatara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/health-authorities-gear-up-for-medaram-jatara/article38212744.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:51 IST,TELANGANA||Attention to detail before postings||Health Minister Harish Rao has a keen eye for people who don’t wear masks in public places. On Sunday, he went to Chaitanyapuri in Hyderabad to inaugurate a private hospital. As he got off his car to enter the hospital, he kept on distributing masks to whoever he found not wearing it and cautioned them about the need to wear mask to keep infection at bay. Inside the hospital, after looking at an elderly woman not wearing the mask, he offered her a mask and told her to take the booster (third) dose to be given from Monday to all those aged above 60 years.   CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Sunday took a dig at the Central government for its decision to enhance the minimum marriage age of girls to 21. Voting age of girls has been fixed at 18. Girls can decide and elect their leaders for Assemblies and Parliament, but they will not be able to decide about their husbands at the same age, he wondered. He asked the Centre to instead focus on addressing issues like malnutrition that still haunt the country.   City Police Commissioner C.V. Anand has asked the Special Branch (SB) wing in the commissionerate to profile inspectors with a 360-degree approach covering all aspects of their personal and professional life. As a result, the Special Branch is burning midnight oil in sourcing, compiling, and classifying the demographic details of all officers in the rank of Inspector. The data inputs collected include traits, character, temperament, personal consumption details (including drinking and smoking habits), corruption allegations, illicit relationship, and other aspects of their life. This master data will be used in recommending the inspectors for law and order postings and administrative actions, as the city police chief wants his own team for smooth functioning. Recently, Mr. Anand held a two-hour interaction with the officers of Special Branch during which he instructed them to go to the police stations each day and analyse every petition.   Following the recent transfer of IPS officers, there are a few long-standing officers across the State who were left out. They were hopeful that there would be another round of reshuffle in a day or two after the order was issued on December 24. With no indication of any GO forthcoming so far, the officers, including a couple of Superintendents of Police of districts, Deputy Commissioners of Police in Rachakonda commissionerate, and a few senior IPS officers working in the DGP office are curious about their turn. The government is yet to post DCPs for both South and Central zones, considered to be crucial and sensitives areas in city. (B. Chandrashekhar, M. Rajeev and Abhinay Deshpande)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/attention-to-detail-before-postings/article38212577.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Garage Sale||5-seater sofa Sofa set 3+2 seater in good condition for sale, Rs. 14,000. Contact S.T. Raja Manohar (8096074666/ 9346038278) Modem and CDs Broadband D Link modem along with all connected wirings, adapter etc, Rs. 1,500; Telugu and Hindi video CDs at Rs. 5 each and extension cord available for sale Rs. 50 each. Contact K. Durga Prasad Rao (9491106532) Microwave oven 20L LG white color microwave oven in working condition for sale 3 years old Rs. 6,000; Brand new Beetel landline unused phone in good working condition Rs. 1,200. Contact Ch. Anand (9121383238) Cots, washing machine 6/3 size wooden cot pair in good condition ready to use, Rs. 16,000 pair, Whirlpool washing machine 6.5 kg fully automatic. It is as good as new Rs. 10,000. Contact Balaji (9391098484)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garage-sale/article38212567.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:50 IST,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail||Liquor shops in residential areas provide only a cocktail of anger and angst to local residents. In Khairtabad area, there is one adjacent to the post office and another at Ayodhya cross on the main road. People queue up there from early morning, sometimes in the wee hours. Why issue licence for outlets on main roads and residential areas? Even in the US, public drinking is not allowed. Here, people go out of control after drinking with no police to end our ordeal. Thomas K.E., Red Hills   More often than not, while commuting, I come across vehicles emitting a lot of smoke. Autorickshaws need a special mention here. I wonder what fuel they fill to cause that kind of pollution. The consequence is inadvertent deterioration of health in the long run. More concerning is the indifferent attitude of both public and the authorities concerned. It would do a lot of good to everyone if the traffic police, besides clicking photos, also acts in this regard. Shiekh Afzal, Hyderabad   The road from WINN Hospital (near Country Club) towards Begumpet Railway station and along the railway track towards Leela Nagar has remained unattended for months. The traffic movement becomes slow due to the bad road. Two-wheelers are having a difficult time especially at night due to the uneven and cracked roads. I request the GHMC to recarpet the road in this area. Ajit A. George, Leela Nagar  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu. co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail/article38212568.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:18 IST,||Narrow escape for bus passengers in Odisha||The passengers of a bus had a narrow escape when a wild tusker was seen pushing the vehicle along a road in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district on Sunday. The bus was on its way from Olamara in Balasore district to Rasgoindpur in Mayurbhanj district in the morning when the incident took place. Incidentally, the bus was moving. The wild elephant came from behind at Tikapada and started shoving the bus with its trunk and tusk. The animal chased the bus for quite a distance. The people urged the bus driver to speed away. The passengers were already in a panic when they saw the elephant running after the vehicle. The rear windshield glass broke under the impact of the push. Another incident In another incident, the Odisha Forest and Environment Department rescued a wild elephant calf, which had fallen into an open pit at Sureidihi village under Rasagobindpur forest division. On Saturday night, a three-month-old calf accidentally fell into the pit with water. A group of four elephants refused to leave the place without the calf. “Our forest staff made several attempts to go near the pit. But the elephants chased us away,” said Santosh Joshi, Divisional Forest Officer, Baripada. He said, “We got an opportunity on Sunday morning when the elephants went to a nearby pond to drink water. We started pumping water into the pit so that the calf could float. It worked and the herd managed to pull it out.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/narrow-escape-for-bus-passengers-in-odisha/article38212480.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:18 IST,||Punjab: Sidhu launches digital campaign for Assembly polls||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday launched his party’s digital campaign for the Assembly polls, a day after the Election Commission declared the schedule and banned public rallies till January 15 amid the surging COVID cases. Sidhu said his party had already been emphasising the importance of digitisation and maintaining a virtual interaction with the electorate, adding that the Punjab Congress has the highest digital footprint amongst all parties. “We hope that things will change after January 15 and in case, if things go worse, then what cannot be cured has to be endured,” he said. Asked when his party will announce candidates, Sidhu said it will be done soon. Sidhu said his ‘Punjab model’ will not only bring the constitutional powers back to panchayats and urban local bodies, but also create a "digital Punjab" where over 150 government services, permits and approvals will be made available at people’s doorstep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-sidhu-launches-digital-campaign-for-assembly-polls/article38212616.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:18 IST,||Millennium city losing its sheen||Sectarian vigilantism in recent months has sullied Gurugram's reputation as one of the favoured Indian destinations for iconic global companies. The millennium city, known as Gurgaon until 2016, is changing, albeit not for everything good. Its rise as the fastest growing Information Technology and financial hub after Bengaluru and Mumbai with the third highest per capita income in the country and hosting 250 Fortune 500 companies was impressive as its rising skyline. But roving vigilantes and partisan governance may be chipping away at its glory now. Right-wing vigilantism Of late, Gurugram has been making headlines for all the wrong reasons that include right-wing groups opposing Friday Namaz in open public spaces and a lingering threat of confrontation between the two communities every week. Disruption of a Christmas carnival in a private school in Pataudi area on Christmas eve by a Hindu mob was another low for the cosmopolitan city. The right-wing Hindu outfits also held a mahapanchayat in Pataudi last year and openly called for violence against the religious minority. Based on a complaint by a BJP functionary last month and the back lash on social media, stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui was dropped from a three-day event in December. During Navaratri, the vigilante mobs roam the city forcing the meat shop owners to down their shutters. It has become an annual ritual while the civic authority has banned meat on Tuesdays . The local residents have accused the government of imposing its agenda on the citizens instead of taking appropriate action. “Any confrontation sets back the industry and such incidents defile the city's image and hurt business sentiments,” said Animesh Saxena, general-secretary, Garments Exporters and Manufacturers Association. The apparel industry is the largest in Gurugram in terms of manpower and more than half of the employees are Muslims. Mr. Saxena said, the confrontations witnessed recently has created a sense of “unease and unrest". He added the business community was not too worried yet because there were no major incidents of violence and the administration and the police kept the situation more or less under control. However, he was apprehensive about “undercurrents”. "It might not be visible now but could have an impact in the long run," he added. Indifferent authorities  Gurugram is not just the new business capital for start-ups. The city is integral to the industrial and financial growth of Haryana and its contribution to the State's tax collection has increased by 200 times over the past two decades . According to the statistics of District Industries Centre, Gurugram is home to 30 shopping malls, contributes to 20 per cent of the State's revenue, provides 32 per cent of employment in factories and shares 62 per cent of total exports.  “The auto sector, IT companies, apparel units and pharmaceutical have been generating employment both for the outsiders, and the state’s youth. Businesses cannot be run based on caste, creed and religion. If Gurugram's reputation is tarnished, it will be a major financial loss for the State," said H P Yadav, president, NCR Chamber of Commerce and Industry. He rued the government had not taken enough measures to curb such unwarranted incidents. "Those in authority are only concerned about grabbing power and not bothered as much about the industry's growth," he remarked . Police inaction The role of the local administration and the police have been repeatedly questioned by the communities at the receiving end. They have accused the authorities of not initiating action against the organisers of “mahapanchayat” in Pataudi last year even though hate speech videos of the event went viral on social media. Only one speaker was arrested a few days after the event and appearing for him in the court, his advocate Kulbhushan Bhardwaj said his client was arrested because he was an “outsider” and had “no political connections in the state”. He said the other orators gave inflammatory speeches but no action was taken against them. Haryana Police was biased against his client, he argued. Former Rajya Sabha MP Mohammad Adeeb recently moved the Supreme Court to initiate contempt action against Haryana authorities for not reining in “hooligans” who have created an atmosphere of communal hatred and terror for worshippers offering Friday prayers in Gurugram. Along with two other Muslim clerics, he was booked this week for provoking with intent to cause riots. A case was registered against Mr.Adeeb based on a complaint by Dinesh Bharti, founder, Bharat Mata Vahini. Whereas, the complainant himself has been at the forefront of protests against the Namaz in the open, and faces criminal charges. “We gave a complaint and submitted evidence against three right-wing leaders for creating communal tension but the police did not take any action. Instead, a case was registered against us without any evidence,” said Mufti Mohammad Saleem Qasmi, president, Jamiat-Ulama-i-Hind, Gurugram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/millennium-city-losing-its-sheen/article38212470.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:18 IST,||Draft RP-2041 incomplete, inconsistent: environmentalists||A five-member group, comprising a retired Indian Forest Service official, an urban planner and an environment analyst, among others, has offered objections to the Draft Regional Plan-2041. They have expressed apprehensions that the proposed plan would “drastically reduce the forest cover, degrade wildlife habitat, increase air pollution and open the floodgates of indiscriminate real estate in the Aravalis”. The National Capital Region Planning Board had sought objections and suggestions to the Draft RP-2041 from public till January 7. Raising a dozen objections to the plan from the perspective of regional land use, conservation and forests, the group has strongly opposed to exclusion of the terms “Aravalli” and “forest areas” from the Natural Conservation Zone (NCZ). “The Aravallis were an integral part of the NCZ in the current Regional Plan-2021. The term ‘Aravallis’ has been deleted from the Draft RP-2041, leaving them open to unlimited real estate construction. Similarly, the phrase “forest areas” has been deleted from the NCZ also. This will drastically reduce the forest cover that is eligible for NCZ zoning protection,” said the group. The group has also objected to the replacement of the term “Natural Conservation Zone” under RP-2021 with “Natural Zone” in the Draft saying it was a retrograde step. Forest cover Though the area under forest has declined from 4.02 % as reported in RP-2021 to 3.27% as per Draft RP-2041, the protection for forest has been further diluted in the draft plan. The target “total forest cover proposed to be 10% of the total area of the region” of the RP-2021 has been dropped from the draft RP-2041. Arguing that the Draft RP-2041 was “incomplete” and “inconsistent” with the requirements of the NCRPB Act 1985, the group demanded that it must be updated and resent for public comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/draft-rp-2041-incomplete-inconsistent-environmentalists/article38212473.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:18 IST,||MP: Man held for hoax terror call||Madhya Pradesh police have arrested a man for allegedly making a hoax call to the Mumbai Police control room about a nuclear terror attack, an officer said on Sunday. The accused, Jitesh Thakur, 35, was arrested here on Saturday based on a mobile number shared by the Maharashtra Police, Jabalpur's Additional Superintendent of Police Gopal Khandel said. Thakur, unemployed and a habitual drinker, had called the Mumbai Police on January 6. According to Mumbai police, the man had claimed he was from the army and warned them of an attack with a nuclear bomb, and bombings at places like the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Kurla railway station, near actor Shah Rukh Khan's bungalow and near a gurdwara at Kharghar. The call prompted searches at various places, but nothing suspicious was found, after which Thakur was detained. A case was registered against him at Sanjeevani Nagar police station on charges of criminal intimidation and providing false information to a public servant, Mr. Khandel said, adding that Thakur had made hoax calls in the past too and quarrelled with the staff of Dial 100 — a police SOS service — on several occasions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mp-man-held-for-hoax-terror-call/article38212615.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:18 IST,||Bengal: Bangladeshi killed in BSF firing||A Bangladeshi cattle smuggler was killed in BSF firing while several policemen were injured in an attack by the rustlers in two separate incidents in West Bengal, officials said. On Saturday, one among a group of 15-20 people in Malda district trying to smuggle cattle to Bangladesh was killed when they charged at the guards and a BSF person fired at them. In another incident, six ‘cattle smugglers’ were arrested for attacking the police in Cooch Behar injuring several policemen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bengal-bangladeshi-killed-in-bsf-firing/article38212617.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:18 IST,||U.P. civic bodies remove party hoardings, posters||The authorities have begun removing the hoardings and the posters put up by the political parties across Uttar Pradesh as the model code of conduct has come into effect with the Election Commission announcing polls dates for the State. “The model code of conduct has been implemented in the State, and it will be followed. All District Magistrates (district election officers) have been given the responsibility to implement it. They will be sending their reports on a regular basis,” Chief Electoral Officer Ajay Kumar Shukla told PTI on Sunday. Lucknow DM Abhishek Prakash said as per the ECI directives, the model code of conduct has been implemented, and it will be strictly adhered to. Instructions have been sent to the municipal commissioner of Lucknow, he said. Following this, teams of the Lucknow Municipal Corporation were seen pulling down banners and posters from Saturday itself. Reports coming from Basti said the administration has started removing banners, posters and hoardings from various places in the district. District Magistrate Saumya Agarwal said banners and posters of political parties put up on public properties are being removed. Similar reports were received from Etawah and Farrukhabad. Set of guidelines The model code is a set of guidelines, issued by the ECI, for political parties, candidates, government and the party in power during elections concerning speeches, announcements, election manifestos and general conduct. It includes restrictions of banners and posters on private properties without prior permission and stipulates that hoardings and advertisements put up at the cost of the public exchequer depicting the achievements of the party in power shall be removed forthwith by the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/up-civic-bodies-remove-party-hoardings-posters/article38212619.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:11 IST,||Not upping curbs to protect livelihood: CM||There is no plan to impose a lockdown in the Capital and the Delhi government will not need to implement one if people wear masks and follow COVID protocols, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. The statement came on a day when the Capital recorded 17 deaths and 22,751 new cases. However, a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority will be held on Monday to review the COVID situation with experts deciding the next course of action. Need to be responsible In his first appearance after recovering from COVID-19, Mr. Kejriwal said, “We don’t want to impose a lockdown. The restrictions imposed are only to curb the spread. We are not heightening restrictions to protect livelihood of the masses.” He added that there was no need to be scared of COVID but there was a need to be responsible and always wear a mask and maintain social distancing. According to Sunday's health bulletin, 96,678 tests were conducted with a test positivity rate of 23.53%. The Capital has 60,733 active cases out of whom 35,714 are in home isolation and 1,618 are in hospitals. The number of new cases reported on Sunday was the highest since May 1 last year when the city recorded 25,219 cases with a positivity rate of 31.61%. The data also show the number of COVID-19 patients on ventilator rising from 27 to 44 over a period of 24 hours. ‘Lower death rate’ Despite the rise in deaths from seven reported on Saturday to 17 on Sunday, Mr. Kejriwal said Delhi is seeing a lower death rate and lower hospitalisation rate than the last wave. Drawing a comparison, he said on May 7 last year, 20,000 cases were recorded and 341 deaths were reported whereas on January 8 with the same number of cases, seven deaths were reported. He said around 20,000 beds were occupied on May 7 but on Saturday, only 1,500 beds were occupied for the same number of cases. “Our motive of illustrating the situation in terms of data is to reduce panic to a minimum but not to make people irresponsible. There is no need to be scared but you cannot stop wearing masks thinking it is mild,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Appealing to the people not to step out unless they have to, he said the government is looking to see the wave through with least number of curbs so that it does not hamper the earning of anyone’s daily bread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/not-upping-curbs-to-protect-livelihood-cm/article38212464.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:18 IST,||Kejriwal tells AAP volunteers to go for door-to-door campaign||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) volunteers have been asked to take a month off from work to dedicate themselves to conducting door-to-door campaign ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections in the States where the party is contesting. AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal said the campaign was not to change the ruling party in the States or grab power. He added that it was to create a change in society and the whole country by eliminating corruption from its roots and implementing a system of honesty and integrity. Addressing party volunteers, Mr. Kejriwal said due to COVID-19, the Election Commission of India has imposed a variety of restrictions over election campaigning but has allowed door-to-door campaigning.  ‘Commit to seva ’   “Whenever you go to someone’s house — first ask them how they’re doing, how everyone’s health is. Before asking for votes, if they need any help, first do that. Consider this to be an opportunity to commit yourselves to seva . Then you should tell them about the AAP government of Delhi and what all we have done in the State,” Mr. Kerjiwal told the volunteers.   He added that AAP was competing against a corrupt system and age-old parties with endless treasuries, but the party needs to surpass their wealth with “spirit” and “ deshbhakti ”.   “You are going out to bring change in this country like a true deshbhakt . You are not campaigning with the purpose of an electoral win, but to eliminate a corrupt system. The AAP government has proved that governments can be run with honesty as well. The old parties told us that winning an election requires truckloads of cash and even more deceit. AAP proved that elections can be fought with honesty and can also be won with honesty,” Mr. Kejriwal said.  Social media Highlighting the role social media is going to play in the campaign, Mr. Kejriwal said AAP volunteers are “masters of social media” and asked them to manifest the power of social media to reach every voter in every household.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kejriwal-tells-aap-volunteers-to-go-for-door-to-door-campaign/article38212478.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:11 IST,||FIR cannot be quashed on the basis of settlement between parties: HC||An FIR for rape cannot be quashed on the basis of settlement between the woman and the man and their subsequent marriage as the same does not waive the offence, the Delhi High Court has ruled. “Act of rape is not an act against individual but an offence against society,” Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said, while rejecting the plea of a man, an officer in the Customs here. The plea sought to quash an FIR for rape registered against him as he has now married the victim. “By simply entering into a compromise, charges cannot be said to have been mitigated or that the allegations levelled by the respondent no. 2 [woman] regarding the alleged offence lost its gravity by any means,” Justice Bhatnagar said. The case arises from a complaint filed by the woman in June last year at Patparganj police station in which she stated that she came in contact with the accused through a popular matrimonial website. She stated that the accused introduced himself as unmarried and an officer in the Customs, concealing the fact regarding his first love marriage and that his first wife ended her life for which a case was going on in the court. She also gave history of sexual assault in the form of intercourse without her consent by the accused. She said her request to the accused to meet her parents was turned down as he “asked for more time to understand each other”. The woman said the accused also told her that he would marry her in Arya Samaj Mandir, but later on made excuses that the mandir was closed. Later, the accused asked for one month’s time to solemnise the marriage, but then he stopped attending the phone calls, the woman had complained. On April 14 last year, the woman lodged a complaint against the accused at the National Commission for Women , which reached Mahila Thana in Faridabad. However, on June 21, 2021, the accused came to the police station and made a promise to marry her. Following this, she withdrew her complaint. Four days later, when the woman went to the office of the accused to talk to him, he allegedly molested her, prompting her to register the current FIR at the local police station here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fir-cannot-be-quashed-on-the-basis-of-settlement-between-parties-hc/article38212462.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:11 IST,||Food delivery executive killed as ‘drunk’ police constable hits bike||A 38-year-old Zomato delivery executive was killed after a police constable, who was allegedly drunk while driving a car, hit his bike in Rohini on Saturday night. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said the victim was identified as Salil Tripathi, a resident of Budh Vihar, and the accused, Jile Singh, was arrested. A senior police officer said the constable appeared to be under the influence of alcohol. His medical examination was conducted and the report is awaited, he said. Salil’s brother Rahul said the victim was out for delivery when the incident occurred. “Those who witnessed the incident told us that he had just collected food and was outside Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital on the service road when the a policeman in uniform driving a vehicle hit Sahil’s bike. He was flung in the air after which he hit the divider and died on the spot,” the brother said. The victim was rushed to a hospital by a local where he was declared brought dead. Meanwhile, locals caught hold of the policeman. Senior officers, including the DCP, visited the spot. A senior police officer said the accused constable also sustained injuries and has been admitted to a hospital. After hitting the bike, his car also hit a bus. Sole breadwinner Salil’s family said he used to work as a manager in a restaurant but two months ago, he started working as a Zomato delivery executive as well to support his family. “Our father died of COVID-19 in April last year. His wife, 10-year-old son, and mother were dependent on him,” Mr. Rahul said. Online food deliver platform Zomato’s spokesperson said they will provide the victim’s family with life insurance cover and take care of the expenses, including funeral. “We will also provide assistance to the family.” The police said a case under Sections 279 (rash and negligent driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and further investigation is under way. The post-mortem was conducted and the body was handed over to the family who took the mortal remains to their home town in Ayodhya for last rites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/food-delivery-executive-killed-as-drunk-police-constable-hits-bike/article38212472.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:11 IST,||Western disturbance brings more showers to the Capital||The Capital continued to receive showers on Sunday under the influence of an intense western disturbance, bringing 5.4 mm of rainfall during the day. The overcast conditions kept the maximum temperature in the city at 15 degrees Celsius, which is four degrees below normal. The minimum temperature settled at 13.8 degrees Celsius, which is seven degrees warmer than normal. The IMD has forecast clear skies on Monday and a gradual fall in the minimum temperature. The forecast reads “mainly clear sky with moderate fog in the morning. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 17 and nine degrees respectively”. On Saturday, the Capital recorded its highest rainfall in a day for January in 22 years. The region has been under the influence of two back-to-back western disturbances that have been active since January 5. The air quality was in the “satisfactory” category with an average 24-hour AQI of 69. The AQI bulletin and forecast by the Ministry of Earth Sciences, Govt. of India, said good rainfall activity, relatively stronger winds and reduced vehicular emissions led to significant improvement in air quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/western-disturbance-brings-more-showers-to-the-capital/article38212466.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:11 IST,||Fill vacancies in consumer courts, HC tells Delhi govt.||The Delhi High Court has directed the AAP government to immediately fill vacancies in consumer courts in the Capital while noting that there is a huge backlog of cases. It also asked the government to provide basic infrastructure such as laptops, computers, toilet and water facilities, refrigerator, etc. In November last year, the High Court came across an insurance claim case that remained unresolved before a consumer court in Janakpuri for over 14 years, prompting it to dig deeper into the issue. According to a report submitted by the president of the consumer court, Janakpuri, 1,344 complaints were pending for final hearing, three of which were over 15 years old. The president submitted that for effective functioning of the consumer court, there was an urgent need to fill the existing vacancies of stenographers, data entry operators, senior assistant UDC and Class IV personnel. In addition, the president sought further staff and infrastructure requirements. After perusing the report, Justice Singh said the huge backlog of cases in the consumer forum could be because of the unfilled vacancies. The court also directed the Principal Secretary-cum-Commissioner of the Department of Consumer Affairs to coordinate with Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal (retd.) and president of the State Consumer Redressal Forum to ascertain the vacancies across the State and district consumer courts here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fill-vacancies-in-consumer-courts-hc-tells-delhi-govt/article38212463.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:11 IST,||International syndicate busted; fake currency notes seized||The Delhi Police Special Cell has busted an international syndicate involved in circulation of fake Indian currency notes and arrested a 42-year-old man. Counterfeit notes of the face value of around Rs. 3 lakh were seized from his possession. According to DCP (Special Cell) Jasmeet Singh, the accused was identified as Raisul Aazam, a resident of East Champaran district in Bihar. The police had received a tip-off in October about circulation of fake India currency notes smuggled through the Indo-Nepal border at Raxaul in Bihar’s Motihari district. The accused was traced and arrested near Sarai Kale Khan bus terminal on January 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/international-syndicate-busted-fake-currency-notes-seized/article38212468.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 04:11 IST,||Delhi police begin sending probe updates via SMS, email||The Delhi police have started providing updates digitally to complainants on the progress of investigation into their cases. “Apart from the registration of FIR, the complainants will now be informed about the arrest of accused and filing of chargesheet/final report through SMS on their mobile numbers and via email, as per the directions of Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana,” Chinmoy Biswal , spokesperson for the force, said on Sunday. Mr. Biswal said when there are multiple accused involved, an update will be sent on the arrest of each of them. “When an FIR is registered, the complainant is required to mention their mobile number and email address where the updates on assigning of the investigating officer or chargesheet/final report can be sent,” a press note said. The move came after Mr. Asthana directed Special Commissioner of Police (Crime) Devesh Shrivastava to keep the complainants posted on the progress of investigation at various stages. According to the police, 11,376 such messages have so far been sent to complainants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-police-begin-sending-probe-updates-via-sms-email/article38212467.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:18 IST,||Congress says it backs Nitish on caste census||The Congress in Bihar on Sunday asserted that it supported Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on the issue of caste census and urged him to hold a State-specific exercise without waiting for a nod from his ally BJP. Congress Legislature Party leader Ajeet Sharma's statement came close on the heels of Lalu Prasad's RJD, the principal opposition party in the state, which adopted a similar stance. “The Chief Minister wants to convene an all-party meeting... apparently the BJP does not want to be seen on the same page...Let Nitish Kumar go ahead, the Congress is fully with him on the issue”, Mr. Sharma said. The State BJP has in the past backed a caste census with its MLAs voting in favour of resolutions passed twice, unanimously, by the legislature. The party finds itself in a bind after the Narendra Modi government turned down demands for conducting a headcount of social groups other than Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. A meeting between the Prime Minister and an all-party delegation from Bihar headed by the Chief Minister failed to achieve a breakthrough. Politics in Bihar has for decades been dominated by the numerically powerful Other Backward Classes, who are hopeful of gains in the event of an exercise that might confirm that their percentage in the population is far greater than 27 percent — their quota earmarked following the Mandal Commission's implementation. In the wake of the Centre's lukewarm response, Mr. Kumar has planned to conduct a State-specific survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/congress-says-it-backs-nitish-on-caste-census/article38212474.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:18 IST,||BJP’s ‘acquisition strategy’ in Goa could boomerang: experts||Ever since the Bharatiya Janata Party began laying its roots in Goa in the mid-1990s, the party has had a history of forging alliances with regional parties and later jettisoning them once their utility had served its purpose. The Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) — the coastal State’s oldest indigenous party — was at one time the BJP’s ‘elder brother’, much like the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra. Despite being ideologically aligned with the BJP, the MGP’s attrition has been dramatic after 1999. It climaxed in the former poaching two of MGP’s three MLAs in 2019 and sacking Sudin Dhavalikar, the MGP’s senior leader as Goa’s Deputy Chief Minister. The BJP’s ‘corporate acquisition’ spree reached its apogee in 2019, when it broke its rival Congress by snaring 10 of the 15 Congress legislators into its fold. This despite the latter having emerged as the single-largest party after the 2017 Assembly election. However, as all parties gear up for the 2022 Assembly election, observers say a lot has changed in the last five years and that the BJP’s strategy of indiscriminate making and breaking could well boomerang on it. ‘Once bitten, twice shy’ “Violating coalition dharma, the BJP had unceremoniously dumped the MGP once the latter served its purpose. It did the same with the Goa Forward Party, the other major regional party. It ruthlessly broke up with the Congress as well. Until now, a lack of unity among the Opposition has benefited the shrewd BJP. But now, there is a serious feeling of ‘once bitten, twice shy’ amongst the big regional parties who are extremely chary about forming any future alliance with the BJP,” says Goa-based academic and political analyst Manoj Kamat. An indication of this comes in the form of the latest remarks made by the leaders of the MGP and the GFP. Earlier this week, GFP president Vijai Sardesai said the time had come for his party and all those opposed to the BJP to come together and form a broad ‘anti-BJP front’ for the upcoming Assembly election. ‘Keep egos aside’ “The GFP, the Congress, the Trinamool Congress and the MGP should keep aside their egos and join hands as part of a broad coalition to take on the ruling BJP,” he had said. Mr. Sardesai added the BJP could “play dirty” with other parties during campaigning by using COVID-19 restrictions as a pretext. “They [the BJP] will try and stop us and not allow our meetings under the guise of ‘restrictions’ but they will conduct their own meetings…there is a need for ‘Team Goa’ to liberate the State from the present ‘BJP virus’,” Mr. Sardesai said. Likewise, Mr. Dhavalikar of the MGP, in a recent interview to a local channel, rued how the BJP had become a ‘cold corporate entity’. Yet, despite his vehement remarks against the BJP now, it may be recalled that in 2017, it was Mr. Sardesai, along with two other GFP MLAs, who had helped the BJP form a government under Manohar Parrikar. This time, however, the GFP has already announced a pre-poll tie-up with the Congress, while the MGP has allied itself with the TMC in spite of being on the opposite sides of the ideological fence. While the lure of power makes for strange political bedfellows who often spurn ‘ideology’, observers say this time there appears to be a strong ‘anti-BJP’ feeling among regional parties who are disgruntled with the BJP’s cynical exploitation of them. ‘Understanding dangers’ “The BJP engineered defection within the MGP despite the latter being its closest ally. At the time, the GFP was enjoying the show and gloating at the MGP’s misfortune. However, the same fate soon befell the GFP. So, whether regional forces understand these dangers and have decided to wise up to the BJP’s stratagems is something this election will tell. This time, it appears that in the event of a fractured verdict, all opposition parties are likely to group against the BJP,” says Mr. Kamat. The BJP is ranged against five opposing forces – the Congress, the TMC, the GFP, the MGP and the AAP. “Today the BJP consists of 70% of ex-Congress leaders. Moreover, the voter base of the BJP and the MGP is the same. The latter is now extremely bitter against the former, so the MGP will be eating into the BJP’s votes. The voter base of other parties is the same. So, even if these parties cut into each other’s votes, the BJP stands to lose either way,” says another analyst. ‘Problems within BJP’ He adds that in the event of a fractured verdict, the regional parties are likely to assert themselves. “In the absence of Manohar Parrikar, it is highly unlikely the BJP will get a favourable response from Vijai Sardesai and Sudin Dhavalikar. There are problems within the BJP’s ranks with MLAs like Michael Lobo speaking openly against the party,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjps-acquisition-strategy-in-goa-could-boomerang-experts/article38212483.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:18 IST,||Temperature dips below zero in Valley||Gulmarg tourist resort in north Kashmir on Sunday recorded a minimum temperature of minus 10 degrees Celsius, five degrees below the previous night, officials said. The valley is currently experiencing 'Chilla-i-Kalan', the 40-day harshest winter period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/temperature-dips-below-zero-in-valley/article38212614.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:18 IST,||Guru Purab||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/guru-purab/article38212476.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:01 IST,||Sri Lanka asks China to restructure debt||Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Sunday sought Chinese assistance to restructure the debt owed by the island nation to the Asian giant. “The President pointed out that it would be a great relief to the country if the attention could be paid on restructuring the debt repayments as a solution to the economic crisis that has arisen in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic,” the Presidential Media Division said in a statement on Mr. Gotabaya’s meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Colombo. Mr. Wang concluded his five-nation tour of littoral countries in the Indian Ocean Region, with a one-day visit to Colombo on Sunday, following a visit to the Maldives. Sri Lanka owes China over $5 billion, amounting to about 10 % of the country’s total foreign debt. Mr. Gotabaya’s request to Beijing to restructure it comes during an unprecedented economic meltdown in Sri Lanka, with the country’s foreign reserves rapidly declining following the devastating impact of the pandemic on its crucial export and tourism sectors over the last two years. In November, Sri Lanka’s foreign reserves stood at $1.6 billion, triggering widespread concern about how Colombo might pay its high imports bill, especially when the Sri Lankan rupee has considerably weakened.  Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa made a similar request to New Delhi in February 2020 for a debt moratorium, but there has been no response since. “If India agrees to postpone debt by three years, we can convince others too,” Mr. Mahinda then told The Hindu in New Delhi.  Requests to India New Delhi is also yet to respond to more recent requests from Colombo for emergency Lines of Credit for import of food, fuel and medicines, and a currency swap to boost reserves, although External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar has assured Colombo of support “in difficult times”. “Greeted FM G.L. Peiris of Sri Lanka in the New Year. A reliable friend, India will support Sri Lanka in these difficult times. Agreed to remain in close touch,” Mr. Jaishankar said in a tweet recently. While it remains to be seen when and how much assistance comes Colombo’s way in the coming weeks, the country must prepare to meet its daunting foreign debt obligations for 2022, totalling over $7 billion, including bond repayments of $500 million in January and $1 billion in July. Besides requesting China to help Sri Lanka attract Chinese tourists, President Gotabaya said that if a concessional trade credit scheme could be initiated for imports from China, it would enable industries to operate smoothly. China is Sri Lanka’s largest partner for imports, with 22 % of the island nation’s imports originating from China. Foreign Minister Wang also met PM Mahinda for talks. “Had a very pleasant meeting with the Foreign Min of #China. Discussions centered around the logistics of facilitating the return of the many #lka med students to China. Also discussed were a host of issues inc Tourism, investments, #COVID19SL relief & post Covid preparedness,” Mr. Mahinda tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-asks-china-to-restructure-debt/article38212092.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:01 IST,||Russia to stand firm on Ukraine in talks with U.S.||Russia ruled out on Sunday any concession at talks with the United States on soaring tensions over Ukraine, as Moscow, facing strong pressure to pull back troops, seeks a wide-ranging new security arrangement with the West. Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov told Russian news agencies ahead of his talks in Geneva the Kremlin was “disappointed” with signals coming from Washington and from Brussels, where NATO and the European Union are based. The high-level discussions kick off a week of diplomacy in which Russia will meet with NATO and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), as the United States tries to assure European allies they will not be sidelined. The Kremlin is insisting NATO must never grant membership to ex-Soviet Ukraine, which is pushing to join. The United States, to be represented by Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman, agreed to talks even though it made plain that many of Moscow’s proposals are non-starters. Originally scheduled to start on Monday, Ms. Sherman is now due to have a working dinner with Mr. Ryabkov on Sunday evening, a State Department spokesperson said. Russia’s Foreign Ministry posted footage of Mr. Ryabkov’s plane arriving in Geneva. “We will not agree to any concession. That is completely excluded,” Mr. Ryabkov said before departing. “We are disappointed with the signals coming in the last few days from Washington but also from Brussels.” Putin-Biden meet Russian President Vladimir Putin met his U.S. counterpart Joe Biden in Geneva in June and agreed on regular “stability” talks between Ms. Sherman and Mr. Ryabkov. In two phone calls to Mr. Putin, Mr. Biden has warned of severe consequences if Russia invades Ukraine. A U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, warned that Washington would also send more troops to eastern NATO members such as Poland and the Baltic states if Russia invaded Ukraine. Europeans have showed solidarity, with EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell visiting the frontline in Ukraine. “Whatever the solution, Europe has to be involved,” EU Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said. “It is very likely that we will encounter the reticence of our U.S. and NATO colleagues to really perceive what we need,” Mr. Ryabkov said on Sunday. NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg, meeting Foreign Ministers of the alliance on Friday, said there remained real risks of a Russian invasion. But John Herbst, a former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, described the Russian troop build-up as a “gigantic bluff” by Mr. Putin to seek a negotiated agreement. “They are trying to see if the Biden administration or Europe will blink,” said Mr. Herbst, now at the Atlantic Council think tank. “As long as the Biden administration remains at least as strong as it is now,” he said, “it probably is enough to keep Putin from striking large into Ukraine, but I don’t rule out something smaller.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-concessions-at-ukraine-talks-with-us-says-russia/article38212088.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:00 IST,||164 dead, nearly 6,000 held after Kazakhstan protests||More than 150 people have died and almost 6,000 have been arrested in Kazakhstan following violent riots in Central Asia’s largest country this week, media reported on Sunday citing the Health Ministry. At least 164 people were killed in the riots, including 103 in the largest city Almaty, which saw some of the fiercest clashes between protesters and security forces. The new figures — which have not been independently verified — mark a drastic increase in the death toll. Officials previously said 26 “armed criminals” had been killed and that 16 security officers had died. In total, 5,800 people have been detained for questioning, the presidency said in a statement on Sunday. The figures included “a substantial number of foreign nationals”, it said without elaborating. “The situation has stabilised in all regions of the country,” even if security forces were continuing “clean-up” operations, the statement added after President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev held a crisis meeting. The Interior Ministry, quoted by local media, put property damage at around 175 million euros ($199 million). More than 100 businesses and banks were attacked and looted and more than 400 vehicles destroyed, the Ministry reportedly said. A relative calm appeared to have returned to Almaty, with police sometimes firing shots into the air to stop people approaching the city’s central square. Supermarkets were reopening on Sunday amid fears of food shortages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/164-dead-nearly-6000-held-after-kazakhstan-protests/article38212085.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:01 IST,||Taliban arrest popular Afghan professor critical of regime||The Taliban have arrested a popular university professor and outspoken critic of successive Afghan governments, including the new rulers in Kabul, the group’s spokesman said on Sunday. Zabihullah Mujahid said in a tweet that professor Faizuallah Jalal was being held by the Taliban’s intelligence arm. The group accused the professor of “nonsense remarks on social media, which were provoking people against the government.” In the capital of Kabul, a small group of women protested Mr. Jalal’s detention. They chanted: “Talking is not a crime, professor Jalal is not a criminal.” The arrest of a prominent political activist was certain to complicate the country’s humanitarian aid efforts. It also reinforced fears that the Taliban are imposing the same harsh and repressive rule as their last stint in power. In a tweet early on Sunday, Mr. Jalal’s daughter Hasina Jalal pleaded for her father’s release. “As I confirm the disturbing news. I ask for the immediate release of my father Professor Faizuallah Jalal,” she tweeted. TOLO TV, Afghanistan’s largest station on which Mr. Jalal was a frequent commentator, tweeted that Mr. Jalal was arrested “reportedly for making allegations against government departments, a security source said.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-arrest-popular-afghan-professor-critical-of-regime/article38212090.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:00 IST,||Roads cleared after blizzard in Pakistan||Army rescuers on Sunday cleared routes around a Pakistan hill town sheltering thousands of tourists after 22 people died in vehicles trapped by heavy snow. The resort town of Murree, around 70 kilometres northeast of Islamabad, was inundated with tourists last week. But a blizzard from Friday onwards felled trees and blocked narrow roads leading in and out of the town, which clings to steep hills and valleys at an altitude of 2,300 metres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/roads-cleared-after-blizzard-in-pakistan/article38212086.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:01 IST,||U.S. military not to leave Japanese base||Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said Sunday that Japan and the U.S. have reached “a basic agreement” on banning the U.S. military from leaving its base grounds, amid growing worries about a sharp rise in coronavirus cases. Mr. Kishida said American soldiers will stay on base “except when absolutely necessary,” which presumably means for emergencies or other security reasons. Details of the deal are still being worked out, he said. New daily COVID-19 cases have surged recently in what medical experts call “the sixth wave.” New cases jumped above 8,000 on Saturday, a four-month record. The spike has been blamed on the U.S. military because the case increases are most pronounced in areas near the bases. Japan asked the U.S. for cooperation in keeping its military personnel on base last week. A spokesman for U.S. Forces in Japan was not immediately available for comment on Mr. Kishida’s latest remarks. Okinawa, a southwestern group of islands that houses most of the 55,000 U.S. troops, is among the three prefectures where new restrictions to curb the spread of infections kicked in Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-military-not-to-leave-japanese-base/article38212089.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:01 IST,||US warns Russia of risk of ‘confrontation,’ ahead of Ukraine talks||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Russia had to choose between dialogue and confrontation, ahead of talks on tensions over Ukraine. “The other path is confrontation and consequences. We are about to test the proposition about which path President Putin is prepared to take,” Mr. Blinken said on Sunday.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-warns-russia-of-risk-of-confrontation-ahead-of-ukraine-talks/article38212339.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:32 IST,||The best masks to ward off Omicron||COVID-19 is an airborne disease, and Omicron is the most contagious variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus so far. It’s more contagious than the Delta variant that swept India last year. But if we wear better-quality masks and wear them correctly, we can reduce the spread of this highly contagious virus. All of us emit particles and tiny droplets while breathing, talking, singing, coughing and sneezing. When a person infected with COVID-19 interacts with another person who is uninfected, the virus can get transmitted as part of the particles and droplets exhaled by the infected person, which are then inhaled by the uninfected person. If the infected or sick person wears a good mask, that reduces the risk to those around them. If the uninfected person wears a mask, that reduces the total number of particles (including virus-carrying particles) that they inhale and therefore reduces the risk to them from the infected person. Masks also help with particulate air pollution. Masks should be used in indoor spaces you share with other people such as the office, hospitals or doctor’s offices, wedding halls, shops, classrooms, and places of worship. You should also wear your mask in crowded outdoor locations like the market or mall, and especially when taking the bus, taxi, airplane or train. Types of masks Over the last two years, most of us have worn masks of various types, including cloth masks, surgical or medical masks, and high-filtration masks with various designations — N95, KN95, KF94 and FFP2. What is the difference between these masks, and what works best against Omicron? Can they be reused? Where should masks be used? A cloth mask reduces some emissions (especially larger droplets) from an infected person’s nose and mouth but offers little protection for the uninfected wearer as the material does not significantly filter small particles (unless it has a filter insert). A surgical mask can be made of good, three-ply filtering material (though not all of them) but is not made to seal the face well. It leaves large gaps between the edges of the mask and the face, through which virus-carrying particles can be exhaled or inhaled. One way to improve the fit of a surgical mask is double-masking, i.e. wearing a cloth mask that can fit snugly on your face over a surgical mask, to reduce gaps. But the best masks are those built to the American N95 standard or similar global standards (European FFP2, Chinese KN95, Korean KF94). When fitted properly, they filter out at least 95% (N95, KN95) or 94% (FFP2, KF94) of particles. It is best to avoid masks that have valves on them as they don’t filter exhaled air, which is important when the wearer is unknowingly infected. High-filtration masks give everyone more protection from the Omicron variant than cloth and surgical masks. Everyone who can use these masks should use them, especially healthcare workers who are at risk of exposure and others who are at risk of severe COVID-19 infection (the elderly, people with diabetes, heart disease, etc.). While there was a shortage of such masks in the initial stages of the pandemic, manufacturers are now making N95 or equivalent masks in large quantities (for example, 3M has introduced the VFlex, a more affordable N95 mask than their popular Aura series, both of which are available on Amazon.in). Many other varieties are available with reputable online retailers. Reliable mask reviews can be found online. A concern with high-filtration masks is their cost — the 3M VFlex is currently priced at Rs. 68 per mask (Rs. 3,400 for a box of 50) on Amazon. While these masks can be used for a week with care, double-masking (a tight-fitting cloth mask over a three-ply surgical mask as described above) can be a good lower-cost alternative. Providing government subsidies to ensure that everyone can afford high-filtration masks would be the ideal solution. Fit matters But high-filtration masks by themselves are not enough. You need to make sure that the mask fits your face properly. In occupational health settings, an N95 mask is usually fit-tested, but this is not feasible for most people. But some simple rules can help improve fit. The most common mask failure (other than not covering your nose or wearing it as a chin guard) is a loose or ill-fitting mask that lets virus-carrying particles escape outwards (for an infected person) or inwards (for the uninfected person). Cloth and surgical masks that are used repeatedly become loose and ill-fitting. The mask should cover your mouth and nose. It should fit your face snugly at the edges, so the air you exhale or inhale only passes through the filtering material. The mask should also be moulded to the nose bridge — a plastic or metal clip is usually provided or built into the mask for this purpose. The fitted mask is held in place usually with ear loops or headbands. Dual headbands are highly recommended as they allow a proper fit — one band below the ears around the neck and one above the ears at the crown of the head. Ear loops don’t provide a tight seal without straining your ears, unless you secure the loops behind your head with a clip or tight extension band. Once you wear the mask, the easiest test is to blow air outwards (perhaps after putting a mint in your mouth). If you feel the air on your face outside the mask edges, press that edge towards your face. Use the headbands or ear loops/clip to ensure that the mask fits snugly against your face. Reusing masks Can you reuse the mask? With some care, yes. N95 masks, in particular, are rated for their ability to filter a lot of dust as they are designed to be worn at places like construction sites. The mask will not get saturated even after a few days of normal (non-dusty) use, so it can be reused after it dries. A good routine might be to wear a high-filtration mask for a day, keep it aside in a dust-free, dry environment for 2-3 days (maybe inside a paper bag) and then use it again. And if the band or ear loop breaks or any part of the mask no longer seals properly, use a fresh mask. All of us can do our bit to reduce the spread of the Omicron variant. Masking and vaccination are simple steps that can contribute to the overall pandemic response. So, if you can, please upgrade to high-filtration masks, get fully vaccinated, and stay safe out there. Dr. R. Subramanian (@subu_caps), senior scientist at the Qatar Environment and Energy Research Institute, Doha, has worked on air quality research for over 20 years; Dr. Madhukar Pai (@paimadhu) is a physician and professor of epidemiology and global health at McGill University, Montreal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-best-masks-to-ward-off-omicron/article38212083.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:32 IST,||Some Raj Bhavans are on the war path||Recent media reports about the confrontation between the Governors and the State governments, in Maharashtra and Kerala, have turned the spotlight on the rather delicate relationship between the constitutional head of the State and the elected government. In Maharashtra, for example, the situation was indeed bizarre insomuch as the Governor refusing to accept the date of election of the Speaker recommended by the State government. Consequently, the Assembly could not elect the Speaker. The situation in Kerala has been no less bizarre. The State Governor having reappointed the Vice Chancellor of Kannur University in accordance with the law, made an allegation against the Kerala government that he was under pressure from the Government to reappoint the Vice Chancellor. The Governor confessed that he had done the wrong thing by yielding to governmental pressure. He has added that he does not want to remain the Chancellor any more, though he holds this position in an ex-officio capacity which means that he would have to remain the Chancellor as long as he is the Governor. But the Governor remains adamant. The Governor levelling allegations against his own government is not a first-time development. In West Bengal this has been a regular feature. Similarly, non-acceptance of the advice of the Council of Ministers too has been witnessed in Rajasthan as well as Maharashtra again. Of course, there have been differences between Governors and Chief Ministers in the past too, but these have been rare occurrences. But the open confrontations now clearly cross the boundaries of what is constitutionally permissible behaviour. With discretionary powers The relationship between the Governor and Chief Minister has, even at the best of times, not been absolutely simple and tension free. It has something to do with the whole idea of the office of the Governor and its past history. In the colonial era, the Governor was the absolute ruler of the province who was answerable ultimately to His Majesty, the King. A closer look at the debates in the Constituent Assembly on the Governor would reveal that there were divergent views on the powers to be given to the Governor. In fact, there were members in the Assembly who wanted the Governor to be as powerful as the colonial-era Governors. Though B.R. Ambedkar was clear that the Governor should only be a constitutional head and the executive power should vest entirely in the elected government, he promoted the idea of vesting certain discretionary powers in the Governor. In this respect he was guided by the thinking that the State governments are in subordination to the Union government and, therefore, the Governor should be given discretionary powers to ensure that they act so.  So, ultimately, the Governor who emerged from the Constituent Assembly was one with certain discretionary powers prescribed by or under the Constitution unlike the President of India who has not been given any such powers. Further, Article 163 (Article 143 in the draft Constitution) became a ‘blind reproduction of Section 50 of the Government of India Act 1935’ (H.V. Kamath). This exact reproduction of the provision in the Act of 1935 has, to a great extent, introduced a vagueness about the actual powers of the Governor vis-à-vis the elected government in democratic India which was corrected only with the Supreme Court of India stating the law in unambiguous terms in Shamsher Singh (1974). From Shamsher Singh to Nabam Rebia (2016) the top court declared that the Governor can, in the exercise of executive power of the state, act only on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers “...save in a few well-known exceptional situations”.  The Maharashtra case The Maharashtra Governor’s refusal to accept the date of election of the Speaker goes against the principles of constitutional government. It must be stated here that the Constitution has not assigned any role to the Governor in the election of the Speaker under Article 178, which is exclusively the job of the House. It is only the House rule which says that the Governor shall fix the date. The date as such has no great significance. Under the procedure followed in all Assemblies, the government fixes the date and conveys it to the Secretary of the Assembly who forwards it to the office of the Governor for his signature. After the date is formally approved by the Governor — which he is duty bound to do — the members are informed about it. Now the question is if the Governor does not approve the date, can the election be held? Fixing the date by the Governor is not of any constitutional importance; election by the House is the important thing. So, if the Governor stands in the way of the election, the only way open to the House is to amend that particular rule which empowers the Governor to fix the date. It can provide that the Secretary on receiving the date from the government shall notify the members of the same. The election can be held either through secret ballot or through a motion in the House as is done by the Lok Sabha. But it must be said that it could be for the first time in the history of free India that a Governor has refused to fix the date of election of the Speaker and, consequently, the election could not be held. The Maharashtra Assembly is now without a Speaker being in office. In Kerala The Kerala situation is even more curious. There, the controversy surrounds the reappointment of the incumbent Vice Chancellor of Kannur University. There was a suggestion from the State government routed through the Pro Chancellor who is the Minister for Higher Education for the reappointment of the incumbent Vice Chancellor. The Governor being the ex-officio Chancellor of the university and the appointing authority, accepted the suggestion and reappointed him. After some time, the Governor went public with a serious allegation that he had signed the order of appointment under pressure from the Government and that he had done the wrong thing by reappointing the Vice Chancellor under pressure. It must be stated here that the Governor had acted perfectly in accordance with the law in reappointing the incumbent Vice Chancellor. Under the University Act, an incumbent Vice Chancellor is eligible for reappointment. Since the Act does not lay down any specific procedure for reappointment, the Chancellor was right in accepting the suggestion or the recommendation made from the Government. In fact, he or she can accept suggestions from any person including the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. The point worth noting here is that the Governor as Chancellor is not required to act on the advice of the Council of Ministers in the matter of appointment of Vice Chancellor and others in the university. He can act absolutely independently. He could also have rejected the suggestion from the Government.  The Kerala High Court has clarified this legal point in Gopalakrishnan vs Chancellor, University of Kerala . So the Governor of Kerala needs to apply his mind independently to the case of reappointment, evaluate the performance of the Vice Chancellor and fully satisfy himself about the merit of the appointee before signing the appointment order. It is presumed that he had done this. Therefore, it is baffling why he chose to go public and level serious allegations against the Government and incriminate himself in the process. Adding to the confusion, the Governor has divested himself of the ex-officio charge of Chancellor and declared that he will not be functioning as Chancellor. Needless to say, one cannot relinquish a charge which he holds in an ex-officio capacity unless he leaves his substantive post.  Detachment is the essence These are very bizarre situations indeed. The Governor is a high constitutional authority. He needs to function within the four walls of the Constitution and be a friend, philosopher and guide to his government. The Constitution does not allow him to be a parallel government; nor does it make him personally responsible for his actions as Governor. That such confrontations take place only in Opposition-ruled States shows that political expediency has overtaken constitutional propriety. Wading through the Constituent Assembly debates, one comes across these wise words of Pandit Thakur Das Bhargava, a conscientious member of the Assembly: “He (Governor) will be a man above party and he will look at the minister and government from a detached stand point”. Detachment is the essence of India’s ancient culture. But Pandit Thakur Das’s voice has ended up as a voice in the wilderness. P.D.T. Achary is Former Secretary General, Lok Sabha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/some-raj-bhavans-are-on-the-war-path/article38212074.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:32 IST,||A Bill that could alter the mediation landscape||The Chief Justice of India (CJI), N.V. Ramana, while speaking at the India-Singapore Mediation Summit in July 2021 (https://bit.ly/3F972Kt) had said that mediation should be made mandatory as a first step in dispute resolution and that a law should be framed in this regard. The context was the huge pendency of cases in India. In his speech called “Mediation for everyone: Realizing mediation’s potential in India”, he emphasised the point that a movement needs to be launched to popularise mediation as it was a cheaper and faster dispute resolution mechanism. Months later in December 2021, the CJI, while addressing the Curtain Raiser and Stakeholders’ Conclave of International Arbitration and Mediation Centre (IAMC) at the Hyderabad International Convention Centre, Hyderabad, said that courts should be the last resort for dispute resolution; therefore, one should explore the options of alternate dispute resolution. Expressed in these laws In India, though mediation finds legitimacy in some specific laws such as the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, the Companies Act, 2013, the Commercial Courts Act, 2015, and the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, there is no standalone legislation as yet. The Tamil Nadu Mediation and Conciliation Centre, an initiative of the Madras High Court and India’s first court-annexed facility with a mediation centre in every district, which was inaugurated in 2005 has significantly reduced the pendency of referred cases. Bill scope  The Mediation Bill, 2021 (https://bit.ly/3qZwEV8), introduced in Parliament in December 2021, seeks to ‘promote mediation (including online), and provide for enforcement of settlement agreements resulting from mediation’. In case of civil or commercial disputes, a person must try to settle the dispute by mediation before approaching a court or tribunal. Disputes not fit for mediation inter alia include those relating to prosecution for criminal offences, disputes involving allegation of serious and specific fraud, fabrication of documents, forgery, impersonation and coercion. However, there are certain provisions in the Bill which may help in improving the law and order situation in a locality and/or encourage compounding of criminal offences.   First, Section 7 of the Bill says that courts will be competent to refer any dispute to mediation relating to compoundable offences or matrimonial offences connected with or arising out of civil proceedings between the parties. Second, Section 44 of the Bill provides for ‘any dispute likely to affect peace, harmony and tranquillity amongst the residents or families of any area or locality’, to be settled through community mediation. Any settlement so arrived at, however, shall not be enforceable as a judgment or decree of a civil court. Third, the provisions of the Act shall not have overriding effect, inter alia , on the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizen Act, 2007 and the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.  It implies that if any dispute (as referred above) is resolved through mediation, it may lead to a compounding of criminal offence arising out of that civil or commercial dispute. Similarly, if any local dispute has the potential to create a law and order situation, and result in the registration of a criminal case or cases, those could be avoided through community mediation. It is true that many serious offences are the outcome of minor disputes which are either not tackled properly or left unattended. Therefore, though the proposed law primarily intends to resolve civil and commercial disputes through mediation, it has ample scope to relieve some of the pressure on law enforcement agencies. The law to prevent the sexual harassment of women at the workplace has probably been kept out of its scope so that an internal or local complaint committee is able to take up conciliation and close the case locally without involving a third party and detailed procedure. The law on the maintenance and the welfare of parents and senior citizens has also been kept out of its scope as offences under it are cognisable offences. Section 320 in the Code Of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) provides for the compounding of certain criminal offences which shall have the effect of acquittal of the accused. There are about 43 criminal offences, from body offences to property offences, which can be compounded by the victim, and about 13 offences (of comparatively greater gravity) which can be compounded with the permission of the court. Here, the policy of the law is to promote friendliness between the parties so that peace between them is restored. A case may be compounded any time before the sentence is pronounced. Court’s view The Supreme Court of India has held that if there is composition of an offence during investigation, the parties can either approach the court or the police. The police, on verification of the truth, genuineness and voluntariness of the composition, may record the statement of the victim and recommend to the Magistrate to accept the negative final report. The Magistrate after giving notice to the complainant can make an appropriate decision in the matter accepting the composition. In other cases, appropriate orders may be passed by the court, and leave granted to compound the offence. Thus, under both conditions, if a dispute is resolved amicably, including through mediation, it may result in its compounding under the CrPC. The number of offences which can be compounded may also be increased — particularly property offences. Keeping in view the recommendations of the Law Commission in its 243rd report, Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code, relating to cruelty by the husband or his relatives, can also be made compoundable. It may have far-reaching consequences in resolving matrimonial disputes. The background It is undisputed that many civil or commercial disputes are given the colour of a criminal offence and reported to the police so that they get resolved under the fear of arrest. Many criminal offences are a result of the fact that civil or commercial disputes could not be resolved amicably and in time. The police at times take minor cases lightly or reduce the seriousness of crime by converting a cognisable offence into a non-cognisable one. Some of these cases may become aggravated with time and assume serious consequences. Therefore, the proposed law of mediation, that has the mechanism of not only preventing the breakdown of law and order through community intervention but also the competence to smoothen the route to compounding of certain criminal offences, may ultimately relieve some of the pressure on the police also. R.K. Vij is a former Special Director General of Police of Chhattisgarh. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-bill-that-could-alter-the-mediation-landscape/article38212076.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:32 IST,||Control rather than privacy||In India, where the personal data of citizens are at the mercy of companies and government and where is no privacy law, the Puttaswamy judgment and the Justice B.N. Srikrishna committee report that led to the Personal Data Protection Bill of 2019 came as a ray of hope. But the Joint Committee report on the Bill has failed to provide a robust draft legislation ensuring the privacy of citizens. Instead, it has carved out an architecture for a surveillance state.  Infallibility of state  Under the Constitution, fundamental rights are enforced against the state and its instrumentalities and not against private bodies. The Puttaswamy judgment held that the right to privacy is a fundamental right. However, the report has divided the digital world into two domains — government and private — and is based on the presumption that the question of right to privacy emerges only where operations and activities of private entities are concerned. Clause 12 of the Bill provides exemptions for the government and government agencies and Clause 35 exempts government agencies from the entire Act itself. Clause 12, which says personal data can be processed without consent for the performance of any function of the state, is an umbrella clause that does not specify which ministries or departments will be covered. Further, the Bill says, “harm includes any observation or surveillance that is not reasonably expected by the data principal”. This means if you install any software in your computer and the software violates the principle of privacy and data get leaked, the complaint of the data principal will not be legally tenable as the defence will be that ‘once you have installed the software, you should have reasonably expected this level of surveillance’. The government can use these provisions as a means of control and surveillance.  If private entities can be given a transition time to comply with the Act, why should the same not be extended to government entities? Why should they be given blanket exemption instead? The Committee has failed to provide formidable firewalls to protect the privacy of individuals and has also carved out a mechanism for government control over personal data. The provisions are ultra vires of the judgment on privacy. For compliance with the provisions of the Act, a data protection authority (DPA) has to be appointed. The Bill elaborates on the functions and duties of the DPA. It is doubtful whether a single authority will be able to discharge so many functions in an efficient manner. The terms and conditions of appointment of the DPA also raise concerns. Unlike the Justice Srikrishna committee report which provided for a judicial overlook in the appointments of the DPA, the Bill entrusts the executive with the appointments. Although the report expanded the committee, the power to appoint the panelists vests with the Central government. While ensuring the protection of citizens’ fundamental right, it is necessary that the authority entrusted with the responsibility should work independently. Clause 86 says, “Authority should be bound by the directions of the Central Government under all cases and not just on questions of policy”. This makes the DPA duty-bound to follow the orders of the government. This weakens its independence and gives the government excessive control. Further, the appointment of the authority violates the principle of federalism. There is internal data flow and the States are key stakeholders in the process. Even if the proposed central authority issues directions to allow processing of data on the grounds of ‘public order’, it is important to note that ‘public order’ is an entry in the State List. If the pith and substance of the legislation are related to the State, then it has to be monitored by the State Data Protection Authority. Economic cost of non-personal data One of the objectives of the Bill is to promote the digital economy. But by including non-personal data within the ambit of the Bill, the Joint Committee has put a huge compliance burden on the economy. This will hit the MSME sector and small businesses harder as technical processes involving data-sharing are very expensive. The government-constituted panel headed by S. Gopalkrishnan also opposed the idea of including non-personal data in the Bill. Mandatory data localisation, it is estimated, will squeeze the economy by 0.7-1.7%. This may also invite similar measures by other sovereign countries which will hamper smooth cross-border flow of data. The report has raised more questions than it has solved. In its present avatar, the Bill is more about surveillance and control than privacy. At the time of passage of the Bill, loopholes must be plugged so that India can have a robust data protection law. Jaiveer Shergill is a Supreme Court lawyer and National Spokesperson, the Indian National Congress||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/control-rather-than-privacy/article38212079.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:31 IST,||Unchanged||It is a matter of considerable relief that the Supreme Court has allowed the commencement of counselling for post-graduate medical admissions under the all-India quota at a time when the long delay has caused a shortage of junior residents in the midst of an ongoing public health crisis. The Court’s decision to uphold the 27% quota for OBCs, with reasons to be adduced later, has also helped the cause of giving a push to the admission process, which was put on hold months ago. It is somewhat disappointing that despite several hearings and the deployment of an expert committee, the controversial criteria for the 10% Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) remain unchanged for admission for 2021-22. As early as October 25, the Union government offered to put on hold the admission process during the pendency of the challenge to the introduction of the OBC and EWS quotas by a July 29, 2021 notification. A month later, it informed the Court that it wanted to revisit the criteria for EWS. It was in response to the Court’s questions about the rationale of keeping the annual income criterion for the EWS quota at Rs. 8 lakh, the same income ceiling for those belonging to the OBC category to be eligible for reservation benefits. The time taken by the committee to reconsider the criteria and submit a report seems to have been in vain, as it has returned a recommendation that the existing norms be retained for the current year’s admissions. The Bench, taking into account the fact that the admission process cannot be further delayed, has chosen to allow the admission to proceed based on the norms spelt out in the July notification. However, the validity of the expert panel’s recommendations will be decided when the Court takes up the matter in March. It makes one wonder why the Government postponed the counselling and took more than a month to get a panel to revisit the criteria, if it was ultimately going to press for the current year’s admission to be allowed without any change. The Court, on its part, felt compelled to defer to the Government on this point, considering the urgency of the situation, as the alternative was staying the EWS quota for this year’s admission. Its original point — that there cannot be a common income limit for those coming from a background of social and educational backwardness and those who are members of privileged classes, but with inadequate economic means — still stands. The outcome is that this year’s batch may suffer from ‘over-inclusion’ if the norms are revised downwards from next year onwards. While the norms for EWS quota may get tweaked over time, the question whether there ought to be any reservation for the advanced classes solely on the ground that they have insufficient means is still before the Constitution Bench. An early decision will be most welcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/unchanged/article38212068.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:31 IST,||Growth concerns||The National Statistical Office’s first advance estimates for economic output in the current financial year is an optimistic forecast that flags some positive trends as well as areas of concern that have the potential to derail the growth momentum. The NSO has projected real GDP for the 12 months ending March 2022 at Rs. 147.54 lakh-crore, a 9.2% expansion from the provisional estimate of Rs. 135.13 lakh-crore for the last fiscal year, when the full fury of the COVID-19 pandemic had caused output to contract by 7.3%. At that pace, India’s economy would regain its pre-eminence as the world’s fastest growing major economy. A key pillar of this growth assumption is the upbeat outlook for net tax receipts on products, which the NSO sees expanding by a robust 16.2%, after shrinking by 18.4% in the preceding period. Gross Value Added, which aggregates output in the various sectors of the economy, is projected to grow by 8.6% year-on-year on the back of a continued healthy showing by the farm sector and a heartening double digit (12.5%) rebound in manufacturing. However, when compared with the pre-pandemic FY2020’s GVA, the projected output of Rs. 135.2 lakh-crore is barely Rs. 2.5 lakh-crore, or 1.9%, higher, clearly pointing to the fact that the economy has a fair distance to travel before it can regain the growth momentum that is crucially required to create more jobs and help narrow the widening income inequality. Tellingly, the NSO’s forecast, which relies on varied data spanning the first six to eight months of the current fiscal, has not factored in the impact of the ongoing Omicron-induced surge in COVID-19 cases. After all, it is anyone’s guess as to how much of a blow the current wave may deal to already fragile supply chains, consumption demand and contact-intensive services. In fact, private final consumption expenditure, which two years ago accounted for close to 60% of GDP, is still struggling to recover from the crushing compression it suffered in the first full year of the pandemic, when it shrank 9.1%. While the NSO posits consumer spending to grow by 6.9% this fiscal, the assumed figure is still a sizeable 2.9% shy of the FY2020 level. Equally significantly, the omnibus services category that spans trade, hotels, transport, communication and broadcasting and makes up a fifth of the GVA is estimated to post a mere 11.9% expansion after shrinking by 18.2% last fiscal. As a result, even without factoring in the impact of a third wave, this vital services sector would still be lagging behind its pre-pandemic output by 8.5%. With the Union Budget barely a few weeks away, policymakers have a clear choice to make: introduce consumption and investment supportive measures, even if it means loosening the fiscal purse strings, or risk seeing the growth momentum faltering for want of a fair wind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/growth-concerns/article38212069.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:32 IST,||President’s rule for Bihar||Patna, January 9: Bihar came under President’s rule to-day for the third time since the 1967 general election with the President, Mr. V.V. Giri, issuing a proclamation taking over the State administration under Article 356 of the Constitution. The State Governor, Mr. D.K. Barooah, had in his report to the President late last month recommended Central rule and dissolution of the State Assembly following the resignation of the 216-day-old Progressive Vidhayak Dal Ministry on December 27. At the time a Presidential proclamation could not be issued immediately because of a constitutional hitch and so, Mr. Barooah dissolved the Assembly under Article 174 on December 29. A Raj Bhavan communique announcing dissolution for the State Assembly had said that the outgoing Chief Minister, Mr. Bhola Paswan Shastri, and his Deputy, Mr. Ram Jaipal Singh Yadav, had been asked to continue as a caretaker government while the resignation of the other members of the Council of Ministers were "individually" accepted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/presidents-rule-for-bihar/article38212077.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:17 IST,||ask||Q.It had been reported that accrual of interest in EPF accounts in excess of Rs. 2.50 lakh during FY22 is taxable income. Kindly clarify the following: a) Is accrued interest in excess of Rs. 2.50 lakh taxable income in respect of GPF account holders, also considering that there will be no employer contribution to GPF accounts of their employees. b) Is accrued interest in excess of Rs. 2.50 lakh in relation to the employee portion of EPF or both employee and employer portions of EPF? c) Also, please clarify if any methodology has been designed for computation of the accrued interest during 2021-22 since the individual EPF or GPF account slips will be issued to employees at some time after completion of the FY. But, individual Income Tax liabilities are to be assessed, recovered and remitted by the employers by April 4 every year. V. Ravindra Kumar N. Sree Kanth: With effect from April 1, 2021, interest accrued on contribution by an employee in excess of Rs. 2,50,000 (EPF and Voluntary PF) will be taxable in the hands of the employee.  Point-wise replies are as follows: a) In case of GPF (usually for government employees) wherein there would be no contribution from the employer, then the threshold limit for contribution by employees on which interest accrued is taxable is Rs. 5,00,000 b) Interest accrued for contribution in excess of Rs. 2,50,000 is only for the employee's contribution and not applicable for the employer's contribution c) CBDT released a notification dated August 31, 2021, inserting Rule 9D, which throws light upon the mechanism as to the methodology to compute the taxable portion of the interest accrued on the excess contribution over the aforementioned threshold. Two separate provident fund accounts are to be maintained wherein the first account will be for the non-taxable contribution, this account shall have the balance as on March 31, 2021, including the interest accrued thus far and is to be added with employee contribution up to the threshold limits and the interest accrued on such contributions under the threshold limit and the interest accrued on the balance prior to March 31, 2021, minus any withdrawals. The second account will be for the taxable contributions. This account shall have the excess contribution over the threshold plus the interest accrued on such excess contribution minus any withdrawals. Q.I am a salaried individual earning Rs. 10 lakh per annum. I plan to buy my first car at a budget of Rs. 5-6 lakh by saving money. My time horizon for corpus building is 2-3 years. I am investing Rs. 25,000 a month in MFs. How do I buy my first car by saving money? Ashwin Kumar V.A. Vidya Bala: It is good to know that you prefer to save and buy a car than go for an EMI. You should be able to comfortably reach your target corpus in 24 months if your current investment of Rs. 25,000 per month is able to deliver just 6% per annum.  This is assuming that you have no other use for the monthly savings of Rs. 25,000. Please note that given the short time frame, going excessively on equity funds can be very risky. If you hold more than say 20-30% in equity funds, book out some profits and invest in debt funds or simply put in large bank FDs. This way whatever you earned in an extraordinary market like 2021 will be preserved and you will ensure that your corpus does not take any sudden hit due to market declines closer to your goal. I had invested Rs. 56,000 in June 2017 in an ELSS with dividend option. After three years, the amount was switched over to growth option in June 2020. When can I redeem the amount without any exit load? Ramesh Vidya Bala: There are two aspects here. One the lock-in period for an ELSS and two, the exit load applicable for any fund if redeemed before a minimum holding period. We think you are referring to the the lock-in period. Since you have moved to growth from dividend, it is considered as fresh investment (eligible for Section 80C tax benefit) and the lock-in of 3 years again applies.  That means you can redeem post June 2023. Exit load is the amount you pay as a fee for exiting a fund before a certain period of holding. In your case, since this is an ELSS fund already subject to lock-in, there will be no exit load when you are eligible for redemption. Q.My father-in-law has Rs. 18 lakh and wants to distribute it among five of his daughters — all senior citizens — by means of FDs or any such savings funds or pension plans. Which scheme suits us best?  Mohammed Ikramulla Vidya Bala: Since all the daughters are senior citizens, they can consider Senior Citizens’ Savings Scheme available in major banks and post office. It is government backed and will also provide superior returns than most options today.  Another option is an LIC pension scheme for senior citizens called Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana. (K. Sree Kanth is partner, GSS Associates Chartered Accountants, Chennai and Vidya Bala is co-founder Primeinvestor.in)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask/article38212067.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:21 IST,||Team India’s blueprint to conquer the Final Frontier||The trick is in the mind. The decider at the Newlands here will be one of the most significant matches for India in its Test history. A win here and it will accomplish what no other Indian team has managed to achieve. Win a Test series in South Africa. Can India conquer the Final Frontier? Immense pressure The pressure on the Indian team, with the series 1-1, will be immense. This is indeed an opportunity to tick a big box. But then, Indians will do well to take the Final Frontier element out of their minds and treat the decider, beginning January 11, like any other Test match. They will, this way, be able to play with greater freedom in this city of sunshine and sea. This said, the Indian obsession with taller pacemen and citing this as a reason for its seamers getting less purchase from the pitch in the second Test at the Wanderers, is nothing more than a cleverly camouflaged excuse. If height indeed was a factor, then how did Shardul Thakur, the shortest of the Indian pacemen along with Mohammed Shami, run through the South African line-up in the first innings, scalping seven? And no Proteas bowler, whatever be his height, got a seven-for in the Test, or bowled a more destructive spell. Forget about the height. It is about the areas you bowl in. If the Indian pacemen, irrespective of their height, had consistently hit the cracks, like Shardul did in the South African first innings, India would have won. And the outfield had dried up considerably by the time the Test resumed on day four. In any case the ball was wiped clean and dry before every delivery with a towel. If the ball was indeed slippery then how did the Indian pacemen manage to hit the South African batsmen so many times on the body? Can you do this with a slippery ball? Logic and common sense go out of the window when you search for excuses for a defeat from a winning position. In any case, past is past, and looking ahead, zeroing in on the decider at Newlands, India needs to pick a replacement for Mohammed Siraj. A hamstring injury, particularly for a paceman, can come back and India is certain not to risk Siraj in the decider. So it boils down to choosing between Ishant Sharma and Umesh Yadav. Ishant is down on pace, is not getting any younger and has not been in the best of forms lately. Yet, when he finds his rhythm, he can still bowl a compelling off-stump line with bounce. And going by India’s current line of thinking - wanting taller pacemen - Ishant could get the nod. The Umesh case This said, Umesh has done little wrong in the opportunities given to him. He is the more versatile paceman, has a lovely outswinger, can bring the ball back and is decidedly quicker than Ishant. In fact, when he received a rare opportunity, against England at the Oval last year, Umesh, bowling with fire, scalped three batsmen in each innings, playing a key role in the Indian victory. He opened up the Test for India with wickets of Joe Root and Dawid Malan. But then, Umesh is likely to sit out again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-blueprint-to-conquer-the-final-frontier/article38212173.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:17 IST,||Bopanna-Ramkumar win||The unseeded pair of Rohan Bopanna and Ramkumar Ramanathan beat the top seeds, Ivan Dodig and Marcelo Melo 7-6(6), 6-1 in the doubles final of the $521,000 ATP tennis tournament here on Sunday. It was the first professional tournament together as a pair for Bopanna and Ramkumar, who had partnered each other in the last Davis Cup tie against Finland. In five matches, the Indian pair dropped one set and did not drop even one service game, to collect the winner’s share of 250 ATP points and $18,700. While it was the maiden Tour title for Ramkumar, it was the 21st Tour doubles title for the former World No. 3 Bopanna, ranked 41 now. It was only the fourth doubles title with an Indian partner for Bopanna after the ones with Mahesh Bhupathi and Divij Sharan. “Amazing feeling to win my first ATP title with Bopsy! A great week ended on a high note. Always lived for these moments and thankful to Almighty for all the blessings,” said Ramkumar. Chance pairing Interestingly, it was a chance pairing as Bopanna was scheduled to play with Edouard Roger-Vasselin, who subsequently got into the ATP Cup in Sydney. Since both were in the same flight from Dubai, Bopanna asked Ramkumar to travel to Adelaide for the doubles, as the latter was only scheduled to train in advance for the Australian Open qualifying event. “I think it worked well for both of us. He got into the singles here as well. He got five doubles matches. Couldn’t have asked for a better week for both of us,” said Bopanna. Bopanna has watched Ramkumar grow in the professional circuit and has guided him at every opportunity. “I have seen Ram grow as a player. He has got tremendous potential. His serve is his biggest weapon. Every time I play with somebody serving that big, makes it easy for me at the net. I really felt Ram’s serve today in my ear. So I know how hard it comes through,”he said. New-found confidence Ramkumar has grown in stature as the current India No. 1, and has the new-found confidence as part of his arsenal. “I think what has changed is the belief in himself. That has really changed from last year. Ram was playing some good tennis by the end of the season. He is serving well, volleying well. Now, he is starting to believe he can do well at tournaments. It is just a matter of time for him to string a few matches together and break back into the top-150, 100,” observed Bopanna. “I would love to play more with Bops, whenever we can,” said Ramkumar, who would focus on the Australian Open singles qualifying event from Monday in Melbourne with the match against Gian Marco Moroni of Italy. Meanwhile, Bopanna plays with Vasselin in the next ATP event before the Australian Open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-ramkumar-win/article38212211.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,||England digs in to salvage heart-pumping draw||Battle-weary England dug deep for a gripping draw with just one wicket left to deny dominant Australia a 4-0 series lead in the fourth Ashes Test here on Sunday. Pressure Number 11 James Anderson doggedly played out a tense 102nd and final over from Steve Smith in deteriorating evening light as England ended on 270 for nine chasing a 388-run target in a heart-pumping finish. It all came down to the last six balls at the Sydney Cricket Ground with eight fielders crowding around the bat as Anderson fended off Smith’s part-time leg-spin. Australia had looked set to win the day-long battle and pull off a thrilling victory when it claimed the ninth wicket of Jack Leach, caught in the slips by David Warner off Smith for 26. But Anderson and long-time pace partner Stuart Broad played out the remaining two nail-bitingly tense overs to give the beleaguered tourists a morale-boosting draw. Ben Stokes with a gutsy 60, his second half-century of the match, and first-innings centurion Jonny Bairstow (41) defied the Australians. But both departed after tea. Bairstow’s brave effort came to an end with 10.4 overs left when he was caught close in by Marnus Labuschagne off Scott Boland. Nathan Lyon dismissed Stokes, who faced 123 balls for his 16th wicket of the series. Cummins produced a big in-swinger to trap Jos Buttler lbw for 11, confirmed on a review. Mark Wood lasted just two balls before Cummins snared him lbw. Earlier, Boland had removed Root caught behind off a tantalising out-swinger for 24 to break up his stubborn 60-run partnership with Stokes. Cameron Green grabbed the biggest breakthrough of the morning with the wicket of Zak Crawley, who had made 77, just as the English opener was looking like he would score a hundred in a flowing performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-digs-in-to-salvage-heart-pumping-draw/article38212162.ece
10 January 2022||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 strikes India Open||With a day to go for the BWF season-opener $400,000 India Open badminton tournament here, the fresh wave of COVID-19 cases has not spared some of the players. B. Sai Praneeth, bronze medallist in the 2019 World Championship, became the first to withdraw from the country’s flagship event after testing positive. Besides Praneeth, doubles player Dhruv Rawat, too, tested positive and pulled out of the tournament. In January last year, Praneeth had tested positive for COVID in Bangkok and was forced to withdraw from the Toyota Thailand Open. The BWF guidelines make it mandatory for players to share their negative test report before reporting for the event. Doubles specialists Chirag Shetty and Manu Attri are among the five players hoping for a negative RT-PCR report of Monday’s test to join the field when action begins at the K.D. Jadhav hall here on Tuesday. BAI sources confirmed that another failed test will keep them out of the competition. Praneeth, Chirag and Manu as well as two doubles players — Treesa Jolly and B. Navaneeth — tested in Hyderabad and returned positive. Praneeth was seeded second in singles. In doubles, Chirag with partner Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Manu in the company of Sumeeth Reddy are seeded two and five, respectively. With the England contingent pulling out two days ago in response to the COVID scare, the tournament with an overwhelming Indian flavour, lost some more sheen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/covid-19-strikes-india-open/article38212177.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,||Latham eyes double hundred||Tom Latham was closing in on a double century as New Zealand reached 349 for one at stumps to defy Hagley Oval’s grim reputation for batters on the first day of the second Test against Bangladesh here on Sunday. The New Zealand captain was unbeaten on 186 with Devon Conway on 99 as the Black Caps scored at will on a ground reputed to be a bowler’s paradise on day one. Latham and Conway put on an unbroken 201 for the second wicket after Latham and Will Young, who made 54, produced a 148-run opening stand. Latham’s unbeaten 186 includes 28 fours, while Conway has 10 fours and a six in his 99. After toiling fruitlessly through the morning session, Bangladesh missed a chance for a wicket in the first over after lunch in what turned out to be a seven-run farce. A Young edge off Ebadot was dropped by Liton Das at third slip allowing three runs. As the bowler and fielders expressed their frustration, the return throw went to the bowler’s end where no one was backing up and the ball raced through to the boundary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/latham-eyes-double-hundred/article38212165.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:17 IST,||Nadal’s preparations for Oz Open on track||Spanish superstar Rafael Nadal’s Australian Open preparations remain on track after he beat American Maxime Cressy 7-6(6), 6-3 in the final of the Melbourne Summer Set on Sunday. It was Nadal’s 89th title on the ATP Tour and the win ensures he has won at least one singles crown every year for the past 19 years. Cressy had to win through two rounds of qualifying just to make the main draw. Timely return to form Meanwhile, a fit-again Simona Halep stormed to her first title in 16 months when she downed Russian Veronika Kudermetova 6-2, 6-3. She last won in September 2020. There were two simultaneous WTA events as part of the Melbourne Summer Set, with Amanda Anisimova battling past Belarusian Aliaksandra Sasnovich 7-5, 1-6, 6-4 to win the other. It was the 20-year-old American’s second WTA Tour crown. In Adelaide World No. 1 Ashleigh Barty won her second Adelaide International title in three years with a 6-3, 6-2 victory over Elena Rybakina. Frenchman Gael Monfils claimed the men’s title, the 11th of his career and his first in almost two years, beating Russia’s Karen Khachanov 6-4, 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadals-preparations-for-oz-open-on-track/article38212210.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:01 IST,||Both BFC and MCFC have much to play for||Bengaluru FC (BFC) will get yet another opportunity to steady a stuttering season when it meets under-pressure Mumbai City FC (MCFC) at the Fatorda Stadium on Monday. Marco Pezzaiuoli’s side might be on a four-game unbeaten run, but there hasn’t been a match in recent memory where it has convinced from start to finish. Defending champion Mumbai, after a rollicking start that saw it win five of the opening six games, has lost two and drawn two of its last four, allowing the likes of Hyderabad FC, Jamshedpur FC and ATK Mohun Bagan to catch up. Both BFC and Mumbai had their previous matches against bottom-placed SC East Bengal and both ended in draws. While it may reflect the Kolkata outfit’s new-found steeliness under interim head coach Renedy Singh, it also points to the state of play at BFC and Mumbai. While BFC has been increasingly adept at controlling possession, it has struggled to score from open play, with attacking patterns failing to materialise. Against Mumbai, it may not have a lion’s share of the ball but the form Des Buckingham’s side is in provides hope. The Englishman has seen his wards concede 10 goals from just three matches before the 0-0 draw against East Bengal. He will also be without midfield lynchpin Ahmed Jahouh, who is suspended. The way Mumbai has been pulled back after it threatened to run away with the league shows how topsy-turvy the competition has been, with teams routinely cancelling each other out. BFC’s hopes rest on the same, for despite being in ninth position, a win can catapult the 2018-19 champion within touching distance of a playoff spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/both-bfc-and-mcfc-have-much-to-play-for/article38212350.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:17 IST,||‘I have happy memories from Australian Open’||The last time he played singles on the professional Tour, Yuki Bhambri had beaten the country’s best players Ramkumar Ramanathan and Prajnesh Gunneswaran, in March last year in Dubai. Even though he has played only doubles, winning two ITF titles with Saketh Myneni in Lucknow and Gurugram since then, the 29-year-old Bhambri said that he had done his best to be ready for his favourite Grand Slam, Australian Open. Talking to the media from Melbourne on Sunday, Bhambri, set to compete in the Australian Open qualifying event, said that his focus had all along been to be ready for this event. He had won the junior title in Melbourne in 2009 and was the No.1 junior in the world. “I feel good, stepping on court. I have happy memories from this Slam. Hope it helps my confidence and serve me well’’, said Bhambri, who will be playing the 248th ranked Joao Domingues of Portugal in the first qualifying round. Recurring injury Bhambri had played all the four Grand Slams in 2018 and reached a career best rank of 83, but a recurring knee injury has kept him out of the circuit repeatedly. “I have done it multiple times in the past. Am looking forward to it. I enjoy playing and that has kept me motivated. I have missed being part of the whole Tour. Happy to give myself the opportunity to compete again. It will be one match at a time’’, said Bhambri who had prepared by playing the ATP event in Melbourne with Michael Venus of New Zealand. He was sharp in saying that the whole Novak Djokovic episode was “unfortunate’’, and added that there could have been more clarity. Bhambri lauded Ramkumar Ramanathan and Rohan Bopanna for winning the doubles title in Adelaide and said that it was a “great start’’ for Indian tennis, as Sasikumar Mukund had also made the Challenger final. When queried about the system not producing many Indian tennis champions, Bhambri said that it was individual effort by the players and that the administrators should be asked the question. Bhambri said that he was looking forward to playing in the Pune ATP event and the Challengers in Bengaluru, apart from Davis Cup. “It will be a good opportunity, if we play to potential on grass, as the teams are balanced. If I get selected, I can help India pull through,” said Bhambri, about beating Belgium in the next Davis Cup tie scheduled on grass at the Gymkhana Club in Delhi in March. (Watch Australian Open 2022 live from January 17 on Sony Six, Sony Ten 3 and Ten 4 channels).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-have-happy-memories-from-australian-open/article38212202.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:21 IST,||Vazquez blasts Kerala to the top||Kerala Blasters found itself in unfamiliar territory on Sunday night — at the top of the ISL table. A 1-0 win against Hyderabad FC at Vasco's Tilak Maidan Stadium took it there. The winner was netted by Alvaro Vazquez late in the opening half. And it was a stunning goal too. Blasters has 17 points, the same as defending champion Mumbai City. An inferior goal difference meant that Mumbai dropped to the second spot. Hyderabad, which remained on 16 points after its first defeat in nine matches, slipped to third. Ivan Vukomanovic’s boys extended their unbeaten run to nine — quite a feat for a side which finished second from bottom last season. On this night, Hyderabad nearly took an early lead, but Edu Garcia’s well-taken free-kick, in the ninth minute, was pushed away by Blasters custodian Prabhsukhan Gill. Almost 15 minutes later, a better save came at the other end as Laxmikant Katti denied Jorge Pereyra Diaz. His header from close in, off a superb cross from Adrian Luna, was stopped by the Hyderabad goalkeeper. There wasn’t much any goalkeeper could have done against Vazquez’s brilliant volley, though. Harmanjot Khabra’s long throw-in into the box was first headed by Samad Sahal before it reached the Spaniard, who made no mistake. HFC received another blow when Bartholomew Ogbeche got his fourth yellow and will miss the next game.  The results: Kerala Blasters 1 (Vazquez 42) bt Hyderabad 0; Saturday: FC Goa 1 (Ortiz 82) bt Chennaiyin FC 0.   Monday’s match: BFC vs MCFC .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vazquez-fires-blasters-to-the-top/article38212168.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:17 IST,||Djokovic’s hearing looms large||After four nights in an Australian immigration detention hotel, Novak Djokovic will get his day in court on Monday in a deportation case that has polarised opinions and elicited heartfelt support for the top-ranked tennis star in his native Serbia. Djokovic had his visa cancelled after arriving at Melbourne airport last week when Australian border officials ruled that he didn't meet the criteria for an exemption to an entry requirement that all non-citizens be fully vaccinated for COVID-19. His lawyers have since filed court papers in his challenge against deportation from Australia that show Djokovic tested positive for COVID-19 last month and recovered. He used that as grounds in applying for a medical exemption to Australia's strict vaccination rules. The case is scheduled for a virtual hearing to appeal the visa cancellation. It will take place at the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia. On Sunday, Australian media reported that a federal government bid for extra time to prepare its case against Djokovic was denied. The application, made on behalf of Home Affairs Minister Karen Andrews during the weekend, sought to adjourn the final hearing by two days — just five days from the start of the Australian Open. Federal Circuit Court Judge Anthony Kelly refused the application and the case will resume on Monday as planned. The tournament begins Jan. 17 — just a week from his court date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovics-hearing-looms-large/article38212431.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:16 IST,||Own Voice could deliver in Golconda Oaks||Trainer S.K. Sunderji’s ward Own Voice who finished a good second on her debut to the champion filly Miracle in the 1000 Guineas, may make amends in the Golconda Oaks (Gr. 2), the main attraction of Monday’s (Jan.10) races. ARISTOCRAT PLATE (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.15 p.m.: 1. Ashwa Shirwal (8) B.R. Kumar 56, 2. AYR (5) Kiran Naidu 56, 3. Everglades (3) Kuldeep Singh 56, 4. London Bell (1) Nakhat Singh 56, 5. Sergeant Reckless (7) Mukesh Kumar 56, 6. Superstellar (2) Antony Raj S 56, 7. Galway Bay (4) R. Ajinkya 54.5 and 8. White Roses (6) Akshay Kumar 54.5.  1. WHITE ROSES, 2. GALWAY BAY, 3. LONDON BELL STORM TROOPER PLATE (DIV. I) (1,200m) Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 1.50: 1. Star Dancer (1) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. Morior Invictus (4) Ajeeth Kumar 56.5, 3. Ok Boss (3) Akshay Kumar 55.5, 4. Fly Tothe Stars (2) Khurshad Alam 54.5, 5. Aarya (5) R. Ajinkya 54, 6. Isra (6) Aneel 53.5, 7. My Master (9) Gaurav Singh 53.5, 8. Stride Forever (10) Rafique Sk. 53.5, 9. Akash (8) G. Naresh 53 and 10. Sharp Mind (7) Surya Prakash 51.  1. OK BOSS, 2. MORIOR INVICTUS, 3. STAR DANCER GANGOTRI PLATE (DIV. II) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.25: 1. Gregor Clegane (4) Aneel 60, 2. General Atlantic (10) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 3. Paladino (1) Santosh Raj 57.5, 4. Sweet Melody (5) P. Gaddam 55.5, 5. Big Brave (9) S.S. Tanwar 54.5, 6. Explosive (3) Afroz Khan 54, 7. Pedro Planet (8) Md. Ismail 54, 8. Prime Gardenia (7) B. Nikhil 53, 9. Story Teller (2) R.S. Jodha 53 and 10. Bedazzled (6) Rafique Sk. 52.  1. GENERAL ATLANTIC, 2. GREGOR CLEGANE, 3. PRIME GARDENIA DECCAN PRINCE PLATE (2,000m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 3.00: 1. Francis Bacon (4) Khurshad Alam 60, 2. Ashwa Raudee (8) Mukesh Kumar 59, 3. Southern Princess (2) Suraj Narredu 58.5, 4. Just Incredible (5) R. Ajinkya 58, 5. Buckley (6) Ajeeth Kumar 56.5, 6. Miss Marvellous (7) N.B. Kuldeep 56.5, 7. Painted Apache (10) S.A. Gray 56.5, 8. Mark My Word (9) Nakhat Singh 56, 9. Cheltenham (1) Afroz Khan 55 and 10. Fire Power (3) Akshay Kumar 54.5.  1. BUCKLEY, 2. PAINTED APACHE, 3. FIRE POWER GANGOTRI PLATE (DIV. I) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.35: 1. Lockhart (11) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 2. Once More (9) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 3. Char Ek Char (8) Ashad Asbar 57, 4. Southern Act (10) Mukesh Kumar 54.5, 5. Salisbury (5) Abhay Singh 54, 6. Aibak (7) Aneel 52.5, 7. Art In Motion (2) Md. Ismail 52, 8. Truth And Dare (6) S.J. Sunil 51.5, 9. Dillon (1) B. Nikhil 51, 10. Theo’s Choice (3) B.R. Kumar 51 and 11. Sputnic (4) G. Naresh 50.5.  1. SOUTHERN ACT, 2. TRUTH AND DARE, 3. THEO’S CHOICE GOLCONDA OAKS (Gr. II) (2,400m), (Terms) Fillies, 4-y-o only, 4.10: 1. Aretha (6) S.A. Gray 57, 2. Faith Of Success (1) Neeraj 57, 3. Icicle (2) Ashad Asbar 57, 4. Keystone (7) Mukesh Kumar 57, 5. Maximum Glamour (5) Suraj Narredu 57, 6. Own Voice (8) Ajeeth Kumar 57, 7. Ruling Goddess (3) Akshay Kumar 57 and 8. Winmylove (4) Antony Raj S 57.  1. OWN VOICE, 2. RULING GODDESS, 3. ICICLE STORM TROOPER PLATE (DIV. II) (1,200m) Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.45: 1. Quality Warrior (10) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. Narakamicie (3) Mukesh Kumar 59, 3. Zaganosh Pasha (9) Deepak Singh 58.5, 4. Hot Seat (5) Akshay Kumar 58, 5. Charmer (2) P. Gaddam 57, 6. Doe A Deer (8) Suraj Narredu 57, 7. Ambitious Star (1) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 8. Asturias (6) Santosh Raj 56, 9. Stark (4) Gaurav Singh 55.5 and 10. Amalfitana (7) Surya Prakash 53.5.  1. HOT SEAT, 2. DOE A DEER, 3. NARAKAMICIE  Day’s Best: OK BOSS Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 5, 6 & 7. Mini Jackpot: (i) 1, 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 4, 5, 6 & 7. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/own-voice-could-deliver-in-golconda-oaks/article38212204.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:17 IST,||Meghana — ready to grab the big opportunity||Self-belief and consistency on the domestic circuit helped me make a comeback into the Indian team, says S. Meghana. The first stand-by for the Indian women’s World Cup team and member of the squad for the T20Is in New Zealand, Meghana said: “Now I’m waiting to grab the big opportunity when it comes my way.”  “It has been a long wait. The last time I played for India was in 2016. But, ever since I scored three fifties in the 2019 Quadrangular Series in Patna for India-B, the confidence was back and I started batting more consistently,” 25-year-old Meghana said in a chat with The Hindu before leaving on Sunday with captain Mithali Raj for training at Mangalagiri ACA Academy in Guntur.  “The recent Challenger Trophy in Mulapadu where I had scores of 60, 102, 0 and 45 proved to be decisive as I started batting consistently in the bigger events in domestic cricket,” she said. Meghana is grateful to her South Central Railway coach R.S.R. Murthy and former BCCI junior selection panel chairman V. Chamundeshwarnath for providing turf wickets in Madhapur. “I remember the early days when Purnima Rao (former India captain) who, as Andhra coach, insisted I should work on my batting since I had the ability to hit even good-length deliveries,” she said.  “And, there is Nooshin (al Khadeer) who has always given invaluable tips along with Mithali akka . They played a big role in me being more consistent,” Meghana said.  Meghana, who learned her basics from coach Srinivas Reddy of ACA and Krishna Rao in Vijayawada, said she had made some minor adjustments to her technique. The SCR cricketer admires Mithali “having grown up watching her” and legend Sachin Tendulkar and feels that the New Zealand tour could well be the turning point of her career.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/meghana-ready-to-grab-the-big-opportunity/article38212433.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,||Canada sweeps past Spain, wins title||Felix Auger-Aliassime beat Spanish star Roberto Bautista Agut in a gripping encounter to earn Canada a maiden ATP Cup title here on Sunday. This followed Denis Shapovalov ending Pablo Carreno Busta’s winning start to the season 6-4, 6-3. World No. 11 Auger-Aliassime beat third-ranked Alexander Zverev during the tournament and again showed his class to down 19th-ranked Bautista Agut 7-6(3), 6-3 and seal the tournament for Canada. Canada earned its place in the final after stunning defending champion Russia on Saturday. The Canadians also beat Zverev’s Germany and Britain in group matches, bouncing back after crashing to the United States in their opening tie of the tournament. Both Spanish players had been in red-hot form, each winning all four of singles encounters so far.  The results: Final: Canada bt Spain 2-0 {Denis Shapovalov bt Pablo Carreno Busta 6-4, 6-3; Felix Auger-Aliassime bt Roberto Bautista Agut 7-6(3), 6-3} .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/canada-sweeps-past-spain-wins-title/article38212163.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:16 IST,||Bharath Subramaniyam is India’s 73rd GM||Fourteen-year old Bharath Subramaniyam on Sunday became India’s 73rd chess Grandmaster, securing the third and final GM norm at an event in Italy. The Chennai-based player scored 6.5 points (including six wins and draw) from nine rounds along with four others to finish seventh overall in the event held at Cattolica. He also touched the requisite 2,500 (Elo) mark. Lalith Babu wins Fellow Indian M.R. Lalith Babu emerged the winner with seven points, winning the title on the basis of a better tie-break score after he tied with three others including top-seed Anton Korobov (Ukraine). Bharath had achieved his first GM norm after securing 11th place at the Aeroflot Open in Moscow in February 2020 and the second by placing 4th in the junior Round Table Under 21 tournament in Bulgaria in October 2021. His coach, GM M. Shyam Sundar, tweeted: “Congratulations Bharath for becoming the latest GM of India!! Let’s focus on new goals in this new year!!”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bharath-subramaniyam-is-indias-73rd-gm/article38212206.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:21 IST,||Hernandez nets a brace||AC Milan got the better of Venezia 3-0 on Sunday, as defender Theo Hernandez struck twice in the second half to help his side clinch its third consecutive league win. Zlatan Ibrahimovic tapped in after two minutes, making the Venetians the 80th team the Swede has scored against in Europe’s top five leagues, a record only Cristiano Ronaldo has matched since 2000. The Real Madrid strike duo Karim Benzema and Vinicius Jr. both scored a brace to give the LaLiga leader a 4-1 home win over Valencia on Saturday, putting it back on track after last weekend’s disappointing loss to Getafe. Barcelona was held 1-1 by Granada.  The results: Serie A: Venezia 0 lost to AC Milan 3 (Ibrahimovic 3, Hernandez 48, 59-pen); .   Saturday: LaLiga: Granada 1 (Puertas 89) drew with Barcelona 1 (L. de Jong 57); Real Madrid 4 (Benzema 43-pen, 88, Vinícius Junior 52, 61) bt Valencia 1 (Guedes 76).   Bundesliga: Eintracht Frankfurt 2 (Borre 15, 24) lost to Borussia Dortmund 3 (Hazard 71, Bellingham 86, Dahoud 89) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hernandez-nets-a-brace/article38212166.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:16 IST,||Rajasthan girls meet Punjab||Rajasthan will meet Punjab in the girls’ final of the National Junior basketball championships here on Monday. In the semifinals held at the Basketball complex, Race Course Road on Sunday, Rajasthan beat Chhattisgarh 73-59, while Punjab trounced defending champion Kerala 80-59. Rajasthan, which led by a point (30-29) at half-time, dominated the third and fourth quarters to score an impressive win over Chhattisgarh. Kerala was all at sea against its taller opponent which took a decisive 13-point lead at half-time. The results:   Boys: Semifinals: Chandigarh 88 (Rohan Roy 25, Amarendar Singh 22, Harkirat Singh Siddhu 10) bt Uttar Pradesh 85 (Kushal Singh 33, Robin Banerjee 11, Aman Kaushik 11, Sumit Diwakar 10). Quarterfinals: Rajasthan 74 (Digvijay Singh 22, Lokendra Singh 21, Hemant Nayak 16) bt Punjab 49 (Karandeep Singh 13, Vishal Sharma 10); Chandigarh 88 (Amarendar Singh 44) bt Tamil Nadu 84 (S. Ajay 37, Harihara Sudan 18).   Girls: Semifinals: Rajasthan 73 (Rasi Kotani 27, Ankita Kumari 19) bt Chhattisgarh 59 (Riya Kunghadkar 18, D. Kirthi 15); Punjab 80 (Manmeet Kaur 24, Kanishka Dhir 22, Kavya Singla 15, Isha Rani 11) bt Kerala 59 (Sreelakshmi 18, P.J. Shilpa 10). Quarterfinals: Rajasthan 42 (Rashi 14) bt Karnataka 41 (Sanjana 19, Pavana 11) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajasthan-girls-meet-punjab-in-final/article38212203.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:13 IST,||Debasis stuns Aarav||Wild card Debasis Sahoo beat third seed Aarav Samrat Hada of Nepal 6-3, 7-5 in the boys first qualifying round of the ITF grade-2 junior tennis tournament at the CLTA Complex. Owing to heavy rain, the qualifying schedule was disrupted and will continue on Monday.  The results (qualifying singles first round): Boys: Manas Dhamne bt Prajwal Tewari 6-3, 6-0; Adhirit Awal bt Nikil Dosuza 7-5, 6-4; Chandan Shivaraj bt Rushikesh Sonawane 6-2, 6-4; Rethin Pranav bt Shanker Heisnam 6-1, 7-6(4); Vineeth Mutyala bt Lakshya Chugh 6-2, 3-6, [13-11]; Tarun Korwar bt Pratyaksh 6-1, 6-0; Raghav Sundararaman bt Yashvardhan Singh 6-2, 4-6, [10-7]; Debasis Sahoo bt Aarav Samrat Hada (Nep) 6-3, 7-5; Kriish Tyagi bt Arnav Bishnoi 7-5, 6-2; Monil Lotlikar bt Vansh Nandal 6-3, 6-3; Bushan Haobam bt Siddhant Sharma 6-4, 6-2; Deep Munim bt Siddarth Madhavan 6-1, 6-2.   Girls: Chahana Budhbhatti bt Rhea Arora 6-1, 6-1; Kotisha Modak bt Millee Chug 6-1, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/debasis-stuns-aarav/article38212682.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:21 IST,||Kohli likely to play third Test||India captain Virat Kohli, who missed the second Test because of an upper back spasm, had nets with the rest of the Indian team at Newlands on Sunday. The Indian team arrived in Cape Town, the venue for the decider, on Saturday. According to reports, Kohli played without any discomfort. The chances of Kohli leading India in the third Test appear bright..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-likely-to-play-third-test/article38212171.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,||Aboubakar stars for Cameroon||Captain Vincent Aboubakar scored two penalties as hosts Cameroon beat Burkina Faso 2-1 in the opening game of the Africa Cup of Nations on Sunday. Gustavo Sangare had put Burkina Faso in front at the Olembe Stadium but Aboubakar’s double turned the game around before half-time and there were celebratory fireworks at full-time in the stadium, where Cameroonian President Paul Biya and FIFA chief Gianni Infantino were in attendance. The Cup of Nations, delayed by a year because of the pandemic, runs until February 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aboubakar-stars-for-cameroon/article38212349.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:17 IST,||Brooks stars for West Indies||Shamarh Brooks, making his One-Day International debut at the age of 33, top scored with 93 as West Indies defeated Ireland by 24 runs in the first match of a three-game series at Sabina Park here on Saturday. The West Indies made 269 after being put in, before Ireland collapsed from 165 for one to 245 all out. Brooks hit nine boundaries and three sixes in his 89-ball stay. Captain Kieron Pollard smashed 69 with four boundaries and four sixes in a 155-run fifth-wicket partnership with Brooks. Three of those sixes came off successive balls off in the 37th over bowled by Andy McBrine.  The scores: West Indies 269 in 48.5 overs (Shai Hope 29, Shamarh Brooks 93, Kieron Pollard 69; Mark Adair 3/38, Craig Young 3/56) bt Ireland 245 in 49.1 overs (Andy Balbirnie 71, Andy McBrine 34, Harry Tector 53; Alzarri Joseph 3/55, Romario Shepherd 3/50) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brooks-stars-for-west-indies/article38212207.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:21 IST,||ISL’s message to clubs||In light of the recent COVID-19 case in the ATK Mohun Bagan camp, the Indian Super League has conveyed to the clubs that matches will go ahead if 15 players are available. In the event there aren't 15 players per team, the league will try and re-schedule the game if a window is available. If there is no suitable date, the opponent will be awarded a 3-0 win. If both teams do not have 15 players, it will be considered a 0-0 draw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/isls-message-to-clubs/article38212169.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 06:20 IST,||Mukund in final||Italy’s Luca Nardi eased past qualifier Sasikumar Mukund 6-3, 6-1 in the final of the €32,160 Challenger tennis tournament on Sunday. The Indian had shocked seventh seed Zsombor Piros of Hungary 6-3, 7-6(4) in the semifinal while Nardi had received a walkover from second seed Cedrik-Marcel Stebe of Germany.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mukund-in-final/article38212160.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 07:29 IST,||Visionary poet and saint||The Tirumandiram of Tirumoolar is placed as the Tenth Tirumurai among the Twelve Saiva Tirumurais. He is a visionary and a Siddhar who is aware of the past, present and future. He is regarded as a Nayanmar and his work is unique in many ways, pointed out Thiru C. Balu in a discourse. First of all, it is an authentic exposition of the Vedas and the Agamas and is hailed as the most comprehensive Saiva Agama work. In addition, it speaks of the ways of Siddhars as well as the greatness of God and it is held to be capable of leading the spiritual aspirant to salvation through the path to God realisation. Sekkizhar’s account in the Periyapuranam records that Tirumoolar has come from Kailasa to live on earth for some time to propagate the truths of Saivism and life’s philosophy through his 3,000 hymns. It is Divine Will that he should live in the physical body of a cowherd named Moolan and compose these invaluable hymns that are pithy and a treat to the ears and the intellect. The work is divided into nine sections known as Tantras. Though his verses are couched in simple straightforward Tamizh, one finds it difficult to translate and interpret them adequately because of the intricacy in the composition and also the depth of philosophical import they carry. The simple phrase Anbe Sivam, strikes with a subtle power to understand that Siva is the embodiment of love. In the famous oft-quoted verse ‘Onravan Thane’ the greatness of God is captured in the most comprehensive manner. In his vision God is the One and only Supreme Being who is manifest in all creation as the sole indwelling spirit. Till date, this work, like the Tirukkural, continues to influence and inspire people to seek the primary goals of life, righteous living, ‘aram,’ wealth, ‘porul,’ bliss, ‘inbam,’ and moksha, ‘veedu.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/visionary-poet-and-saint/article38212129.ece
11 January 2022||January 11 2022 10:15 IST,||Sudoku — January 11, 2022||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-10-2022/article38212805.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:31 IST,||A journey to the centre of the Earth||Earth’s mantle consists mostly of hot magma, which flows as lava when there is an volcanic eruption. Due to the high temperatures and pressure under Earth’s crust, magma has remained inaccessible to scientific instruments and hence a mystery. But that’s going to change now. A team of international researchers is preparing to drill two km into the heart of a volcano – the Krafla caldera in Iceland– to create the world's first underground magma observatory called the "Krafla Magma Testbed" (KMT). Let’s learn all about the project in this Five Ws & One H…   Krafla is a volcanic caldera in northern Iceland. A caldera is a large hollow that forms shortly after the emptying of a magma chamber in a volcanic eruption. The Krafla caldera is about 10 km in diameter with a 90 km long fissure zone. It sports a crater lake of blue water, plumes of smoke, and sulphurous bubbling of dirt and gases. The Krafla has erupted 29 times since recorded history.   Though scientific instruments have not been specifically used to reach magma earlier, geothermal energy drilling operations have come into contact with magma accidentally. One of these sites is the Krafla caldera in Iceland. In 2009, when engineers were expanding Krafla's geothermal power plant, a bore drill hit a pocket of 900-degree-Celsius magma by chance, at a depth of 2.1 km. Fortunately, there was no eruption and no one was hurt. However, lava flowed 9m up the well, damaged the drilling machines. Scientists were astonished to find that they were within reach of a magma pocket. That’s when they decided to launch a project to study it up close. And the result is the KMT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/a-journey-to-the-centre-of-the-earth/article38212061.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:31 IST,||Teddy’s Bear||It might be the perfect cuddle partner and companion for children of all ages; and come in various colours and sizes, but not many know the story behind the Teddy Bear. It is actually named after Theodore Roosevelt, the late United States President.   Theodore Roosevelt was a game hunter. One day, he went on a bear hunting trip with a group of people on invite from Andrew H. Longino, the Governor of Missisippi. While others in the group managed to spot bears, Roosevelt did not locate even one. To ensure the President didn’t feel dejected, his assistants cornered and tied an old black bear to a willow tree. They suggested Roosevelt shoot the bear, however, the President refused to shoot the bear as it would be very unsportsmanlike of him to shoot a bear he had not even located. Newspapers were quick to publish this event and the word quickly spread across the whole country.   Seeing the detailed pieces in the newspaper, Clifford Berryman, a political cartoonist, decided to create a satirical cartoon of Roosevelt’s refusal to shoot the bear. His cartoon appeared on November 16, 1902 in the Washington Post. Then, upon seeing the cartoon, Morris Michtom, a candy shop owner in Brooklyn, had an idea. He and his wife used to make stuffed animals, so Michtom decided to make a stuffed toy bear and dedicate it to Roosevelt. He called it Teddy’s Bear. Michtom then sought permission from Roosevelt for using his name to mass produce the stuffed bears. Once he received the same, he founded the Ideal Toy Company and started producing Teddy’s Bears that we all fondly call today as Teddy Bear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/teddys-bear/article38212063.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:31 IST,||India’s first Test win in South Africa||India might have lost the second Test at The Wanderers Stadium at Johannesburg in the ongoing series against South Africa, but the venue has traditionally been a lucky one for India. In fact, this defeat was India’s first in the format at the venue. India’s first Test victory in South Africa came at the venue in 2006. The first Test of the three match series between the two sides in 2006-07 was played at The Wanderers. India elected to bat first after winning the toss and managed to put 249 on the board, Sourav Ganguly top scoring with an unbeaten 51. India then ripped through the hosts, bundling them out for just 84 in 25.1 overs. Sreesanth was India’s hero as he picked up five wickets in his 10 overs. VVS Laxman’s 73 in the second innings helped the visitors score 236, adding to their 165-run lead from the first innings. Chasing 402 for victory, South Africa were dismissed for 278. Zaheer Khan, Sreesanth and Anil Kumble picked up three wicket each as India won by 123 runs. Sreesanth was named the player of the match for his efforts with the ball. India, however, lost the next two Tests in this series to lose the series 2-1.  Did you know?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/indias-first-test-win-in-south-africa/article38212065.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:31 IST,||blue cow?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/blue-cow/article38212059.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:48 IST,||A rich tapestry||Dr. Mahesh Rangarajan, Vice-Chancellor and Professor of History and Environmental Studies, Krea University, has been recognised by the American Historical Association (AHA) — only the fourth Indian — as Honorary Foreign Member for the year 2021. He was conferred the award at the AHA’s 135th annual meeting in New Orleans, the U.S. recently. In this interview, he talks about the award, the course and the study of history and the environment. Excerpts: You follow in the footsteps of other illustrious Indian historians, Jadunath Sarkar (1952), Romila Thapar (2009) and Ramachandra Guha (2019), who were also recognised by the American Historical Association as “historians working outside the United States, for their distinguished scholarship and assistance to American scholars working in their country”. How would you place yourself and your work in the context of these (fellow) historians? It is humbling to be named with scholars, some of whose work we read as college students. Sir Jadunath stands out for his meticulous chronological narrative histories of the Mughals and the Marathas. I think he might have been surprised by a focus on history as if the ecology mattered. British Empire-making in relation not only to tribals but also tigers, sal and teak trees and various non-human life forms were not issues of critical enquiry in his time. Americans like Donald Worster and William Cronon were pioneers of environmental history as was Professor Ramachandra Guha. I think, as is to be expected, my focus and sources and approach differ. As for U.S. historians, this is not recognition of an individual’s work alone but much more of a distinctive contribution by an array of scholars working in India’s rich tapestry of ecologies and histories. Could you highlight aspects of your work, which have been focused upon by the American Historical Association?  I would imagine there are twin dimensions of the long-term British imperial impacts on waters and land, the living biota and many life forms. The other is how a democracy grapples not only with equity among humans but also a peace with nature. My work spans mostly the late 19th century to the present. Animals are central as icons but also in terms of everyday life. To put it in a line — from the heyday of tiger shikar and kheddahs to trap elephants to our own era of biosphere reserves. It is also a transition from mostly reviling to critically respecting those who hunt or fish or herd or farm for a living.  You have said that “the scholarship of history is not new in India, but environmental issues have gained momentum in the last few decades”. Could you elaborate on this, especially in the context of your work? The initial wave of work was on movements of the disadvantaged such as forest rights or the dam displaced. Over three decades, the scope has grown from long histories such as Arupjyoti Saikia on the Brahmaputra to micro studies like Annu Jalais on the Sundarbans people who were displaced by a tiger reserve. The story is not merely of the material environment but how that intertwines with how humans endow nature with multiple meanings. The fate of Chennai’s waterways is being studied by Bhavani Raman. The hydro politics of Mumbai was researched by Miriam Dhosal. There are remarkable works on mountains and state-making in Himachal by Chetan Singh or Pathak’s magisterial people’s history of Chipko. For a student of history, the past is a vital resource to shape the future. What about the teaching of history, at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels of education in India?  My own experience is with university teaching where it should ideally go hand-in-hand with research. In Delhi University, our department helped design a historically sensitive course. I also edited Environmental Issues in India: A Reader . AtAshoka, we integrated new themes like animal histories as electives. In Krea, the very notion of environmental studies is informed by history or sociology as much as science.  In a nutshell, it is knowledge as if nature mattered and history as if the environment mattered. Ideas like the so-called conquest of nature arise at certain points of history. To transcend them, revisiting how we are trained to think is a good place to begin anew. Digital online resources have been seen as a way to increase the ‘possibilities of historians’. Your comments in this context. Astonishing sources are now available from the British Library and the Hermitage of Leningrad to our own National Archives and the amazing Bikaner archives of Rajasthan State. Material remains as shown by Kathleen Morrison or Shanti Pappu also matter enormously. The question is how to draw on such materials and make coherent sense of them. Asking ‘how’, ‘when’ and ‘why’ are the core challenges of the serious student of history and this quest can be enriched and renewed. It does call for more critical faculty and rigour in enquiry. The horizons are set to broaden in new ways. Read the full interview at www.thehindu.co.in/ education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/a-rich-tapestry/article38212338.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 05:13 IST,||How to thrive during a pandemic, the Verandah way||They say if you truly want to learn to swim, jump into the water. But if you’re a trained swimmer, as in the case of Mumbai-based fashion designer Anjali Patel Mehta, the deep seas will only help you get better. The last two years have been choppy for most, but Mehta, 42, has managed to grow her business — from a custom order label for people-in-the-know, to a thriving design company. She opened her first standalone store in Goa (a popular destination for long-term renters during India’s brutal lockdowns) in November 2020, established a presence at international retail giants like Bergdorf Goodman (the only Indian at the moment to retail there; Sabyasachi had earlier hosted a trunk show) and Neiman Marcus, and showed at Miami Swim Week (since 2017). But most importantly, she raised $1.1 million in seed funding via marquee investors comprising Neeraj Arora (former CBO, WhatsApp), Mike Novogratz (CEO, Galaxy Investment Partners), Lydia Jett (partner, SoftBank Vision Fund), and PDS Venture (PDS Multinational Fashions’ venture tech portfolio), among others. Fuel for growth Mehta’s print-focussed, decade-old, resortwear label, Verandah, which she bootstrapped from just Rs. 1.7 lakh of savings, is one of India’s chicest contemporary wear brands and she has no intention to pivot to bridal wear. A science student, she never studied fashion — she has a background in banking and trading in New York. On the personal front, from 2001, she spent a lot of time in medical care, recovering from a spinal injury and several surgeries. “That kind of time in and out of hospitals makes you fearless,” she says. So when, for a lot of us, the pandemic put a stark focus on the timing of our lives, for Mehta it proved to be the fuel. Rumour has it, she works Sundays and doesn’t own a Netflix account. Mehta isn’t new to Indian arts and crafts though. Her in-laws are one of the most successful embroidery ateliers in India, working with several international luxury brands. “It quickly taught me about good and bad design.” She also recounts being carted off to Cholamandal Artists’ Village (an artists’ commune in Chennai, known to spread modernism in south India) during her school holidays, with her artist mother. “I started designing because it brought me so much joy while I was on the bed. It’s also where I go to hide.” While it’s been a long detour, she’s managed to swim back home. Corporate strategy Given her international bank training, it’s no surprise Mehta runs her creative business like a corporate structure. Conversations with her don’t meander to topics like mood boards, inspirational trips, and the face of the brand. Instead, it includes words like ‘business and execution plans’, ‘polymers’ (her dad is a chemical engineer) and ‘supply chain certification’.  She hosts 360° reviews for her team. A concept she adapted from her Goldman Sachs stint — six people, including bosses, review each other anonymously once a year, and your bonus depends on it. In her case, the master ji s always get their bonus, but it ensures people are nice to each other through the year.  Mehta is ambitious, an intelligent businesswoman, and plays to her strengths. “One of my main standpoints with Verandah is that ‘designed and embroidered in India’ doesn’t always have to mean ethnic designs or fabrics. We can dress a global audience easily.” Facts over fabrics Mehta’s meticulous need for certification, and tech-based mindful fabric sourcing, is a novel and expensive step for a young Indian brand. Even so, she disregards the title of a sustainable brand. Verandah does use handloom fabrics from a cluster they support in Phulia, West Bengal, but it’s really her ease with new-age textiles and ethical practices that make it a label to look out for. They have been leather-free since 2015, carbon neutrality is the big goal, and follow a zero-waste policy. Mogya tribal women, as a part of the Ranthambore Project, helped Mehta use years of waste to make textile art and quilts. The Molai Forest Reserve on Majuli Island, Assam, plants one tree for every e-commerce purchase — which, by the way, can be tracked by a URL accessible to the buyer. (In India, e-commerce is available via WhatsApp and email, as the price points are different.) Verandah’s packaging, including the cello-tape used, is certified biodegradable. They await their ‘Butterfly Status’, a prestigious mark of new-climate aligned sustainable practices, from Positive Luxury Group that has previously certified brands like Anya Hindmarch and Alice Temperley. Her swimwear pieces are made with Econyl (regenerated nylon) from Italy-based company Aquafil, and Bemberg, a man-made silk crafted from cotton linter that is biodegradable and compostable. Dare we say, this is a bikini you’re saving the environment in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-to-thrive-during-a-pandemic-the-verandah-way/article38212608.ece
10 January 2022||January 10 2022 03:51 IST,||Kerala extends insurance for tourists||Tourists to 60 ecotourism centres maintained by the Kerala Forest department will be covered by an insurance policy. The department recently entered into an agreement with the United India Insurance Company Ltd. to provide insurance cover of Rs. 5 lakh for a person in case of death and total permanent disability and Rs. 2.5 lakh for permanent partial disabilities. “The initiative is expected to boost the State’s tourist-friendly image. Such an endeavour could be the first-of-its-kind in the country,” Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Pramod G. Krishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kerala-extends-insurance-for-tourists/article38212348.ece
