13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Hate speech: SC seeks response from govt.||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and the police chiefs of Delhi and Uttarakhand to respond to petitions that people accused of delivering hate speeches at a Dharam Sansad organised in Haridwar have not been arrested yet. A Bench led by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana issued notice even as petitioners contended that the declarations of communal hatred made by the speakers at Haridwar and in Delhi were unlike anything seen or heard before. They had made “open calls for the extermination of an entire religious community”, senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Indira Jaising submitted. “There is no law for this kind of hate speech,” Mr. Sibal said. He said the incident took a different colour from even the past instances of mob lynchings. The senior lawyer said more of these ‘Dharam Sansads’ had been organised. The next was on January 23 at Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh, he said. “If this court does not take quick steps, ‘Dharam Sansads’ would be held in Una, Kurukshetra, Dasna, Aligarh and in States where the process of election is going on. The atmosphere of the entire country will be vitiated. No arrests have taken place,” Mr. Sibal submitted. Appeal for early hearing The senior lawyer asked the court to list the case on Monday, especially in light of the event to be held on January 23. However, the court said Monday would not be possible. The Bench advised the petitioners to make a representation to the local authorities, making their apprehensions clear that speeches in these ‘Dharam Sansads’ may run the risk of violating the penal law against hate and were against the judgments of the Supreme Court. The Bench, during the hearing, noted that hate speech had been the subject of several petitions already pending with another Bench of the court. If that was so, this case ought to be tagged with the earlier ones before the other Bench. The CJI, however, said the Haridwar hate speech case would be listed 10 days later, either separately or with the earlier cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hate-speech-sc-seeks-response-from-govt/article64950464.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Retail inflation accelerates to 5.59%||Retail inflation quickened to 5.59% in December due to an uptick in food prices, while India’s industrial output grew at a subdued 1.4% in November 2021, according to data from the National Statistical Office (NSO). The inflation based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) compares with 4.91% seen a month earlier and 4.59% in December 2020. Consumer food price inflation accelerated to 4.05% in December, as against 1.87% seen in November 2021. CPI inflation surged to a six-month high, said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at rating agency ICRA. The increase relative to the previous month was primarily led by food and beverages, and clothing and footwear, with a welcome moderation in the prints for fuel and light, she added. Ms. Nayar pointed out that the unfavourable base led the inflation for food and beverages to jump to 4.5% in December from 2.6% in November, driven by vegetables and eggs, and that early data pointed towards a ‘broad-based moderation in prices of many food items’ this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/retail-inflation-accelerates-to-559/article64950470.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:06 IST,||Don’t get lured by easy loan offer: Police Commissioner||The City Police on Wednesday urged people not to download mobile Apps offering easy loans and also not to give permission to such Apps to access their personal information in their mobile phones. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters here that the death of Sushanth Kumar on January 10 in Surathkal Police limits was said to be due to harassment meted out to him after he availed of a loan through one such App. He had reportedly written a note in this connection. “While there have been talk of harassment through such Apps, this is the first such case registered in the Police Commissionerate,” Mr. Kumar said and added upon further investigation, it was learnt that there are more than 600 such Apps available through PlayStore in the country. “We are not very sure whether all these Apps offer easy loans and harass customers. But we have constituted an expert team to investigate the reasons leading to the death of Sushanth Kumar. If it was really found that such Apps indeed harass customers, a suitable report will be given to the government,” the Commissioner said. Mr. Kumar further noted that a majority of such Apps do not have the required permission from the Reserve Bank of India to engage in financial transactions and hence, people should not subscribe to them. While such Apps are being installed, permission is sought to access customer’s personal information, including access to gallery, phone book, device information and location. Once access to such information is granted, the operators might harass customers if they fail to repay the loan with exorbitant rates of interest, he said. People should not get carried away by offers of easy loan without any collateral security offered by these Apps, Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-get-lured-by-easy-loan-offer-police-commissioner/article38263591.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:11 IST,||Ration shops to work on shifts from today||Ration shops in the State will function on a shift system till January 18 so that a server glitch that upset ration supply across the State can be sorted out. Outlets in Malappuram, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kollam, Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta and Wayanad will operate from 8.30 a.m. to 12 noon from January 13 to January 18. These districts account for 46.5 lakh of the cardholders. Shops in Ernakulam, Kozhikode, Thiruvananthapuram, Kannur, Kottayam, Kasaragod and Idukki, which accounts for a little over 45.32 lakh cardholders, will function from 3.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. during the above-cited period. Announcing the regulations here on Wednesday, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G. R. Anil said a preliminary inquiry pointed to a problem with the server capacity which caused the ''problem'' in ration supply. The snag hit the online system which enables the electronic point of sale (e-PoS) machines in ration shops. A section of the dealers had downed shutters, suspending the supply of ration goods on Tuesday, on the grounds that the problem persisted. IT experts who attended a meeting convened by the Civil Supplies Department were hopeful of rectifying the snag in two days. The server would be linked to the State Data Centre as part of the troubleshooting measures, Mr. Anil said. Meanwhile, Mr. Anil blamed a section for attempting to scare the public and the ration dealers. He said the problem in ration supply had come to his notice on Saturday afternoon and prompt measures were taken to address it. ‘Discrediting the govt.’ But a section was using the technical snag to discredit the government by creating the impression that ration distribution was in utter disarray. The snag was partially resolved by 12.10 p.m. on Tuesday (January 11), but several shops still remained shut in the afternoon, he said. The Minister urged ration dealers to keep their shops open as per the temporary schedule. Ration shops cannot be kept shut without giving sufficient notice to the government and the Civil Supplies Department, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ration-shops-to-work-on-shifts-from-today/article64950589.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:24 IST,||‘Data suggest current wave may have peaked’||On a day when the Capital recorded the second-highest number of fresh COVID-19 cases — 27,561— since the start of the pandemic, Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain said there were indications that the current wave may have peaked and may decline in two-three days. As many as 40 COVID-related deaths were reported over 24 hours, the highest in the current wave, taking the total toll to 25,240, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Delhi’s highest COVID-19 cases so far — 28,395 — were recorded on April 20 last year during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. Mr. Jain said hospital admissions due to COVID-19 have stabilised over the last five days. “For the past few days, there have been close to 20,000 cases daily in Delhi and the positivity rate has consistently been around 25%. Aside from that, the number of people admitted to hospitals is not growing. The current stability of the positivity rate and the rate of hospitalisation of patients may indicate the peak of the corona [virus infections],” Mr. Jain said. New ICMR guidelines The Health Minister also said that according to the new ICMR guidelines, if a person does not have any symptoms of COVID-19 and is under 60 years of age without any comorbidity, then he or she does not have to be tested. Positivy rate rises The test positivity rate (TPR) in the Capital rose to 26.22% on Wednesday, according to the government’s health bulletin. It was recorded at 25.65% a day earlier. The number of tests conducted over 24 hours — 1,05,102 — was also the highest during the current wave. Active cases in the city rose to 87,445 from 74,881 a day earlier. Of the total 14,802 beds, 84.04% were vacant as of Wednesday. But the rate of increase in TPR and new cases has slowed down over the past couple of days, compared with last week when the spike was as high as 94.5% on January 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/data-suggest-current-wave-may-have-peaked/article64950694.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:29 IST,||Holiday for Class I to VIII students in four taluks of Dharwad||In the wake of continued rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in Dharwad district, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil has declared holiday for Class I to VIII fromThursday in four taluks of the district. The Deputy Commissioner made the announcement after chairing a review meeting on COVID-19 situation with health experts and officials of the Department of Public Instruction. In his order, the Deputy Commissioner has said that the closure order will apply to schools of Hubballi Urban and Rural taluks and Dharwad Urban and Rural taluks. However, classes for students of Alnavar, Navalgund, Kundgol and Annigeri talukswill be held as usual. In the wake of some students and teachers testing positive for the pandemic, a few schools and colleges in the district have suspended offline classes and asked parents not to send their wards unless intimated. The decision comes in the wake of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai authorising Deputy Commissioners and Chief Executive Officers of Zilla Panchayat to decide on suspending physical classes based on the ground situation in the respective taluks. According to the district administration, 50 students in the district have tested positive for the pandemic along with 11 teachers in the last four days. These cases are from Dharwad Urban and Rural taluks and Hubballi Urban and Rural taluks. The decision has been taken to check the spread of the infection, the Deputy Commissioner has said in the order. The Deputy Commissioner has clarified that teachers can conduct online classes from school campus and conduct physical classes for students of Class IX and X, with strict adherence to COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/holiday-for-class-i-to-viii-students-in-four-taluks-of-dharwad/article38263436.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Jolt to BJP as another U.P. Minister resigns||In a second big blow to the BJP within a span of 24 hours, another senior OBC leader, Dara Singh Chauhan, resigned from the Yogi Adityanath Cabinet on Wednesday, accusing the government of neglecting the Other Backward Classes, Dalits, farmers, youth and deprived sections. He followed the path of fellow OBC leader Swami Prasad Maurya who quit the U.P. Cabinet on Tuesday. Soon after Mr. Chauhan quit, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav shared a picture of himself with Mr. Chauhan, welcoming the latter into the SP fold. Mr. Yadav hailed Mr. Chauhan as a “relentless fighter in the struggle for social justice.” However, Mr. Chauhan said he would consult his supporters and community before deciding the next step. Mr. Maurya, meanwhile, said on January 14, he would start a “new innings” in politics with a “historic decision” in Lucknow. In his resignation letter to Governor Anandiben Patel, Mr. Chauhan, who belongs to the Noniya Chauhan OBC community, said he was “hurt” by the government tampering with the reservation of OBCs and Dalits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jolt-to-bjp-as-another-up-minister-resigns/article38263161.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Arrest warrant against Maurya||A court in U.P. on Wednesday issued an arrest warrant against BJP MLA and former Minister Swami Prasad Maurya in a seven-year-old case.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arrest-warrant-against-maurya/article38263163.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:25 IST,||PM opens 11 medical colleges in T.N.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday virtually inaugurated 11 new government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu. The colleges in Ariyalur, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, Namakkal, Ramanatha- puram, the Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Tiruvallur and Virudhunagar would have an intake of 1,450 MBBS students annually. On the occasion, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin reiterated Tamil Nadu’s stand against the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test-based medical admissions and appealed to Mr. Modi to allow admissions on the basis of Class XII marks. The total cost of the buildings, shared by the Central and State governments, is Rs. 4,080 crore. The Central government’s share was Rs. 2,145 crore and the State government’s was Rs. 1,934.6 crore. While Governor R.N. Ravi took part in the virtual event from the Raj Bhavan, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya, Mr. Stalin, Minister for Public Works E.V. Velu, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu (also holding the portfolio of Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture) and Health Minister Ma. Subramanian took part from the Secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-opens-11-medical-colleges-in-tn/article38263410.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||SC grants bail to T.N. ex-Minister||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted former AIADMK Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji bail for four weeks in connection with a job scam case. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana even wondered whether a judicial inquiry should be ordered into the circumstances that led to the former Minister’s arrest when his case for bail was already pending in the top court, his incarceration in a Tiruchi jail 300 km away from the jurisdictional court and the raids on the houses of his lawyers. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for the Tamil Nadu government, denied the accusations of “personal vendetta” lodged against the State by the former Minister. Mr. Rohatgi said the police complaint against Mr. Bhalaji was registered in August 2021. “For the next five months, the State did not do anything. If this was a case of personal vendetta, we would have arrested him the next day of the complaint in August,” Mr. Rohatgi submitted. The senior advocate said there were multiple complaints that the Minister’s assistants received money at his house. He said that Mr. Bhalaji’s arrest on January 5, just before his case was listed in the Supreme Court, was a mere coincidence. The court allowed the former Minister bail provided he did not leave the jurisdiction of the police station in which the crime was registered. The court ordered Mr. Bhalaji to surrender his passport and cooperate with the investigation. The court listed the case after three weeks. The senior advocate said there were multiple complaints that the Minister’s assistants received money at his house. “The Minister had himself been absconding. How can this be a case of personal vendetta? People have lost their livelihoods and sold their jewellery to pay money to the Minister,” Mr. Rohatgi submitted. He submitted that Mr. Bhalaji’s arrest on January 5, just before his case was listed in the Supreme Court, was a mere coincidence. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, for Mr. Bhalaji, argued that the case was a product of political vendetta. “We are increasingly becoming a police state and it looks like any citizens can be arrested. The lower Magistracy is not standing up against it. We all know how police can pressurise witnesses,” Mr. Dave argued. He said they had not been given the remand order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-grants-bail-to-tn-ex-minister-in-job-scam-case/article38263201.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||2.41 lakh fresh COVID cases, 372 fatalities||India recorded 2,41,003 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day increase in the ongoing wave. The day saw 372 new fatalities. The infections increased by more than 165% compared with the case count a week ago. The increase in the number of tests conducted on Tuesday, the results for which were made available on Wednesday, may have played a part in the spike in infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/241-lakh-fresh-covid-cases-372-fatalities/article38263162.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:21 IST,||PM opens 11 new medical colleges in T.N.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday virtually inaugurated a record 11 new government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu. The colleges established in Ariyalur, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, Namakkal, Ramanathapuram, the Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Tiruvallur and Virudhunagar would have a cumulative annual intake of 1,450 MBBS students. Stand against NEET Participating in the event from Chennai, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who spoke ahead of the Prime Minister, sought the Centre’s support for Tamil Nadu’s stand against the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) mandatory for admissions to undergraduate medical courses. Switching to English, Mr. Stalin underlined, “The admission policy of Tamil Nadu plays a very important role in our health infrastructure. It is to protect this we have been continuously demanding that Tamil Nadu be exempted from NEET. I appeal to the Union government to consider our request favourably.” Mr. Modi did not respond to this demand in his speech. The Tamil Nadu Assembly had adopted legislation against NEET twice — once during the erstwhile AIADMK government and another during the DMK government in September last. While the President had declined assent for the first Bill, the latest Bill is pending with the Governor. Mr. Modi, speaking from New Delhi, said it was for the first time that 11 medical colleges were being inaugurated in one State. The previous record was nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh. The cost of constructing the new colleges in Tamil Nadu was shared by the Centre (Rs. 2,145 crore) and the State (Rs. 1,934.6 crore). The colleges in Ariyalur, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, the Nilgiris and Virudhunagar would have an annual intake of 150 students, while the rest would admit 100 students annually. Pointing out that shortage of doctors had remained an issue for long and his government made it a priority to address this critical gap, Mr. Modi said that in 2014, there were 387 medical colleges, but the number had gone up to 596. In 2014, India had around 82,000 medical undergraduate and postgraduate seats. In the last seven years, this number had gone up to around 1.48 lakh, he said. “The once-in-a-lifetime COVID-19 pandemic has reaffirmed the importance of the health sector. The future will belong to societies that invest in healthcare,” he said. The Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Infrastructure Mission is aimed at addressing the critical gaps in health infrastructure and health research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-opens-11-new-medical-colleges-in-tn/article38263225.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:54 IST,||State registers highest spike in a single day||Karnataka on Wednesday logged its biggest single-day spike of 21,390 new cases of COVID-19. With this, the total number of positive cases rose to 30,99,519. The positivity rate for the day touched 10.96%. The State is witnessing over 20,000 fresh cases after eight months. During the second wave, new cases had breached the 20,000 mark on April 20, 2021. After cases started declining, it was on May 29, 2021 last when cases hovered around 20,000. The epicentre of the pandemic, Bengaluru Urban, reported 15,617 new cases on Wednesday. With this, its COVID tally touched 13,34,957, nearly half of the State’s total cases. With 10 deaths, the toll rose to 38,389. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,541 persons were discharged on Wednesday. Active cases in the State are now nearing one lakh with 93,009 as of Wednesday. Last year, the number of active cases had crossed the one lakh mark on April 16, a month after the onset of the second wave. However, during the first wave, active cases crossed one lakh on September 10, six months after the pandemic hit Karnataka on March 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-registers-21390-new-covid-cases/article38263195.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:26 IST,||SC grants bail to T.N. ex-Minister||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted former AIADMK Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji bail for four weeks in connection with a job scam case. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana even wondered whether a judicial inquiry should be ordered into the circumstances that led to the former Minister’s arrest when his case for bail was already pending in the top court, his incarceration in a Tiruchi jail 300 km away from the jurisdictional court and the raids on the houses of his lawyers. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for the Tamil Nadu government, denied the accusations of “personal vendetta” lodged against the State by the former Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-grants-bail-to-tn-ex-minister/article38263157.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Indu Malhotra panel to probe security breach||The Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed a committee chaired by its former judge Indu Malhotra to inquire into a security breach that led to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s convoy being stuck on a flyover in Punjab on January 5. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana told the five-member committee to submit its confidential report at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indu-malhotra-panel-to-probe-security-breach/article38263164.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:54 IST,||Rally: Movement of people and vehicles banned||Taking definitive steps to prevent congregation of people for the Mekedatu padayatra, the State Government on Wednesday night banned inter-district (within Karnataka) and intra-district (within Ramanagaram) movement of vehicles and persons for participating in the ‘Namma Neeru Namma Hakku’ padayatra. So far, the Government had filed three FIRs against Congress leaders for violating norms. The prohibition of vehicle movement and persons will be in force till further orders, an order issued by Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar, under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rally-movement-of-people-and-vehicles-banned/article38263193.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:24 IST,||Nagaland probe report soon, says Army chief||The Army’s Court of Inquiry into the botched operation in Nagaland last month will submit its report in a day or two, Army chief General Manoj Naravane said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nagaland-probe-report-soon-says-army-chief/article64950691.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:24 IST,||BARC ratings for news channels to resume soon||Ratings by the Broadcast Audience Research Council for news channels will resume soon, with the organisation revising its procedures and protocols. The ratings were suspended after the Mumbai police busted a racket involving a private channel’s efforts to tamper the ratings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/barc-ratings-for-news-channels-to-resume-soon/article38263537.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:12 IST,||From next session, JNU admission through CUET||The Academic Council of Jawaharlal Nehru University on Wednesday cleared a proposal to conduct the varsity’s entrance exam through the Common Universities Entrance Test from the academic session 2022-23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/from-next-session-jnu-admission-through-cuet/article64950773.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:12 IST,||BARC ratings for news channels to resume soon||Ratings by the Broadcast Audience Research Council for news channels will resume soon, with the organisation revising its procedures and protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/barc-ratings-for-news-channels-to-resume-soon/article38263343.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:12 IST,||Nagaland probe report soon, says Army chief||The Army’s Court of Inquiry into the botched operation in Nagaland last month will submit its report in a day or two, Army chief General Manoj Naravane said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nagaland-probe-report-soon-says-army-chief/article38263342.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:29 IST,||Swami Vivekananda Jayanti celebrated||The district administration organised celebrations of Swami Vivekananda birth anniversary and National Youth Day in Belagavi. The celebrations were symbolic due to COVID-19 restrictions. Sri Mokshatananda Swami of Sri Ramakrishana Mission addressed a group of youth at Belagavi Fort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/swami-vivekananda-jayanti-celebrated/article38263435.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:24 IST,||AAP to announce Punjab CM candidate next week||AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the party’s chief ministerial candidate for the Punjab Assembly election would be announced next week. Mr. Kejriwal has started his door-to-door campaign from Punjab’s Kharar constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aap-to-announce-punjab-cm-candidate-next-week/article38263538.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:29 IST,||Belagavi records one of the coldest nights||Belagavi recorded one of the coldest nights in the recent years with the mercury dropping to 8.6 degrees Celsius in the early hours of Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/belagavi-records-one-of-the-coldest-nights/article64950674.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||NEARBY||Continuing to witness a surge in COVID-19 infections daily, the State reported 3,205 fresh cases in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. It was the highest single-day tally in the past six and half months or since July 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearby/article38263158.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Threat remains in eastern Ladakh: Army chief||As India and China held the 14th round of Corps Commander-level talks on Wednesday, Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane said that while there has been partial disengagement in eastern Ladakh, the threat has by no means reduced and the Army has bolstered its position “manifold” in the last year and half. He also said the new Chinese border law that came into effect on January 1 is unlikely to have any military ramifications and if any, the Army is adequately prepared to handle them. “Force levels are more or less the same and from our side enhanced. Threat assessment and internal deliberations have resulted in re-organisation and realignment of forces, in keeping with the Army’s mandate, of ensuring our territorial integrity. And this also caters for the major augmentation that has taken place in the PLA forces and their infrastructure,” Gen. Naravane said at the annual press conference ahead of Army Day which was held in virtual format for the first time. On the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) going forward, Gen. Naravane said the deployment of a large number of PLA forces by the Chinese in eastern Ladakh was the root cause of the situation which developed. “Now that they are there and have made a lot of infrastructure, it remains to be seen whether they will permanently station themselves there or whether they will be amenable to some kind of de-induction in the times to come,” he said. Steps for de-induction He said any de-induction will have to follow a few laid-out steps, which first comprises disengagement in the friction areas along the LAC, confidence building, followed by de-escalation which is moving back to the depth areas and de-induction can take place “only after that”, which is when troops would move back to their permanent locations. “Whatever we decide to do, will be based on the principle of mutual and equal security. Till we reach there, we will have to be prepared to stay there for as long as required.” Gen. Naravane said that in the last year and half since the standoff, the forces’ capabilities on the northern borders have gone up manifold and they are better prepared to meet any challenge. “This also gave us an opportunity to review our operational plans and based on that a lot of activities were undertaken to augment our capabilities not only in eastern Ladakh but all along the northern front,” he said. Response to attempts He said it was clear that the Army’s response to Chinese attempts to unilaterally change the status quo was robust and India was able to thwart this design. “Re-orientation of additional forces to the northern borders has been carried out while retaining our capability for punitive strikes on the western front.” Stating that it was not only augmentation of forces but also of infrastructure, weapons and equipment, Gen. Naravane said they had inducted additional troops, made various infrastructure and billeting facilities for 25,000 additional troops which had gone into that area in addition to roads, tunnels and storage facilities for ammunition and fuel. On the possibility of a conflict, he said they are prepared for whatever is thrown at them. “War or conflict is always an instrument of last resort. But if resorted to, we will come out victorious,” he asserted. To questions on the 14th senior military commander level talks, Gen. Naravane said it was a good thing the talks are going on which shows that we can resolve our differences through dialogue. 14th round of talks Stating that expecting every round of talks will have an outcome was unreasonable, the Army chief said talks help both sides understand each other’s viewpoints, perceptions and differences go down with each meeting. “Then, we reach an agreement, which is based on mutual and equitable security and is acceptable to both sides and is a win-win for both,” he said. A number of rounds will be required to deal with the situation and resolve them one at a time, he said adding, once the remaining issues at Hot Springs are resolved they will “look at other issues which predate the current standoff”. On the new Chinese border law, the Army chief said the Ministry of External Affairs has also made it clear that this it will have no bearing on the bilateral relations between India and China and India does not accept it as such. “We have many other agreements and protocols which predate this law and any law which is not legally tenable and not in keeping with the other agreements we’ve had in the past, obviously cannot be binding on us,” he said. Military ramifications As far as military ramifications are concerned, he said they are still looking into that aspect. “Should there be any likely fallout in the military domain, we are more than adequately prepared to deal with it with whatever steps we have taken and rebalancing we have carried out.” Asked about the demilitarisation of the Siachen glacier, Gen. Naravane said the situation on the world’s highest battlefield has occurred because of Pakistan’s unilateral attempts. We are not averse to demilitarisation of the Siachen glacier, but a precondition is acceptance of Actual Ground Position Line (AGPL) in the process, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/threat-remains-in-eastern-ladakh-army-chief/article64950462.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,||India reports 2.41 lakh new cases, 372 deaths||India recorded 2,41,003 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day increase in the ongoing wave. The infections increased by more than 165% compared with the case count a week ago. The increase in the number of tests conducted on Tuesday, the results for which were made available on Wednesday, may have played a part in the spike in infections. On Tuesday, 17,61,900 tests were conducted, a 25% increase from a week ago. The number of active cases in the country crossed the 10.5-lakh mark, and the cumulative infections stood at 3.62 crores. On Wednesday, 372 new fatalities were recorded, not wavering much from the average levels recorded in the past month. The figures are based on the State bulletins released until 10 p.m. on Wednesday. Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Jharkhand and Tripura had not released data for the day. Active cases in Maharashtra crossed 2.4 lakhs, after the State reported 46,723 new cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day jump in the past fortnight. The State’s active case burden stood at 2,40,122 and the test positivity rate at 9.89%. A higher than usual fatality figure was reported on Wednesday, with 32 deaths pushing the cumulative death toll to 1,41,701. 40% rise in Mumbai Mumbai reported 16,420 infections, a 40% increase from the previous day. The increase came after four consecutive days of decline recorded in the city. The city’s positivity rate also spiked to 24% from 18.7% the day before. Pune district reported more than 7,000 new cases and Thane more than 3,900. There was a sharp rise in cases in Gujarat, with 9,941 reported on Wednesday, the highest in the past five months.The active caseload climbed to 43,726, of which 51 patients are on ventilator support. Assam recorded 3,274 new cases on Wednesday after 49,915 samples were tested. The test positivity rate stood at 6.56%. Four new deaths were also reported on the day. The active case count stood at 11,792. It was no different in Andhra Pradesh, where 3,205 fresh cases were reported in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. It was the highest single-day tally in the past six and a half months. In the week ending on January 12, a total of 9,503 infections were reported, a 500% rise over the 1,527 infections reported in the previous week. The positivity rate stood at 7.64%. The active cases crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time in 101 days. It stood at 10,119. Visakhapatnam and Chittoor districts accounted for more than 40% of the active cases. The State has 203 patients in ICUs. Kerala logged 12,742 new cases after 72,808 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The daily caseload has gone up by more than two fold in the past two days, and the case graph has been on a steady rise since January 3 Between January 5-11, new cases rose by 116%, in comparison to the previous week, while active cases went up by 63%. The active case pool added close to 10,000 new cases on a single day, taking the tally to 54,430 on Wednesday. Of these, 3,029 persons are being treated in hospitals across the State 21,000 in Karnataka Karnataka on Wednesday reported 21,390 new cases, with Bengaluru Urban alone reporting 15,617. The test positivity rate stood at 10.96%. The death toll stood at 38,389. There are 93,099 active cases in the State. Telangana reported 2,319 new cases on Wednesday after 90,000 samples were tested. The State also reported two deaths. (With inputs from bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-reports-241-lakh-new-cases-372-deaths/article64950439.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:37 IST,||BJP leaders in a huddle amid speculation on Ayodhya ticket||The under-construction Ram temple in Ayodhya is all set to occupy the central place in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s campaign for the Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh, with speculation gaining ground that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is likely to contest the polls from the constituency. Top leaders from Uttar Pradesh, including Mr. Adityanath, Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, and Sunil Bansal, general secretary of organisation for the State unit, have been in a huddle with the national leadership of the party, including party president J.P. Nadda, Home Minister Amit Shah, and Education Minister and BJP in-charge for the polls in U.P. Dharmendra Pradhan, for the past two days, after which this speculation has gained ground. Earlier, Mr. Adityanath had openly declared that he would be fighting the polls, a sort of challenge to Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Mayawati, who had both declined to contest. At that time, Mr. Adityanath had said he was prepared to fight from any seat, be it Mathura in western Uttar Pradesh, or Ayodhya, or Varanasi. Harnath Yadav, Rajya Sabha member, had in fact written to the party high command, requesting that Mr. Adityanath contest from Mathura, a suggestion he said he had received in a dream from Lord Krishna. The decision to fight from Ayodhya, however, if borne out in an actual announcement, will not be based on a dream, but as a cold political calculation. Ayodhya is the centre of the BJP’s appeal to the larger Hindu vote bank, and Mr. Adityanath’s statement on how the elections this time would be between “80 vs 20” alludes to this politics. The BJP’s discussion for the first phase of polling on February 10 in U.P. will lead to a meeting of the party’s central election committee on January 16 or around then, and the announcement may be made at the time. Ayodhya goes to the polls in the fifth phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-leaders-in-a-huddle-amid-speculation-on-ayodhya-ticket/article64950450.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Somanath appointed new Chairman of ISRO||Eminent rocket scientist S. Somanath has been appointed Chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and Space Secretary. Dr. Somanath is taking over the reins of ISRO at a critical juncture when sweeping reforms and critical missions are set to define the forward journey of the storied space agency.  Commenting on his priorities, Dr. Somanath told The Hindu that space sector reforms, which involves hand-holding the private sector and start-ups so that they emerge as key partners in the sector’s development, find a top spot on his list.  “We have to hold their hand and support them to come up. The idea is that the space ecosystem should become more vibrant, economically viable and self-sustaining. IN-SPACe is defining a new model, which is also designed to expand our space economy. The Rs. 16,000-crore space economy that we have in India today should grow to a Rs. 60,000-crore space economy,” said Dr. Somanath, who has been serving as the Director of the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) and the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST). The senior space scientist is also taking over at a time when ISRO has numerous missions and projects — the Gaganyaan human spaceflight mission included — waiting in the wings. Further, the COVID-19 has played havoc with ISRO’s schedules over the past two years, setting another challenge. Looking back, Dr. Somanath recalls his younger days, when, as a student, he developed a keen passion for space technology. He joined the VSSC in the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) project in 1985, after obtaining his B.Tech. in mechanical engineering from the TKM College of Engineering, Kollam, and a Master’s in aerospace engineering from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore with specialisation in structures, dynamics and control. Dr. Somanath has played a major role in the development of the PSLV and the Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle Mk-III (GSLV Mk-III). He joined the GSLV Mk-III project in 2003, and served as Project Director from 2010 to 2014. “Somanath is an expert in the area of system engineering of launch vehicles. His contributions in PSLV and GSLV MkIII were in their overall architecture, propulsion stages design, structural and structural dynamics designs, separation systems, vehicle integration and integration procedures development,” according to ISRO. Later on, he had a two-and-a-half-year stint as Director, Liquid Systems Propulsion Centre (LPSC), Valiamala, where he contributed to the development of the indigenous cryogenic stages for the GSLV. Dr. Somanath took over as the Director, VSSC, in January 2018. Dr. Somanath’s wife Valsala is employed in the GST Department, Kerala. They have a daughter, Malika, and a son, Madhav, both of whom are engineers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/somanath-appointed-new-chairman-of-isro/article64950458.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:37 IST,||Omicron is not common cold, warns Centre||Omicron infection is not common cold, the Union Health Ministry warned on Wednesday, adding that fully vaccinated people were 78% less likely to develop COVID-19 infection than unvaccinated people. Quoting a study by the New York State Health Department, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, said the report, based on analysis since May 2021, also showed that fully vaccinated people had between 90.2% and 95.7% lower chance of being hospitalised. The Ministry said the positivity rate in the country had risen to 11.05% on January 12 from 1.1% on December 30. Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Gujarat were emerging as States of concern due to the rapid rise in cases there. It added that 300 districts in the country were reporting weekly case positivity of more than 5%. “Though hospitalisation rates are so far low, Omicron should not be taken lightly with the variant now putting extreme stress on healthcare systems and workers across the globe. During the last surge, misuse and overuse of medicines happened and should not be repeated. Guidelines are clear about the treatment protocol and will be updated as per scientific evidence and data,” V.K. Paul, NITI Aayog member (Health), said at the press conference. Issuing a warning against the use of Molnupiravir, the second time this week, Director-General of the Indian Council of Medical Research Balram Bhargava said the side-effects of the anti-viral pill outweighed its benefits. Mr. Agarwal said the government had revised the discharge policy, with mild cases eligible for discharge after at least seven days from testing positive and no fever for three successive days. There is no need for testing prior to discharge, he said. In case of moderate infection, if there is resolution of symptoms and the patient’s oxygen saturation level stays above 93% for three successive days (without O2 support), then such patients can be discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-is-not-common-cold-warns-centre/article64950442.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:37 IST,||Nagaland probe report soon: Naravane||The Army’s Court of Inquiry into the botched operation in Nagaland last month will submit its report in a day or two, Army chief General Manoj Naravane said on Wednesday. He said the law of the land is paramount and action would be taken as required. “The regrettable incident which happened in Oting in Nagaland on December 4 is being thoroughly investigated... The inquiry is in its final stages and the findings would be submitted in a day or two,” Gen. Naravane said, addressing the annual press conference ahead of Army Day. “I would like to clarify that the law of the land is paramount and we would always uphold that and take action as required in upholding it.” Fourteen civilians and a soldier were killed in Mon district on December 4. The Army constituted a Court of Inquiry headed by a Major-General rank officer to investigate the incident. Stressing that the Army remained committed to the security of countrymen, even during the conduct of operations, Gen. Naravane said there were standard operating procedures (SOP) which have been refined over time. “Appropriate action will be taken and corrective measures instituted to further refine the SOPs based on the outcome of the investigation.” ‘Situation under control’ The overall security situation in the northeastern region was under control, and a robust security posture had significantly curtailed the operational space for terrorists, Gen. Naravane said. “We have been able to deinduct two Army divisions from counter insurgency and counter terrorism role which shows how much the situation has improved in the northeast,” he added. On the Indo-Myanmar border, due impetus was being given to the border guarding role by the Assam Rifles. “Here we do intend to progressively increase the number of AR Battalions deployed for guarding of the border,” he said. On the situation along the Line of Control (LoC), the Army chief said it had seen “marker improvement”, with the observation of the ceasefire by both sides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagaland-probe-report-soon-naravane/article38262952.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Panel seeks response on app||The Parliamentary Standing Committee (PSC) on Home Affairs, headed by Congress leader Anand Sharma, has written to the Union Home Secretary to provide information on the Tek Fog app allegedly used to manipulate social media trends.  Confirming that Mr. Sharma has written to the Union Home Secretary, a source on Wednesday told The Hindu that the head of the parliamentary panel on Home Affairs asked the Home Ministry to coordinate with other Ministries concerned and submit a response to the panel by January 20.  The parliamentary panel, thereafter, plans to take up the issue for discussion, the source said. News report  Mr. Sharma’s move comes after the Trinamool Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien, citing a report in the news portal, The Wire , demanded a meeting of the parliamentary panel on Home Affairs and wrote to Mr. Sharma.   On January 6, The Wire had reported that people associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) IT cell were purportedly using the Tek Fog app to take control of inactive WhatsApp accounts, send messages to frequently contacted numbers, and “hijack” trending topics on social media platforms like Twitter.  In his letter to Mr. Sharma, the Trinamool Congress leader wrote, “The existence and usage of manipulative technologies like Tek Fog is a severe danger to national and citizens’ security, a violation of our Fundamental Rights to Privacy and Free Speech, an exploitation of public discourse, and a defilement of the country’s democracy and security.” Probe sought Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury too is said to have written to Mr. Sharma to ask for a meeting on Tek Fog app. Separately, the Editors Guild of India had issued a statement in which it urged the Supreme Court to take note and order a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-seeks-response-on-app/article64950460.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:37 IST,||U.P. govt. working for one caste: Misra||The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government has neglected Brahmins and Dalits and focused on only promoting Thakurs, the community to which the Chief Minister hails from, says senior Bahujan Samaj Party leader Satish Chandra Misra.  In an interview to The Hindu , he also justified the BSP’s go-it-alone strategy this time in the U.P. Assembly election, saying that only the “weak need alliances.”  While BSP chief Mayawati is herself yet to step out to campaign for the 2022 Assembly election, Mr. Misra, her trusted lieutenant and national general secretary, has toured the State and addressed several rallies and public meetings, many of them targeted to woo the influential Brahmin caste, to which he himself belongs. In his speeches, Mr. Misra has tried to evoke Brahmin victimhood and referred to instances where members of the caste have been killed by the police in alleged “encounters,” murdered in criminal acts or neglected in politics by the BJP.  “They totally neglected Brahmins,” Mr. Misra said accusing the Yogi Adityanath-led government of promoting ‘ Thakurvad ’.  “Naturally, they can see only one caste, that too only selected people who are special to them. They have not just neglected members of the Schedule Caste community but made them outcasts, treated them as if they are not even human beings,” said Mr. Misra, referring to the Hathras rape and murder case of a Dalit girl. Mr. Mishra feels this time around there will be an unprecedented consolidation of the 21.5% Dalit voters in favour of the BSP. Mr. Misra also says that Brahmins feel they have got nothing from the BJP government except for insults, despite voting for it heavily. “They did not get any respect or dignity. Instead, they faced insults. We gave them everything [when we ruled from 2007 to 2012],” said he. The BSP leaders says that the two deputy CMs under Mr. Adityanath, Keshav Prasad Maurya (OBC) and Dinesh Sharma (Brahmin), merely served as “flower vases” meant for decoration without any actual power. Empty promises The BJP had managed to lure the Brahmins in the name of the Ram Mandir and promise of taking them along, but even after two years the foundation of the temple in Ayodhya was not ready, he said.  “What have they given, except taking the name of Ram? Everybody takes the name of Ram. We all do. Brahmins pray to the bhagwan in their homes. They don’t take it outside and seek votes in its name. The BJP stands fully exposed now,” he said.  Once the “Brahmins decide to return” where they were in 2007, things will completely change, he said, when asked what social arithmetic the BSP has in its plans to challenge the BJP and the SP. Despite the projections of a polarised contest between the BJP and the Samajwadi Party, the two parties have not been able to declare a single candidate but the BSP has already announced 300 out of its 403 candidates, Mr. Misra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-govt-working-for-one-caste-misra/article64950449.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||BARC ratings for news channels to resume soon||Ratings by Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) for the news channels will resume, after the organisation revised its procedures and protocols. The ratings were suspended after the Mumbai police busted a racket involving a private channel’s efforts to tamper the ratings. In the spirit of the TRP Committee Report and Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) recommendation dated 28.04.2020, M/s BARC undertook an extensive overhauling exercise, revisiting its processes, protocols, oversight mechanism and initiated changes in governance structure, etc. The reconstitution of the Board and the Technical Committee to allow for the induction of Independent Members have also been initiated by the BARC. A permanent Oversight Committee has also been formed. The access protocols for data have been revamped and tightened. BARC has indicated that in view of the changes undertaken by it, they are reaching out to related constituencies to explain the new proposals and are in readiness to actually commence the release as per the new protocols. Taking note of the above, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has asked BARC to release the news ratings with immediate effect and also to release the last three months data, for the genre in a monthly format, for fair and equitable representation of true trends. As per the revised system, the reporting of News and Niche Genres shall be on a ‘four week rolling average concept’. The Ministry has also set up a ‘Working Group’ under the chairmanship of the CEO, Prasar Bharti Shashi Shekhar Vempati, for the consideration of leveraging the Return Path Data (RPD) capabilities for the use of TRP services, as also recommended by TRAI and the TRP Committee report. The Committee shall submit its report in four months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/barc-ratings-for-news-channels-to-resume-soon/article64950459.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:23 IST,||‘Decentralise process of closing schools’||The Maharashtra government’s directive to close schools till February 15, even in rural areas and parts of the State where there is no rise in COVID-19 cases, has irked teachers and parents. Many teacher groups have termed it discriminatory and damaging to students who have lost nearly two years of primary education. “Will government close down schools in Mumbai and Thane if remote places like Nandurbar or Gadchiroli witness COVID cases? It will not. Then why these remote parts where online education is practically impossible are forced to shut down schools for surge in cases in urban areas?” asked Bhau Chaskar of the Active Teachers Forum (ATF), a teacher in a government school in Akole in Ahmednagar district. Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the Cabinet had discussed this issue. “Cases are increasing in rural areas as well. We do not think there should be any change in the decision. Schools will remain closed for the next 10-15 days at least. Based on the situation after this, we will take a decision,” he said. Teachers’ bodies said closing down schools is nothing but illogical when the government has allowed shopping malls, theatres and gyms to function with 50% capacity and suburban local trains to run as per schedule. ‘Not an alternative’ “With two years of COVID-19 cases, even school children are now exposed to this virus, despite being in the home. Online education can never be an alternative to physical classes and at a time when schools had reopened they are closed again. It is going to harm an entire generation,” Mr. Chaskar said. In many rural parts of the State, teachers have decided not to close down the schools with consent letters from parents. Demands have also been made to decentralise the process of closing down schools. The State Primary Teachers Committee, an umbrella body, has written to all its members clarifying that it does not support closure of all schools but the decision should be taken based on the number of patients at village level. In its letter, the association has asked its members not to glorify online education but to present ground report to the administration based on actual availability of android mobile phones per household.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decentralise-process-of-closing-schools/article64950554.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:37 IST,||‘Alarmed by intolerance against minorities’||South Asians for Human Rights (SAHR), a regional network of human rights defenders, on Wednesday said it was “deeply alarmed and concerned” by the “rising explicit intolerance” against minorities, especially Muslims in India, and the ongoing crackdown on human rights organisations. In a statement, SAHR said, “In recent times India’s vibrant democracy has been seeing an alarming process of dilution by the rise of xenophobic nationalism and threats to religious minorities who are being pushed steadily and deliberately into becoming second-class citizens in their own country.” The statement from the Colombo-headquartered regional human rights network comes in the context of the hate speech at a conclave of Hindu religious leaders and political activists in Haridwar in December 2021. “Such vitriolic speeches instigating communal disharmony and caste-based violence are totally repugnant to the idea and image of India and is damaging its reputation as the world’s largest democracy. The levels of impunity that perpetrators enjoy is especially noteworthy,” SAHR said, adding: “The Hindutva ideology appears to have completely infiltrated politics and state governance, resulting in the disintegration of the rule of law and public institutions such as the law enforcement machinery, leading to relentless online and offline violence against minorities.” Offensive app  SAHR also referred to the controversial Bulli Bai app, which recently made news for targeted attacks on minorities. The app and the Haridwar event, SAHR observed, indicated “the undisguised visceral hatred unleashed openly and jointly by known political figures, sections of Hindutva ideologists, and the supporting public”.  Further, pointing to developments in regard to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act registrations of non-governmental organisations in India, SAHR observed that authorities seemed to be “on a focused warpath to shut down” critical voices and groups working to promote, protect and uphold fundamental rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/alarmed-by-intolerance-against-minorities/article38263153.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:37 IST,||Manish Tewari stokes debate on CM face for Cong. in Punjab||Amid a tussle over who should be the Congress’s chief ministerial face for the Assembly election in Punjab, Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari on Wednesday said the State needed a “serious” person whose politics was not social engineering or entertainment. Tagging a news report about Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi indicating that the party should name a chief ministerial face, Mr. Tewari tweeted, “Punjab requires a CM who has solutions to Punjab’s challenges, capacity to take tough decisions.” “Punjab needs serious people whose politics is not social engineering, entertainment, freebies & not regime favourites rejected by people in successive elections,” the Lok Sabha member added. Following the replacement of Capt. Amarinder Singh (retd.) with the surprise choice of Charanjit Singh Channi as the Chief Minister last September, there has been an intense and often public tussle over the top post between Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and Mr. Channi. Many believed Mr. Sidhu would be the party’s natural choice for the high command. But with the Congress claiming that former party chief Rahul Gandhi had delivered a “master stroke” in choosing Mr. Channi, Punjab’s first Dalit Chief Minister, the leadership question got complicated. Mr. Tewari’s tweet can be read as an attack on three leaders. While Mr. Channi’s elevation is part of social engineering, the reference to freebies is Mr. Sidhu’s promise of free LPG and former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar is the leader who lost successive polls (2017 Assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha polls).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manish-tewari-stokes-debate-on-cm-face-for-cong-in-punjab/article64950448.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||BJP poll campaign in Uttarakhand begins||While launching the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) campaign in the State, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Wednesday accused the Congress of being against national interest, and part of a conspiracy in the security lapse that endangered Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Addressing the press, Mr. Dhami said the recent incident in Punjab, during which Mr. Modi’s convoy was stuck on a flyover for 20 minutes and had to turn back as protesters had blocked the road, was a “conspiracy” for which the “Congress must answer”. He said the Congress had been against national interest and had earlier politicised the Pulwama terror attack, questioned the surgical strike, and gone along with Chinese and Pakistani propaganda.  He said the issue was important for Uttarakhand as it was State of “ fauji s (soldiers), Ram bhakt s (Ram worshippers) and deshbhakt s (patriots)”.   The theme of the BJP’s campaign for the February 14 polls, launched on Wednesday, was that it’s the only party that has worked for the State, and would continue to do [“ Kiya hai , karti hai aur karegisirf Bhajpa ”].  Mr. Dhami said that it was Mr. Modi’s government that carried on the development of the State after it was created during the Vajpayee government’s tenure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-poll-campaign-in-uttarakhand-begins/article38262931.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Assam, Meghalaya to end border dispute by Jan. 21||Union Home Minister Amit Shah is expected to seal the final agreement to end the dispute in six areas of the Assam-Meghalaya boundary ahead of Meghalaya’s 50th Statehood Day celebration on January 21. There are 12 areas of differences along the inter-State border. But the two northeastern neighbours had agreed to resolve six “relatively less complicated” areas first. Crucial talks Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad K. Sangma had a crucial fourth round of talks in Guwahati on Wednesday and discussed the findings of the regional committees of the two States. Assam and Meghalaya had formed three regional committees each to inspect the disputed areas and record the views of the local residents. Each committee corresponds to a district on either side of the boundary. “We have more or less arrived at an agreement in these six areas inspected by the regional committees. Both the Chief Ministers have directed the respective governments to submit the detailed reports,” Prestone Tynsong, Meghalaya’s Deputy Chief Minister, who attended the meeting, said. ‘Final round’ “Both the Chief Ministers will hold a final round of talks before meeting the Union Home Minister. Hopefully, the stakeholders of both the States will see a final agreement before January 21,” the Deputy Chief Minister added. Mr. Sarma said the two States have almost resolved the boundary issue in the six areas. “We have scheduled a meeting with the leaders of the Opposition parties, student and social organisations on January 18 to incorporate their views. The border dispute should end soon if we come to a consensus,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-meghalaya-to-end-border-dispute-by-jan-21/article64950461.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Hate speech: SC seeks response from govt.||The petitioners, former High Court judge Anjana Prakash and journalist Qurban Ali, had highlighted that “hate speeches consisted of open calls for genocide of Muslims in order to achieve ethnic cleansing. The speeches are not mere hate speeches but amount to an open call for murder of an entire community. The speeches thus pose a grave threat not just to the unity and integrity of our country but also endanger the lives of millions of Muslim citizens.”  “We are living in different times where slogans in the country have changed from Satyamev Jayate to Shashtramev Jayate ,” Mr. Sibal had submitted during the oral mentioning on Monday.   The senior lawyer had said no investigation or arrests had been made despite the registration of FIRs. Video footage raised suspicions of the police being hand in glove with the orators of hate. The hate speeches were allegedly delivered between December 17 and 19 in Haridwar by Yati Narsinghanand and in Delhi by the Hindu Yuva Vahini . The petitioners sought an independent, credible and impartial probe by a special investigation team into the hate speeches against the Muslim community. They said “no effective steps have been taken by the police authorities, including non-application of Sections 120B, 121A and 153B of the IPC, 1860”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hate-speech-sc-seeks-response-from-govt/article38262930.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||SC grants bail to T.N. ex-Minister in job scam||Mr. Rohatgi said the police complaint against Mr. Bhalaji was registered in August 2021. “For the next five months, the State did not do anything. If this was a case of personal vendetta, we would have arrested him the next day of the complaint in August,” he submitted. The court allowed the former Minister bail provided he did not leave the jurisdiction of the police station in which the crime was registered. The court ordered Mr. Bhalaji to surrender his passport and cooperate with the probe. The court listed the case after three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-grants-bail-to-tn-ex-minister-in-job-scam/article38262929.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,||States directed to ensure buffer stock of oxygen||Health facilities providing in-patient care and oxygen therapy should have buffer stock of medical oxygen sufficient for at least 48 hours, the Centre directed the States on Wednesday in view of the rise in COVID-19 cases across the country. In a letter to the States, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said all districts should ensure that oxygen concentrators supplied to them were fully functional. “Their proper upkeep and maintenance need to be ensured,” he said. Liquid medical oxygen (LMO) tanks at the health facilities should be sufficiently filled and an uninterrupted supply chain for their refilling should be ensured. “Health facilities across the country have been strengthened with functional Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants and there should be adequate inventory of oxygen cylinders along with back-up stocks and robust refilling systems. It should also be ensured that these cylinders are filled and kept ready,” Mr. Bhushan said. Private health facilities providing oxygen therapy services have been asked to assess their medical oxygen infrastructure capacities. “A possible strategy and mechanism to leverage the private sector in times of peak demand can be explored,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-directed-to-ensure-buffer-stock-of-oxygen/article64950438.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Jolt to BJP as another U.P. Minister resigns||The BJP came to power with the “support and blessings” of the backward castes, Dalits and deprived sections but they were neglected over the past five years, Mr. Chauhan later said. “Some people got the cream …they [Dalit and OBC] did not get justice or respect,” he said. Mr. Chauhan resigned as the Cabinet Minister for Forest, Environment, Zoological Garden departments. Mr. Chauhan, an MLA from Mau’s Madhuban seat, had joined the BJP after quitting the BSP on whose symbol he had won the 2009 Lok Sabha election from Ghosi. Prior to that, he was a Rajya Sabha member till 2006.  After Mr. Chauhan’s departure, Mr. Yadav said the SP and its allies would take the “movement for samta-samanta [equality] to its peak and remove discrimination.” “ Sabko samman, sabko sthan (respect for all, a place for all),” Mr. Yadav said, coining a new slogan to define his politics of bringing together smaller OBC-based parties to challenge the BJP’s arithmetic.  While BJP Minister Nand Gopal ‘Nandi’ Gupta questioned the timing of Mr. Chauhan’s resignation and work for OBCs and Dalits, his colleague and Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya tried to control the damage. Mr. Maurya said the leaders leaving the BJP would themselves have to bear the losses of jumping into “a sinking boat.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jolt-to-bjp-as-another-up-minister-resigns/article38262928.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Indu Malhotra panel to probe security breach||The others on the committee are the Director-General of National Investigation Agency or his nominee not below the rank of Inspector-General, the Director-General of Police of the Union Territory of Chandigarh, the Additional Director-General of Police (Security) of Punjab and the Registrar-General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The court’s constitution of the high-profile committee effectively arrests the functioning of the separate panels formed by Punjab and the Centre to investigate the breach. Blame game The court had earlier got the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s Registrar-General to seize the security records in connection with the January 5 incident. Both the Centre and Punjab had blamed each other of bias. Poll-bound Punjab had accused the Centre of trying to pile the entire blame of the lapse on it. The Centre had summoned Punjab Police officials for an explanation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indu-malhotra-panel-to-probe-security-breach/article38262927.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Retail inflation accelerates to 5.59%||“Moreover, the area sown under rabi crops rose 0.9% year-on-year as on January 7, 2022, with a healthy growth in oilseeds offsetting the decline in other crops.” However, heavy rainfall in some States amid the widening of State-wise restrictions following a surge in COVID-19 cases could create some supply chain disruptions, Ms. Nayar pointed out. “We expect the inflation for food and beverages to exceed 5% in the ongoing quarter,” she said. Muted growth in industrial output in November compares with the 3.2% growth seen a month earlier. Within the overall output, production in the manufacturing sector grew 0.9% in November compared with a contraction of 1.6% a year earlier and growth of 2% in October 2021. Mining output rose 5% compared with growth of 11.4% a month earlier. Electricity generation increased 2.1% as against growth of 3.1% in November. The Index of Industrial Production (IIP) was still at 95.8% of the pre-COVID level as all the sectors were below the pre-COVID level (February 2020) in November 2021, observed Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist at India Ratings and Research. The rise in COVID-19 cases and subsequent government restrictions would not only accentuate the uncertainty but would adversely impact the normalisation of economic activities, he said. Rajani Sinha, chief economist and national director, Research, Knight Frank India, said there could be a further weakening of growth in the next few months as the economy grapples with Omicron concerns and supply disruptions. “The latest economic indicators are pointing towards urgent need for demand stimulation measures to sustain the economic recovery. In the upcoming Union Budget, the government should look at measures to boost private consumption, which can be the bellwether of India’s economic recovery,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/retail-inflation-accelerates-to-559/article38262926.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:37 IST,||Dharma triumphs||Often it seems as if adharma is winning, but in the end it is dharma that triumphs, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. Before we take up a cause we must first ask ourselves, if in doing so, we are on the side of dharma. The Kauravas were adharmic in thought and deed. Their father Dhritarashtra could have pointed out to them the error of their ways. But because of his affection for them he failed in his parental duty. He regrets this later on after the war. Dhritarashtra confesses to Sanjaya that although he knew that dharma was on the side of the Pandavas and therefore his sons would lose, he had not asked them to desist from fighting the Pandavas. When Dushasana dragged Draupadi to the court, Dhritarashtra knew what his son was doing was adharmic, and yet he had maintained silence. He knew that if war broke out, his sons would lose badly. Despite his attempts to shame Draupadi, Dushasana did not succeed. And at that moment it became even more clear to Dhritarashtra that his sons would not be victorious in battle. When the Pandavas went to the forest, with them were many sages who were steeped in tapas. Also with the Pandavas were Vedic scholars. Dhritarashtra now had further confirmation that when such people stood by someone, that meant dharma was present there. So he knew the Pandavas would win the war. When the devata of Dharma came as a yaksha and spoke to Yudhishtira, it was clear to Dhritarashtra that his sons would be defeated. When Krishna came to the Kaurava court, Duryodhana tried to kill Him. He set up a trap, whereby Krishna would fall into a pit where soldiers stationed in the pit were to kill Krishna. When Duryodhana foolishly imagined he could kill Krishna, Dhritarashtra knew that the Kauarvas would be destroyed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharma-triumphs/article38262953.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:37 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article64950444.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Arrest warrant against BJP rebel Maurya||A day after he quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh, rebel Other Backward Class (OBC) leader Swami Prasad Maurya was served an arrest warrant by a local court in Sultanpur for a 2014 speech in which he had allegedly asked Dalits and OBCs not to worship some Hindu gods. The controversial comments made by him eight years ago, when he was a leader of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), found a new life soon after Mr. Maurya ditched the BJP, accusing it of neglecting Dalits and OBCs. Mr. Maurya was due to appear before a court in connection with the case on Wednesday but he did not. Issuing the arrest warrant, the judge fixed January 24 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arrest-warrant-against-bjp-rebel-maurya/article38263152.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:21 IST,||ED arrests firm director in fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested the director of Hoewelai Jinsu, Hong Kong, SAR, China Limited, in connection with a case of alleged fraud committed on the lenders by taking credit facilities under the guise of merchant trade. The accused, Anup Nagaral, had recently returned to India and appeared before the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) that arrested him in December 2021 in another case. He was later released on bail. He was not appearing before the special court under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002 for trial in the case investigated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The court issued an arrest warrant against him, based on which the agency arrested Nagaral. He has been sent to judicial custody till January 17. He is one of the accused in the chargesheet filed by the ED in July 28 last year. In this case, which is based on a First Information Report registered by the High Ground police station, Bengaluru City, the agency had earlier attached assets worth Rs. 185.67 crore in Maharashtra, Punjab, Delhi, Gujarat, Bengaluru and Bellary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-arrests-firm-director-in-fraud-case/article38262915.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:36 IST,||Extradition of 19 Indians sought||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia have sought the extradition of 19 Indian nationals for their alleged involvement in criminal cases in the two countries. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered three first information reports (FIRs) in this regard. According to the first FIR, the UAE has sent a request to extradite 15 Indian nationals in connection with 13 cases reported in 2018-19. The FIR says: “In all these cases, except one (murder case against Sattar Khan), alleged offence is issue of dud cheque/embezzlement of money by the accused persons who are all Indian nationals.” The UAE, according to the second FIR, has also sought the extradition of one Rajaneesh Das, who is wanted for alleged embezzlement and breach of trust. He, along with two others, allegedly caused a loss of AED 1,532,558 to a company. In the third case, the Saudi Arabian authorities have requested the extradition of Abdul Samad Kamaluddin, Aneesh Somapalan and Abdul Rahuman for alleged breach of trust. They have been accused of stealing money and leaving the country illegally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/extradition-of-19-indians-sought/article38263150.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:37 IST,||Rumours of alliance in Goa untrue: AICC||Stating that the Trinamool Congress’ strategy and purpose in Goa were hard to understand, All-India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao on Wednesday said speculation about alliance between the Congress and the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC in the coastal State was ‘unfounded’.  Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Rao clarified that rumours regarding talks of an alliance with the TMC in Goa were “completely untrue” and that nobody from the Goa Congress had been summoned to Delhi to discuss with Congress MP Rahul Gandhi the possibility of such an alliance.  “Right from the start, the TMC’s tone and tenor in Goa has been more anti-Congress than anti-BJP. They keep saying they will do everything to defeat the BJP, but all they have been doing thus far is engineering defections from the Congress and trying to split our ranks … Their logic has been hard to follow thus far,” Mr. Rao said, adding that it seemed the TMC’s objective had been “to weaken the Congress in Goa.” Observing that the TMC had spent more money than even the BJP in Goa, Mr. Rao said that given the party’s “negative attitude” towards the Congress and the resentment caused by its actions among Goa’s Congress workers, an alliance with the TMC looked like a bleak possibility in the near future. Speculation of a broad ‘anti-BJP’ front of the Opposition parties was sparked after TMC MP Mahua Moitra’s tweet last week, which said the TMC “will do everything possible to defeat the BJP in Goa.” Ms. Moitra, the TMC’s Goa in-charge, had tagged the Congress, the Goa Forward Party (which has formed an alliance with the Goa Congress) and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (the TMC’s alliance partner) in her tweet. Talks of a coalition to take on the BJP were further stoked by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s remarks that “discussions [to explore an alliance] were on between the Congress, TMC and the NCP in Goa” and that a decision in this regard would be taken in the next two days. ‘Deep connect’ Meanwhile, stating that the Congress was “on the upswing” in the coastal State, Mr. Rao claimed that the BJP was heading for a debacle in Goa. “The Congress had a deep connect with Goa since the Liberation [from the Portuguese] of 1961 and the 1967 Goa status referendum, which made it possible for the region to become a separate State with its own language … the Congress does not need to make any flamboyant promises to the electorate unlike some parties [the TMC and the Aam Aadmi Party]. What the Congress has tried to do this time is to restore the faith of the electorate in us. After all, it must be remembered that it was the Congress, and not the BJP, which had the mandate to form the government in 2017 as it had emerged as the single largest party,” Mr. Rao said. In that vein, he said the Congress had taken a hard line with those who had defected from the party. “We are being very careful in our candidate selection this time … We are only taking in candidates [from other parties] who have done good work in their constituencies and have given ticket to young people … A number of those who had left the Congress are now wishing to re-join as they are seeing that the direction of the political wind is changing. But we are firm that such opportunists will not be re-admitted,” Mr. Rao said. The Congress leader said the Pramod Sawant-led BJP government was nothing but “a litany of scandals” with its ministers being variously compromised in a job scam, a sex scandal and other malpractices. “As a last, desperate throw of the dice, the BJP is playing the communal card by talking of rebuilding temples … the fact is that it has no principles left and no legitimacy either. The Chief Minister himself does not command respect of his own colleagues and BJP leaders are at daggers drawn at each other,” Mr. Rao remarked.  A number of those who had left the Congress are now wishing to re-join as they are seeing that the direction of the political wind is changing Dinesh Gundu Rao AICC in-charge for Goa||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rumours-of-alliance-in-goa-untrue-aicc/article64950447.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:22 IST,||Arrest warrant against former U.P. Minister||A local court on Wednesday here issued an arrest warrant against BJP MLA Swami Prasad Maurya, who resigned as Cabinet Minister on Tuesday, in a seven-year-old case. The case was lodged against Mr. Maurya in 2014 for allegedly making objectionable comments against Hindu gods. The MP-MLA court judge, Yogesh Kumar Yadav, issued the warrant against him after he did not attend the court hearing on Wednesday. In 2016, an arrest warrant was issued against him in the same case which was stayed by the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court. Issuing the arrest warrant, the judge fixed January 24 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arrest-warrant-against-former-up-minister/article38262942.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:37 IST,||Two Opposition MLAs, one former MLA, join BJP ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly election||Two sitting MLAs and another former MLA joined the Bharatiya Janata Party on January 12 ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election. Three-time MLA Hari Om Yadav who is the sitting Samajwadi Party legislator from Sirsaganj in Firozabad and Naresh Saini, the Congress MLA from Behat in Saharanpur, switched over to the BJP in the presence of top BJP State leaders. The SP later said it had expelled Mr. Yadav from the party for colluding with the BJP. The third leader to join was Dharampal Singh, a former SP MLA from Etmadpur in Agra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-opposition-mlas-one-former-mla-join-bjp-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-election/article38262943.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:37 IST,||BJP MLA Avtar Singh Bhadana switches to RLD||BJP MLA from Meerapur constituency in Muzaffarnagar Avtar Singh Bhadana on Tuesday switched to the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD). A prominent Gurjar leader, Mr. Bhadana met RLD president Jayant Singh, who welcomed the four-time MP into the party fold through a tweet. His switch was imminent as he had been actively tweeting in support of the farmers’ agitation. He was also active in organising Gurjar panchayats in the region after the Raja Mihir Bhoj statue controversy in Dadri town of Gautam Buddha Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mla-avtar-singh-bhadana-switches-to-rld/article38262941.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Uniform given to temple staff||Minister for Backward Classes S. S. Sivasankar on Wednesday issued uniforms and dress materials to priests and staff members of temples under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment in the district. The Minister said that 60 priests belonging to 32 temples and staff members of 83 temples were given new dress materials and uniforms in view of the Pongal festival. Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi and senior officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uniform-given-to-temple-staff/article38263383.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Abolish all-India quota in fully State-funded medical colleges’||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday urged the Union government to abolish the all-India quota in the fully State-funded medical institutions. He said it was a huge disincentive to the States that had prioritised health by earmarking massive resources for running these institutions. Despite the huge amount of State investments, 50% of the postgraduate seats and 15% of the undergraduate seats were being surrendered to the all-India quota based on the scheme drawn up by the Supreme Court. All the super-speciality seats were being surrendered to the all-India quota, Mr. Stalin said. “In fact, other States that have not invested in medical colleges get rewarded, despite their minimal investments.” In a memorandum handed over to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Mr. Stalin suggested that the Union government bring in a piece of legislation to allow the States to retain the seats in the medical colleges fully funded by them. Recalling Tamil Nadu’s objections to the draft Postgraduate Medical Education Regulations, 2021, Mr. Stalin underlined, “It is unfortunate that such regulations have been formulated without a proper understanding of the current pre-dominant role of the State governments in this domain.” The status quo should be maintained in the postgraduate admissions to the State quota seats, he said. He requested the Union government and the National Medical Commission to drop the draft Regulations because they “hit at the very root of federalism”. AIIMS construction The Chief Minister requested the Union government to form a dedicated team of officers with financial and administrative powers to start the construction of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Madurai. He also sought the establishment of an AIIMS in Coimbatore, contending that it would enhance the quality of tertiary care in western districts. Mr. Stalin sought sanction for the proposal for medical colleges in Kancheepuram, Mayiladuthurai, Perambalur, Ranipet, Tenkasi and Tirupattur districts under the Central government scheme, with the Centre and the State sharing the cost in the ratio of 60:40. The total cost of these six colleges would be around Rs. 2,400 crore. The Chief Minister favoured an amendment to the National Medical Commission (Compulsory Rotating Medical Internship) Regulations, 2021, to cover the district headquarters hospitals and to increase the intake of foreign medical graduates at government medical college hospitals from 7.5% to 20%. The memorandum sought approval for a proposal submitted for Rs. 950 crore to provide effective, affordable healthcare services to urban and rural population at 19 district headquarters hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/abolish-all-india-quota-in-fully-state-funded-medical-colleges/article64950546.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Arappor Iyakkam files complaint with DVAC||Arappor Iyakkam has lodged a complaint with the DVAC enclosing documentary evidence against various officials of the Registration Department who allegedly indulged in corrupt activities and allowed encroachment of the Pallikaranai marshland. In a virtual press meet on Wednesday, the Arappor Iyakkam functionaries said of the 1,800 acres of Pallikaranai marshland, which is under the possession of the Forest Department, spread over 1,800 acres, transactions had been done over nearly 1,000 acres of land with the support of the officials of the Registration Department in two decades. According to the complaint, all the officials involved in the illegal transaction held high and important positions now. Arappor Iyakkam convenor Jayaram Venkatesan cited several instances where parts of marshland had been grabbed by some individuals. He said while the marshland came under the jurisdiction of the Saidapet sub-registrar office, a transaction over more than 66 acres of land was ‘registered’ in the Royapuram sub-registrar office in the name of an unknown trust at a throw away price of Rs. 1 lakh in 2004. A Central Crime Branch case was pending in this regard. Similarly, more than seven acres of the marshland bearing survey no. 534/4 adjacent to Perumbakkam village was registered in the name of a private party by showing the survey no. 354 which pertained to only 49 cents of land, he added. Land grabbing became rampant after the Pallikaranai marshland was handed over to the Forest Department in 2007 as more than 38 transactions had been registered, the complaint pointed out. All these registrations had been nullified by the High Court in September last year and the marshland had been put in encumbrance list. The court ordered that no sale registrations would be carried out pertaining to the survey numbers designated for the marshland area. However, action had not been taken against the officials involved in the illegal transactions, the complain said. A senior official of the Registration Department said once they get a copy of the complaint lodged with the DVAC, the matter would be looked into.  Land grabbing became rampant after the Pallikaranai marshland was handed over to the Forest Department in 2007||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-had-allowed-landgrab-on-marshland/article64950531.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||17,934 test positive for COVID-19 in T.N.; active cases rise to 88,959||With daily coronavirus infections rising to 17,934 in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, at least 30 districts recorded a rise in new cases when compared to the previous day’s figures. Chennai’s daily tally surpassed 7,000, with the city registering a sharp rise in infections from 6,484 on Tuesday to 7,372 on Wednesday. While cases dipped marginally in districts like Madurai and Perambalur, there was a significant spike in a number of districts. Cases increased not only in Chennai but also in its neighbouring districts, with Chengalpattu logging 1,840 cases as against 1,665 cases on the previous day. Tiruvallur registered a marginal rise in infections as 931 people tested positive, while 620 tested positive in Kancheepuram district. In Coimbatore, 981 people tested positive for COVID-19. Despite a small drop, cases remained high in Madurai (498) and Tirunelveli (451). Tiruchi recorded 444 cases, while Kanniyakumari logged 388 cases. Ranipet registered a sharp rise from 136 to 373 cases. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 28,47,589. The number of tests increased to 1,56,281, registering a positivity rate of 11.5%. As per Tuesday’s data, Chennai had the highest positivity rate at 21.3%, followed by Chengalpattu (20.9%), Tirunelveli (16.8%) and Tiruvallur (16.4%). Another 19 people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 36,905. All of them had co-morbidities. Among the deceased was a 30-year-old woman and three persons in their 40s. Chennai accounted for nine deaths. As many as 4,039 people were discharged after treatment. The State’s active caseload rose to 88,959. While Chennai’s active caseload crossed 40,000 (41,359 people under treatment/home isolation), Chengalpattu’s active caseload surpassed 10,000. COVID-19 vaccines were administered to 2,07,580 people across the State on Wednesday. Of them, 63,342 were aged 15 to 18 and 87,352 were aged 18 to 44. So far, government vaccination centres have covered 8,79,37,418 people. The precaution dose has been administered to 60,051 people so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17934-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tn-active-cases-rise-to-88959/article64950547.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Project report on Adyar river restoration getting ready||The Water Resources Department (WRD) is preparing a detailed project report incorporating proposals for flood control and climate adaptive infrastructure as part of a comprehensive restoration of the Adyar river in a few years. The ambitious proposal would have projects for conservation of resources. The department is focusing more on the upper reaches of the river to execute work for flood mitigation and integrated improvement. The department is studying the feasibility of widening the 25-km portion of the river, wherever needed between Adanur and Manapakkam, to reduce inundation in surrounding areas, including Tambaram and Mudichur. For instance, the portion of the river between Vandalur and Wallajahbad Road and Padappai and Thirumudivakkam is narrow and only 15-20 metre wide at some stretches. Areas along those stretches got flooded whenever the river flowed at its peak level. Officials said the stretch of the river along southern suburbs had a capacity to carry about 14,000-15,000 cusecs. Even if it carried 18,000 cusecs of water, it would spill over to surrounding localities. The department is surveying the possibility of widening the river at vulnerable portions near Adanur, Nandivaram and Urapakkam and acquiring lands wherever necessary. There are plans to widen the river to about 50-60 metre to increase its carrying capacity up to 25,000 cusecs. Besides bridging the missing links, there are plans to create additional macro drains near Urapakkam and Guduvancherry to divert surplus water into the river. “We are also checking the possibility of replacing bund with retaining wall in flood-prone areas to enhance carrying capacity of the river. For instance, a 20-metre bund on either side of the river can be replaced with a 10-metre retaining wall to gain additional space,” said an official. Similarly, flood regulators would be provided in tailend waterbodies such as Adanur and Mannivakkam that drain surplus water into the river. A suggestion to create new reservoirs in places such as Orathur was under study. A few tanks in urban pockets of the Adyar basin without ayacut area and less sewage pollution would be converted as sources of drinking water supply for Chennai. Some of the tanks in Nemam, Mannivakkam, Nandivaram and Sriperumbudur were being considered for this. Once the feasibility study was completed, encroachments would be enumerated and lands that were yet to become urbanised would be acquired for the project. Work may be taken up in packages depending on the funding agency, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adyar-restoration-project-report-getting-ready/article64950532.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Madras HC unhappy with CBI probe into poaching cases||The Madras High Court on Wednesday expressed displeasure over the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) not having made much progress in the court-ordered investigation into elephant poaching cases. It wanted to know why the investigating agency had not even recovered the tusks. Status report Justices V. Bharathidasan and N. Sathish Kumar directed the Superintendent of Police concerned to appear before them through video conferencing on January 21. They also called for a status report and warned that the court would be constrained to constitute a special investigation team if the report was not satisfactory. “We want action. We are going to record that we are not satisfied with your investigation. If you are unable to do it, we will form an SIT. What is the difficulty in seizing those materials? Is this the way the CBI investigates cases?” Justice Bharathidasan asked before summoning the Superintendent of Police. It was a Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh (now a Supreme Court judge) and Justice Kumar who had ordered a CBI probe into the issue on February 10, 2021. The judges had passed the order after being dissatisfied with the action taken by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau to investigate into the offence. Apart from dealing with the issue of poaching, the court also granted time till January 21 for the railway officials to file a report listing out steps they propose to take to prevent elephant deaths in the light of Comptroller and Auditor General’s latest report that railway deaths constitute the second largest reason for unnatural death of elephants. Time sought Since railway counsel P.T. Ramkumar informed the court that the officials had planned a meeting this week on the issue and required some time to file a detailed report before the court, the judges asked him to ensure that the report was filed by next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-high-court-unhappy-with-cbi-probe-into-elephant-poaching-cases/article64950526.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. notifies rules for preparing regional plans||The Tamil Nadu government has notified the Regional Plan (Preparation, Publication and Sanction) Rules, 2021, under the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971. According to the notification, within 18 months of the constitution of the Regional Planning Authority (RPA), it should prepare a land and building-use map for the regional planning area and for the different parts of the regional area. Within two years of the preparation of the land and building-use map, the RPA should prepare a draft regional plan for the regional planning area in consultation with the development and local planning authorities. Draft plan The draft regional plan would have the location of the region, its historic evolution, topography, geology and geomorphology, hydrology (surface and ground water), climate, administrative profile, functional areas and the ratio of urban and rural development, among others. It would also have the extent of use of land for residential, industrial, commercial, agricultural and recreational purpose or as forest or for mineral exploitation, and tentative land requirement projections from various sectors for various zones. On receiving the draft regional plan from the RPA through the Director, the government will either give its consent or direct the RPA to make modifications in the regional plan. After the draft is published and objections and suggestions are received and issues are sorted out, it will be notified in the Gazette of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-notifies-rules-for-preparing-regional-plans/article38263329.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||But too much is bitter for cows||Every year, a day after ‘Maatu Pongal’, the Madras Veterinary College at Vepery would witness a strange phenomenon. Cows, bulls, goats and sheep that appear tired and unable to walk would be brought in by their owners. “There will be around 20 animals in our college. Veterinary dispensaries in other areas also receive animals with similar symptoms. This means they are extremely sick owing to SARA — Subacute Ruminal Acidosis — and if such animals are not treated immediately, they may die,” said P. Selvaraj, Professor of Medicine, Madras Veterinary College. He explained that Ruminal Acidosis was caused by excessive feeding of Pongal, rice and other sweets on the day of ‘Maatu Pongal’. “These sugary foods that reach the cow’s stomach get fermented in an abnormal way and cause a worst health issue for the cows and other ruminant animals; this is called SARA. In severe cases, it is called Ruminal Acidosis. If too much acid is produced owing to excessive sugary items in the stomach, it may even turn fatal,” he said, advising people to feed the animals with hay and ‘agathi keerai’ . When an animal is brought in for treatment, veterinarians will collect the rumen fluid and examine it for their microbial status. Appropriate treatment will be given based on the cow’s stomach health. But the animal will take days to recover; during the period of recovery, the milk yield will come down drastically. Festival-related Ruminal Acidosis, however, is mostly found in cattle in urban areas where people cross the limit while feeding the animals with sweet. It is not just the owners but also others who offer food to the animals on the occasion. Cows, bulls, goats and sheep roaming the streets of urban areas fall prey to the culture of feeding sweets on the day of ‘Maatu Pongal’. Animals become sick because Ruminal Acidosis destroys millions of microbes, consisting of a variety of tiny organisms called protozoa, bacteria and other microbial organisms, that reside in their stomach. These microbes help the cattle digest hay, grass and other feed and enable them to produce the tasty milk, said Dr. Selvaraj. “Give them the lowest possible amount of sweets and a lot of paddy straw or green fodder. This fodder helps in better digestion and good milk yield. Fodder items provide a substrate for the millions of microbes to act on them and maintain the stomach in very good health. A good stomach is essential for good health,” Dr. Selvaraj said. He also advised people to avoid feeding cows with leftover food from functions or marriages and low-priced rice. “Many think feeding grain can help in getting more milk; but they are unaware of the acid indigestion effects caused by sugary items. Excessive sugary items like rice or rice flour or wheat flour will cause SARA...,” he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/too-much-sweet-pongal-not-good-for-cows-say-veterinarians/article64950559.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||Don’t give importance to divisions in T.N., Stalin tells Tamil diaspora||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday called for unity among the global Tamil diaspora and urged them to overlook divisions in Tamil Nadu. He invited them to visit Tamil Nadu with their children to show them the rich cultural heritage of the Tamils. He was speaking virtually at the World Tamil Diaspora Day celebration organised by the Commissionerate of Rehabilitation and Welfare of Non-Resident Tamils. He said, “Many of you may not have the voting right in Tamil Nadu. But you have the right to call this government your government. That was why I made several announcements in September last for the welfare of the Tamil diaspora.” “Do not give importance to divisions in Tamil Nadu even after going abroad. Live there as brothers and sisters. Make your mark in education, employment and industrial growth. Do not abandon Tamil Nadu, like a tree that would never abandon its roots,” he said. Tamils, who once lived only on this land, have spread out to several countries, he said. “These migrations have been going on for several years. Wherever the Tamils live, Tamil Nadu is their home,” he said. Former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi wanted to constitute a welfare board for the non-resident Tamils as early as March 1, 2011. But the subsequent government had not constituted it. “Within five months of coming to power, I announced in the Assembly that the Board would be constituted,” Mr. Stalin said, underscoring that the government was implementing welfare schemes costing Rs. 317 crore for Sri Lankan Tamils who came to the State. Mr. Stalin thanked Danapal Ramasamy, founder and director of Harley Street Healthcare Group in London; Rajan Natarajan, former Deputy Secretary of State and Commissioner of Transportation, Maryland, U.S.; former Vice-President of the Republic of Mauritius Barlen Vyapoory; Member of Sri Lankan Parliament M.A. Sumanthiran; the chairman of the Labuan Port Authority and former Malaysian deputy minister Datuk P. Kamalanathan; and Provincial Governor of Papua New Guinea Sasidharan Muthuvel for their virtual participation in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-give-importance-to-divisions-in-tn-stalin-tells-tamil-diaspora/article64950544.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Qualification test of cryogenic engine for Gaganyaan successful||ISRO successfully conducted the qualification test of cryogenic engine for the Gaganyaan programme for 720 seconds at the ISRO Propulsion Complex (IPRC) in Mahendragiri. ISRO announced that the performance of the engine met the test objectives and the engine parameters were closely matching with the predictions during the entire duration of the test. “This successful long-duration test is a major milestone for the Human Space Programme — Gaganyaan. It ensures the reliability and robustness of the cryogenic engine for induction into the human-rated launch vehicle for Gaganyaan,” ISRO said. This engine will undergo four more tests for a cumulative duration of 1,810 seconds. Subsequently, another engine will undergo two short-duration tests and one long-duration test to complete the cryogenic engine qualification for the Gaganyaan, ISRO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/qualification-test-of-cryogenic-engine-for-gaganyaan-successful/article64950535.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Committee to select Alagappa University V-C constituted||Governor-Chancellor R.N. Ravi has constituted a committee headed by M. Jagadesh Kumar, former Vice-Chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, to select the next Vice-Chancellor for Alagappa University. Mr. Jagadesh Kumar, the convenor of the committee, is the Chancellor’s nominee. Members The other members of the committee include K. Deenabandu, a retired bureaucrat, who has been nominated by the government; M. Ponnavaikko, former V-C of Bharathidasan University, and V. Thangaraj, former director and head, Ramanujam lnstitute for Advanced Study in Mathematics, University of Madras, who were nominated by the syndicate of Alagappa University; and T. Padmanaban, former V-C of Tamil Nadu Teacher’s Education University. The committee has been requested to recommend a panel of three names to the Chancellor. Alagappa University has been without a V-C for seven months after N. Rajendran demitted office on June 4 last year. An earlier committee that was constituted by the then Governor Banwarilal Purohit courted controversy for uploading the names of 162 applicants without their qualifications. Panel of three names The committee presented a panel of three names to Mr. Purohit who were also interviewed by him, as is the norm. Teachers’ bodies and aspirants took up the issue with the Governor-Chancellor, alleging that some of the highly qualified applicants had been ignored and a person with lower qualifications had been short-listed by the committee for the interview with the Governor. Mr. Purohit dissolved the committee and ordered that a new team be constituted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-select-alagappa-varsity-v-c-constituted/article38263399.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||Touched by #MeToo Movement, advocate pens book||It took senior advocate K. Santhakumari three years to get one book published. The only reason was that the subject was the #MeToo movement. “Several publishers refused to bring out the book since I had mentioned the names of some famous personalities. It took me three years to bring the book out,” she said. Finally, Ethir Veliyedu Publishers picked up the book, and it was released recently. What began in October 2017, when news of women accusing film producer Harvey Weinstein broke out, grew as the #MeToo movement and took the world by storm. India was no exception and in Tamil Nadu, notably, many accusations were made by several women, populating the laundry list that was initially drawn up by a law student Raya Sarkar. Subsequent trolling of some of the women victims, who identified themselves, on social media caught the attention of Ms. Santhakumari. “The way a singer, who had called out a famous personality, was treated, hit me hard. She had also posted messages of other women calling out their abusers too. For me, the sad part was the way the women were hounded on social media and asked to prove the guilt of the sexual predators. A number of men rallied behind the men who had been accused. I wanted to understand the psychology of a society that didthis,” she explained. Supreme Court judge V. Ramasubramanian said that victims were oftensubject tosecondaryvictimisationwhen people try to take the side of the offender.Ms.Santakumarihas covered all aspects of the movement, including its history and where itwasheaded. ‘No field an exception’ Seema Agarwal, chairperson, Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board received the first copy of the book, during the book launch. She said she had witnessedfirst-hand,the confusion and pain of women in such cases, and it was disturbing to note that no field had remained untouched by the #MeToo issue. Former High Court Judge V. Chandru explanied that despite the existence of a law to protect victims, people were using loopholes in the law to try and delay cases. He said it was not enough if there was a law, and what was really needed was the will to implement it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/touched-by-metoo-movement-advocate-pens-book/article38263434.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||MMM Hospital completes 40 years||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu on Wednesday inaugurated a modular operation theatre and a 128 Slice CT Scan Centre at the Madras Medical Mission (MMM) hospital. The Minister was participating in the 40th anniversary celebration of the hospital. Mr. Sekarbabu lauded the hospital’s service to people from all sections of society. Pointing out that heart attacks and related illnesses carried the risk of higher mortality if not taken care immediately, he said it was important that the hospital gave special focus to cardiac illnesses. The government would stand alongside the hospital in support of its humanitarian work. The Minister said that although COVID-19 cases were increasing at a rapid space, the mortality continued to be low owing to the vaccination coverage achieved by the present government. S. Rajan, director, cardiac surgery, at the hospital, spoke on how new facilities would benefit patients. M. M. Philip, honorary secretary, and Yuhanon Mar Dioscoros, Metropolitan of the Madras Diocese of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church and the honorary president of the hospital, were present. Ambattur MLA Joseph Samuel spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mmm-hospital-completes-40-years/article38263262.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Premature baby undergoes eye surgery||A baby born prematurely at 30 weeks of gestation was recently treated in a city eye hospital for a congenital defect. Born on October 11, the baby was referred to the Institute of Child Health in Egmore on December 23. Sravani Gunashekar from Nellore was delivered of twins and one of them died of respiratory distress 25 days after birth. This delayed treatment for the surviving baby, the family said. The baby was referred to Rajan Eye Care Hospital, where a team of doctors under the Rotary Retinopathy of Prematurity Project, took up the case. “Retinopathy of Prematurity (ROP) is a potentially blinding retinal vascular disorder that can rapidly lead to retinal detachment and total blindness in preterm babies,” said Mohan Rajan, hospital medical director. The baby was diagnosed with hybrid ROP in both eyes and underwent an intricate surgery under general anaesthesia on Monday, Dr. Mohan, who headed the surgical team, said. The procedure, estimated at Rs. 2.5 lakh, was done free of cost. Dr. Rajan said the ROTAROPP team, which is a liaison between Rajan Eye Care and Rotary Club of T. Nagar, had been screening babies and offering free treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/premature-baby-undergoes-eye-surgery/article38263263.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Governor pays tributes to Swami Vivekananda||Governor R.N. Ravi paid a floral tribute to Swami Vivekananda’s statue inside the Raj Bhavan on Wednesday on his birth anniversary. “His call, ‘Awake, Arise and Stop not until the Goal is reached’ became the inspirational mantra for the youth. It is only appropriate that his birthday is celebrated as National Youth Day,” the Governor said in a press release. The Governor paid tributes to the land of Kanniyakumari, where Swami Vivekananda got his enlightenment and from where he set out on the mission of building a strong, capable and compassionate India for the good of humanity. The Governor expressed his gratitude to Manonmaniam Sundaranar for teaching Saiva Siddhantha to Swami Vivekananda, which spurred his spiritual awakening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-pays-tributes-to-swami-vivekananda/article38263264.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK appropriated our schemes, says Thennarasu||Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said on Wednesday that it was the AIADMK government that had appropriated the schemes of the DMK government. Reacting to former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s contention that the DMK government had appropriated the AIADMK’s schemes, he said the AIADMK government started the culture of appropriation by affixing stickers on former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi’s name and Thiruvalluvar’s image in school textbooks prepared under the common syllabus. “When volunteers and NGOs distributed relief items to areas affected by Cyclone Gaja, the AIADMK government affixed its sticker on the bags. Mr. Palaniswami has conveniently forgotten what his government had done,” Mr. Thennarasu told reporters. ‘Pictures avoided’ He pointed out that the DMK government had avoided the pictures of the Chief Minister on the Pongal gift hamper and other gifts given to people. Even the Hogenakkal combined drinking water project was launched by Karunanidhi at a cost of Rs. 1,928 crore in 2008 and the then Local Administration Minister, M.K. Stalin, completed 95% of the work after securing funds from Japan, but the AIADMK government inaugurated it in 2013 as if it had conceived it. “Likewise, the AIADMK government inaugurated the bus terminus at Koyambedu, which was planned by the DMK government. It converted the new Secretariat building into a hospital and named it Omandurar hospital. Our Chief Minister announced 10 arts and sciences colleges in 2011 and orders were issued for their establishment. But the AIADMK government inaugurated the colleges as if they had been started by it,” he said. ‘Faith in CM’ Mr. Thennarasu said the Foxconn unit at Sriperumbudur was reopened after the Chief Minister’s suggestions were implemented. “This shows the workers’ faith, especially the women workers’ faith, in our Chief Minister. He is particular about the safety of women workers, and was directly involved in resolving the problem,” he said.  Mr. Palaniswami has conveniently forgotten what his government had done||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-appropriated-our-schemes-says-thennarasu/article38263286.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||31,000 COVID-19 patients covered under CMCHIS||The treatment of 31,145 COVID-19 patients was covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS) at a cost of nearly Rs. 382 crore from May 7, 2021 to January 10 this year, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Wednesday. Shortly after inaugurating a kiosk where people can join the CMCHIS at Saidapet, he said that as the CMCHIS also covered RT-PCR tests, a total of 32,23,064 persons had benefited from it, with the cost being Rs. 182.64 crore. After pleas to cover patients afflicted with mucormycosis, the CMCHIS covered 2,049 patients, with Rs. 5.83 crore spent on their treatment. He said a total of 1,600 hospitals — 714 government hospitals and 886 private hospitals — were being empanelled under the CMCHIS. Recently, the Tamil Nadu government entered into an agreement with United India Insurance Company to implement the CMCHIS for five more years at a total cost of Rs. 1,248 crore. The first instalment of Rs. 581 crore was granted. A total of 1.37 crore families had already been covered under the CMCHIS. Those who wanted to join could visit the CMCHIS kiosks. “So far, residents of Chennai had to visit the Collectorate or taluk offices to enrol themselves in the scheme. To make it easier for them, we have opened a kiosk at Saidapet, and another one will soon come up at Thousand Lights. Residents of south Chennai can visit the kiosk at Saidapet, while those in central Chennai can visit the kiosk at Thousand Lights and north Chennai residents can visit the Collectorate,” he said. Similar facilities would be established in other Corporations. Replying to a question on the AIADMK claiming credit for the 11 new medical colleges, the Minister pointed to a government order issued in February 2011 during the Chief Ministership of M. Karunanidhi on the establishment of government medical colleges in Ramanathapuram, Cuddalore and Pudukottai and two more in Dindigul and Virudhunagar. It was the former Chief Minister who had announced the scheme for establishing one medical college in every district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/31000-covid-19-patients-covered-under-cmchis/article38263303.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. centres to hold precaution dose sessions||The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine has directed all Deputy Directors of Health Services to hold sessions to administer the precaution vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries. It called for a separate queue for adolescents aged 15-17 at all government COVID-19 vaccination centres. The Directorate said 70% of the children aged 15-18 (23,34,845) had been vaccinated until January 10. As many as 20,765 beneficiaries — 10,091 healthcare workers, 5,482 frontline workers and 5,192 persons aged above 60 with co-morbid conditions — had been given the precaution dose. In a letter, Director of Public Health T.S. Selvavinayagam told all Deputy Directors of Health Services to open sessions at all government COVID-19 vaccination centres for the administration of the precaution dose to eligible beneficiaries — persons who have completed 39 weeks from the date of the second dose. Separate counters and queues should be ensured for the administration of Covaxin to children aged 15-18. The Deputy Directors of Health Services should instruct the site managers of the private COVID-19 vaccination centres to open sessions for the administration of the precaution dose and the Covaxin sessions for children aged 15-18, apart from the regular sessions for those aged above 18. They should approve new private vaccination centres as per the guidelines. They should coordinate with the Joint Directors of Health Services, Deans and other health officials to ensure that their eligible staff members received the precaution dose on completion of 39 weeks from the date of the second dose. They were instructed to complete the vaccination of children aged 15-18 and the administration of the precaution doses as early as possible.  Vaccination of adolescents aged 15-17 and administration of precaution doses should be completed as early as possible||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-centres-to-hold-precaution-dose-sessions/article38263305.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Helplines opened for inter-State migrant workers||The Tamil Nadu Government has requested inter-State migrant workers to stick to their workplaces without any fear or anxiety over the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. It has opened control rooms in nine districts and announced helplines. The helplines are 044-24321438 and 044-24321408 which function from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. “The inter-State migrant workers in Tamil Nadu are requested to continue working at their workplaces without any fear or anxiety and follow the guidelines issued by the State government from time to time,” an official release said. The details of the district control rooms and the contact numbers of the officers are Chennai: T. Subashchandran, Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Enforcement) 8220613777; Tiruvallur: S. Sudha, Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Enforcement) 9442832516; Kancheepuram: B. Linkeswaran, Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Enforcement) 8778619552; Chengalpattu: A. Senbagaraman, Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Social Security Scheme) 9940856855.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helplines-opened-for-inter-state-migrant-workers/article38263291.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||620 police personnel test positive for COVID-19||As many as 620 police personnel have tested positive for SARS CoV-2 since January 1. “Around 420 of them are under home quarantine and others are in hospital and care centres. Necessary medical assistance has been given to them," said an officer. In Chennai, over 160 police personnel have tested positive and they had been under home isolation. Similarly, at least eight police personnel, including an inspector in Pallavaram station, tested positive. Six of them are under home isolation and two have been admitted to a hospital, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/620-police-personnel-test-positive-in-tn/article38263250.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police Commissioner hands over appointment orders||Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal on Wednesday handed over appointment orders to the wards and spouses of police personnel and ministerial staff who were selected by private companies at a job mela last month. The department organised a two-day job fair, exclusively for the wards and spouses of police personnel and ministerial staff in five cities, including Chennai, in association with the Employment and Training Department and others. The Police Welfare Wing collected and categorised about 7,200 candidates, according to their educational qualifications and the area of preference. The data was shared with private companies through FICCI and CII. In Chennai, representativesof 107 companies, including software firms, participated and conducted personal interviews with 1,161 candidates. After final rounds of selection, 115 candidates were selected by 26 firms for jobs. On Wednesday, Mr. Jiwal handed over the appointment orders to candidates in the presence of representatives of private companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/115-kin-of-policemen-get-appointment-orders-from-private-companies/article38263256.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Karunanidhi memorial plan gets green signal||The Tamil Nadu State Coastal Zone Management Authority (TNSCZMA) has granted permission for the construction of a memorial to former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi within Anna Memorial campus on Kamarajar Salai here under the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) Notification, 2011. The proposal for the construction of a compound wall in the north-eastern portion, encompassing 40 cents, along with the construction of an open air theatre (the seating area, the stage and the ramp) and museum, could be taken up by the project proponent after submitting the required documents. The conditions laid down by the District Coastal Zone Management Authority (DCZMA) for the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority areas should be followed, the TNSCZMA said. Estimated cost The proposed construction is for 8,944.50 sq.ft. and the total cost of the project is Rs. 39 crore, and the project is falling in the CRZ-II areas. The DCZMA recommended the proposal to the TNSCZMA at a meeting in November last with certain conditions. One of them was to provide an adequate rainwater harvesting structure for water percolation and to harvest the rainwater to the maximum extent possible. The development of a green belt of native species along the project area to improve the air environment was also among the conditions. The memorial building was to be designed and constructed in accordance with the seismic factors applicable to the moderate intensity zone, and the construction should comply with the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016, the TNSCZMA said.  Conditions laid down by the District Coastal Zone Management Authority for the CMDA areas should be followed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clearance-given-to-build-karunanidhi-memorial/article38263290.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Pay Rs. 4,000 per tonne to cane farmers’||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on WednesdaycriticisedChief Minister M.K. Stalin for sanctioningRs. 2,900 pertonneas the payment to sugarcane farmersfor procurement made by sugar mills during the 2020-21 crushing season. In a statement, hepointed outthat a few days ago, the State governmentannounceda production incentive ofRs. 42.5per tonne and a special incentive ofRs. 150 per tonne, in additionto thefair and remunerativeprice fixed by the Centreat Rs. 2,707.50 per tonne. ThistotalledRs. 2,900pertonne. But five years ago, Mr. Stalin had demanded the payment ofRs. 3,500 pertonne.In the manifesto for the Assembly election, his party, the DMK, had assured the farmers thatthey would be paid Rs. 4,000 pertonneif it came to power. Describing the government’s move as an “act of betrayal”, Mr. Panneerselvam urged the Chief Minister to revise the price toRs. 4,000 pertonne.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-rs-4000-per-tonne-to-cane-farmers/article38263302.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||Re-allocation of subjects for Ministers||The Tamil Nadu government has issued orders to re-allocate certain subjects in the portfolios among Ministers. The subject ‘Airports’ would be handled by the Industries Minister instead of the Transport Minister. The subject ‘Overseas Manpower Corporation Limited’ would be handled by the Minister for Minorities’ Welfare and Non Resident Tamils’ Welfare instead of the Labour Welfare and Skill Development Minister. The subject ‘Sugars’, so far dealt by the Industries Minister, would be allocated to the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister, in addition to the subjects already handled by the latter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/re-allocation-of-subjects-for-ministers/article38263304.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two boys fall from bike, run over by van||Two boys, who were travelling with their parents on a motorbike, were run over by a van after they were thrown off the bike that hit a tricycle near Maduravoyal on Wednesday. The police said the victims were identified as Kaushik, 2, and Athiran, 4, both sons of M. Selvam and S. Sumalatha. The accident occurred while the family was returning home from a relative’s house. Mr. Selvam was driving the bike, his wife was on the pillion and their two sons were sitting on the fuel tank. Van driver P. Ramaiah from Tenkasi has been detained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-boys-fall-from-bike-run-over-by-van/article38263257.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Additional coaches in special trains||The Southern Railway has decided to add extra coaches in 23 Pongal special trains following an appeal from rail users. The rail users had made an appeal following the State government restricting the occupancy to 75% in public transport. Railway activist R. Pandiaraja had said that Southern Railway had announced the operation of Pongal special trains. They are in addition to the COVID-19 special trains. But the wait-list has been long, with the number crossing the 250-mark for some trains. So, he wanted the Southern Railway to attach more coaches to the trains, especially in Silambu Express which had only 17 coaches. Seven more coaches could be added to this train, he said. According to B. Guganesan, Chief Public Relations Officer, Southern Railway, orders to add extra coaches were issued on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-coaches-in-special-trains/article38263254.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hikes DA for temple staff||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday ordered a 14% increase in the Dearness Allowance for permanent staff of temples under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department whose annual revenue is over Rs. 1 lakh. An official release said around 10,000 permanent staff would benefit from the announcement.  The State Government also increased the special ex-gratia being granted as a Pongal gift to all full-time and part-time employees, those on consolidated pay and daily-wage labourers, from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 2,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-hikes-da-for-temple-staff/article38263289.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘There is no place for criminals in T.N. BJP’||There is no place for wanted criminals in the Tamil Nadu BJP, State BJP president K. Annamalai has said. Amid criticism that people with a criminal background were being admitted into the party, Mr. Annamalai on Wednesday said the party will not shelter criminals being pursued by the police. Ex-Minister’s meeting When asked about former Union Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan of the BJP meeting the family of history-sheeter Padappai Guna recently, Mr. Annamalai said he would have to ask Mr. Radhakrishnan about the meeting. “Mr. Radhakrishnan was a Union Minister. His intention would not have been to get that person (Guna) into the party,” he contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/there-is-no-place-for-criminals-in-tn-bjp/article38263306.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Parthasarathy temple darshan from 6.15 a.m. today||The Greater Chennai Police barred the entry of devotees inside Sri Parthasarathy temple at Triplicane from Wednesday night in connection with the Vaikunta Ekadasi festival. The police and the Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments have put in place COVID-19 restrictions in the temple. Devotees can have darshan from 6.15 a.m. till 8 p.m. on Thursday duly following COVID-19 guidelines issued by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/darshan-from-615-am-at-parthasarathy-temple/article38263253.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 violations galore at Flower Market as cases rise in city||As the COVID-19 positive cases in the city inch towards 2,000 with the addition of over 300 cases a day and the Coimbatore Corporation takes measures to contain infection spread, there are pockets where all guidelines are thrown to the wind. Flower Market on Mettupalayam Road appears to be one of those pockets where both customers and flower vendors have thrown caution to the wind. Right from the shops leading to the market gate to those on the inside, only a handful of traders have their mask on. A few others have the mask beneath their chin and others are without mask. The customers’ adherence to safety guideline is no different. Sources in the market admit that this has been the situation in the past few days as the footfall started increasing ahead of Pongal. The traders most often lower their mask to shout out to draw customers and the latter, too, down their mask to bargain. Given the increase in footfall the need for maintaining physical distance is impossible, the sources say and add that if the Corporation had shifted the market to a school or college ground, as it did during the previous lockdown, adherence to physical distance would have been possible. In this limited space where hundreds of traders and customers move around it is impossible to observe physical distance unless the Corporation regulates crowd, the sources add. The Corporation officials say at the Flower Market the civic body stations a vehicle fitted with public address system to create awareness among people and urge them to wear mask. It also slaps fine on the violators at the market as it does in other places. If there are specific complaints from the market area the Corporation will deploy a special team to strictly enforce the safety guideline, they add. Corporation Deputy Commissioner M. Sharmila says during a surprise inspection at Flower Market on Wednesday morning she found a high percentage of persons complying with COVID-19 safety guideline. She has asked officials to deploy a battery operated vehicle with public address system inside the market to ensure people wearing mask and on Thursday the Corporation will deploy a mobile medical team to lift samples at random there. Meanwhile, the Corporation has identified over 30 streets or layouts with over five COVID-19 positive cases. The civic body sources say such areas are spread across the five zones. A few of the streets have eight – nine cases, where the civic body has deployed its field survey workers for door-to-door campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-violations-galore-at-flower-market-as-cases-rise-in-city/article64950784.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Facilities being provided at Anamalai Road rly. station||Following various representations from passengers regarding basic amenities at the Anamalai Road railway station near Pollachi in Coimbatore district, the Palakkad Division of Southern Railway has commenced provision of facilities at the halt station. Water supply A railway official said on Monday that the toilet at the railway station was recently provided with water supply and electricity. Around 14 lights have also been provided on the platform, the official said.. Works to provide fencing have commenced and will be completed soon to prevent any unauthorised entry into the railway station, the official said. Regarding the patronage for the Palakkad-Tiruchendur train services that was provided stoppage at Anamalai Road railway station from December 24 last year, the official said that around 15 passengers boarded Palakkad Junction – Tiruchendur Daily Unreserved Express at 6.04 a.m. on Monday. The patronage has seen a dip due to the recent COVID-19 restrictions and is expected to increase once the situation eases, according to the official. R. Murugan, president of the Anamalai Train Passengers’ Welfare Association, said that the Palakkad Division authorities must have ensured that the basic amenities were available for the passengers prior to the provision of stoppage of Palakkad-Tiruchendur train services last year. The halt station, which serves passengers from the Anamalai and Valparai taluks, must be converted into a block station with a full-time station manager, he urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/facilities-being-provided-at-anamalai-road-rly-station/article38263327.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation to collect parking fee on 30 major roads||Coimbatore Corporation will soon start collecting parking fee on 30 roads and establish off-street parking lots at a few places in the city. It would collect the parking fee for vehicles parked on Nawab Hakim Road, Oppanakara Street, Range Gowder Street, Edayar Street, V.H. Road, Raja Street, Big Bazaar Street, Perur Main Road, Mettupalayam Road, Cowley Brown Road, D.B. Road, Bharathi Park Road, Alagesan Road, N.S.R. Road, Dr. Rajendra Prasad Road, Power House Road, Power House Road – West and East, Cross Cut Road, Sathyamangalam Road, Dr. Nanjappa Road, Satyamoorthy Road, Old Post Office Road, State Bank of India Road, Avinashi Road, Arts College Road, Race Course Road and Kamarajar Road, the Corporation said in a resolution the Council had passed on November 30. The Corporation would be collecting parking fee at Rs. 30 or Rs. 40 an hour for four-wheelers and Rs. 10 an hour for two-wheelers and it would not be for the entire stretch of the roads, as the resolution showed that the total parking area covered was only 28.63 km. In the resolution the Corporation also said it proposed to set up off-street parking lots in select places where it would charge Rs. 20 an hour for four-wheelers and Rs. 5 an hour for two-wheelers. It also mentioned monthly tickets for parking vehicles in those off-street parking lots at Rs. 2,400 for four-wheelers and Rs. 600 for two-wheelers. The Corporation planned to manage the parking lot by giving out those on contract for five years, the resolution further said. Commenting on the resolution, consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon said the Corporation had set out to punish road users for the fault of shopping complex owners and its inability. Road users were forced to park on roads because the owners had not provided parking space or illegally used it for commercial gain. And, the Corporation’s fault here was that it was not sealing those buildings where parking space was used commercially or demolishing buildings built illegally without parking space. In short, the fault was with either the owners or the Corporation but the public paid penalty. He also wanted to know if the Corporation had consulted the Coimbatore City Traffic Police before deciding on the roads or the stretches therein as the objective behind the resolution was ensuring free vehicle movement. And, what would be the status of parking lots in the weeks prior to Deepavali as the Traffic Police usually stopped vehicle parking on Oppanakara Street and other busy commercial areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-to-collect-parking-fee-on-30-major-roads/article64950781.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Uniforms distributed to temple staff, priests||District Collector G.S. Sameeran on Wednesday distributed uniforms to 1,091 beneficiaries, including priests and temple staff under the purview of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department.  A release said that the beneficiaries comprised 429 priests namely archakas, bhattacharyas, odhuvars and poosaris and 662 temple staff (352 men and 310 women) employed in the temples that are under the control of the HR&CE Department in Coimbatore district. The total cost of the clothes distributed was Rs. 23.02 lakh.  The male priests received two sets of dhotis each and the male staff members received two sets of brown-coloured trousers and sandal-coloured shirts each. The female priests and temple staff members received maroon-coloured saris with yellow borders, the release said. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had inaugurated the distribution of these uniforms for priests and temple staff on January 4. HR&CE Joint Commissioner (Coimbatore Zone) R. Senthilvelavan and other officials from the department were also present at the event held at the Coimbatore Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uniforms-distributed-to-temple-staff-priests/article64950750.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements for jallikattu discussed||Collector G.S. Sameeran on Wednesday held a meeting with jallikattu organisers to ensure the event was held in compliance with the government-given COVID-19 safety guidelines.  A release issued at the end of the meeting said the district administration would allow only the bull owner and a helper along with the bull to participate in the event. At the time of registering the bull for the event, the two persons should also register. They both should be vaccinated and possess a COVID-19 negative certificate for the test that was taken 48 hours prior to the conduct of the event. The administration would issue identity cards to the bull owner and helper. The COVID-19 safety guideline applied to visitors, officials coordinating the event and also journalists, the release said and added that the administration would allow only lower number of either 150 visitors or 50% of seating capacity to witness the event. Appeal The administration appealed to outstation visitors to enjoy watching the event on television sets, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-for-jallikattu-discussed/article38263318.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||5 COVID-19 monitoring officers for Coimbatore city||Coimbatore Corporation has designated five District Revenue Officer-cadre officials to the five zones in the city to monitor COVID-19 control measures. A press release from Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara issued here said that the official held a meeting with Meenakshi Sundaram, the officer in-charge of North Zone, Selva Surabhi (South Zone), Paul Princely Rajkumar (East Zone), M. Sharmila (West Zone) and Govindarajulu (Central Zone), to take stock of the developments and issue necessary instructions. Containment measures ]He had asked them to collect details of positive persons and those taking tests at private hospitals, laboratories, scan centres, etc., pass on information of persons turning positive everyday and coordinate the containment measures. Medical teams Mr. Sunkara said he had also asked the monitoring officers to keep tab on the field survey workers’ door-to-door checking exercise and the five medical teams that go door-to-door to check on positive persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-covid-19-monitoring-officers-for-coimbatore-city/article38263322.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ketamine among drugs seized from youth||Ketamine, an anaesthetic, was among the drugs seized by the Race Course police from a youth in Coimbatore on Tuesday. The police said that 40 nitrazepam trablets, 10 tablets of an opioid drug, 10 ml of ketamine, three needles and two syringes were seized from Sadam Hussain (29), a native of Ramanathapuram district who had been staying at MGR Street near Rathinapuri. Race Course inspector S. Vignesh said that Hussain and another person namely Masilamani were found in suspicious circumstances on the banks of Valankulam tank on Tuesday afternoon when a police team was on patrol in the area. Masilamani fled the place seeing the police. The police found the contraband items with Hussain who was arrested under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs Psychotropic Substances Act. He was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ketamine-among-drugs-seized-from-youth/article38263331.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Advocate held for defrauding parent’s of accident victim||The Crime Branch CID (CB-CID) recently arrested an advocate from Dharapuram on the charge of defrauding Rs. 3.75 lakh, which a court had ordered to be given to a couple as compensation for the death of their son in an accident. Murugesan (57), who used to practise at Dharapuram sub-court, was arrested by a team headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police P. Sivakumar from Mylapore on January 8. According to the CB-CID investigators, Murugesan produced two persons, who impersonated as the parents of the accident victim, before the court apart from making alterations in the documents related to the Motor Vehicle Accident Claims Original Petition (MCOP) case with the help of a man who worked as head clerk atthe Dharapuram sub-court. Officials said that a 22-year-old man Shanmugasundaram was killed in an accident involving a TNSTC bus in Tiruppur district in 2011. His parents Balasubramanian and Eswari filed an MCOP petition before the Dharapuram sub-court seeking compensation. The court in 2015 ordered to give Rs. 3.75 lakh as compensation to the parents. The CB-CID said that Murugesan with the help of Baskaran, former head clerk at the court, made changes in the original petition. They removed photos of the accident victim’s parents in the petition and affixed that of a man and a woman who impersonated as the parents. The accused received the compensation after the completion of various formalities. The parents of the victim lodged a petition before the court in 2019 stating that they did not receive the compensation even after four years. Following this, Murugesan handed over the money to the parents. However, the court took note of the seriousness of the forgery and cheating and a case was registered based on a complaint lodged by M. Dharmaprabhu, subordinate judge, Dharapuram. Though, Murugesan obtained an anticipatory bail, the judge appealed in the Madras High Court against the anticipatory bail and it was quashed. The High Court directed the CB-CID to investigate the case based on which a first information report was registered on December 31, 2021. Investigators said that Baskaran was already arrested in the case and the CB-CID was on the look out for the two accused who posed as the accident victim’s parents. The investigators are also checking whether the accused had defrauded compensation in other MCOP cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advocate-held-for-defrauding-parents-of-accident-victim/article38263330.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Relief materials distributed||Forest Department staff attached to Manambolly forest range of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve distributed relief materials to eight families whose quarters were gutted in a fire last week. Manambolly forest ranger A. Manikandan and officials from Tata Coffee Ltd distributed materials, including rice, groceries and vegetables, on Monday. Quarters of estate workers namely Rajendiran, Dhanam, Mallika, Honjan Ali, Suresh, Nizam Ali, Mala Hussain and Kanaga were gutted in the accident on January 8. Though no one belonging to the eight families were injured, household items, electronic items, documents and clothes were damaged in the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-materials-distributed/article38263324.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man beaten to death, 10 held||The Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Wednesday arrested 10 persons on the charge of beating an unidentified man to death, suspecting him to be a thief, at Chithirai Chavadi near Alandurai. Though the accused had dumped the body of the man in river Noyyal on Pooluvapatti – Thennamanallur road, the police found that he had died of assault by a group of people. The arrested, all hailing from Chithirai Chavadi and Pooluvapatti areas, have been identified as K. Viswanathan (39), his father A. Kaliappan (56), K. Sampathkumar (41), K. Duraisamy (50), C. Karthik (31), P. Ganesh (37), B. Jeganathan (45), A. Ponnusamy (52), R. Jothiraj (50) and C. Saravanakumar (44). The police said that three men attempted to break into a house of Kaliappan at Chithirai Chavadi on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The trio allegedly showed a knife to threaten the family members. Kaliappan, Viswanathan and Sampathkumar managed to nab one of the three men with the help of seven neighbours. The group, according to the police, tied up the man and assaulted him. After finding the man unconscious, they shifted him in a vehicle around 4 a.m. on Tuesday and dumped him in the river. The body was spotted by residents of the locality on Tuesday morning and the police shifted it to the mortuary of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The police questioned people in the locality and came to know that the deceased person was in the custody of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-beaten-to-death-10-held/article38263332.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kavi Aruvi falls closed to visitors||Kavi Aruvi waterfall, formerly known as Monkey Falls or ‘Kurangu Aruvi’, on Pollachi - Valparai road will remain closed to visitors from Thursday due to very low water level. A press release from the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) issued here said thatthe butterfly park of the Forest Department at Aliyar will remain closed on Sunday due to the total lockdown. Visitors will not be allowed to proceed to Valparai and Top Slip on Sunday, the release said. On other days, the ATR administration will permit only 75 vehicles, that come first, to the elephant camp at Top Slip from Sethumadai check-post. Vehicles of people who have made reservations to stay at the Forest Department guest houses at Top Slip are exempted, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kavi-aruvi-falls-closed-to-visitors/article38263323.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nine peafowl found dead in farmland||Nine peafowl were found dead in a farmland at Kinathukkadavu in the district on Wednesday. The Forest Department said the birds were found dead in the land belonging to S. Kuppusamy (60) at Bharathinagar, near Kinathukadavu, which falls under the limits of Pollachi forest range of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve. The Forest Department received information about the death of peafowl on Wednesday afternoon. A team rushed to the place and found seven peahens and a peacock dead. A government veterinarian autopsied the birds and collected samples for forensic examination. The Department suspects that the peafowl were poisoned. A special team of the Forest Department has started investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nine-peafowl-found-dead-in-farmland/article38263416.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation orders closure of unit for a week for safety violation||Monitoring officer for Coimbatore Corporation East Zone Paul Princely Rajkumar on Wednesday ordered closure of an industry in SIHS Colony for a week and slapped Rs. 5,000 as fine for violation of COVID-19 safety guideline, said a release from the civic body. He found the violation during an inspection in the industry. On Wednesday, the Corporation slapped Rs. 42,600 fine on 263 individuals for not wearing mask and Rs. 42,100 on establishments for other safety violation, said another release..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-orders-closure-of-unit-for-a-week-for-safety-violation/article38263319.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||58 hostel inmates at Rajah Muthiah Medical College test positive||As many as 58 students attached to the Rajah Muthiah Medical College campus in Annamalai University in Chidambaram have tested positive for COVID-19. A Health Department official said the students — 22 boys and 36 girls — were from three hostels on the campus and they have been admitted to the Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital (RMMCH). The hostels have been declared as a containment zone. The official said the University began testing students as a precautionary measure from Monday. The samples of 58 students tested positive and they had been admitted to the hospital. On Tuesday, another 500 students have given their samples and their test results are awaited. Asked to vacate Meanwhile, the first-year MBBS students who had tested negative for the infection, were asked to vacate the premises. According to a circular issued by the University, classes for undergraduate students have been canceled till January 23. The students have been asked to vacate the hostels immediately.  The hostels have been declared as a containment zone. The university began testing students as a precautionary measure from Monday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/58-hostel-inmates-at-rajah-muthiah-medical-college-test-positive/article64950537.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||1,105 impounded vehicles auctioned off||As many as 1,105 unclaimed vehicles, impounded in connection with various criminal cases, were auctioned off by police here on Tuesday.A press release said SP S. Sakthi Ganesan instructed officers to dispose of unclaimed vehicles in police stations. Of the total, 201 vehicles, seized in prohibition raids were auctioned off as well. A sum of Rs. 90.36 lakh, earned through the auction, was credited to the public exchequer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1105-impounded-vehicles-auctioned-off/article38263672.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in road accident||Two persons were killed when a two-wheeler had a head-on collision with a cargo vehicle on Tiruchi-Rameswaram national highway near Puliyal on Wednesday. The police identified the deceased as R. Saravanan (45), the driver of the cargo vehicle from Devakottai, and V. Murugan (55) of Sanavayal, who rode on the motorbike. The other rider, A. Kannadasan of Sanavayal, has been admitted to the Sivaganga Government Medical College Hospital with head injuries. Devakottai Taluk police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-one-injured-in-road-accident/article38263409.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bed occupancy low in districts||More than 2,700 beds are available for COVID-19 patients in hospitals in Erode district as on Wednesday. Health Department officials said that of the total 1,564 oxygen-supported beds, 39 were occupied and 1,525 were vacant. Likewise, of the total 835 non oxygen-supported beds, 90 were occupied and 745 were vacant. Of the total 441 ICU beds that were earmarked for treating COVID-19 patients, seven beds were occupied and 434 beds vacant. Thus, a total of 2,704 beds remain vacant in the hospitals in the district. All the 725 beds in the Covid Care Centres (CCC) are vacant, they said. In Salem district, of the total 1,830 oxygen-supported beds, 131 were occupied and 1,699 were vacant on Wednesday. Of the 1,184 non oxygen-supported beds, 85 were occupied and 1,099 were vacant. Of the total 619 ICU beds, 31 beds were occupied and 588 beds were vacant. Thus, a total of 3,386 beds were available for COVID-19 patients in hospitals in the district as on Wednesday. All the 4,666 beds in the CCC are vacant, they added. 1,266 beds in Namakkal In Namakkal district, of the total 779 oxygen-supported beds, 45 were occupied and 734 were vacant on Wednesday. Likewise, of the total 398 non oxygen-supported beds, seven were occupied and 391 were vacant. Of the total 155 ICU beds, seven beds were occupied and 141 beds were vacant. Thus, a total of 1,266 beds remain vacant in hospitals in the district. All the 210 beds in the CCC remain vacant, they added. On Tuesday, 242 new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Erode, 256 cases in Salem and 84 cases in Namakkal district. Though bed occupancy was low, officials asked the people to follow all COVID-19 safety norms and immediately undergo tests if they have symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bed-occupancy-low-in-districts/article64950752.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 330 new cases, one death||Erode district on Wednesday reported 330 newCOVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,09,056. While 92 persons were discharged, 1,019 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, rising the toll to 713. Salemdistrict reported 285 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 1,03,869. While 66 persons were discharged, 1,732 persons continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 168 cases taking the tally to 55,216. While 33 persons were discharged, 497 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, rising the toll to 522. Krishnagiri district reported 230 cases taking the tally to 44,944. While 34 persons were discharged, 739 persons continue to be under treatment. Dharmapuri district reported 107 cases taking the tally to 29,375. While 28 persons were discharged, 289 persons continue to be under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-330-new-cases-one-death/article64950747.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||People throng Erode Railway Station||With just a few days left for Pongal, people started returning to their natives as trains and special buses were crowded here on Wednesday.  Pongal falls on Friday and Mattu Pongal on Sunday while Thaipusam falls on January 18.  Since the State government declared local holiday for government offices and educational institutions on January 17, people working in other districts have started returning to their native from Wednesday. Since colleges remain closed due to COVID-19, students had already returned to their home town as the crowd was less till the evening. Special buses operated from Chennai and other districts had good patronage throughout the day. Since most of the scheduled trains were fully booked, Erode Railway Junction was crowded on Wednesday. In Salem, the new bus stand was busy from Wednesday afternoon, as special buses from Chennai, Madurai and south-bound buses were operated on full capacity. The Salem Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) is operating special buses to Coimbatore, Madurai, Karur, and Tiruchi for the Pongal and people started utilising the services from Wednesday. Officials said that crowd movement will be high on Thursday and they are ready for operating the special buses as scheduled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-throng-erode-railway-station/article64950751.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Leopard cub found in cow shed, dies||A two-month-old female leopard cub that was found in a cow shed at Bunglowthoddi village in Hasanur on Wednesday morning died later. Manikandan, who rears cattle, found the cub at the shed and alerted the Forest Department. Officials from Hasanur Range Office rescued the cub and brought it to the office. The cub was found to be inactive and sick. Camera traps were placed in nearby locations and teams were formed to trace the mother. A veterinarian examined the cub. But within an hour of rescue, the cub died. A postmortem was conducted and samples of vital organs were taken and sent for analysis. The carcass was burnt as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-cub-found-in-cow-shed-dies/article64950746.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC confirms death sentence to man for sexual assault, murder of 7-year-old girl||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday confirmed the death sentence imposed on a man by a trial court for the sexual assault and murder of a seven-year-old girl in 2020 in Pudukkottai district. The convict, Samivel alias Raja, sexually assaulted the girl. Later, fearing she would reveal about it to others, he murdered her and threw the body into a dry pond. Verdict in 2020 In 2020, the Pudukkottai Mahila Court imposed the death sentence on the convict. The child’s mother was a woman with special needs. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran confirmed the sentence in the referred trial. The judges took into consideration the brutality of the attack, the barbaric manner in which the child was murdered and the mental agony undergone by the parents. “We find that except the death sentence, no other sentence will be adequate”, the court said. The judges said, “It is pertinent to mention that everyone’s mind contains a liar, a cheat and a sinner and a man cannot be judged by his outer appearance, as Adolf Hitler, who ordered the execution of some eight million people and was responsible for the deaths of many millions more, hated cruelty to animals and was a vegetarian”. If a person like the convict is allowed to survive in this world, he will definitely pollute the mind of other co-prisoners, who will be on the verge of release from jail. When the attitude of a man turns into one of a beast having no mercy over other creatures, he should be punished and sent to the eternal world, the court said. “We were a little hesitant initially to take away the life of a person by way of a judicial order and thought of converting the punishment into one of life imprisonment. But, after due deliberation and contemplation, we were reminded of the preaching of Lord Krishna to Arjuna in the battlefield that everyone is going to disappear from the world, even if he [Arjuna] does not shoot the enemies with arrows, even though they are relatives/known persons”, the judges observed. Discharging duty Further, the court said, when a particular duty is given to a person, he has to discharge the same without fear or favour.  Referring to the song sung by Seerkazhi S. Govindarajan in the 1964 Tamil movie, Karnan , the judges said, “The crux/moral of the song is that when you are entrusted with a task, that has to be discharged without any deviation and without bothering about the criticism being made by others and the good, evil and other things vested with him. In the song the word ‘bravery’ is mentioned, which denotes ‘courage’ to kill his enemies having evil character. Similar to that, the word ‘courage’ can be fitted to this case to mean that we have to discharge our duties without any fear or favour courageously as per the oath taken by us”.   The judges also quoted the Thirukkural , the Holy Bible and the Holy Quran in the judgment.  “In all fairness, we find that the judgment of the trial court fulfilled all the touchstone to determine that it is one of the rarest of rare cases for imposition of the death sentence, as imposition of any other punishment much less life imprisonment is completely insufficient and inadequate and would not meet the ends of justice”, the judges said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-confirms-death-sentence-to-man-for-sexual-assault-murder/article38263380.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Good response from tamers, bull-owners to jallikattu||Despite the COVID-19 threat and newer rules imposed by the State government for jallikattu events, registration of bulls and tamers has been overwhelming for the three events to be held in Madurai in the coming days.  According to district administration, over 4,500 entries for bulls and over 1,990 entries for bull tamers have been received through the online facility that was launched on Tuesday evening. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar had said that 24 hours would be given for online registration. Within a few hours after registration began, over 2,500 entries for participation of bulls in the three events at Avaniyapuram, Palamedu and Alanganallur were received. “We are checking for double entries and after scrutinising the documents submitted by the applicants, randomisation will be taken up and tokens issued for the selected bulls and tamers,” an officer said. The State government has restricted the number of bulls to 700 and tamers to 300 per event.Besides, the bulls and tamers cannot participate in more than one event. “We will divide the valid applications among the three events.Tokens through SMS for Avaniyapuram jallikattu to be held on Friday will be issued by Thursday morning and for the other two events, it will be sent by afternoon,” the official added. All that the bull-rearers and tamers need to do is to produce a RT-PCR negative certificate taken 48 hours before the event, along with the token, to participate in the events. The jallikattu event at Palamedu will be held on Saturday and the event at Alanganallur will be held on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-response-from-tamers-bull-owners-to-jallikattu/article64950711.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Outfit to conduct campaign against NEET across State||State Platform for Common School System - Tamil Nadu on Wednesday appealed to Governor R.N. Ravi to immediately forward the Bill seeking exemption for the State from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). Talking to reporters here, Platform general secretary P.B. Prince Gajendra Babu said the State’s fight against NEET was not merely for admission to medical seats but also to uphold parliamentary democracy and federal polity. The platform would take up a campaign on the issue across the State during January, and a hunger strike would be held on January 30. “If the Governor does not relent even then, I will resort to indefinite satyagraha,” Mr. Gajendra Babu said. NEET was originally planned to regulate admission to medical seats and fee structure in private medical colleges. However, it had failed in ensuring merit in medical admission. “The irregularities in the conduct of NEET have been multidimensional and on a largescale,” Mr. Gajendra Babu contended. Irregularities such as impersonation, use of hi-tech communication tools for cheating, leakage of question paper and tampering of score cards had been reported in the media. The Centre, which would not recognise the syllabus of State boards, believed in an entrance exam conducted by a private agency. NEET had proved beneficial only to the affluent who could afford to spend a few lakhs of rupees for private coaching. Mr. Gajendra Babu said the purpose of government schools was not to give special coaching, which could only bring stress to students. NEET was denying the right of the poor in getting into to medicine. If NEET was not fought at its present stage, it would be extended to all higher education systems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outfit-to-conduct-campaign-against-neet-across-the-state/article64950714.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||With opinion divided on surveillance cameras in spas, issue referred to Acting Chief Justice||Considering that two Single Judges of the Madras High Court took different views with regard to installing CCTV cameras in spas, massage and therapy centres, Justice G.R. Swaminathan has directed the High Court Registry to place the papers before the Acting Chief Justice to consider constituting a Larger Bench in this regard. The judge was hearing a petition filed by a man seeking a direction to restrain the police from interfering with the day-to-day activities of his ayurvedic treatment centre and spa at Courtallam in Tenkasi district. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that the court had passed an order recently holding that police could not insist on installing CCTV cameras inside spas. The counsel sought an order on the same lines. However, Government Advocate (Crl. Side) M. Sakthi Kumar drew the court’s attention to an article published by a digital media publication, which quoted senior advocate K.T.S. Tulsi as saying the conflict must be resolved by a larger Bench. “Though I am quite clear in my mind that I have merely followed the nine-Bench decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Puttaswamy v. Union of India, still in view of the submission of the learned Government Advocate [Crl. Side], I deem it fit and appropriate to direct the Registry to place the papers before My Lord The Hon’ble Chief Justice to consider constituting a Larger Bench in this regard”, Justice Swaminathan said. While Justice S.M. Subramaniam made it mandatory for spas, massage and therapy centres to install CCTV cameras, Justice G.R. Swaminathan held that it would unquestionably infract upon a person’s bodily autonomy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-opinion-divided-on-surveillance-cameras-in-spas-issue-referred-to-acting-chief-justice/article38263573.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Fill up vacancies in DRT Madurai’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered notice to the Centre on a petition filed by the Madurai Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) Bar Association that sought a direction to the government to fill the vacancies in the post of Presiding Officer and other positions in DRT Madurai. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran ordered notice on a plea filed by Secretary of the Bar Association M. Senthilkumar. He said the DRT, Madurai, had jurisdiction over 10 districts. The sanctioned posts in DRT Madurai included Presiding Officer, Registrar, Two Recovery Officers and Assistant Registrar. Ten out of the total of 27 posts, including the post of Presiding Officer, were vacant. The Presiding Officer in Coimbatore was given additional charge till December 31, 2021. No notification was issued to extend the additional charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fill-up-vacancies-in-drt-madurai/article38263580.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea challenges govt. order||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court ordered notice to the State on a PIL petition challenging a government order that permitted removal of soil/earth from private patta lands for domestic and agricultural purposes. The petitioner said that under the pretext of same sub soil minerals were illegally lifted and sold for commercial gains. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran ordered the notice on the plea filed by K. Gunasekaran of Virudhunagar district. He said it would cause serious damage and irreparable loss to farmers and sought a direction to authorities to restrain the indiscriminate quarrying of earth/soil from private patta lands. The Director of Geology and Mining had sent a proposal to the government for extraction or removal of earth from ryotwari lands for betterment of agricultural lands and a GO was passed. An amendment was brought to the Tamil Nadu Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1959. The amendment stated that extraction or removal of earth/soil in ryotwari lands manually for improvement of agricultural lands or lands that were not suitable for cultivation purpose, for an optimum depth specified by authorities not exceeding one and half metres, shall not be treated as mining activity. The extraction should be carried out under a permit issued by a District Collector for a period not exceeding three months. But, the norms for declaring a land unfit for cultivation had not been notified. Without getting the opinion of the public, the government order was issued, he complained. This could result in the nutrient rich topsoil being removed, the percolation and infiltration status of the surface would be much reduced, reprieving the permeability and recharging conditions to the ground water, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-challenges-govt-order/article38263578.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Construct compound wall across shooting range’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court ordered notice to the State on a public interest litigation petition that sought direction to authorities to construct a concrete high rise compound wall around a shooting range in Virudhunagar district, taking into account its location close to the national highway connecting Madurai and Kollam and the Grizzled Squirrel Wildlife Sanctuary in Srivilliputhur. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran ordered notice on a plea filed by R. Ramasubbu of Srivilliputhur. The petitioner said there was no compound wall around the shooting range, which could endanger the lives of the common man and wild animals. He said that he had sent a representation to the authorities concerned, but it was not considered. He sought a direction to the authorities to construct a concrete high rise compound wall around the shooting range in Poovani village, Srivilliputhur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construct-compound-wall-across-shooting-range/article38263408.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Government Medical Colleges inaugurated||The Government Medical College in Nagapattinam being established at a cost of Rs. 366.8 crore at Orathur will include a 700-bedded hospital. The college, was inaugurated through video-conference by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. State Environment Minister V. Meyyanathan was present at the venue along with District Collector A. Arun Thamburaj, and Nagapattinam MP M. Selvarasu. Chairman of Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation Gowthaman, and MLAs of the Assembly segments in the district also attended the function. Built on 60.04 hectares The college will have an intake of 150 students for this academic year. Residential blocks for students, administrative block and laboratories for anatomy, physiology and biochemistry departments have been constructed, according to officials. The college infrastructure in the 60.04 hectares premises includes a 700-bedded hospital, sources said. The new medical college which is accessible from both Nagapattinam-Sikkal and Nagapattinam-Velankanni roads will obviate the need for patients in the district to travel to the government medical college in neighbouring Tiruvarur district for speciality care. Ariyalur The new medical college at Ariyalur was also inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This college is all set to admit 150 students in the first year. Shortly after the inauguration, Minister for Backward Classes S. S. Sivasankar, accompanied by Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi, visited the college premises and interacted with the college officials. Constructed on 26 acres The Minister for Backward Classes said that the college had been constructed on 26 acres. A sum of Rs. 347 crore had been spent for constructing various facilities such as hospital blocks, administrative block, hostels, laboratories, residential quarters for professors and others. The hospital at Ariyalur would have 700 beds and the contribution of the State government was Rs. 130 crore, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-medical-colleges-inaugurated/article38263393.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal police seize contraband worth Rs. 1 crore, arrest seven persons||The district police arrested seven persons and seized 300 kg contraband worth Rs. 1 crore during two different vehicle checks here on Wednesday. At a vehicle check at Mudalaipatti on the Salem - Karur National Highway on Wednesday, the Namakkal police intercepted a car from Salem. Though the driver did not stop the vehicle, the police chased the car and stopped it. The car was found carrying 200 kg ganja. Inquiries revealed that N. Murugan (49), M. Jayachandran (67) and A. Mugesh (29), all from Theni district, had purchased the banned item from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and were transporting it to their native place. The three were arrested and the police seized the bags and the car. In the second case, Kumarapalayam police intercepted two cars at Kumarapalayam on the Salem – Kochi National Highway and found 100 kg contraband. M. Kishore Kumar, N. Abdul Jaleel (69), S. Mujeeb Rahman (29) and K. Sulthan (29), all from Coimbatore, had purchased it from Andhra Pradesh and were transporting it to Coimbatore. The four were arrested and the bags and two cars were seized. Superintendent of PoliceSarojKumar Thakurtold mediapersons that the police had last year arrested seven persons for smuggling contraband and based on the information provided by them, the seven were arrested today. “The value of the seized contraband is around Rs. 1 crore,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/namakkal-police-seize-contraband-worth-rs-1-crore-arrest-seven-persons/article38263428.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Devotees not allowed to take part in temple events||The Tamil Nadu government’s decision to prevent devotees and padayatris from taking part in the 10-day annual “Thai Poosam” festival has come as a rude shock. Devotees would not be allowed to take part in the temple events taking place from January 14 to 18, Collector S. Visakan said on Tuesday. The 10-day festival began with the hoisting of the holy flag on Wednesday. All events will take place as per the agama sastra. But the government has taken the decision to prevent the spread of COVID-19, a HR and CE official said. The temple administration had made elaborate arrangements and review meetings were held since December 2021. However, the rising number of positive patients made the government to take a U turn on its earlier decisions. The car and float festival, which are highlights of the 10-day event, would be conducted without devotees and would be a low-key affair, officials said. The devotees could however view the events live through a website and Youtube channel. Pilgrims complained that the officials especially the police had failed to protect the padayatris as at least five of them were killed in separate road accidents by speeding vehicles. “ So far, about six lakh people have been walking from different towns to Palani. The police had not made adequate arrangements, they said. The locals, who own mandahapadis, serve food, water and other items to the padayatris, free of cost, were disappointed as the officials had directed them to stay away citing the pandemic. ‘When the government is running TASMAC outlets allowing people to drink in dingy bars and even in the latest decision, permitted ‘jallikattu’ events, what prompted them to close down the shrine,” Kasinathan, a devotee who has been trekking to Palani every year consecutively for over 23 years, asked. Sri Dhandayuthapani Swami Temple in Palani is an important shrine for the Hindus. A darshan on the first day of Tamil month ‘Thai’ is considered auspicious. What is the logic behind allowing the people to walk from different towns to Palani and not allowing them to have a darshan on the important day, they asked. However, the police maintained that they were only executing the government order and appealed to the padayatris to cooperate with the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-nod-to-take-part-in-temple-events/article64950551.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||Turn challenges into opportunities, Chief Minister urges youth||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Wednesday urged the youth of the country to turn challenges into opportunities. Addressing the inaugural ceremony of the 25th National Youth Festival (NYF), launched virtually by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Rangasamy highlighted the significance of the day which was celebrated as the National Youth Day, in tribute to Swami Vivekananda. Pointing to Swami Vivekananda’s words of practical wisdom that strength was life, weakness death, expansion was life and contraction death, love was life and hatred death, Mr. Rangasamy reminded the youth that “on any day that you don’t encounter any problems, you can be sure that you are travelling in a wrong path.” “I like to stress that challenges are nothing but opportunities and that they are natural,” he said. Mr. Rangasamy said while he had looked forward to meeting participants in person , who would have been eager to enjoy the beauty and hospitality of Puducherry, the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic had forced the festival to be restricted to the online mode. "Each of you need to build and save the future of this nation. Hence, it is our duty to protect you from COVID-19 ...which is why we are conducting the event in virtual mode", he said. Demographic dividend According to the Chief Minister, the population in general is regarded as a mere headcount or even a liability. But when it is turned into a skilled workforce or force, which can contribute to the country, then the headcount transforms into a demographic dividend. That is what is happening after the implementation of ‘Atma Nirbar Bharat’ and the same will happen in Puducherry, he said. Pointing out that there are many ways to contribute to the country— wealth, science, commerce etc.— Mr. Rangasamy sought to remind the youth that education without character, wealth without charity, commerce without morality and science without humanity are not only useless but also dangerous. ‘Ideal youth’ These characters are important values for an ideal Indian youth, which was reflected in the theme of the NYF, “Saksham Yuva-Shashakt Yuva”. Puducherry, which was popularly known as "gnana bhumi" or 'veda bhumi", or land of siddhars and sages, had also been home to many revolutionaries and freedom fighters, the Chief Minister said. He hoped that the youth festival inspires the participants to form new ideas and creations, and become the pride and dignity of the nation and role models for the world. Union Ministers Anurag Thakur, Narayan Rane, Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma and Nisith Pramanik, Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Ministers, MPs and MLAs were among those present at the virtual launch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/turn-challenges-into-opportunities-chief-minister-urges-youth/article64950655.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘85% of people take first dose of vaccine’||An estimated 85% of the targeted population has been covered in a single dose of vaccination against COVID-19, Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Wednesday. Ms. Soundararajan, who inaugurated a vaccination camp at Kavikuyil street, told reporters that 58% of the population had been administered both doses so far. The vaccination for the 15-17 age group was apace and the coverage of an estimated 83,000 teenagers was expected to completed in a couple of days, she said. ‘Follow schedule’ Given the rapid spread of COVID-19 in the third wave, the Lieutenant Governor appealed to the public to maintain COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and comply with vaccination schedules. She noted that in spite of the various outreach measures of the administration to facilitate vaccination, about one lakh were avoiding taking even the first jab. Stressing that vaccination was the only protection against the severity of COVID-19 , she urged the unvaccinated to not delay taking the jab any further. Later, the Lieutenant Governor met Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Chennai. A Raj Nivas press note said the Minister had commended the Union Territory’s COVID-19 containment efforts and vaccination measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/85-of-people-take-first-dose-of-vaccine/article64950656.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||Six arrested for assaulting businessman||A case has been registered against six persons for allegedly assaulting a businessman and ransacking his car near Thattanchavady. According to D- Nagar police, the accused persons, all in an inebriated state, chased the businessman from S. V Patel Salai as his car came close to their vehicle near the Ajantha signal. The accused persons waylaid him and hurled stones at his vehicle. The businessman sustained head injuries. A case has been registered under section 326, 341, 427 and 149 of Indian Penal Code, the police said. The accused are from Kuilapalayam and Kottakuppam in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-arrested-for-assaulting-businessman/article38263679.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ministry’s Technology Centre to train people||The Technology Centre of Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, virtually inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, will function at Kalapet, near the Pondicherry University. ‘Cater to start-ups’ The centre, being established in a 10 acre land, would help medium and small-scale industries in product development and testing. It would cater to the needs of new start-ups and help them gain the status of multi-national companies, said a senior official. “The centre would help in training at least 20,000 trainees in the next five years. The training would make them employable in industry by designing market-driven courses. It will specialise in tool room, Computer Numerical Control (CNC) manufacturing, industrial and process automation and 3D manufacturing. It will work as a single-point centre in promoting start-ups,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministrys-technology-centre-to-train-people/article38263680.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||PM inaugurates Kamarajar Manimandapam virtually||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday, virtually inaugurated the Perunthalaivar Kamarajar Manimandapam– an auditorium with an open air theatre, constructed by the Puducherry Government, at a cost of Rs. 23.60 crore . According to a press release, 1.46 hectares of land were acquired by the government for the establishment of the Manimandapam in Karuvadikuppam revenue village. Flanked by the East Coast Road, it has a built-up area of 1,565 sq.m on the ground floor and 775 sq.m on the first floor. The Manimandapam has facilities including an open air auditorium and a museum with exhibits depicting the life of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K. Kamaraj. The facilities include a theatre hall, library, and two lecture halls to accommodate 80 students each. The auditorium will also be utilised for holding important government functions and convocations of Puducherry’s educational institutions, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-inaugurates-kamarajar-manimandapam-virtually/article64950654.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:46 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 893 fresh COVID-19 cases, one death||Fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise steeply in the Union Territory as 893 persons were diagnosed with the viral infection. One death was reported from Puducherry in the last 24 hours. Puducherry accounted for the bulk of these fresh infections, logging 801, followed by Karaikal which reported 60, Mahe 22 and Yanam 10. The test positivity rate was 20.36%, the case fatality rate 1.42% and the recovery rate 96.17%. With 44 recoveries in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 3,203. Of this, 137 were in hospital and 3,066 in home isolation. The cumulative toll was 1,883, with Puducherry logging 1,471, Karaikal 251, Yanam 109 and Mahe 52. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,32,759 cases and 1,27,673 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 20.78 lakh tests conducted to date, over 17.64 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 7,935 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered 14,85,255 doses so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-logs-893-fresh-covid-19-cases/article38263382.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Additional coaches in trains for Pongal||The following train services will have additional coaches to cater to the wait-listed passengers from January 12 to 17. Train No.16616 Coimbatore Junction–Mannargudi Express, leaving Coimbatore Junction on January 13, will have one additional sleeper class and one additional general second class coaches. On January 14, the same train will have two additional general second class coaches., said a press release from the Salem Railway division. Likewise, train no.12601 Chennai Central–Mangalore Central Express, train no. 22637 Chennai Central–Mangalore Central West Coast Express, train no.12695 Chennai Central–Thiruvananthapuram and train no.22639 Chennai Central–Alappuzha Express, leaving Chennai Central from January 12 to 15 will have one additional sleeper class coach each. Train No.16615 Mannargudi–Coimbatore Junction Express, leaving Mannargudi on January 13, will have one additional sleeper class and one additional general second class coaches and on January 14, the same will have two additional general second class coaches. Likewise, Train No.12602 Mangalore Central–Chennai Central Express, leaving Mangalore Central, and train no. 22638 Mangalore Central–Chennai Central West Coast Express, leaving Mangalore Central from January 12 to 16, will have one additional sleeper class coach each. Train No.12696 Thiruvananthapuram–Chennai Central Express, leaving Thiruvananthapuram from January 13 to 17, and train no. 22640 Alappuzha–Chennai Central Express, leaving Alappuzha from January 13 to 17, will have one additional sleeper class coach each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-coaches-in-trains-for-pongal/article64950758.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life term for sexual assault||A 32-year-oldmanwas on Wednesdaysentencedto undergolifeimprisonment for marrying a minor girl and sexually assaulting her. The prosecution case is that S. Sethu of Belur in Valapadi befriended the 17-year-old girl and lured her into marriage. On May 22, 2015, he married her and committed the crime. The victim’s father lodged a complaint with the Kitchipalayam police who registered a case under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (a) (inducing woman to compel her marriage) of IPC and Section 9 (marrying a child) of The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2008 and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The girl was rescued and Sethu was arrested and lodged at prison. The case was on trial at the Special Court for Trial of cases under POCSO Act, 2012. Judge S. Muruganantham found him guilty andsentencedhim to undergosix years for kidnapping and inducing her of marriage, three years for marrying minor girl and life imprisonment for sexual assault. The judge also imposed a total fine of Rs. 30,000.The judge ordered sentences to runconcurrently.Public Prosecutor Sudha appeared in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-life-term-for-sexual-assault/article38263427.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sunday pattern of working for PRS centres||In view of Pongal festival, the computerised passenger reservation system centres (PRS Centres) in Salem Division of Southern Railway will function for only one shift from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. on January 14. It is similar to Sunday pattern of working, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sunday-pattern-of-working-for-prs-centres/article38263429.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level at Mettur dam||Thewaterlevelat the Stanley Reservoir inMetturstood at 115.71 feet against the full reservoirlevel(FRL) of 120 feet here on Wednesday. At 8 a.m., the inflow stood at 2,050 cusecs while the discharge was 10,000 cusecs into River Cauvery and 600 cusecs into East-West canal. The storage was 86.79 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) against the capacity of 93.47 tmc. Meanwhile, thewaterlevelat the Bhavanisagardamin Erode district stood at 101.14 feet against the full reservoirlevel(FRL) of 105 feet. At 8 a.m., the inflow into thedamwas 1,803 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal, 700 cusecs into Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs into River Bhavani for drinkingwaterpurpose. The storage was 29.62 tmc against the capacity of 32.80 tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-at-mettur-dam/article38263430.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Foxconn plant reopens with 100 workers||Foxconn’s Sriperumbudur plant was re-opened on Wednesday with about 100 workers, nearly a month after it was shut down after employees protested against a food poisoning episode that laid low several workers and lack of facilities at the dormitories provided by the management. According to sources, the employees would now undergo training for a few days and resumption of production would take some more time. On Wednesday, there was constant flow of vehicles and people, including those from Taiwan, at the plant. Meanwhile, Foxconn is upgrading its dormitories. One of the dormitories in Kancheepuram is now ready and workers have been accommodated. The Hindu visited the other dormitory at Thriveni Nagar, Vadakkupattu, Singaperumal Koil, and Kancheepuram where the renovation work was under way. Earlier, about 800 workers were accommodated in the facility.  An official at the facility said the work would be completed in two weeks and it had 180 rooms each measuring 400 sq. ft. to accommodate six persons. He said bunker beds would be provided in each room along with hot water and most employees were expected to return after the Pongal holidays. Foxconn plant makes iPhones and employs 15,000 people of which a majority are women. Lack of adequate space, substandard food, non-availability of basic amenities at the dormitories were among the key concerns raised by the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foxconn-plant-reopens-with-100-workers/article64950528.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||MLA booked for sexual harassment||Srivilliputtur Town police have registered a case against AIADMK MLA E.M. Manraj and three others for sexual harassment and criminal intimidation based on a complaint filed by a woman. The complainant said that an audio clip of a phone conversation between the MLA, representing Srivilliputtur Assembly constituency, and a party cadre, Innasiammal, had gone viral in the social media. The MLA and the woman had made abusive comments about her in their conversation, she charged. The complainant claimed that she was threatened by the supporters of the MLA. The police have booked the MLA and his supporters Ramaiah Pandian, Muniyandi and Innasiammal under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act, 1998, and the Information Technology Act. Police sources said the MLA was absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-booked-for-sexual-harassment/article38263588.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thyagaraja Aradhana will be held for half a day this time||This year’s Sri Thyagaraja Aradhana at Thiruvaiyaru will be celebrated as a half-a-day event on January 22 in view of the restrictions imposed by the government to prevent the spread of Omicron virus. Sri Thyagabrahma Mahotsava Sabha, Thiruvaiyaru, which has been conducting the festival for decades, had earlier decided to conduct the festival for five days from January 18 to January 22 However, on January 12, the sabha committee headed by Rajya Sabha member and the Tamil Maanila Congress president, G.K.Vasan, had announced that the five-day event had been cut short and would be conducted as a half-a-day event on January 22. The decision to hold ‘unjavirthi bhajanai’ followed by ‘nagaswaram’ music in front of the ‘athishtanam’ along with anointment of Sri Thyagaraja idol and the important event of paying tribute to the saint composer by reciting the ‘pancharatna kritis’ was taken to comply with the restrictions imposed by the ment. Public and ‘raskias’ of Thyagaraja kritis would not be allowed to take part in the festival as the government had restricted the number of persons participating in the functions to 100 only. Further, those people who would be participating in the event should produce a “fully vaccinated” certificate and should maintain social distancing at the function site, according to a sabha release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thyagaraja-aradhana-will-be-held-for-half-a-day-at-thiruvaiyaru/article38263392.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vivekananda Jayanthi celebrated in Thanjavur||Offering floral tributes at public places and homes formed part of the Vivekananda Jayanthi celebrations held in Thanjavur district on Wednesday. While elected representatives – S. Ramalingam, Mayiladuthurai MP, Govi. Chezhian, Thiruvidaimaruthur MLA and G. Anbalagan, Kumbakonam MLA – participated in the event organised by the Sri Ramakrishna Vivekananda Trust, Kumbakonam, at the Kumbakonam Railway Station, followers of Ramakrishna Math, Thanjavur, performed ‘pushpanjali’ to Swami Vivekananda at their respective houses in and around Thanjavur. Speaking on the occasion at Kumbakonam Railway Station, Mr. Ramalingam said that renaming the railway station as Swami Vivekananda Railway Station would be a befitting action of honouring the seer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vivekananda-jayanthi-celebrated-in-thanjavur/article38263384.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||Speed trial conducted on newly laid BG line||Speed trial was successfully conducted on the newly laid broad gauge between Meelavittaan and Mela Marudhur Railway Stations here on Wednesday. The stations, which are situated 18 km apart, are part of the proposed Madurai – Thoothukudi section via Aruppukottai. Though Thoothukudi and Madurai have been connected via Vaanchi Maniyachi, Kovilpatti, Sattur and Virudhunagar, the new railway line is being laid to connect these two cities via Meelavittaan, Mela Marudhur, Kulaththoor, Vilaathikulam, Nagalaapuram, Pudur, Panthalkudi, Aruppkukottai, Kalkurichi, Kaariyaapatti, Aaviyoor, Paaraipatti and Thirupparankundram as per the announcement made in the Railway Budge 1999 – 2000. As the broad gauge has been laid for about 18 km between Melavittaan and Mela Marudhur at a cost of Rs. 260 crore, the speed trial of the engine was conducted. The locomotive that left Melavittaan at 11.05 a.m. crossed the distance in eight-and-a-half minute as the engine sped past at 120 km an hour even as the villagers were witnessing it with awe. The engine took the same time to reach the starting point again. Deputy Chief Engineer (construction), Southern Railway, Nandagopal, who witnessed the speed trial, said rail traffic on this section for 18 km would start after the mandatory inspection by the Commissioner for Railway Safety. “The remaining part of this project between Mela Marudhur and Madurai will continue. If the land acquired for this project can be completed as planned, the new section between Thoothukudi and Madurai will be completed in 3 years,” Mr. Nandagopal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speed-trial-conducted-on-bg-line/article64950549.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four triage centres come up in Tiruchi||The Tiruchi City Corporation has set up four triage centres in different places in the city to streamline the hospitalisation of COVID-19 patients. They have been established at a government school in K.K. Nagar, Mini Clinic in Thennur, ward office in Ariyamangalam and the Corporation Urdu School in Srirangam zone. Each clinic will have a doctor, a nurse and basic instruments for screening. The triage centres deal only with those have tested positive for the COVID-19 infection. The triage centres have been set up to overcome certain issues faced in the first two waves of the pandemic. During the first wave of COVID-19 in 2020, the health authorities ran round-the-clock ambulance services to transport patients, who tested positive for the virus, to the government hospitals. The ambulances visited doorsteps of patients, who showed reluctance in admitting themselves to the hospitals. During the second wave of COVID-19 virus in 2021, which was more virulent than in 2021, hospitals, both government and private, were flooded with the patients as they themselves got admitted to the hospitals. It caused mayhem in hospital management. To address many such issues in the current wave, the civic body has come up with triage centres. Patients, who test positive, will have to visit the neighbouring triage centre for consultation. The doctor and the paramedical staff members will screen the patients condition. Besides it, the doctors will ascertain whether the patients require hospitalisation or home isolation. Based on the condition of the patients, the doctors will take a call on hospitalisation. “Triage centres virtually act as guiding centres for COVID-19 patients, many of whom do not require hospitalisation. While we recommend home isolation for the asymptomatic and those who received two doses of vaccination, we send patients with mild symptoms to COVID Care Centres,” says.Dr A. Mohamed Hakkim, Vaccination Coordinator, Tiruchi Corporation. Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman said patients with comorbidities and severe symptoms were being referred to the Mahatma Gandhi Government Memorial Hospital. Similarly, patients, who live in small houses with poor sanitary facilities, have been directed to get admission at the COVID Care Centres. He said that if the COVID cases continued to rise in Tiruchi. more triage centres would be set up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-triage-centres-come-up-in-tiruchi/article64950571.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Banana growers hit by lukewarm demand||Lukewarm demand and dip in prices, attributed to restrictions imposed in the wake of rise in COVID-19 cases, has dampened the spirits of banana farmers ahead of the Pongal festival in Tiruchi, a major banana growing belt in the State. Banana farmers, who usually look forward for better prices in the rup up to the Pongal festival season, have been sorely disappointment as the prices have failed to appreciate this year as expected. “Prices have dipped after a slight increase last week. The price of poovan, a traditional variety, has come down to Rs. 10-12 a kg now after going up to Rs. 18-19 a kg last week. Farmers were expecting it to touch Rs. 20 a kg this week,” said Manikutti A. Subramanian, treasurer of the Thottiyam based Tamil Nadu Banana Farmers Producers Company Ltd.. Demand is said to be lukewarm due to the restrictions, including closure of temples , imposed in view of the pandemic. Even the Sabarimala temple season, which normally sees good demand, has not been very encouraging this year, he said. But production has been abundant. Of late there has also been a glut in the market, as many sugarcane farmers in the Cauvery belt in Tiruchi region have switched over to banana, Mr. Subramanian added.. The average price of a bunch of banana at the Kattuputhur Regulated Market auction held on Monday was Rs. 130 and the maximum price was Rs. 400. Nearly 50 tonnes of banana was traded at the auction held by the market functioning under the Tiruchi Regulated Market Committee of the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business. At the wholesale banana market at Gandhi Market in Tiruchi, which attracts farmers and traders from various surrounding districts, the price of poovan variety hovered in the range of Rs. 100-550 a bunch, depending on the quality, on Wednesday, according to K. P. Palanivel, president, Plantain Traders Association. Top quality ‘sevazhai’ and ‘rasthali’ varieties fetched Rs. 600 a bunch. The lowest grade of the varieties was being sold at Rs. 300 and Rs. 150 a bunch, respectively. Karpooravali was selling in the price band of Rs. 100 -500 a bunch and Elarasi was fetching Rs. 100-250 a bunch. Grand Naine was selling in the range of Rs. 150-450 a bunch, Mr. Palanivel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banana-growers-hit-by-lukewarm-demand/article64950567.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Organic jaggery makers hope for a sweet Pongal||Organic jaggery manufacturers are looking forward to a sweet Pongal this year, as authorities step up efforts to check the production and sale of adulterated versions of the native sugar.  “We have held awareness workshops for over 130 wholesalers and retailers in Tiruchi district about the dangers of adulterated jaggery. We will also be conducting spot checks on shops to test the quality of their jaggery stock. Violators will be penalised,” R. Ramesh Babu, Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration,Tiruchi, told The Hindu .  The harvest festival is a peak time for jaggery production in southern India, especially in Tamil Nadu, where Pongal is celebrated over three days with the natural sweetener used in a number of festive dishes and rituals. However, the preference for golden coloured jaggery among customers had created a thriving business in these varieties, even though hazardous and unapproved additives are used by manufacturers. As recently as two years ago, at least 90% of the jaggery produced in the State was labelled as adulterated by Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association. Awareness drives and fines levied on adulterated jaggery manufacturers have slowly brought the focus back on the original product. “Things have improved to the extent that bulk buyers are insisting on natural jaggery, but there are still pockets of market where the fake stuff is a best-seller,” said P. Balathandayuthabani, co-founder, B&B Organics, an e-commerce platform for nature-friendly food items based out of suburban Tiruchi. B&B Organics has stocked up on five tonnes of organic jaggery for Pongal this year, having it processed in Anna Nagar near Vellore. Mr. Bala and manufacturer Selva Sivaraj, source the sugarcane for their jaggery from a network of 500 farmers spread across the State, in order to ensure quality. “The colour, a dark reddish brown, is the first sign of natural jaggery. The taste is the second marker. Natural jaggery dissolves easily in the mouth, while adulterated version is usually harder,” said Mr. Sivaraj. The best jaggery requires the sugarcane to be a year-old when harvested. “Even a 10-month old plant will lack the deep taste of the year-old sugarcane,” he said. Once the sugarcane juice is extracted mechanically, it is cooked in large metal cauldrons called ‘kopparai’ over medium heat, until caramelised. “Impurities are removed with the help of okra stem juice or ‘chunnambu’ (lime paste), and coconut oil is added to enhance the flavour. Workers shape jaggery into mounds by hand as the mixture cools down. P. Manoharan, who runs Sri Krishna Jaggery Mill in Avadaiyarkoil, Pudukottai with his father, said that poor local demand for their organic product had made them look abroad for new customers. “We recently sent two tonnes of jaggery to the UK, and currently we have bulk orders for up to 10 tonnes from countries like Oman, Bahrain and Dubai,” said Mr. Manoharan, who uses a shipping agent in Kerala. “It would be good if our own people would patronise us more.” Customers should stop judging jaggery by its colour, he said. “Dangerous chemical additives like laundry dyes are being used to get fancy coloured jaggery. Only those who know the nutritional value of our product will seek us out,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jaggery-makers-hope-for-a-sweet-pongal/article64950561.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Feasibility study planned to construct elevated corridor on Vayalur Road||The State Highways Department plans to carry out a feasibility study on constructing an elevated corridor between Puthur and Somarasampettai on Vayalur Road in the city. The move comes in the wake of growing public outcry over frequent traffic chaos and confusion on Vayalur Road that houses a number of upscale residential colonies along both sides. A number of commercial complexes, hotels, educational institutions and shops are also situated along the five-km stretch from Puthur to Somarasampettai. A senior official of State Highways Department in Tiruchi, said the road had been witnessing heavy flow of traffic and there were many bottlenecks mainly due to limited space and exponential growth in traffic in recent years. He had studied the problems faced by the residents while joining the main road from the residential colonies on a few occasions. Considering their demand and the current and future growth of vehicles, a feasibility study would be carried out on whether the construction of an elevator corridor on Vayalur road would offer a solution to the issue and whether the road was suitable for constructing the corridor. The study would take it into account various aspects., he said Welcoming the move, K. Janardhanan, a retired forest official of Bheema Nagar and a regular user of the road, said that there was no scope for widening the road further. The people of Kumaran Nagar, Ramalinga Nagar, Srinivasa Nagar, Ammayappa Nagar, Shanmuga Nagar, Bharathi Nagar and others had been hit hard by the frequent traffic snarls. They had been facing the ordeal almost on a daily basis for more than 15 years. The volume of traffic might double in the next few years. Hence, there was no option but to construct an elevated corridor. The study should be carried out immediately.  The road had been witnessing heavy flow of traffic and there are many bottlenecks mainly due to limited space Official State Highways Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/feasibility-study-planned-to-construct-elevated-corridor-on-vayalur-road/article38263390.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pongal celebration held||Thirty-five people from the transgender and Narikuravar communities held an early celebration of Pongal on Monday in front of Our Lady of Lourdes Church, with the aim of promoting harmony among different sections of society.  The programme, held on the campus of St. Joseph’s College, included ceremonial cooking of Pongal by members of transgender women of Tiruchi Pasumai Pattru (TTP) group to mark the harvest festival, and a cultural show. “Pongal is an ideal time to reflect upon human co-existence and living in oneness with nature. We want to remind people about our shared agricultural customs and traditions,” Kajol, the head of TPP, told The Hindu . Rev. Fr. Mari Valan, Parish priest of Our Lady of Lourdes Church, Subbaiah Pandian, head, All India Siddha Maruthvua Sangam, K.S. Abdul Aziz, retired Tahsildar and P. John, JKC Trust, were among the special invitees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pongal-celebration-held/article38263729.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Online registration of students for scholarship scheme begins||Teachers in government and government-aided schools, besides government schools under the purview of local bodies have their tasks cut out, as the online registration of students for National Means-Cum-Merit Scholarship Scheme (NMMSS) got off to a start on Wednesday. The Directorate of Government Examinations has instructed authorities of School Education Department to facilitate registration of eligible students for the scholarship till January 27. The scholarship entitles meritorious students to Rs. 1,000 per month until they complete Plus Two with the specified scores at every level. The students are chosen on the basis of two tests: Mental Ability Test and Scholastic Aptitude Test, with 90 marks for each component. For 2021-22, the exam is to be conducted on March 5, at the block level. While the subject content is earmarked for the SAT - 20 marks for Mathematics and 35 marks each for Science and Social Sciences based on seventh standard portion and the first two terms of eighth standard portions, preparing students for the MAT has always been a tough task for teachers. The absence of direct teacher-student interface due to the pandemic situation has only made matters even more difficult, according to school heads. Out of one lakh scholarships granted by the Central Government every year under the NMMS scheme, the States get their shares. Officials of school education department are hopeful that the teachers will be able to train the aspiring students online for the NMMS. However, educationists opine that the preparation of students for the exam has to be on a long-term basis. "Students must be sensitised to the importance of the exam and given training right from seventh standard onwards. At present, the students are informed about the exam only when they are in eighth standard, due to which they are suddenly burdened with the requirement to brush up their minds with the seventh level portions as well. Also teachers need to be initiated into refresher courses to impart training in MAT," S. Sivakumar, a Tiruchi-based Educationist and former Principal of District Institute of Education and Training, Kancheepuram, said. It will be ideal if Saturdays are termed as ‘Scholarship Day’ for students after primary level since there are competitive exams for every year from eighth standard onwards. It starts with NMMS for eight standard and continues with TRUST (Tamil Nadu Rural Students Talent Search Examination) for ninth standard students, and National Talent Search Exam (NTSE) for tenth standard students, Mr. Sivakumar said, observing that though students do manage to secure the scholarships based on minimum scores, it must not be forgotten that the very purpose of these exams is to foster the intelligence of the learners on a continuous basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-registration-of-students-for-scholarship-scheme-begins/article38263391.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecturers to start nation-wide campaign||An association representing guest lecturers in government colleges in Tamil Nadu has joined hands with the entities representing their counterparts in other States to start a nation-wide campaign to highlight their plight and get their grievances mitigated. Factoring in the indifferent treatment of guest lecturers in States across India, representatives of their associations in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura and Punjab held a discussion on a virtual platform earlier this month for taking their struggle forward to secure their rights. Flaying the approach adopted by governments in different States to pay measly salaries, participants of the meeting deplored the denial of maternity leave and benefits on the basis of ‘equal work, equal pay’. The participants in the meeting resolved to mobilise the participation of guest lecturers in the rest of the States for taking forward their struggle for reasonable salaries, V. Thangara, State president of Tamil Nadu Government College Guest Lecturers Association said. As in other States, guest lecturers of government colleges in Tamil Nadu will take part in the hashtag campaign on twitter later this week to apprise important leaders of their plight. “The start of the hashtag campaign will coincide with the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda on January 12,” Mr. Thangaraj said. The pay conditions for guest lecturers in different States was appalling. In a letter to Registrars of universities during 2019, the University Grants Commission had issued instructions for enhancement of honorarium for guest faculty to Rs. 1,500 per lecture, subject to a maximum of Rs. 50,000 per month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guest-lecturers-to-start-nation-wide-campaign/article38263394.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Steep rise in cases||The central region reported 934 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. No death from the region was reported in the bulletin issued by the State Health Department for the day. The number of cases continued to witness a significant increase in Tiruchi. A total of 444 patients reported positive for the viral infection in the district, and 96 in Thanjavur. Perambalur district, where less than five fresh cases were being reported less than a few weeks ago, 93 were reported. Karur and Tiruvarur districts reported 58 fresh cases, each. In Nagapattinam, 57 patients reported positive, and in Ariyalur, 49. Mayiladuthurai registered 41 cases, and Pudukottai, 38, the least in the region on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steep-rise-in-cases/article38263381.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||DRO tests positive||District Revenue Officer of Tiruchi T. Palanikumar has tested positive for COVID-19 infection. Sources said that he was among the officials at the Collector’s Office in Tiruchi, who subjected themselves for COVID-19 recently. Since his test turned out to be positive, he isolated himself in his residence. He was said to be asymptomatic. His condition was stable. Following this, officials and employees, who were in close contact with the DRO, have been subjected to the COVID-19 test and the results were awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dro-tests-positive/article38263389.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized||Officials of the Customs Air Intelligence unit seized 94.50 grams of 24 carat gold from a passenger at the Tiruchi airport on Wednesday. Acting on an intelligence input, the officials intercepted a male passenger from Singapore and an examination of his baggage led to the detection of a cylindrical shaped gold rod concealed in the ratchet spanner. The seized gold was valued at around Rs. 4.60 lakh, a Customs press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized/article38263379.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 115.54 feet on Wednesday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,933 cusecs and the discharge 10,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38263385.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Interns go on indefinite strike||Interns of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital started their indefinite strike on Wednesday in protest against non-disbursal of their stipend for three months. The students, who have pitched a ‘shamiana’ on the TVMCH premises, said the interns, who were mostly relying on the stipend being given by the Tamil Nadu Government to meet their expenses, were in a difficult situation after it was not paid for the past three months. Even after getting money from the parents, the interns, who have to take care of their own expenses through the stipend, had to disturb their parents again for the government’s failure. Besides giving this arrear of Rs. 75,000 immediately, the Tamil Nadu Government should give the assurance that the stipend would be given to the interns every month. Moreover, the COVID-19 incentive of Rs. 15,000 given by the Tamil Nadu Government to all ‘frontline COVID warriors’, should be extended to the interns, who were serving the patients undergoing treatment with the deadly viral infection round-the-clock for several weeks together, they said. Following the agitation by the interns, services in the Intensive Medical Care Unit, Paediatric Intensive Care Unit, Intensive Surgical Care Unit, labour board room, labour Intensive Care Unit, Intensive Trauma Care Unit and Intensive Coronary Care Unit were hit. “We observed token strike on Tuesday to highlight our demand. However, there is no response from the TVMCH administration and the Ministry of Public Health. So, we’ve been forced to go on indefinite strike and will boycott all essential services until our demand is met,” they said. Dean, TVMCH, M. Ravichandran met the interns around 4 p.m. and assured them that their stipend would be credited in their accounts by Thursday morning and appealed to them to give up their agitation. While ending their protest for the day, they said they would resume their agitation on Thursday morning at the same place if the promise was not fulfilled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interns-go-on-indefinite-strike/article64950550.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 271 crore sanctioned for drinking water project||The Tamil Nadu Government has sanctioned Rs. 271 crore for implementing a new drinking water project, Speaker M. Appavu said. Speaking to reporters at Paambankulam near Panagudi on Wednesday after handing over the ‘Pongal’ gift hampers to the cardholders, he said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had given his nod for executing a new drinking water project for the benefit of eight town panchayats in Radhapuram Assembly constituency including Panagudi, Valliyoor and Thisaiyanvilai to meet the ever-growing demand for the drinking water. The existing Panagudi drinking water project, which was implemented by previous the DMK government, remained neglected for the past 10 years and no periodic maintenance was done to ensure earmarked supply of drinking water to the residents. Consequently, Valliyoor was getting only 15 lakh litres of water a day which was insufficient. Besides invigorating this existing drinking water scheme, new combined drinking water project would be executed to ensure supply of 65 lakh litres of drinking water everyday within a year. He said the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board would shortly construct 500 houses in Radhapuram Assembly constituency to be given to the rightly identified poor beneficiaries after due scrutiny of applications. While the applicant’s contribution would be Rs. 1.50 lakh, the remaining Rs. 8.50 lakh would be the government grant, he said. “Since the applicants have submitted their applications, these are being scrutinized to identify the right beneficiaries, who need not give money to anyone for getting the allotment of the house,” he said. Modernisation of the daily market in Valliyoor at a cost of Rs. 4.80 crore on 1.42 acre with new shops was going on and would be handed over to the beneficiaries within six months. Moreover, construction of new modern bus-stand in Valliyoor at a cost of Rs. 12 crore with better amenities would be completed within a year, he said. He also inaugurated laying of paver blocks on an outlay of Rs. 2.25 crore at Chinnaan Colony, Gandhipuram West Street, Anna Nagar, Pushpavanam, Thandaiyaarkulam, Syed Karim Street, Syed Roshan Street and Police Line Street, all in Panagudi under his Radhapuram segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-271-crore-sanctioned-for-drinking-water-project/article64950552.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Top priority to prevent crime against women, children, says DIG||Apart from according top priority for preventing crime against women and the children of this region, the police will strive hard to ensure early conviction of the culprits arrested in connection with these heinous offences, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Pravesh Kumar has said. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday after assuming office, he said utmost priority would be given to prevent offences against women and the children by ensuring visible and proactive policing in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts. The police, by properly investigating and subsequently strengthening the cases, would strive hard to ensure awarding of punitive and early punishment to the criminals involved in the crime against women and the children. “I’ve planned to discuss with the Superintendents of Police of these four districts about the strategies to be executed in this connection so that the women and the children will not get victimized anymore,” he said. He said operation against ganja peddlers and their masters here and in nearby States would become more stringent in the days to come as the strategies he had employed in Thanjavur Range had yielded good results. “Apart from arresting the local ganja sellers of Thanjavur Range with 200 kg of ganja, the police team went to Andhra Pradesh where they nabbed six of their masters. Similar strategy will be put in place in Tirunelveli Range after discussing it with the SPs here,” he said. He would study the law and order situation of this region which would often get influenced by caste groups and their leaders, he said. “The troublemakers will have to face very stringent action from the police, who will be better equipped with all infrastructures and more training to handle any adverse situation. I’ll personally study the present situation prevailing in each police station and make all necessary improvements,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/top-priority-to-prevent-crime-against-women-children-says-dig/article64950553.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police help homeless man get vaccinated against COVID-19||The Tiruppur City Police have helped a 93-year-old homeless man, who did not possess any proof of identity, to get his first COVID-19 vaccine shot in Tiruppur. According to the police, R. Rangasamy was from Karur district and had been living on the streets for nearly 20 years, opposite a temple, within the limits of the Tiruppur South police station. He was recently featured by a private news channel, where he admitted that he was unvaccinated. The news report, which was uploaded on social media platforms, had reached the office of the Director-General of Police, C. Sylendra Babu, who directed the Tiruppur City Police on Tuesday to look into the matter. “We received the alert from the DGP’s office at around 11 a.m. [on Tuesday],” said Assistant Commissioner of Police (Intelligence Section) K. Radhakrishnan. The Intelligence Section immediately commenced the search for the senior citizen across the city. After around four hours of searching, the police located Mr. Rangasamy within the Tiruppur South police station limits, he said. The police found that he did not possess any identity proofs such as Aadhaar card or a voter identity card. Following this, Inspector of Tiruppur South police station P. Pitchaiah, and a few officers from the Intelligence Section, escorted Mr. Rangasamy to the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruppur, where he was given the first dose of the vaccine, Covaxin at around 5.30 p.m. “We will monitor him for the next 28 days and we will ensure that he also gets his second vaccine dose on time,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-help-homeless-man-get-vaccinated-against-covid-19/article64950756.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coconut vendor in Tiruppur donates Rs. 1 lakh to govt. school||A government school near Udumalpet in Tiruppur district recently received a donation of Rs. 1 lakh from an unusual benefactor - a tender coconut vendor. M. Thaiammal, who runs a tender coconut shop along with her husband Arumugam in Chinnaveerampatti village panchayat, donated the money to the Panchayat Union Middle School in the village. According to the school’s headmaster, N. Inbakkani, she visited the institution on January 8. “She had heard that we were looking for funds under the Namakku Naame scheme to construct a building for the school,” he said. To his surprise, Ms. Thaiammal presented him a cheque for Rs. 1 lakh. Mr. Inbakkani conveyed this to the Chief Educational Officer of Tiruppur district, R. Ramesh, following which Collector S. Vineeth felicitated Ms. Thaiammal and her husband at the Collectorate on January 11. “Around 650 students are studying at the government school, which has witnessed an increase in admissions in recent years. The school needs around Rs. 15 lakh for the construction of the new building with additional classrooms to accommodate the students, and its alumni have been donating regularly,” Mr. Inbakkani said. “The school was established in 1925. We are planning to get the new building by 2025, which marks its centenary year,” he said.  “I have been saving Rs. 2,500 per month in the hope of donating to a good cause,” Ms. Thaiammal told The Hindu . Having accumulated savings for over three years, she came to know that the Panchayat Union Middle School was looking for funds. As her husband, son and daughter had studied in this school, she said she wanted to do her bit to improve its facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coconut-vendor-in-tiruppur-donates-rs-1-lakh-to-govt-school/article64950545.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Participate in national-level competitions: Collector||Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan has called upon the residents of Tiruvarur district to participate in the national-level competition announced by the Central government in view of the 75th year of Independence. In a press release, the Collector said that all those who were above 10 years of age could participate in the competitions and details regarding various competitions was available on the website: https://amritmahotsav. nic.in/competitions.htm Stating that the last date for registration was January 31, 2022, she said that in case of further clarifications/details they could contact the District Skill Training Centre functioning at the Government Industrial Training Institute, Nagapattinam. The competitions were being conducted under three categories: Rangoli, ‘Deshbakthi Geet’ writing and Lori writing (song for children) on the theme “Thought of Modern India”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/participate-in-national-level-competitions-collector/article38263388.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sharp rise in positivity rate in the Nilgiris||The COVID-19 positivity rate in the Nilgiris has increased sharply from 0.6 percent just a few weeks ago to around 9% currently, officials said. Over the last few weeks, the number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district has increased sharply, with Tuesday witnessing another recent high of 122 cases. As a result, the Health Department has increased the number of tests being undertaken each day, with anywhere between 1,400 to 1,500 tests being carried out across the district on an average. Home quarantine Health officials said that 173 persons who have shown symptoms consistent with COVID-19 are under home quarantine in the Nilgiris. Meanwhile, 121 persons who returned from seven foreign countries have also been asked to quarantine at home for seven days. All except 32 of the 121 persons who travelled to the Nilgiris from foreign countries have been tested for COVID-19 after the completion of their quarantine period, with all of them testing negative. A private school in Udhagamandalam has been turned into a COVID care facility with 189 beds available for patients. So far, 56 persons who tested positive for COVID-19 have been admitted to the facility and are being treated there. On Wednesday, Nilgiris District Collector S.P. Amrith visited containment zones in Pudumund in Udhagamandalam town and also tourist places in the Nilgiris to ensure that only people who have been fully vaccinated are allowed inside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sharp-rise-in-positivity-rate-in-the-nilgiris/article38263312.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 100 police officers test positive in Vellore, nearby areas||Over 100 police personnel, including women constables, in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts, have tested positive for COVID-19 since January 1, with an average of at least eight cases reported per day in each of these districts. Care desk With the rising cases, the Vellore sub-division of the district police have set up a COVID-19 Care desk with a helpline (8438620416) to offer assistance to the infected police personnel and their families within its limits. The round-the-clock help desk has three personnel on duty in three shifts. Their job is to ask about the basic needs of the infected and their families, including groceries, milk, packed food and medicines. The desk also provides thermal scanners and pulse oximeters to them.  Vellore town police sub-division has the most number of cases (17), with one inspector and sub-inspector and 15 constables. All of them are quarantined at home. The help desk for the infected personnel is monitored by Albert John, ASP of Vellore. “Police stations are being sanitised twice a day. A special desk in each police station is also being set up to receive complaints instead of allowing complainants inside the police stations. We are also encouraging people to file online complaints,” S. Rajesh Kannan, SP of Vellore told The Hindu .  The neighboring Tiruvannamalai police has 22 police personnel including one DSP and 14 constables from the Armed Reserve (AR) wing, testing positive since January 1. Most of the infected personnel have mild symptoms and are quarantined at home. Interestingly, the newly created Tirupattur district has 16 police officers, including SP K. Balakrishnan, who tested positive for the virus. Personnel, especially those from the AR wing, follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour during their patrol every day. Testing was also done for the police patrol teams, once in a fortnight. Ranipet district, which has 740 personnel covering 18 police stations, has 17 positive cases among them. Police said over 90% of the total force in these districts have been fully vaccinated. They were provided with face masks, hand sanitisers and gloves on a regular basis. Special teams were also formed to monitor their health in all stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-100-police-officers-test-positive-in-vellore-nearby-areas/article64950530.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 292 fresh COVID cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 52,698 with 292 fresh infections reported on January 12. With a total of 49,671 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 1747. The district’s toll is 1146. In Ranipet district, 373 positive caseswere reported and the total number of infections stood at 45,100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-292-fresh-covid-cases/article38263743.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. medical colleges inaugurated||Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, on Wednesday inaugurated three Government medical colleges in Virudhunagar, Dindigul and Ramanathapuram districts through video-conferencing from New Delhi, in the virtual presence of Chief Minister, M.K. Stalin. Virudhunagar Government Medical College has come up at a cost of Rs. 146.22 crore and residential buildings at a cost of Rs. 71.02 crore. The faculty block, quarters for officials, staff (six storey), boys and girls hostels (five storey) and an auditorium with 1,000 seats have been constructed on 22.44 acres. Construction of additional buildings at a cost of Rs. 172.97 crore is under way. Minister for Revenue and Disaster Manager, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, Virudhunagar Collector, J. Meghanath Reddy, Tenkasi MP, Dhanush Kumar, MLAs S. Thangapandian, A.R.R. Raghuraman, District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, and Dean, J. Sangumani, were present. In Ramanathapuram, the new medical college on Collectorate premises has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 120.52 crore along with staff quarters built at a cost of Rs. 69.64 crore. The buildings have come up on 22.68 acres of land. The college has faculty block, auditorium, quarters, administrative block, bank and post office and workshop. Besides, separate hostel buildings boys and girls have been completed. Construction of additional medical college hospital buildings at a cost of Rs. 154.84 crore is under way. Minister for Transport, R.S. Raja Kannappan, MP, Nawas Kani, Collector, Shankar Lal Kumawat, Dean, M. Alli, were present. Dindigul Medical College, measuring 31,394 sq. metres, has come with academic and administrative block, auditorium, bank, gym and post-office, staff quarters and hostels for boys and girls. Construction of an additional hospital building with 500 beds, modern kitchen, mortuary building, restaurant with a plinth area of 35,165 sq metres, is expected to be completed by March end. Ministers, I. Periyasamy (Cooperation) and R. Sakkarapani (Food), Collector, S. Visakan, MP, Velusamy, MLA, Gandhirajan and Dean, K.K. Vijayakumar, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-medical-colleges-inaugurated/article64950760.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||981 new cases in Coimbatore district||A total of 981 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The Health Department said that 246 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 4,317 active cases. The death toll of the district increased to 2,528 after a 73-year-old woman died of COVID-19 on January 10. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 8.7 % on Tuesday when 9,915 swab samples were subjected to tests and 863 persons were found infected with COVID-19. Tiruppur district on Wednesday reported 205 new cases. The district had 1,370 active cases of the disease while 84 persons recovered. The TPR of the district stood at 5.1 % on Tuesday when it reported 253 new cases. In the Nilgiris, 139 persons tested positive. The total number of persons who have tested positive for the infection in the district, so far, stands at 35,025. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the Nilgiris stood at 220 while 513 persons are currently undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/981-new-cases-in-coimbatore-district/article38263311.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||PM opens 11 new medical colleges in T.N.||The Tamil Nadu Assembly had adopted legislation against NEET twice — once during the erstwhile AIADMK government and another during the DMK government in September last. While the President had declined assent for the first Bill, the latest Bill is pending with the Governor. Mr. Modi, speaking from New Delhi, said it was for the first time that 11 medical colleges were being inaugurated in one State. The previous record was nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh. The cost of constructing the new colleges in Tamil Nadu was shared by the Centre (Rs. 2,145 crore) and the State (Rs. 1,934.6 crore). The colleges in Ariyalur, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, the Nilgiris and Virudhunagar would have an annual intake of 150 students, while the rest would admit 100 students annually. Pointing out that the shortage of doctors had remained an issue for long and his government made it a priority to address this critical gap, Mr. Modi said that in 2014, there were 387 medical colleges, but the number had gone up to 596. In 2014, India had around 82,000 medical undergraduate and postgraduate seats. In the last seven years, this number had gone up to around 1.48 lakh, he said. “The once-in-a-lifetime COVID-19 pandemic has reaffirmed the importance of the health sector. The future will belong to societies that invest in healthcare,” he said. The Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Infrastructure Mission is aimed at addressing the critical gaps in health infrastructure and health research, especially in districts. A support of over Rs. 3,000 crore would be provided to Tamil Nadu in the next five years, he added. CICT’s new campus Mr. Modi also inaugurated the new campus of the Central Institute of Classical Tamil (CICT), with the state-of-the-art infrastructure, at Perumbakkam near Chennai. It has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 24 crore. The Prime Minister said he was “always fascinated by the richness of the Tamil language and culture” and recalled his speech in the United Nations when he spoke a few words in Tamil. It was “one of the happiest moments of my life,” he said. Highlighting the promotion of Indian languages and Indian knowledge systems in the National Education Policy, 2020, Mr. Modi said Tamil could now be studied as a classical language in school education at the secondary level or at the middle level.  The CICT also planned to translate and publish Thirukkural in various Indian as well as 100 foreign languages.  “The new campus will provide an efficient working environment for the institute in its pursuit of promoting classical Tamil across the world,” he said. Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi attended the event from the Raj Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-opens-11-new-medical-colleges-in-tn/article38263301.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Communal harmony||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/communal-harmony/article64950741.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:32 IST,KARNATAKA||Temperature in Belagavi drops to 8.60 Celsius||Belagavi recorded one of the coldest nights in the recent years with the mercury dropping to 8.6 degrees Celsius in the early hours of Wednesday. This was recorded in the barometers of the Belagavi Airport in Sambra on the outskirts of the city. This is around six degrees less than the 14 degrees of the aggregated annual average for the city, since records started being kept, officers said. Temperature has been hovering between 10 degrees Celsius and 16 degrees Celsius this week. And, the 6.4 degrees recorded on January 22 in 1984 is the lowest ever registered in the city. The forecast for Thursday and Friday says temperature will hover between 10 degrees Celsius and 11 degrees Celsius. Residents have been asked to expect fog or mist in the mornings and a mainly clear sky as the day progresses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temperature-in-belagavi-drops-to-860-celsius/article64950671.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:32 IST,KARNATAKA||Vivekananda Jayanti celebrated||The district administration organised celebrations of Swami Vivekananda birth anniversary and National Youth Day in Belagavi. The celebrations were symbolic due to COVID-19 restrictions. Sri Mokshatananda Swami of Sri Ramakrishana Mission addressed a group of youth at the Vivekananda memorial on the mission premises at Belagavi Fort. He asked youth to study the works of Swami Vivekananda, understand his ideals and follow them. Swami Vivekananda laid stress on developing empathy as the foundation of a spiritual order. “That should guide all our lives,” he said. He not only understood Indian spiritualism deeply but also interpreted it in a simple and modern language so that people around the world can understand it. And, all this was achieved in his short life, he said. Resource persons S.U. Jamadar said that the people of Belagavi are blessed as Swami Vivekananda spent nearly two weeks in the city, before leaving for the U.S. Sri Atma Pranananda, Additional Deputy Commissioner Ashok Dudagunti, Deputy Secretary of the zilla panchayat Bheemappa Lali and others were present. Swami Vivekananda Jayanti and National Youth Day were also celebrated at Karnataka Law Society’s RL Law College in coordination with the NSS wing. College principal A.H. Hawaldar garlanded the photo of Swami Vivekananda and addressed the gathering. He spoke about the principles by which Swami Vivekananda lived and encouraged students to follow the ideals. NSS volunteers Mallikarjun Pujari and Krishnakumar Joshi spoke. Senior professor G.M. Wagh, NSS programme officer Rahul Bhandurge, staff members and students were present. Swami Vivekananda Jayanti and National Youth Day were celebrated in adherence with COVID-19 protocol at Shaikh College of Education in Belagavi. Principal Indira Sutar, who inaugurated the event, urged the youth to take inspiration from the life of Swami Vivekananda. “You need to understand that your effective and constructive participation in society can change the nation,” she added. Student Rukayya made a speech. Faculty members Usha D.B. and Lakshmi Kamble were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vivekananda-jayanti-celebrated/article64950672.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:32 IST,KARNATAKA||Three suffer burns in fire at sugar factory||Three workers suffered burns, one seriously, in a fire accident in Kedarnath Sugar Factory at Kerakalamatti village in Bagalkot district on Wednesday. The private factory is owned by a consortium led by Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani. The fire broke out near the boiler in the sugar factory. A worker began running across the factory floor after his dress caught fire. He suffered severe burns. His two colleagues also suffered burns. The injured were admitted to a hospital in Bagalkot. The condition of one of them is serious, a police officer from Bagalkot said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-suffer-burns-in-fire-at-sugar-factory/article38263444.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:32 IST,KARNATAKA||Vaccination numbers fall||Vaccination seems to have slowed down on Tuesday, a day after the precautionary inoculation drive for senior citizens was launched. Officials administered 15,054 doses on Tuesday, around 30 per cent less than Monday’s tally of 22,780 doses. The last seven day average was 27,860 doses. The lowest number was recorded on January 2 and 9, a day before the launch of the drive for children and for senior citizens. On January 2, only 36 second doses and 1,987 first doses were given. On January 9, only 69 second doses and 250 first doses were given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-numbers-fall/article38263445.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||27 CCCs to be ready tomorrow||Though a majority of people who have contracted COVID-19 don’t require hospitalisation, physical isolation remains a problem, especially among those living with their elderly parents. Not everyone has the means to isolate themselves physically. With this in mind, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will open 27 COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs) by Friday, said Gaurav Gupta, civic chief. Once all 27 CCCs are operational, there will be 3,000 beds available, which would be allotted through the COVID-19 Hospital Bed Management System (CHBMS). The BBMP is also in talks with hotels to establish private CCCs. “Many hotels are reporting a drop in occupancy and a lot of beds are available. Such hotels, under the supervision of private hospitals, can establish private CCCs,” said Mr. Gupta on Wednesday. The Government had already prescribed the rates depending on the category of the hotel. “We will be able to easily add 3,000-5,000 beds if the situation demands it,” he added. The civic chief said that as on Wednesday a total of 28,067 beds – 3,237 beds in Government hospitals, 2,696 beds in Government medical colleges, 13,540 beds in private hospitals, and 8,594 beds in private medical colleges have been identified so far. Of these, 6,255 beds are available for allotment under CHBMS. So far, 362 beds under the Government quota had been allotted. “The total number of admissions is around 1,200. While expenses of patients allocated by CHBMS will be borne by the Government through the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust, patients admitted in private hospitals will have to bear the medical cost themselves,” he clarified. Home isolation The positive cases under home isolation, Mr. Gupta, said were being monitored through telecalling and field visits by the BBMP’s health teams at the ward level. “As per the latest guidelines, home isolation period is seven days. Repeat testing after seven days is not mandated, and people can resume regular activities thereafter,” he stated. With the cases now only set to increase, the civic chief urged citizens to mask up and avoid crowded places to the extent possible. “These are not normal times. It is time for caution and precaution. Despite the high case load, we hope to overcome any problems and are well prepared to face the situation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/27-cccs-to-be-ready-tomorrow/article64950802.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:33 IST,KARNATAKA||Padayatra: Police register fresh FIR against 64 Cong. leaders||The State Government, which has been questioned by the High Court of Karnataka on Congress Padayatra from Mekedatu, is preparing its response to the court even as it is under pressure from its own legislators from Bengaluru city to stop the march. In the meantime, continuing its action against participants of the Padayatra on Wednesday,it filed fresh FIRs against 64 Congress leaders, including Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar. Late on Wednesday evening, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai confabulated with senior officials from the Police, Home, and Law departments, including the Advocate General. However, details of the discussion were not made public. While the Government was rapped by the court, it also came under pressure from the city’s BJP legislators even as the third FIR naming 64 people were registered for violating COVID-19 norms. On Wednesday, expressing fears over the spread of the pandemic, a group of BJP legislators urged the State Government to prevent the Padayatra from entering Bengaluru. While two FIRs naming 30 and 41 people, respectively, including Mr. Shivakumar, had been filed earlier by the Sathanur police, the third FIR has been filed naming 64 people by the Kanakapura police under provisions of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020. ‘Initiate action’ On Wednesday, in a joint press conference convened here by legislators Arvind Limbavali, Ravi Subramanya, Uday Garudachar, and Satish Reddy, the legislators requested the Congress to drop plans to bring Padayatra to the city while urging the Government to initiate action against the Congress if it remained adamant. “What is the necessity for a Padayatra when COVID-19 numbers are rising. In a city with a population of 1.3 crore, the Padayatra could play a role in rapidly spreading the pandemic not just in the city, but also in other parts of the State,” Mr. Limbavali said. Threatening to protest peacefully against the Padayatra, Bommanahalli legislator Satish Reddy said: “Since the numbers are rapidly doubling, it should be stopped. We also know how to stop it.” Stating that all party members could have a discussion on bringing out a comprehensive water policy for the city at a later date, Mr. Subramanya urged the Congress to stop politicising the issue while Mr. Garudachar, Chickpet legislator, feared spread of the pandemic in his constituency owing to dense population. “Please do not bring the Padayatra to my constituency,” he said. Criticising the Congress decision to continue with the Padayatra, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra accused the party of trying to draw political mileage from the Padayatra and precipitating the COVID-19 crisis in the State. “Already, several Congress leaders who had taken part in the programme have tested positive for COVID-19 and got admitted to hospital,” he added. Meanwhile, the Padayatra, which started at Sangama in Kanakapura taluk on Sunday, reached Ramanagaram town by Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/padayatra-police-register-fresh-fir-against-64-congress-leaders/article64950665.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||North Karnataka districts have the lowest TPR in Karnataka||Although the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) had said that North Karnataka districts will be the worst hit by the third wave as these districts have been lagging behind in vaccination from the beginning, the rate of infection continues to be low in these districts. While the seven-day average TPR in Bengaluru Urban remains the highest at 11.63% as of January 11, Mandya, Mysuru, Tumakuru, Bengaluru Rural and Kolar have a TPR hovering around 5%. North Karnataka districts — Haveri, Bagalkote, Yadgir and Koppal — have the lowest seven-day average TPR of less than 1%. Experts, who said this is a good indicator, asserted the need for these districts to sustain the low TPR by increasing testing. Karnataka had been consistently maintaining TPR of less than 1% for the last four months. The seven-day average TPR was on a steady decline since August 15 when it touched 1.01%. It reduced to 0.63% in a month by September 15 and 0.26% on November 15. Although TPR slightly increased to 0.42% by November 30, mainly due to clusters reported across the State, TPR again declined to 0.36% on December 9 and remained less than 0.5% till December 30. In terms of daily TPR, 16 districts — including Mandya and Bengaluru Urban that have the highest TPR — have recorded a TPR of above 10% as of Wednesday. North Karnataka districts — Yadgir, Haveri, Gadag and Koppal — have recorded the lowest daily TPR at 0.88%, 1.09%, 3.52% and 3.55% respectively. TPR, which is a vital marker in assessing the spread of an outbreak, is the percentage of people who are found to be infected by the virus from those who are being tested. According to epidemiologists, a high positivity rate indicates that testing is relatively limited to people with high suspicion of COVID-19 and may miss new chains of transmission in the community. Worried over the high transmissibility of Omicron, the TAC had on December 30 advised the Government to impose stricter curbs if the weekly TPR goes above 2% as an early measure of mitigation. While recommending weekend and night curfews if the WTPR is between 1% and less than 2%, the TAC has said lockdown should be considered if the WTPR goes above 3%. If it’s between 2% and 3%, educational institutions will have to switch to remote learning, and offices to work from home. The committee had earlier fixed the threshold for lockdown as 5%. Although the government had imposed night curfew, weekend curfew and 50% capacity restrictions for malls, hotels, cinema halls and all other activities, it has not taken any decision on total lockdown. TAC chairman M.K. Sudarshan, who attributed the low rate of infection in North Karnataka districts to low rate of testing, said the infection is yet to spread from Bengaluru to other districts. “People are not able to travel from Bengaluru to their native places due to weekend curfew and other restrictions,” he said. Stating that the TAC has recommended an increase in daily tests to two lakh, Dr. Sudarshan said that 1.3 lakh tests should be done in Bengaluru and the remaining in the rest of Karnataka. ”Following this, the Chief Minister has directed officials to increase testing,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said rate of infection is high in Bengaluru and surrounding districts mainly because movement is high here. “What we noticed during the last two waves is that there is always a lag period of 3-4 weeks between Bengaluru and other districts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/north-karnataka-districts-have-the-lowest-tpr-in-karnataka/article64950795.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:33 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Double-engine Govt. of BJP is delaying Mekedatu project’||Senior Congress MLA and former Minister for Water Resources M.B. Patil has maintained that the detailed project report (DPR) on the Mekedatu project was prepared by the Congress Government in 2017 for Rs. 5,912 crore. The figure was revised to Rs. 9,000 crore in 2019 by the Congress–JD(S) coalition Government. He accused the “double-engine” Government of the BJP in Karnataka and the Centre of delaying implementation of the project. Mr. Patil said there was no stay in the Supreme Court against implementation of the Mekedatu project for drinking purposes. The Central Government has to provide environment clearance while the Cauvery Water Management Authority has to approve the project. The Congress leader briefed mediapersons in Bengaluru with documents to justify his statements on the project and to expose the “false” claims of the BJP. A State Cabinet meeting presided by then Chief Minister Siddaramaiah had approved the DPR on March 13, 2017 at an estimated project cost of Rs. 5,912 crore. The DPR was submitted to the Central Water Commission (CWC), Bengaluru, South India Office, on June 7, 2017. DPR accepted Though the CWC sought a pre-feasibility report in the wake of change in its guidelines in 2017, later in 2018 it accepted the DPR on the ground that the project does not contain an irrigation component, Mr. Patil said. Referring to his efforts in getting justice to Karnataka in the inter-State water dispute during 2013–18, Mr. Patil said the Supreme Court on February 16, 2018, reduced allocation of 14.75 tmcft water from Karnataka to Tamil Nadu, from 192 tmcft to 177.25 tmcft from its Biligundlu site to Mettur dam, which was a clear indication of victory for Karnataka on implementation of projects in the Cauvery basin. He also recalled the contributions of the legal team led by Fali S. Nariman. On October 4, 2018, during the Congress–JD(S) coalition Government, the CWC asked the State Government to go ahead with the DPR on Mekedatu. The project cost was revised to Rs. 9,000 crore on January 18, 2019, when KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar was Minister for Water Resources in the H.D. Kumaraswamy-led coalition Government. The project cost went up owing to increased land compensation cost and other expenditure, Mr. Patil said. In 2015, then Chief Minister Siddaramaiah submitted a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to call a meeting of the Chief Ministers of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu to enable the State to implement the Mekedatu project. But the Prime Minister had not shown interest in calling the meeting, Mr. Patil alleged. ‘Consult experts’ Govid M. Karjol, who now holds Major and Minor Irrigation portfolio, is confused about the project, Mr. Patil said, adding that the Minister should consult experts and officials in his Government before levelling charges against Congress leaders. Senior Congress leader B.L. Shankar questioned the silence of Mr. Modi on the matter. “Why has Mr. Modi not called a meeting of the Chief Ministers of the two States to resolve the issue amicably?” he sought to know. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai should have briefed the steps taken by the Government to leaders of the Opposition parties by calling a meeting of floor leaders of the legislature. BJP MPs (25) too should have put the pressure on the Prime Minister to facilitate clearances for the project, Mr. Shankar said.  Why has Mr. Modi not called a meeting of the Chief Ministers of the two States to resolve the issue amicably? B.L. Shankar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/double-engine-govt-of-bjp-is-delaying-mekedatu-project/article64950668.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:33 IST,KARNATAKA||Alva questions PM’s silence on attacks against minorities||Alleging that highly organised and militant right-wing extremist groups are terrorising, attacking, and killing innocent citizens in the name of religion across the country, veteran Congress leader Margaret Alva has told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that his silence was misread as tacit approval and encouragement to the ever-increasing violence and intimidation India's minorities are being subjected to. “Mr. Prime Minister, how can you close your eyes and remain silent when atrocities on India’s minorities are mounting? When will you speak up and put a stop to this madness and violence?,” the former Union Minister wondered in a letter written to the Prime Minister on the eve of the New Year. “I am appalledat the recent, widely reported statements made by some religious leaders calling for the genocide of non-Hindus in order to create a Hindu Rashtra.What is even more shocking is that there is no response or action by either your Central Government or the State Government that’s controlled by the BJP, of which you are the undisputed leader, or the local administration, to crack down firmly on this virulent, toxic, hate speech, designed to create insecurity and fear amongst millions of minorities,” she said. Ms. Alva also expressed concern over the anti-conversion Bill that has been adopted by the Karnataka Legislative Assembly. “My home state of Karnataka has boasted ofa peaceful inclusive environment that has drawn people from all over the world. This Christmas, the State BJP Government gifted us the draconian ‘the Karnataka Protection of Right of Freedom of Religion Bill’ in ‘recognition’ of our services, which has provisionsthat have been previously struck down by courts and are clearly violative of the Indian Constitution. It makes all minorities, our institutions, practices, services, and charities suspect. Personal liberties of privacy, of religion, of marriage, and decision making are taken away, and the state becomes the arbiter of our personal lives, making us subjectto probes, charges, and jail by the state and its officials, who will interpret the provisions of the law and imprison us without trial,” she said. “If Christians were involved in mass conversions, why is our population below 3% of the total population?” she argued. “Two hundred years of rule by Christian colonial powers and work by so-called ‘missionaries involved in forced conversions’ should have shown in our numbers, which have been declining. Why then this false propaganda and violence against us?” she wondered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alva-questions-pms-silence-on-attacks-against-minorities/article64950663.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 spike attributed to domestic travellers: Civic chief||Civic officials are attributing the surge in cases in Bengaluru to the influx of domestic travellers from different parts of the country in the last week of December. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that while international arrivals, especially those from high-risk countries, are highly regulated, it is possible that the domestic travellers did not sufficiently isolate themselves. This, civic officials believe, caused the spread initially. In a single day, the city recorded a 44% jump in cases, with 15,617 new positives reported on Wednesday. The spike, said Mr. Gupta, is in line with the trend worldwide and other big cities in the country. The number of positive cases is only likely to increase further over the next few weeks. “However, there is no cause for panic. We are monitoring the situation and are well prepared to tackle the high caseloads,” he said. Physical triage The civic body has set up control rooms at the zonal level and in each Assembly constituency and is operationalising physical triage centres.“ Of the total cases reported every day, around 40% need physical triaging. We also have mobile triaging units. Depending on the size of the zone and requirement, 1-2 mobile tirage units per zone are deployed,” he said. Private healthcare institutions have been mandated to take up physical triage of those seeking admission and maintain a record of the same. Despite the spike in cases, hospitalisations remain low. Every day, there were around 160 hospitalisations, which is just around 1% of the total cases reported. There has been no increase in paediatric cases, which continues to account for about 12% of the overall cases. Mr. Gupta said that despite the recent ICMR’s revised advisory, the civic body is following the Government’s decision to increase testing. “We have already ramped up testing to over a lakh a day. We will identify high risk cases, such as those in the service industry, for testing, those with symptoms and ILI (influenza like illness)/SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) cases,” he said, and added that during the door-to-door survey, the civic body had also identified those aged above 60 years, those with comorbid conditions and others. “The local PHC officials will be asked to keep an eye on such citizens,” he said. With nearly 20,000 citizens getting tested in private labs and hospitals, the BBMP had directed these institutions to inform about all positive cases in real time, apart from collecting complete contact details from the citizens. Containment zones The number of containment zones in Bengaluru currently stands at 483, with a the bulk, around 70%, in apartment complexes. As on Wednedsay, the maximum number of containment zones were in Mahadevapura (165) followed by Bommanahalli (114), and South (53).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-spike-attributed-to-domestic-travellers-civic-chief/article64950797.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:33 IST,KARNATAKA||NABARD projects Karnataka’s credit plan at Rs. 3.32 lakh crore||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), Regional Office, Karnataka, has projected the credit potential for the State at Rs. 3,32,915.81 crore for 2022-23. The credit projection for the agricultural sector was Rs. 1,61,777 crore and for the MSME sector was Rs. 1,28,296 crore, which constituted 49% and 39%, respectively. Speaking at a State credit seminar here on Wednesday, Niraj Kumar Verma, CGM, NABARD, Karnataka, highlighted that Karnataka has been the frontrunner in providing support to banks for credit offtake. The State Government’s initiative in setting up Centre of Excellence for Farmers Produce Organisations and Farmer Registration and Unified Beneficiary Information System (FRUITS) portal for banks were expected to accelerate lending in the State, he said. Additional Chief Secretary and Development Commissioner Vandita Sharma released the ‘State Focus Paper’ containing total credit projection under priority sector lending for the year 2022-23 in Karnataka. Ms. Sharma emphasised that banks should step up issue of Kisan Credit Cards to PM KISAN scheme beneficiaries and Kisan Credit Cards for Animal Husbandry and Fisheries sectors and Atmanirbhar schemes. She appealed to all banks to effectively utilise FRUITS portal of the State government for faster and hassle-free credit dispensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nabard-projects-karnatakas-credit-plan-at-rs-332-lakh-crore/article38263236.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Schools to be closed till Jan.-end||In the wake of rising COVID-19 cases and fears that the positivity rate will continue to increase, schools in Bengaluru will remain closed to students from Classes I to IX till January 31. The decision to extend the suspension of physical classes till the end of the month was taken at a meeting convened by Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh with education officials on Wednesday. However, the Minister advised Deputy Commissioners and Department of Primary and Secondary Education officials not to close schools in a hurry in other districts. He said that schools need not be closed if the positivity rate was within 5%. The DCs on Tuesday were given the authority to take a call on whether schools should remain closed after consulting with officials from the Health and Family Welfare and Public Instruction departments. Officers at the block level have been instructed to visit schools and take stock of the situation. “The Block Education Officers (BEOs) should visit schools in their jurisdiction and update the Deputy Commissioners about the situation every day,” Mr Nagesh said. He reiterated that unlike during the previous waves of pandemic, the department will not close schools across the State. Sources in the department said that district officials have been advised to close schools for three or four days if cases are detected in a school. “Entire districts and taluks should not be closed if a few cases are detected in one institution. The academic life of students should not suffer,” said an official. On the padayatra Mr. Nagesh expressed concern over the health of schoolchildren because of the ongoing Congress Mekedatu padayatra. Speaking to presspersons after a meeting, Mr. Nagesh said, “We are worried about the health of the schoolchildren as Congress workers have gone to schools in larger numbers. We will seek a report from the BEOs about the recent participation of schoolchildren,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-to-be-closed-till-jan-end/article38263214.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:33 IST,KARNATAKA||Karnataka set to bring in new youth policy||The State Governmentis set to bring in ayouth policy that would guide the youth to tread in a noble way, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday. Participating in the 159th birth anniversary celebrations of Swami Vivekananda in a virtual mode, Mr. Bommai said the Governmentwas ready to provide greater support for the youth on the basis of thoughts and principles. A special programme in this regard would be brought in the nextBudget. Swami Vivekananda is relevant eternally, he noted. Quoting from Swami Vivekanada's book 'Life after death', Mr. Bommai said, Vivekananda's imagination about life after death was wonderful. "Death is not an end for an achiever. Achievement lives on even after death. Vivekananda showed it through his life and principles. His principles and his way of life need to be reached to the youth,” he observed. Ministers C.N. Ashwath Narayan, K.C. Narayana Gowda, seers of Ramakrishna Mutt, and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-set-to-bring-in-new-youth-policy/article38263233.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:33 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress will honour High Court order, says Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah has said that the Congress will honour the Karnataka High Court’s order on the Mekedatu padayatra issue. “We will continue the padayatra on Friday. Let us see what the court will direct on January 14. We will honour the court order,” he told reporters in Bengaluru on Wednesday. When asked if the Congress had sought permission from the State Government, he said: “Nobody takes permission for protest. We had informed the Government and we have not taken permission from the Government.” On the court questioning the violation of COVID-19 norms, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the court had asked the Government and let it [Government] answer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-will-honour-high-court-order-says-siddaramaiah/article38263229.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Man held for robbing food delivery agent||The Kalasipalya police have arrested a man who, along with his associate, allegedly robbed a scooter and mobile phone from a food delivery executive last week. The victim, Girish, a final year B.Com. student had taken a part-time delivery job at night to support his family. He was returning home after a delivery when the duo intercepted him and asked for food. In his police statement, Girish said that when he told them he did not have any food on him, the duo snatched his mobile phone, pushed him off his scooter and sped away on it. Based on his complaint, the police analysed CCTV footage and identified one of the accused. “We recovered the scooter and mobile phone from him. Efforts are on to track down the other accused who is on the run,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-robbing-food-delivery-agent/article38263204.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:33 IST,KARNATAKA||Krishna appeals to DKS to end padayatra||Former Chief Minister and BJP leader S.M. Krishna has appealed to KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar to end the Congress padayatra on Mekedatu issue in view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation. In a letter to Mr. Shivakumar Mr. Krishna appealed to the Congress leader to end the padayatra in the interest of public health and also in the background of the BJP Government, led by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, agreeing to implement the project. Mr. Krishna, who had been invited by Mr. Shivakumar to participate in the padayatra, thanked him for the invitation. He said he was fully in favour of implementation of Mekedatu project. “However, I would also want to draw your attention to the untold miseries being caused due to the COVID-19 pandemic which is emerging in different forms to haunt hamanity,” he said. Mr. Krishna’s letter is being watched curiously in political circles as the veteran leader, who is also a close relative of Mr. Shivakumar, has mentored him in politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krishna-appeals-to-dks-to-end-padayatra/article38263237.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||BCA student arrested for blackmailing women||The Halasuru police on Wednesday arrested a 21-year-old Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) student who was allegedly blackmailing women he had befriended online after getting his hands on their private photographs. According to the police, the student had created a fake profile of a woman on Instagram and other social media platforms, which he used to strike a friendship with his intended victims. Approaches police “Since September 2021, he has blackmailed 20 women, and was able to access their private photographs. However, his luck ran out when one of the women he targeted approached the police,” said a senior police officer. Based on her complaint, the police tracked down the youth and charged him for blackmail and extortion under the Indian Penal Code and also and also under various sections of the IT Act. “He had created a fake profile in the name of Pratiksha Bohra on multiple social media platforms,” said the police officer. He befriended women by offering them modelling assignments, and would ask for their private photographs to build their portfolio. To evade suspicion, he even offered to pay the women an advance for their photographs. However, soon after getting the images, he started blackmailing the women. According to the police, he threatened to upload the images on social media if they failed to pay him. The probe revealed that he started the social media accounts during the pandemic last year when various restrictions and curfews were in place. “At first, he befriended women as a pastime. But soon after he succeeded in blackmailing one woman, he began targeting others. Fearing social stigma, many women did not file a police complaint. We are trying to reach out to them to get their statements,” the senior police officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bca-student-arrested-for-blackmailing-women/article38263202.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Gold firm staffer held for faking attack||A 29-year-old executive of a gold loan company was arrested after he reported a false robbery case and allegedly stole Rs. 4 lakh, which he had to deliver to one of the firm’s branches. The police arrested the employee, Arun Kumar, on Wednesday within an hour after he reported that he had been attacked. Sanjeev Patil DCP (West) said Kumar had joined the gold loan firm last month as a sales executive. His job was to collect cash from the main office in Shivajinagar and distribute it to other branches across the city. “On Wednesday morning, he collected Rs. 8 lakh from the main branch and left the premises on his scooter at around 10 a.m.,” said police. But instead of heading to the branches, he went to his house, and stashed Rs. 4 lakh cash, after which he headed to a branch located in Bapujinagar. While depositing the cash, he told staff members that he had to deposit Rs. 4 lakh at another branch and left. “He revealed this information on purpose,” said a police officer. They learnt that while on the flyover in front of Nayandahalli metro station, he waited for traffic to ease, and pretended to throw chilli powder on his face. He then stopped a goods vehicle for help and cooked up a story that two men on a bike threw chilli powder on him and assaulted him. He claimed that before he could react they took the cash in his backpack, along with his vehicle key. “He asked the driver of the good vehicle to record his statement on his mobile phone, and sent the clip to his manager,” the police said. Based on the complaint, the Byatarayanapura police reached the spot when Kumar was ‘attacked’. While talking to Kumar, Inspector Shankar Naik G.K. found that the facts in Kumar’s statement kept changing. He was taken into custody where he allegedly confessed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-firm-staffer-held-for-faking-attack/article38263212.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Vaikunta Ekadashi: Live webcast by ISKCON||While ISKCON will be celebrating Vaikunta Ekadashi on Thursday, January 13, the temple will remain closed to the public. “Precautionary measures, as mandated by the government in the interest of public safety, will be in place. Only special invitees will be allowed for darshan,” said ISKCON in a statement. Live webcast of the entire festival will be available on the temple’s official website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaikunta-ekadashi-live-webcast-by-iskcon/article38263203.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Entry to Namma Metro stations to be restricted||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) on Wednesday said that entry of passengers into metro stations will be restricted with immediate effect. This decision has been taken to ensure limited occupancy in Namma Metro trains to the extent of available seating capacity, stated BMRCL in a press release. Passengers have been urged to board coaches only if there is adequate seating space. Weekend curfew These restrictions have been put in place given the surge in COVID-19 cases in the city. During weekends when curfew is in force, BMRCL will operate fewer trains at frequencies of 30 minutes instead of 20 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/entry-to-namma-metro-stations-to-be-restricted/article38263211.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||BDS student killed in road accident||A 23-year-old third-year dental student was killed when he lost control of his motorcycle and rammed into a goods vehicle in Kengeri on Tuesday night. His classmate who was riding pillion was injured. According to the police, the deceased, Alvin, hailed fromKerala. He was studying at a private college in Rajarajeshwari Nagar, said the police. The accident occurred around 9.30 p.m. as Alvin and Amrutha were heading towards Kumbalagodu where they lived. “At Kengeri, the motorcycle rammed into the truck. On impact, the duo were tossed in the air. Alvin sustained severe head injuries and died on the spot,” said a police officer. The truck driver abandoned the vehicle and escaped. The Kengeri traffic police have taken up a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bds-student-killed-in-road-accident/article38263215.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Sankranti music festival rescheduled||On account of the weekend curfew, the Vidwan R. K. Srikantan Trust has rescheduled its 27th Annual Sankranti Music Festival which will commemorate the 102nd birth anniversary of noted vocalist and Padma Bhushan awardee R.K. Sri Kantan. The concerts and performances which were originally scheduled on January 15-16 will now be held on January 17 and 18 at the Seva Sadan Hall in Malleswaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sankranti-music-festival-rescheduled/article38263220.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:33 IST,KARNATAKA||HDK urges State Govt. to stop march||Stating that the Congress had turned the Mekedatu padayatra into an ‘Omicron jathre (fair)’, former Chief Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy has urged the State Government to stop the rally following a rap by the Karnataka High Court. “Several leaders who participated in the padayatra have turned positive and if tested properly several more will test positive,” he said in a series of tweets. He said: “The Mekedatu project is not possible with the padayatra that is bringing people in hordes by paying money. This is not a fight. Government should stop people in their respective districts.” Mr. Kumaraswamy said that his party was not worried about the padayatra. “People are anxious about health. I have no issues about the yatra or the voice that is raised to protect the State’s interest. However, this was not required when COVID-19 numbers are growing.” If Congress is a responsible party, it should stop the padayatra immediately, he said, adding “ Mekedatu project should not suffer in an effort to show manhood.” The former Chief Minister also said that he would place before the public the facts pertaining to Mekedatu at a later date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-urges-state-govt-to-stop-march/article38263232.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:57 IST,KARNATAKA||All schools, colleges will not be closed in Hassan: DC||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish said those schools and colleges where the number of COVID-19 cases was high had been instructed to close for five days. The district administration will not go for closure of all educational institutions, he told presspersons here on Wednesday. Among 3,070 schools in the district, infections had been reported in 22 of them. Of those schools, only one reported 35 cases. Similarly, of 173 pre-university colleges, cases had been reported in only four. “The schools and colleges where the number of infected is high have been asked to close. There is no need for closing all schools and colleges as such a decision would affect studies,” the officer said. However, he said, the educational institutions had been instructed to conduct RT-PCR tests for students once in 15 days. The test positivity rate in the district had increased to 5.45% and with that the district was eighth in the State. “We have taken the increase in test positivity rate seriously. The number of tests will be increased. The administration has opened COVID Care centres in all taluks,” the DC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-schools-colleges-will-not-be-closed-in-hassan-dc/article64950647.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Assault on youth: Police register case||The Hassan police have registered a case in connection with the assault on a youth in the city. Hassan SP R. Srinivasa Gowda told presspersons that a case has been registered based on the complaint by the victim, Megharaj. The police will arrest the accused based on the video clips available on the incident. The officer said that there had been no complaint against Megharaj accusing him of misbehaving with a girl. Megharaj, in his complaint, said that a group of people assaulted and paraded him naked falsely accusing him of misbehaving with a girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assault-on-youth-police-register-case/article38263638.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga reports 251 cases||Shivamogga reported 251 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, increasing the total active cases to 747 in the district. Among them, 141 were reported in Shivamogga taluk, 43 in Bhadravati, 10 in Shikaripura, 19 in Sagara, 23 in Hosanagara, two in Soraba one in Tirthahalli, and 12 more from other districts. Of the active cases, 480 people are in home isolation. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, 1,072 people have died in the district due to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-reports-251-cases/article38263637.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:57 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 351 new infections in Hassan||Hassan district reported 351 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, the highest in recent months. With that the total number of cases reported since the outbreak of the pandemic increased to 1,13,452. As many as 1,098 people are under treatment. So far 1,10,970 have recovered from infection and 1,384 people have died. Among the fresh cases 179 were in Hassan, 49 in Channarayapatna, 33 in Alur, 15 in Sakleshpur, 26 in Arasikere, six in Belur, 18 in Arakalgud, 23 in Holenarasipur, and two more cases were from other districts, said District Health Officer K.H. Sathish Kumar in a press release. Malnad College of Engineering has declared holiday for students till January 19 in view of infections reported among the students. The internal exams scheduled for this week had been postponed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-351-new-infections-in-hassan/article38263634.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Selvamani takes charge as DC||Selvamani R., a 2013-batch IAS officer, took charge as Deputy Commissioner of Shivamogga on Wednesday. The Karnataka Government has issued a notification. He replaces K.B. Shivakumar, who has been transferred from Shivamogga. Mr. Shivakumar handed over charge to Mr. Selvamani in the presence of other officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/selvamani-takes-charge-as-dc/article38263627.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:32 IST,KARNATAKA||Pre-school, classes I-VIII ordered to be closed in and around Tornagal||In view of rising COVID-19 cases, Ballari Deputy Commissioner and Chairperson of District Disaster Management Authority Pavan Kumar Malapati, on Wednesday, ordered the closure of all pre-schools — pre-nurseries, nurseries and anganwadis — across the district and Classes I-VIII in and around Tornagal with immediate effect. The order was issued under Section 34 of the National Disaster Management Act 2005 and it will be in force till January 19. The areas specified in the order for closure of classes included Tornagal, Ballari Thermal Power Station, Kudtini, Vaddu, Sultanpur, Taranagar, Kurekuppa and Jindal Township as they have reported a rise in positive cases showing a trend for cluster formation. The order made it clear that the next course of action will be taken later after analysing the situation. It also said that educational institutions can switch to online mode and other methods to continue teaching and learning activities. Mr. Malapati warned that stringent action will be taken under various sections of National Disaster Management Act 2005, Indian Penal Code and Karnataka Epidemic Act 2020 against the violation of the order and COVID-19 guidelines. Mr. Malapati observed that the district has 2.64 lakh schoolchildren aged less than 15 and 60,000 pre-school children who are yet to receive vaccination. He also noted that the positivity rate has jumped from 0.14% on December 31, 2021 to 9% on January 11, 2022 throwing the focus on the need for tougher measures to contain the spread of the virus. “The possibility of the virus rapidly spreading among students is very high as they are in groups in schools and hostels. It is also very difficult to enforce COVID-19 appropriate behaviour among children,” Mr. Malapati said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pre-school-classes-i-viii-ordered-to-be-closed-in-and-around-tornagal/article38263440.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Work on Yennehole Lift Irrigation Project in final stages||Work on the Yennehole Lift Irrigation project designed to irrigate about 1,500 hectares of land and recharge groundwater in and around nine villages of Karkala taluk has reached the final stages even as the Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Ltd. (KNNL) planned to impound water in the barrage from next week.  A brainchild of Karkala MLA and Minister V. Sunil Kumar to address water woes during summer in parts of the taluk, the vented dam for the project is being built at Yennehole village across the Swarna near Ajekar in Karkala taluk. The 125 m long barrage with 19 vents is designed to impound water up to 4 m (1.85 million cubic metres). Though the region on the foothills of the Western Ghats receives abundant rainfall during the monsoon, it still faces severe water scarcity post-monsoon and hence, the barrage is being built. KNNL Executive Engineer K. Praveen told The Hindu that the work started in December 2019 by contractor G. Shankar has reached the final stages and the process to impound water can start next week. Testing of pumps will start thereafter and the project will be fully ready to supply water to crops after November 2022.  Nine villages around the barrage, Yennehole, Ajekar, Marne, Koranjibail, Belathotti, Hirgana, Devase, Mundal and Hermade, stand to benefit from the project with land getting water for the post-kharif season to grow pulses, vegetables and foodgrains for about four months, till February. Besides providing water for crops, the barrage is expected to recharge groundwater in its surroundings as well as 40 check dams. Water can be pumped by a 450 hp pump towards the right-side catchment area through a 3-km-long rising main while two 935 hp pumps will pump water towards the left-side catchment area through the 9.93-km rising main to irrigate targeted land. No land will get submerged in the backwater as the impounded water is stored only up to the existing bank-level of the river even as the spread goes up to 2.5 km behind the barrage. The storage and utilisation of water for the project was designed keeping in mind the water requirements of Udupi city too, the engineer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-on-yennehole-lift-irrigation-project-in-final-stages/article64950700.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Additional coaches added on some trains to clear festival rush||The Southern Railway has added additional sleeper class coaches on some of the trains operating out of Mangaluru Central to clear extra rush of passengers. A release from Palakkad Division here said that the following trains will get the additional coaches for five days from Wednesday till Sunday. They are Train No 16604/16603 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mangaluru Central-Thiruvananthapuram Central Maveli Express; Train No 16629/16630 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mangaluru Central-Thiruvananthapuram Central Malabar Express; Train No 12601/12602 Chennai Central-Mangaluru Central-Chennai Central Mail and Train No 22637/22638 Chennai Central-Mangaluru Central- Chennai Central West Coast Express. Meanwhile, Train No 16649Mangaluru Central-Nagercoil ParasuramExpress will get an additional Chair Car coach from Thursday to Sunday, while Train No 16650 Nagercoil-Mangaluru CentralParasuramExpress will get an additional Chair Car coach from Friday till Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/additional-coaches-added-on-some-trains-to-clear-festival-rush/article38263616.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||CPCRI planning to set up demonstration plant for coconut varieties at Kidu||The Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI), Kasaragod in Kerala, has drawn up plans to open a demonstration plant for coconut varieties that have been released for the market and an exhibition hall showcasing the technologies developed by the institute at its Research Centre in Kidu in Dakshina Kannada, according to CPCRI Acting Director Anitha Karun. Speaking at the launch of the golden jubilee celebrations of the Research Centre, near Kukke Subrahmanya, on Monday, she said that the centre established in 1972 has an International Coconut Gene Bank for South Asia, spread over 120 hectares. It is the best maintained among the five multi-site international coconut gene banks located in different coconut growing regions of the world. Principal Scientist, CPCRI, Kasaragod, and Nodal Officer of the Kidu Research Centre V. Niral said that as part of the golden jubilee celebrations, the centre will have regular interactions with farmers, youth, students and different stakeholders. It will also transfer technologies and organise skill development programmes throughout the year. At least one or two activities will be organised every year, he said. President of the managing committee of Kukke Sri Subrahmanya Temple Mohan Ram S. Sulli, who inaugurated the celebrations, stressed on the need to create awareness among the student community on farming technologies and to sustain their interest in farming through their capacity building. Kitchen garden kits for promoting nutritional security were distributed to 30 beneficiaries on the occasion. The institute organised an interactive session with farmers on recent advances in coconut, arecanut and cocoa production technologies on the occasion, a release from the CPCRI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cpcri-planning-to-set-up-demonstration-plant-for-coconut-varieties-at-kidu/article38263618.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Manaki appointed chairman of Yakshagana Academy||The State Government on Wednesday appointed G. L. Hegde Manaki, Kumta, Uttara Kannada, as the chairman of Karnataka Yakshagana Academy. The office of the chairman was vacant following the demise of M.A. Hegde, who headed it, on April 18, 2021. The Government has appointed a new chairman after eight months since the post fell vacant. Manaki retired as a professor of Kannada from AV Baliga College in Kumta on May 31, 2019, after he joined it in 1984. Mr. Hegde obtained his Ph.D for a thesis on Samaja Halakki, a tribal community, under the guidance of Jnanpith award winner Chandrashekar Kambar. Being an artiste himself of the Badagu Thittu School of Yakshagana for five decades and a Talamaddale Arthadari, he has written a number of books on Yakshagana. Prominent among them are Sheni Ramayana, Sheni Bharatha, Yakshagana Varnavaibhava, Paramananda Charite, Namma Chittani, which is a biography of the first Padma Shri recipient for Yakshagna Chittani Ramachandra Hegde, Samskrita Kavya Vinoda and Chinnada Kireeta. He has written a number of research articles on matters relating to Yakshagana and other topics. Mr. Hegde has documented the performance of traditional Karki Mela. His two Yakshagana scripts, Andhakasura Vadhe and Bhagavatha Paramya, are popular and have been performed by different troupes a number of times. Mr. Hegde’s other works include Sri Ramayana Darshana, Sri Krishna Tulabhara, Nari Pancharatna, Srinivasa Kalyana, Mookambika Vaibhava and Malasanarayani Charite. He has also acted in films and television serials. Mr. Hegde is also a Gamaka interpreter, while he played guide for five Ph.D students and two M.Phil students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-chairman-for-yakshagana-academy/article64950702.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Recharging two major tanks||The Yennehole Lift Irrigation Project being executed across the Swarna near Ajekar in Karkala taluk will also recharge water in two major tanks of Karkala town, Ramasamudra and Ane Kere. Having a history to them, both these lakes also attract hundreds of tourists. Project engineers said that whenever water is not pumped for irrigation purposes, it can be diverted to these two lakes. The process will help rejuvenating and recharging the groundwater table around the lakes. If the lakes get filled to the brim and overflow, the water will flow back to the barrage through streams for which check-dams are being built, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recharging-two-major-tanks/article38263615.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Recreation clubs ordered to close down||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K. V. Rajendra on Wednesday issued an order directing all recreation clubs in the district to close down with immediate effect till further orders. It is to prevent the spread of COVID-19 as the number of new cases is on the rise in the district. Meanwhile, speaking at a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation in Dakshina Kannada, Minister in-charge of the district S. Angara asked the officials to keep all government hospitals ready for COVID-19 treatment. The Minister said that the Government Wenlock Hospital in the city will face more pressure in giving medical treatment to COVID-19 patients. Dr. Rajendra said that of the 16 oxygen generating units, 15 are functioning. Private hospitals too are ready to treat COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recreation-clubs-ordered-to-close-down/article38263621.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Process on to shift Tamil estampages to Chennai||Nearly 28,000 estampages of Tamil inscriptions preserved in the epigraphy wing of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in Mysuru will be shifted to Chennai. A communique in this regard was issued by the Director-General of ASI which is consequent to an order passed by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court in August last year. Estampage refers to impression of inscriptions obtained on inked paper and there are nearly 28,000 Tamil estampages preserved at the office of the Directorate of Epigraphy in Mysuru. Senior officials in the department who confirmed the developments said they received an order from the ASI headquarters last week (January 6) and the process to shift the estampages has commenced. A representative from the Chennai zonal office of the epigraphy wing was already in Mysuru verifying the documents and the records. However, officials said they were yet to ascertain how the estampages would be shifted and the time frame in which the exercise would be completed. The court order was passed after a PIL was filed seeking the transfer of all documents and records pertaining to Tamil inscriptions from Mysuru to Chennai on the grounds that the Tamil inscriptions were not properly preserved. It was also argued that shifting the estampages to Chennai would make it easier for research scholars in Tamil Nadu to gain access to it and publish the findings. The epigraphy branch was established as a wing of ASI at Bengaluru in 1886, relocated to Ooty in 1903, and shifted to Mysuru in 1966. It is engaged in copying inscriptions, deciphering and publishing the same. Scholars say epigraphy forms the bedrock for understanding and construction of history as the inscriptions are contemporary records, refer to events, kings, dates etc, and provided valuable data that comes in handy for historiographers and research scholars to fill the information gap in a region’s history. The Directorate of Epigraphy in Mysuru has nearly 70,000 estampages of Sanskrit and Dravidian languages of which around 28,000 estampages of Tamil will now be shifted to its office in Chennai. The epigraphy branch at Nagpur deals with Arabic and Persian inscriptions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/process-on-to-shift-tamil-estampages-to-chennai/article64950641.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Establishments in Mysuru oppose weekend curfew||The weekend curfew introduced as a measure to combat the spike in COVID-19 cases in Karnataka has come under flak from traders and businesses on the ground that it is affecting the livelihood of the majority of the people. The growing discontent against the lockdown came to the fore on Wednesday when the Federation of Organisations and Associations of Mysore (FOAM) called upon the Government to rescind the weekend curfew. Members of FOAM questioned the logic behind restricting commercial activities for two days in a week to bring the pandemic under control. They claim that the Government’s decision has pushed lakhs of people who sustain themselves on daily wages to the brink while the State itself is losing revenue by way of tax. “Health is important, but so is livelihood. Without means to survive, it is the health which will be affected,” the association argued. Members of the hotel owners’ association said the hospitality industry was among the worst affected due to the lockdown induced during the COVID-19 pandemic. “The sector is dependent on tourism, which has taken a hit. Hence, employees of hotels and restaurants are in dire straits,” according to Narayana Gowda, president of the association. The FOAM members also questioned the Government for targeting hotels while there is no restriction on travelling or on political rallies and meetings. The federation questioned whether the weekend curfew was even scientific.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/establishments-in-mysuru-oppose-weekend-curfew/article64950645.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:57 IST,KARNATAKA||MLA hears grievances, promises solutions||G.T. Deve Gowda, Chamundeshwari MLA, on Tuesday inspected a few residential areas coming under his constituency and directed the officials to ensure provision of civic amenities including drinking water facilities to the residents. He visited Vijayanagar 4th stage and a few layouts in the locality and apprised himself of the problems plaguing the local community. Mr. Gowda was told that the water that inundated the residential areas due to recent rains and having overflowed from the feeder canals, were yet to be flushed out. MUDA in charge Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy was directed to get the canals cleared so as to pave way for the water to be flushed out of the area. The approach road to some of the layouts were in a bad state and the MUDA was asked to take up the works immediately. The crux of the issue for the local residents pertained to drinking water scarcity, especially during summer and Mr. Gowda said that an additional 30 MLD of water will be pumped from Kabini in connection with which the work was in progress. Once the works are completed the drinking water scarcity will be resolved, the MLA added. There were also issues related to UGD and storm water drain in Vijayanagar 4th stage and the MUDA was directed to complete the works. The people of the area also complained of unscientific garbage disposal and the town panchayat officer was directed to ensure that solid waste management and garbage disposal was taken up on a priority basis. There were similar travails at Rajajinagar Ashraya Layout and the Mysuru City Corporation was asked instructed to ensure that steps be taken to supply Kabini water to the area. Senior officials of MUDA, MCC and other departments were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-hears-grievances-promises-solutions/article38263635.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:57 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 surge: Only 200 tourists can enter palace at a time||As COVID-19 numbers spiked, the Mysuru Palace Board has limited the entry of tourists to 200 at one time in a bid to curb crowding. Also, two doses of vaccination are a must for local tourists and negative reports with two doses of vaccination has been made compulsory for visitors from other States. At one go, 200 are permitted entry into the palace and others have to wait for their turn to enter the iconic structure. The staff at the palace ensure that the new entry and exit system is followed until further instructions.  Palace board Deputy Director T.S. Subramanya told The Hindu that the measure has been taken to contain the spread as cases are surging in Mysuru since the last few days.  “We did not give entry to some visitors today as they had taken only one dose of vaccine. Two doses are compulsory and we won’t compromise on this. In case of inter-State travelers, COVID-19 test is a must which is done on the palace premises. They get entry only when their report is negative irrespective of their vaccination status,” he added. Mr. Subramanya, however, said footfall has dropped since the cases spiked and the Omicron outbreak. The daily footfall has dropped from 4,500 to 1,800. “Despite 100% vaccination, our staff undergo RT-PCR test once a month as a safety precaution. We are enforcing the SOPs strictly and accordingly,” he replied. The footfall have been hit since the first wave of pandemic. They haven’t normalised with the pre-COVID-19 footfall and are still not restored. The board depends on the daily gate collections for maintaining the iconic structure and paying staff salaries. There is no grant from the government for palace maintenance. The illumination costs the board a sizable sum. Meanwhile, no curbs have been introduced for visitors at the Mysuru zoo. “Since it’s an open and spacious place, there is no need to impose any curbs on the entry. There is no need to limit the entry like done at the palace as the visitors move around in open places. The zoo authorities also told me that they are strictly ensuring the visitors wear face masks,” said Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, during his media interaction here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-200-tourists-can-enter-palace-at-a-time/article64950646.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Offline classes for Class X permitted as Mysuru DC changes order||Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham has modified his order on closure of schools in Mysuru city and taluk, permitting offline classes for Class X, on Wednesday. In his order on Tuesday, the DC asked schools to suspend offline classes from LKG to Class X from Wednesday in view of the rapid spike in COVID-19 cases. He had asked the schools to start online classes. The DC has asked schools to strictly comply with the rules while conducting physical classes for Class X. Meanwhile, for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, the daily cases in Mysuru breached the 500-mark, with 68 cases, including 45 in Mysuru city alone, reported among those aged between 0 and 17. One death was also reported on Wednesday. A total of 8,797 samples were tested and 524 tested positive on the day. As many as 114 have recovered and discharged. The death toll has risen to 2,430 with the death of a 53-year-woman. A sizeable number of cases are confined to Mysuru city with 442, while 36 cases were from Mysuru taluk. The remaining taluks have reported single-digit cases. The active case tally has now surged to 2,277.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/offline-classes-for-class-x-permitted-as-mysuru-dc-changes-order/article38263636.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||Will oppose move to thwart LIFE Mission, says UDF||KPCC) general secretary P.M. Niyas has alleged that the State government was trying to sabotage the LIFE Mission housing project. Inaugurating a dharna under the aegis of the UDF Wayanad district committee in front of the Collectorate here on Wednesday demanding resumption of work under the LIFE Mission scheme, Mr. Niyas said the government had not set apart adequate funds for the project. The UDF will oppose any move to thwart the scheme, he warned. At present, civic bodies are forced to complete work using their own funds, as the government has allocated only Rs. 50,000 for each house, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-oppose-move-to-thwart-life-mission-udf/article38263495.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||Tearful adieu to SFI leader||Dheeraj Rajendran, Students Federation of India (SFI) activist and a seventh semester BTech student at the Idukki Government Engineering College, Painavu, who was stabbed to death allegedly by Youth Congress workers on Monday, was cremated early on Wednesday. Local people and Communist Party of India (Marxist) party workers were present. Funeral pyre Dheeraj’s brother Advaith lit the funeral pyre by 2 a.m. The body was cremated in an eight-cent plot adjoining his house, which the CPI(M) has agreed to purchase for constructing a memorial for him. Dheeraj’s mother Pushkala, who works as a nurse, and father Rajendran, an LIC agent, were inconsolable when his body was taken to the house. He had called them a day before his death. Local people and Communist Party of India (Marxist) workers were present in large numbers when his body was brought from Idukki. The procession carrying Dheeraj’s body from Idukki reached Kannur around 11p.m. on Tuesday. It was past midnight when the body was brought to his house at Palakulangara at Trichambaram in Taliparamba. CPI(M) leaders, including Minister M.V. Govindan, former minister E.P. Jayarajan, M.V. Jayarajan, K.V. Sumesh and T.V. Rajesh, were present. Dheeraj was stabbed to death and two other students were injured in a clash related to college union elections. The First Information Report cited political animosity as the reason for the murder. The police have arrested two Youth Congress leaders and taken two others into custody in connection with the murder.  Two other students were injured in a clash related to college union elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tearful-adieu-to-sfi-leader/article38263494.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||Dheeraj’s murder was deliberate, says DYFI||The Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) has accused the Congress of killing SFI activist Dheeraj Rajendran. DYFI State president V.K. Sanoj accused KPCC president K. Sudhakaran of publicly advocating violence and that Nikhil Paily, who was arrested in the case, was the Idukki chief of the ‘KS’ brigade. Speaking to mediapersons here, he said there was no clash on the Idukki Government Engineering College campus in connection with union elections. It was at such a time that Youth Congress Vazhathope mandalam president Nikhil Paily came with goons and stabbed Dheeraj. The murder was committed by outsiders. They came there to deliberately murder SFI activists in the college. Mr. Sanoj said no student had died on campuses in Kerala at the hands of SFI activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-deliberate-dyfi/article38263554.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Congress, CPI(M) workers clash in Muvattupuzha town||The Muvattupuzha town witnessed a pitched battle between Congress and CPI(M) activists on Wednesday afternoon following a protest march taken out by the Congress in protest against the alleged destruction of party flagpoles by CPI(M) activists in the wake of the death of SFI activist Dheeraj Rajendran. Tension erupted when the protest march by activists of the Congress and its feeder organisations reached near the CPI(M) party office. CPI(M) activists lined up in front of the party office initially engaged in a war of words with the protesters, and the situation deteriorated rapidly despite the presence of police personnel in large numbers. Soon, the poles of flags held by both sides started flying into both the camps followed by stones. In the ensuing melee, the Puthencruz DySP was left with a bleeding head after being hit by a stone. Activists from both sides were also injured. The town was held hostage to the fight, for which both sides blamed each other, for more than two hours. Vehicles were also damaged in the violence. Congress MLA Mathew Kuzhalnadan said the provocation came from the CPI(M) party office, as the protesting Congress activists were attacked with stones, sticks, and even crackers. However, K. P. Ramachandran, CPI(M) Muvattupuzha area secretary, alleged that it was the Congress which deliberately created tension by taking out a protest march in front of the party office in the surcharged atmosphere of the death of the SFI activist. The alleged destruction of Congress party flagpoles on the night when CPI(M) and SFI activists took out a march to protest the alleged killing triggered the protest march. “We initially planned to stage a protest march on Tuesday but postponed it for the sake of civility, as the dead body of the SFI activist was to pass through the town. Our activists merely retaliated to the violence against them,” said Mr. Kuzhalnadan. Mr. Ramachandran said that Congress activists had deliberately created trouble on Monday night when the party workers staged a march to protest the alleged killing of the SFI activist by throwing verbal abuses against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-cpim-workers-clash-in-muvattupuzha-town/article64950728.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Over 100 priests stage fast in front of Cardinal’s residence||More than 100 priests from the Syro-Malabar Archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly staged a protest fast in front of the residence of Cardinal George Alencherry, head of the Syro-Malabar Church, in the city to reiterate their demand that the archdiocese be allowed to continue with the tradition of fully congregation-facing Mass and be given permanent exemption from a directive of the Synod of Bishops of the Church last August in this regard. A member of the Athirupatha Samrakshana Samithi (forum of priests for protection of the archdiocese) said there were around 350 priests, who could actually participate in the protest but the COVID-19 protocol saw around 100 of them taking part in the protest. The samithi leader said any attempt to impose the uniform Mass system would be resisted. The day-long fast was staged even as the 30th Synod of Bishops of the Syro-Malabar Church was in progress at the church headquarters at Mount St. Thomas in Kakkanad, near here. The community of priests had earlier submitted a memorandum to the Synod raising the same demand. The 30th Synod, which began on January 7, will conclude on January 15 and the community of priests requested the Bishops to consider the occasion as an opportunity to reconcile the differences of opinion on the celebration of the Mass.  Meanwhile, Almaya Munnettam, a collective of lay people, organised a black flag protest march to the archdiocesan headquarters in the afternoon, demanding, among things , the spirit of the Second Vatican Council should be preserved and the Synod, which had lost its synodality, should quit. The Alamaya Munnettam is calling for more transparency in church administration and demanded that the fully congregation-facing Mass should be allowed in the archdiocese and alleged the Cardinal Alencherry was using the issue of Mass celebration to camouflage other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-100-priests-stage-fast-in-front-of-cardinals-residence/article64950730.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Excise dept. stretched as NDPS offences surge||Even as serious offences under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in the district keep surging, the Excise department finds itself stretched owing to the abysmally low number of enforcement officers. The department has less than 400 enforcement officers, 388 to be accurate, across seven circle offices, one district squad, 15 range offices and an intelligence office in the district. This includes eight circle inspectors, 23 excise inspectors, nine assistant excise inspectors, 74 preventive officers, 238 civil excise officers, 58 women excise officers, and 22 drivers. Of this, the posts of four excise inspectors, 27 civil excise officers, and 23 women excise officers are either lying vacant or not been sanctioned yet. “Unlike in the past when more compoundable offences were charged, the Excise department is registering NDPS cases involving medium and commercial quantities entailing imprisonment terms in excess of ten years and 20 years respectively. This further increases the workload in terms of both the investigation and court proceedings as these offences call for trial at the level of the sessions court. The fact is that many cases are going undetected owing to the shortage of hands. In the given situation, the number of enforcement officials should at least be doubled,” a senior official said on condition of anonymity. Vimukthi programme Besides, the department is also burdened by exhaustive activities as part of its de-addiction programme, Vimukthi. Only one officer at the level of manager has been assigned for these activities while the rest have to be deployed from the existing pool of limited officers. From convening ward-level committees and visiting schools and colleges to monitoring de-addiction clubs, Vimukthi calls for at least a 100-member-strong separate workforce, said the officer. Excise officials bemoan the dilapidated condition of vehicles assigned to them not to mention the fact that most offices have just one vehicle and a driver. If the vehicle is already being used in connection with a case, the office is left with no other vehicle if a fresh tip-off is received. In at least one office, the post of the driver is lying vacant while the post is yet to be sanctioned in another. The lack of a separate investigation wing means that the officer who detects a case will have to do the follow-up investigation as well even as new cases keep on emerging. To make matters worse, the lack of authority to collect the tower location of potential suspects and summon the call details record further affects the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-dept-stretched-as-ndps-offences-surge/article38263514.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Startup Mission signs pact for cancer care incubator||Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) on Wednesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Malabar Cancer Centre (MCC) for establishing a Cancer Care Startup Ecosystem in the State. The MoU documents were signed and exchanged by B. Satheesan, Director, MCC and John M. Thomas, CEO, KSUM, at Infopark here. Mr. Thomas said that a medical incubator for cancer research will bring together experts in the relevant fields to spur cross-functional innovation. While the MCC will bring in medical expertise and awareness of biggest problems that need to be solved, the Startup Mission, which has access to the broader startup ecosystem including the IEDC network in arts, science and engineering colleges, can bring in experts and form enterprises that can solve problems. It can also provide them with required infrastructure and funding, he said. Dr. Satheesan said that some cancers are very common in our part of the world, especially lung cancer and breast cancer and their incidences are actually going up. So, we want to see if we can detect them early so that curative treatments can be provided and morbidity and mortality of these cancers can be reduced," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/startup-mission-signs-pact-for-cancer-care-incubator/article38263513.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Residential building along Konothupuzha demolished||A residential building that was constructed by encroaching upon the Konothupuzha in Amballoor grama panchayat has been demolished. The action forms part of the stringent directive issued by the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal to initiate immediate measures to save the river from pollution and encroachment. The 17-km-long Konothupuzha lies between the Champakkara canal and the Vembanad lake and runs through the Thripunithura Municipality, and Chottanikkara, Mulanthuruthy, Udayamperoor and Amballoor grama panchayats. The officials of the civic body said that the residential building had come up on 14 cents close to the riverside. It was illegal as the area was demarcated as ‘puzha puramboke’ (river puramboke). The person who was responsible for the encroachment knew that it was an illegal act, they said. In its affidavit submitted before the tribunal, the Secretary of the Amballoor grama panchayat said that a survey by the Revenue Department had found one encroachment by the riverside. The building was demolished after issuing notice to those responsible for the illegal act, it said. Periodic inspections The panchayat authorities informed the tribunal that they are organising periodic inspections along the riverside to prevent dumping of waste and sewage into the waterbody. A samithi involving members of the public and representatives of the panchayat has been carrying out surprise visits at various spots to check illegal dumping. The survey by the Revenue Department had found nearly 21 cases of encroachment of the riverbank along the stretch coming under the Thripunitura Municipality. It had also reported three encroachments of the riverbank in Mulanthuruthy, while one case was reported on the stretch coming under the jurisdiction of Chottanikkara panchayat. The State Pollution Control Board had found 10 establishments, including high-rises and vehicle service stations, discharging wastewater into the Konothupuzha in violation of norms. The gaps in the sewage management system were revealed after the analysis of water samples revealed higher levels of total coliform count, indicating faecal contamination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residential-building-along-konothupuzha-demolished/article38263508.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Marine research, production centre for Kufos mooted||A group of experts and stakeholders, who met here at a national seminar on reorienting strategies for sustainable aquaculture and fisheries, has recommended, among other initiatives, setting up an exclusive marine research and production facility attached to the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (Kufos), funded by the State government. Major issues Establishing a selective breeding and research centre for pearlspot considering the high demand for the fish, encouraging riverine and reservoir fish culture involving tribespeople, spreading ornamental fish culture, raising the percentage of value addition in fish processing from five to twenty, and exploiting the seaweed production capacity are the other major issues that have been highlighted by experts. Kufos sources said the recommendations were being submitted to the State government for consideration. The recommendations said ornamental fishery was a ‘sleeping giant’ with massive potential and rich resources that remained under-explored and exploited. Priority should be given to developing biodegradable film to reduce the use of plastic in fish processing industry, and waste valorisation must be a prime focus for the seafood processing industry, the recommendations added. Utilising aquatic plant fibre is important to contain the menace of styrofoam, they said. Shrimp aquaculture The seminar also pointed out there were constraints in regulating shrimp aquaculture in the country, but specific policies need to be framed for judiciously using the aquatic environment. The misuse of chemicals must be checked and incidences of anti-microbial resistant strains of pathogen should be traced and documented, the recommendations said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marine-research-production-centre-for-kufos-mooted/article38263507.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Collected papers of economist released||Renowned economist P.J. Thomas was an outstanding expert in the subject, and his works covered a wide range of areas, according to C. Rangarajan, former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India. Mr. Thomas, who had his training in economics at Oxford University and served both British India and Independent India as chief economic advisor, had written on a variety of topics with deep knowledge and felicity, Mr. Rangarajan said at the release of the book “Collected Scientific Papers of the Pioneering Economist and Planner P. J. Thomas” written by E.M. Thomas on Wednesday. Mr. Rangarajan said that many of the writings were done when India and the world in general were going through a depression. “He was one of those who emphasised the need for expansion of public works in order to be able to stimulate the economy. But he emphasised not only on income multiplier arising out of the public works, but also the employment multiplier that could lead to both expansion of income and expansion of employment,” he said. Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi University, delivered the presidential address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collected-papers-of-economist-released/article38263504.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||2,174 test positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam||A total of 2,174 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday. The test positivity rate was 20.65%. Around 2, 174 persons got infected through contact. The source of infection in 30 cases was not confirmed. The number of active cases in the district was 15,466. About 2,165 persons were placed in home isolation on Wednesday, according to a communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2174-test-positive-for-sars-cov-2-in-ernakulam/article38263501.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Southern Navy Chief visits Lakshadweep||Vice Admiral M.A. Hampiholi, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command, visited Lakshadweep Islands from January 10 to 12. The Commander-in-Chief was welcomed at Kavaratti with a guard of honour presented by the Indian Reserve Battalion (IRBn). Along with Naval Officer-in-Charge, Lakshadweep, Commander T.K. Praveen, he visited all the Naval stations at Agatti, Kavaratti, Bitra, Androth, and Minicoy islands. During the visit, he was briefed on the progress of various infrastructural development works, berthing facilities and upcoming naval projects in the island. A brief overview on the status of security apparatus of the Naval units was also provided. At Minicoy, the greenfield site building of the Naval Communication Project was inaugurated by B.G. Ibrahim, a war veteran (who had participated in the 1965 and 1971 wars) in the presence of Vice Admiral Hampiholi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/southern-navy-chief-visits-lakshadweep/article64950722.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||Director’s statement recorded before magistrate||The statement of director Balachandrakumar, whose recent revelations brought the actor assault case back to life, was recorded before the Ernakulam Judicial First Class Magistrate Court under CrPC 164 here on Wednesday. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) led by Crime Branch ADGP S. Sreejith was constituted shortly after Mr. Balachandrakumar’s revelations in an interview to channels. Mr. Balachandrakumar claimed it was Dileep’s brother Anoop who introduced ‘Pulsar’ Suni, the key accused in the case, to him in December 2016 at the actor’s residence in Aluva. He also alleged that Dileep had got a copy of the video on the sexual assault of the woman actor. The recording of the statement, which started around 1.30 p.m., lasted for hours. The SIT is expected to submit a report based on the investigation into the revelations before the Ernakulam Additional Special Sessions Judge on January 20, when the case is to come up for hearing next.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directors-statement-recorded-before-magistrate/article38263497.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Three cops suspended for assaulting colleague||Three policemen attached to the Thripunithura Armed Reserve camp have been suspended by the DIG (Armed Police Battalions) after a preliminary report found them guilty of committing gross misconduct and indiscipline by attacking and manhandling a police constable on December 31. Havildars Ansar, Ragesh, and Arundev were the ones suspended pending inquiry. They allegedly attacked constable Babu around midnight at the barrack of KAP 1 camp, Thripunithura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-cops-suspended-for-assaulting-colleague/article38263509.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||K-Rail: Ministers allay concerns||SilverLine is a futuristic project and a necessity of an advanced society, said Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal here on Wednesday. Speaking at ‘Samakasham’, a programme organised to explain the Rs. 63,000 crore project that aims to cut train travel time from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram to just 4 hours, he added that the government is implementing the project for coming generations. Vehicle pollution “Despite being a small State, Kerala has over one crore vehicles and road development alone will not be able to facilitate smooth transport in the future. The project will also pave the way for infrastructure development worth Rs. 50,000 crore,” said the Minister.Highlighting fuel efficiency and low pollution levels as the main features of the project, Mr. Balagopal added that SilverLine will be completed with minimal social and environmental impact. “The speed limit for trains is limited as there are more than 600 curves on our railway network. The project can fix this along with generating at least 50,000 jobs in five years. It will also create around 10,000 permanent jobs and all this will lead to a huge economic boom,” he said.Animal Husbandry Minister J. Chinchu Rani, who inaugurated the function, said that the project will be a landmark in the history of public transportation. No eco issues “The project is being implemented without causing any environmental issues. The scientific method of construction leaves no space for any concern,” she said. The Minister pointed out that the project can drastically reduce the travel time without causing any financial burden. People’s project “It is envisioned as a people’s project and the concept of pollution free transport will also be implemented through the project,” she said. Principal Secretary K. R. Jyothilal, K Rail Managing Director V.S. Ajith Kumar and Finance Director Reji John also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-rail-ministers-allay-concerns/article64950579.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||‘Reach capital from Kollam in 22 minutes’||SilverLine will make Thiruvananthapuram just 22 minutes far from the Kollam, said K-Rail Managing Director V.S. Ajith Kumar here on Wednesday. Explaining the the project at the Janasamaksham programme, he added that the travel time from the district to Ernakulam will be reduced to one hour and three minutes.He explained that there will be services every 20 minutes and the main depot will be in Kollam. Pointing out the current train fares, Mr. Kumar said that rate of SilverLine is expected to be Rs. 2.75 per km. “While the train fare is Rs. 710 for second AC and and Rs. 550 for third AC, it is estimated to be around Rs. 150 on SilverLine.” “The best compensation will be provided to those who lose their land, house or business. The loan would be Rs. 43,000 crore, but the project will be profitable in the long run. In ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reach-capital-from-kollam-in-22-minutes/article38263564.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||Keltron invites applications||Keltron has invited for application for DCA (1 year / 6 months) and Word Processing and Data Entry (3 months) courses. Interested persons can also apply for Diploma in Computer Hardware and Network Maintenance with Laptop Technologies, Network Administration and Linux, and Fire and Safety courses. For details contact 0474 2731061.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keltron-invites-applications/article38263558.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||Awareness workshop held||Kollam District Library Council and Vimukthi Mission organized an anti-drug awareness workshop on Tuesday. Vimukthi Mission Kollam district manager V.A. Pradeep led the class and council president K.B Murali Krishnan presided over the function. Panchayat and regional library committee conveners and Akshara Sena members attended the workshop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awareness-workshop-held/article38263562.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||KC(M) chairman to address CPI(M) forum||On Thursday, when Jose K Mani addresses a seminar organised in connection with the CPI(M) district conference in Kottayam, the Kerala Congress (M) chairman will be hoping to differentiate himself from his predecessor- K.M. Mani.The last time when the late Kerala Congress stalwart and former Finance Minister of Kerala hadaddressed a CPI(M) function was exactly four years ago. Going leftwards The occasion – a seminar in connection with the CPI(M) State conference in Thirssur,had also triggered speculations over the regional party tacking leftwards. The event, according to the KC(M) leaders,was the most significant development in the fast- deteriorating relationship between the regional party and the Congress led United Democratic Front.“Mr.Mani became an active participant in CPI(M) conventions since 2011; he attended party plenum in Palakkad and even the inauguration of the new press unit of the party mouthpiece- the Deshabhimani. Notably, all these events had the presence of either Pinarayi Vijayan or Kodiyeri Balakrishnan – the senior most CPI(M) leaders in the State,” pointed out a senior Kerala Congress leader. The ridge within the UDF widened further post the death of Mr.Mani one and half years later and this, coupled with a vertical split of the KC(M),opened up a new political space in Central Travancore . Lucky stroke The development proved a lucky stroke for the left, which seized on this opportunity and drew the KC(M) to its foldOver a year and two elections later,the KC(M) now remains an integral part of the LDF’s electoral plans in the region – long regarded as a bastion of anti-left politics. And the CPI(M) as lead partner of the left coalition has been reactive to the regional party led by the Mani junior, which is finally experiencing something of a reprieve after a long phase of decline. Ambitious project ``This is part of a long-term and ambitious project to reshaping the region’s politics through consolidation of the Christian vote bank. The appearance of Mr.Mani in the CPI(M) forum should be viewed in this backdrop’‘, he added.The seminar `Dhanavichara Sadassu’, in which Mr.Mani will speak, is slated to be inaugurated by the CPI(M) Central Committee member and former Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-chairman-to-address-cpim-forum/article38263556.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||Kanjirappally set to get sports school||Ending a long wait, the Government High School at Kunnumbhagam in Kanjirappally Is finally slated to be elevated to the status of a full-fledged sports school. According to Govt Chief Whip Dr N. Jayaraj, who represents the Kanjirappally seat, the proposal in this regard had been under consideration for a long time and a final decision in this regard was taken at the Cabinet meeting on Wednesday. A detailed project report was under preparation and steps would be taken to complete the project at the earliest The project, to be implemented through the Kerala Infrastructure Industrial Fund Board, is expected to cost around Rs. 60 crore. As per the plan, the existing building at the center of campus will be demolished and a new building will be constructed to accommodate Classes 5 to 10 as well as classes 7 to 10 of the sports school. The first phase of the new academic block was completed by using Rs. 1 crore from the MLA’s Asset Development Fund. The second phase of construction, which costs around Rs. 2 crore, too has begun at the school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kanjirappally-set-to-get-sports-school/article38263557.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||COVID-19 case graph on the rise in Kozhikode||Fresh COVID-19 cases rose above 1,000 after a gap of around three months in Kozhikode district on Wednesday. Four persons were reported to have tested positive for the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 too. As many as 1,164 people were found to be infected when 7,338 samples were tested. The daily test positivity rate is 16.13%. It was on October 13 last when 1,155 tested positive for the virus last time. The figure for October 16 was 937. The numbers of infected persons on October 20, October 23, October 27, and October 30, respectively, were 996, 914, 961, and 997. Thereafter, it was on a downward spiral. After schools reopened, fresh cases surged to 932 on November 17. There was a drop in the next days. TPR goes up However, with the Omicron variant of the virus coming to the fore, there has been a surge in infections since the first week of January. From 451 persons getting infected on January 6, the number rose to 801 on January 11. The daily TPR, which may not be the only indicator of transmissibility, is up from 6.52% on January 6 to 16.13% on Wednesday. The crowding witnessed during the Christmas holidays and the days leading up to New Year’s Day could have led to the spike in infections. Social distancing is given the go-by and many are thronging public places, even without proper face masks. Fifty four persons were under treatment in government hospitals and 141 in private hospitals on January 6. The figures were 77 and 157 respectively on Wednesday. The active caseload was 5,989.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-case-graph-on-the-rise-in-kozhikode/article38263490.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||Will go ahead with K-Rail project: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the State government is determined to go ahead with the proposed Thiruvananthapuram-Kasaragod semi-high-speed rail project, SilverLine, of Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (K-Rail) even as some vested interests are trying to scuttle development projects in the State. Addressing a public meeting to mark the culmination of the three-day district conference of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] on Kozhikode beach on Wednesday, Mr. Vijayan said the objection to the project was now given even a religious colour either in the form of minority or majority communalism. “It was unfortunate that the Congress party is accompanying these movements,” he said, adding that the government would firmly deal with any violent incidents. Compensation He said the government was committed to give succour to those who would lose their land to the K-Rail project. Previously, people had readied to part with their land for the development of the National Highway. Certainly, those losing their land would be unhappy but the government would earnestly take steps to provide compensation to them, Mr. Vijayan said. He said the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) retained power in the Assembly elections despite the right wing media and the Opposition parties making a concerted effort to malign the Left parties. But all those anti-Left propaganda were in vain. Then they realised that the main reasons for their defeat was the development initiatives of the previous LDF government. “So now they have decided that no development should take place in the State,” Mr. Vijayan said. The previous LDF government had successfully commissioned the Kudankulam-Kochi power transmission project, Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas GAIL pipeline project and the development of the National Highways. Infra improvement At the same time, when the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) was in power it did nothing to improve infrastructure facilities nor undertake development projects in the State, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Vijayan said the State was rapidly moving ahead with various development needs of the State such as the coastal highway, hill highway and inland waterways projects. However, the government required the support of the people as well, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-go-ahead-with-k-rail-project-cm/article38263533.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||A talent that shines through hurdles||“Aim at the moon; even if you miss, you will land among the stars,” says one of the quotes placed amid paintings by Anita Menon, on show at the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi Art Gallery in Kozhikode. The 29-year-old has turned a star, having conducted at least a dozen exhibitions in the past few years and having walked the ramp many a time. Unlike many with Down Syndrome, Anita is not “affected” by the condition but has gone past it to be an artist and model. Anita owes her success to her parents Ramdas and Usha who have supported her in every way possible, being her strength and voice. Anita does not speak much, yet exudes confidence in her behaviour, quite befitting modelling, the career of her choice. She has been the brand ambassador of several brands in Chennai and Pune, where she lived for years, until the COVID-19 outbreak. However, such opportunities are scarce in Kerala, Mr. Ramdas noted. “There is a lack of awareness among the public here about children in this condition, unlike Pune, where she had a special place wherever she went. No one here is too eager to hire a model with Down Syndrome,” he said. A chartered accountant, Mr. Ramdas has spent a greater part of his career in West Asia, before the family settled down in Pune and the pandemic brought it back to its roots at Kallai, Kozhikode. The exhibition features around 50 paintings by Anita, besides a few craft works, including painted diyas, fridge magnets, and souvenirs, besides hand-stitched frames. “Most people do not believe when we say that Anita did all these by herself. We made videos and even held live demos to prove it,” Mr. Ramdas said, adding that it was her mother Usha who guided Anita. Besides modeling, art and craft, Anita is keen to pursue dancing too. The exhibition was opened by Mayor Beena Philip on Wednesday and will conclude on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-talent-that-shines-through-hurdles/article64950585.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||A novel call to end ocean pollution||Here is an installation unlike any other on the Kozhikode Beach. ‘2022’, unveiled by District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy on Wednesday, could be a popular selfie spot soon, and at the same time a call to stop ocean pollution. The installation by the district administration, was made of waste collected from the sea by volunteers of Green Worms, an eco solution firm in the city. The installation conveys the message that the waste deposited on the beach eventually pollutes the sea. Interestingly, it is also a call to shed old habits and embrace new ones in the New Year. It also stresses the point that waste handling is the responsibility of every individual. Part of the waste Only a part of the waste collected was used for the installation, while the rest, including plastic carry bags, bottles, aluminum containers, paper cups, footwear, and thermocol were segregated and sent for recycling.  An installation by the district administration, is made of waste collected from the sea||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-novel-call-to-end-ocean-pollution/article38263487.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||P. Mohanan gets third term as CPI(M) Kozhikode district secretary||P. Mohanan was re-elected CPI(M) Kozhikode district secretary for the third consecutive time on the concluding day of the three-day district conference of the party on Wednesday. The conference also unanimously elected 45 members to the district committee. Twelve members were dropped from the existing committee, while 15 fresh faces comprising youth and women were inducted into the new committee. The senior members were excluded on the basis of the party’s decision to bring down the age ceiling for members to 75, Mr. Mohanan said. The conference also elected 12 members to the district secretariat by including seven new members. Five members from the existing body were retained. Besides, 38 delegates were elected for the State conference to be held in Ernakulam next month. Kuttiyadi MLA K.P. Kunhammadkutty did not find a place in the list of 12 newly elected members of the Kozhikode district secretariat of the CPI(M). Earlier, the party leadership had demoted Mr. Kunhammadkutty for his “silent role” in facilitating rebel protests against the party decision to hand over the Kuttiyadi seat to the Kerala Congress (M) in the run-up to the Assembly polls. Later, the KC(M) returned the seat to the CPI(M), and Mr. Kunhammadkutty became the party candidate. However, he has been retained in the 45-member district committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/p-mohanan-gets-third-term-as-cpim-kozhikode-district-secretary/article64950733.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||Varsity told to extend date for mark list submission||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has asked the Registrar, University of Calicut, to extend the last date to submit the degree mark list for admissions to postgraduate courses to a girl student. The order was issued by K. Baijunath, commission judicial member, who also sought a report within a week. A petition was filed by E. Irshana, a native of Chathamangalam, Kozhikode. Ms. Irshana, who was a degree student between 2018 and 2021, could not appear for the fourth semester exams in English language because she had COVID-19 symptoms. Though she had applied for permission to appear for the special examinations, the request was turned down. Ms. Irshana wrote the supplementary exams, the results of which were not released even after five months. She claimed that the supplementary exams, which were supposed to be held in April 2021, were held only in September. Meanwhile, she managed to get provisional admissions for a PG course for 2021-23. Since the results are not published, she is yet to get the mark list and thus confirm her admission. The commission said that it was the same university that could not hold the supplementary exams on time, could not declare results on time, and even then ask for a mark list. The commission said that the university should not deny her PG admission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsity-told-to-extend-last-date-for-mark-list-submission/article38263496.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||Mega job fair on Feb. 20||The Kozhikode district administration, in association with the District Skill Committee, under the guidance of Kerala Academy for Skill Excellence, is organising a mega job fair on February 20, 2022, a press release said. The job fair will give special preference to differently abled and transgender individuals. Job providers may register themselves till January 26 on www.statejobportal.kerala.gov.in. Job seekers may register from February 1 to 13. For details, contact 9400779123.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mega-job-fair-on-feb-20/article38263491.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||Do not delay decision on Waqf: Samastha||The Samastha Kerala Jami-yyathul Ulema has expressed concern over the State government’s delay in taking a decision on the proposal to entrust the Waqf Board appointments to Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC). A meeting of the Mushwara (supreme body of religious leaders) of the Samastha held here on Wednesday requested Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to immediately summon a meeting of representatives of religious leaders to discuss the issue. The delay in taking a decision on the issue would compel the organisation to rethink in other ways. It also decided to continue its good relations with the Indian Union Muslim League.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/do-not-delay-decision-on-waqf-samastha/article38263532.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||CPI(M) defends UAPA charges against youths||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI-M] has defended the police action against Allan Shuhaib and Thwaha Fasal, who were earlier booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for alleged links with Maoists. Briefing the media about the ongoing district conference of the party, Kozhikode District Secretary P. Mohanan said that both of them had been under the influence of certain ideas. The party was taking steps to rectify it, he said. On the closed-door deliberations, Mr. Mohanan said the delegates at the party conference had discussed issues to improve the functioning of the State government. However, a few isolated incidents of the failure by the police had also occurred, he said in replying to questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-defends-uapa-charges-against-youths/article38263488.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||Milma to launch energy supplement for cows||The Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd (Milma) is set to launch a high-energy special feed for pregnant cows. Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J. Chinchu Rani will inaugurate the fodder named ‘Ksheeravardhini Bypass Fat’ at Milma’s cattle feed plant at Malampuzha, near here, on Thursday. Milma Chairman K.S. Mani said here that the energy supplement fodder was being prepared in such a way as to be given in both advanced stage of pregnancy and early stage of lactation. “In that period, high-yielding cows need much more energy than usual. This Bypass Fat is meant to supplement the shortage of energy that cows face during advanced pregnancy and early lactation,” said Mr. Mani. Counter energy deficit The Bypass Fat, which would offset the energy deficiency, was being produced at Milma’s Malampuzha plant and sold to farmers at 70% subsidy, Mr. Mani said. The Malabar Regional Cooperative Milk Producers Union (MRCMPU) would sell it at the subsidised rate under its farmer-support scheme. The Bypass Fat worked ideally by feeding 100 grams (one packet) of the product daily from the last 10 days of pregnancy to the first three months after delivery to cows that yield more than 15 litres of milk every day, he said. According to Mr. Mani, the Bypass Fat offered an economical solution to increase energy intake during lactation by skipping rumen microbial digestion and would thus be available for maximum absorption in the small intestine for high milk production. Mr. Mani said that the product would guarantee an increase in the quantity and quality of milk. It would also ensure improved conception rates, improved overall health of a cow during crucial periods of transition, and better lactation. Milma managing director Patil Suyog Subhashrao, purchase manager A. Gopakumar, Malampuzha plant assistant manager S. Thiruveni, accompanied Mr. Mani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-to-launch-energy-supplement-for-cows/article38263517.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||Son stabs parents in cold blood||The police investigation into the murder of an elderly couple at Puthupperiyaram, near here, has unveiled the cold-bloodedness of their son who was addicted to drugs and delusion. The couple’s eldest son Sanal had remorselessly hacked and stabbed Chandran 26 times and Devi 33 times using a machete and a sickle. Many wounds There were as many wounds on their bodies. Sanal appeared cold-hearted and unemotional when he described to the police how he murdered his parents in cold blood. The police team on Wednesday took him to the house at Pudupperiyaram, where he mercilessly killed his parents on Sunday night. Explaining the postmortem report, one of the police officers said that Sanal had not shown any remorse or sympathy when he hacked at his mother three dozen times and poured pesticide into her wounds and mouth. He picked up a quarrel with her when she asked for some water around 8 p.m. on Sunday. He told the police that he harboured hatred towards his parents and always viewed them with suspicion. When Sanal attacked his mother, his father, who was lying in the bedroom with a back injury, cried loud. Then he turned towards him and finished him off by inflicting 26 deep wounds on the neck, face and body. After ensuring his parents’ death, Sanal took a bath in the bathroom of his father’s bedroom, sat beside his mother’s body, and ate an apple. Then he left the house through the backdoor. He escaped to Bengaluru, from where he was brought back with the help of his younger brother. His younger brother had told him that their parents were killed by some robbers and the police could not find any fingerprint from the house. Sanal returned home on Tuesday, and was arrested by the police. Sanal reportedly told the police that he used to consume drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/son-stabs-parents-in-cold-blood/article38263670.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||RSS worker’s murder: bail granted to accused||The Judicial First Class Magistrate Court here on Wednesday granted bail to Abdul Hakeem, 45, one of the accused in the murder of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker A. Sanjith. Hakeem, Social Democratic Party of India Puthanathani area president, was an accused in the conspiracy to kill Sanjith. He had reportedly given shelter to those who murdered Sanjith at Mambaram, near Palakkad, on November 15. Two others who had committed the murder are still at large. The BJP alleged that Hakeem got bail because of the prosecution’s failure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rss-workers-murder-bail-granted-to-accused/article38263518.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||Nine-year jail term for abusing minor||A 52-year-old man was sentenced to nine year imprisonment for sexually assaulting an eight -and- half -year old girl. The convict, Samuel, a native of Thumpamon near Pandalam, was also imposed a fine of Rs. one lakh. Pronouncing the sentence, Jayakumar John, judge, Pathanamthitta Principal Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Court, found the accused guilty under IPC section 450 (House-trespass in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment for life, )POCSO Act section 8 (punishment for sexual assault of a minor) and POCSO Act section 12 (punishable for sexual harassment). As per the case, the convict had sexually assaulted the gril for a period of one year since June 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nine-year-jail-term-for-abusing-minor/article38263561.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Omicron: Minister calls for tighter vigil||Health Minister Veena George on Wednesday again called for heightened vigil in view of the new situation involving Omicron virus variant to minimise disease transmission. The new COVID-19 case cluster found at a private nursing college at Pathanamthitta, which turned out to be an Omicron cluster, is an indication of the new variant circulating in the community. So far, only 421 cases of Omicron variant have been detected in the State, mostly from among a small proportion of the samples of international travellers sent for genomic sequencing. Ms. George warned people not to move about freely in public spaces if at all they have fever or any respiratory symptoms. Symptomatic persons should do COVID-19 testing as per the directive of healthcare workers. Preventing crowding in public places and proper masking are the best ways to keep oneself safe, she said. Short incubation period Omicron has a short incubation period and spreads fast, apart from the fact that asymptomatic transmission could be high. Clusters can be formed easily within families or workplaces if even one person falls sick and hence masking assumes a lot of importance. Some of the observed symptoms of Omicron cases seem to be cold, sore throat, fever, cough and sometimes, breathing difficulty, she said. Ms. George said that though daily cases were skyrocketing, hospitalisations were not rising in proportion. If disease transmission in the community goes out of hand, hospitalisations can surge and this can create a crisis. Healthcare workers were also getting increasingly infected and if they fall sick in large numbers, patient care activities in hospitals will be affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/omicron-minister-calls-for-tighter-vigil/article38263710.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||State’s COVID case graph shows a surge again||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph is on a surge again, indicating a sudden and significant change in the disease transmission pattern in the State in the week following Christmas and New Year and in line with the Omicron-fuelled surge in cases in rest of the country and the world. Widespread transmission of COVID-19 in the community, with new cases going up by more than two fold in the past two days alone is in evidence now. On Wednesday, Kerala logged 12,742 new COVID-19 cases, when 72,808 samples were tested in 24 hours. The tally of new cases has been on a steady increase since January 3 Between January 5 and 11, new cases grew by 116%, compared to the previous week, adding 22,409 new cases. Active cases went up by 63% during this period, the average active cases being 32,015, out of which about 1.4% only required hospitalisation and 1.4% needed ICU care. Hospitalisations rose by 7%, while the number of people in ICU and ventilators showed a decrease of 2.5% and 5% respectively. With the increase in new cases, the State’s active case pool rose from 44,441, on Tuesday to 54,430 on Wednesday, an addition of close to 10,000 cases (9,989) in a single day. The active case pool had been on a steady decrease since October and had dwindled to 19,021 on January 2, before it began surging. Of the total active cases now, 5% are currently admitted to treatment centres. A total of 2,552 persons were reported to have recovered on Wednesday. ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State did not show much change and remained at 453 cases, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support dropped to 135 on Wednesday. Hospitalisation The number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 showed a definite surge with the number swelling from 257 on Monday to 420 on Wednesday. Hospitalisations are rising slowly, in proportion to the increase in active cases and as on Wednesday, 3,029 persons are being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals across the State. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 50,254, with the State adding 199 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Wednesday. This includes 23 recent deaths and 176 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following appeals filed by families. Till now, a total of 19,521 deaths have been newly added to the State’s official list of COVID deaths. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 53, 13,147 cases. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases with 3,498 cases, Ernakulam 2,214, Kozhikode 1,164, Thrissur 989, Kottayam 941, Pathanamthitta 601, Kollam 559, Palakkad 495, Kannur 540, Alappuzha 463, Malappuram 449, Idukki 367, Kasaragod 262 and Wayanad 200 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-covid-case-graph-shows-a-surge-again/article64950594.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Another anti-plastic drive soon||With a ban on single-use plastic becoming effective from January 15, the city Corporation is planning yet another major drive to clamp down on the use of plastic materials. Though the civic body had launched such a drive before the COVID-19 pandemic, the generation of plastic waste had gone up since due to an increase in food parcels and other deliveries. The lack of convenience and higher prices of alternatives to plastic have also prevented earlier attempts at plastic ban from being completely effective. The new campaign is aimed at creating awareness and enforcing the ban on single-use plastic, including carry bags. Over the past two days, meetings were held to chalk out the plan for a wide campaign to remove accumulated plastic waste from public places. Voluntary organisations, residents’ associations, students, NGOs, youth organisations and others will be roped in to be part of the campaign, which will be organised later this month. "Since the ban will become effective on January 15, special squads will be deployed to carry out checks at major shopping centres. This is mainly aimed at generating awareness. After a few days, we will reduce the frequency of checks," said a Corporation official. Off target The Corporation had previously imposed bans on plastic carry bags, but these have not been quite effective till now. The first of the bans was imposed in 2017, with the civic body organising melas of manufacturers of alternative packing materials to promote their usage. Later, the Corporation opened its own cloth bag-making units, producing lakhs of such bags. Although some change is visible, especially in the use of cloth bags in some supermarkets and shops, plastic carry bags are still widespread. Although another attempt at a ban was made in January 2020, the pandemic came as a major blow. Though attempts were earlier made by the Corporation to push companies to shift food delivery to alternative materials, this plan also did not take off due to non-availability of suitable alternatives. Plastic-coated paper cups, used widely in tea shops after the outbreak, also have become a major headache for the civic body, which is looking at a permanent solution to the plastic menace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/another-anti-plastic-drive-soon/article38263715.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Ullasaganitham to make learning Maths fun||Ullasaganitham, a project of the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, to make the study of Mathematics fun for students of Classes I and II and help them achieve various learning outcomes, is under way in the district. Last year, study kits to undertake various Mathematical activities through games had been delivered at the doorsteps for students. This year, similar study materials will be prepared with the help of parents and delivered to students who have taken admission to Class I this year. Study kits will also be made available in schools. Samagra Shiksha intends to provide training to parents in the preparation of learning materials. Videos too have been readied for students. Training for teachers of Class I and II in the district got under way at the Samagra’s block resource centre (BRC) level on Wednesday. The training is provided after school hours by BRC trainers and cluster coordinators who themselves have attended the State-level training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ullasaganitham-to-make-learning-maths-fun/article64950598.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||CPI(M) pitch draws flak from Cong., BJP||The Communist Party of India’s (Marxist) [CPI(M)]’s all-out pitch for the proposed semi-high-speed rail project, SilverLine, has drawn flak from Opposition parties. The flurry of criticism came on a day when Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had penned an article in a CPI(M) publication batting for the SilverLine project. Simultaneously, the High Court had raised serious questions about the legality of acquiring land for the project and ordered the government to clarify if the Centre had indeed sanctioned K-Rail. BJP to petition PM Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran contested Mr. Vijayan’s claim that K-Rail had the Centre’s approval. He alleged that Mr. Vijayan had “falsely” declared that K-Rail had the Railway Board’s authorisation. The BJP State unit would meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urge him to cancel the project. Mr. Surendran accused Mr. Vijayan of using the Centre’s “consent” as a cover to justify the displacement of thousands of families for the project. “Mr. Vijayan could evict people only over the dead bodies of BJP workers,” he said. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy scoffed at Mr. Vijayan’s avowal that the LDF government would complete the 530-km K-Rail in four years at Rs. 64,000 crore. He said that Mr. Vijayan could not complete railway connectivity to Vizhinjam port despite being in power for more than six years. The relatively minor scheme entailed a meagre rail distance of 10.7 km and the acquisition of 16.2 acres of land. In contrast, K-Rail warranted the acquisition of 3,417 acres of land and razing of thousands of dwellings and buildings. Mr. Chandy urged Mr. Vijayan to shed his “obsession” with K-Rail and opt for the UDF’s proposed suburban railway scheme that costs less than Rs. 10,000 crore and merely 300 acres of private land. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that K-Rail was a vehicle for corruption. He said the government had contracted a "black listed" French firm as a consultant for K-Rail without inviting a competitive global tender. The decision invariably involved a kickback, he alleged. Public money Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan said the government had used public money to print lakhs of glossy pamphlets as part of the LDF's pro-SilverLine campaign. However, the CPI(M) and LDF partners have rallied behind K-Rail, given the increasing stridency of the political opposition to the government’s flagship scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-pitch-draws-flak-from-cong-bjp/article38263520.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||Committee to find ways to implement Hema panel report||The State government has constituted a three-member committee to examine and formulate an implementation plan for the Hema Commission report to address issues of sexual harassment and gender inequality in the Malayalam film industry. The panel consists of Chalachitra Academy secretary Ajoy Chandran, a deputy secretary from the Culture Department and an under secretary from the Law Department. The commission had submitted the report to the Chief Minister on December 31, 2019. In recent weeks, the government had come under criticism for the delay in the implementation of the report, three years after its submission. Several actors and others working in the industry had recorded detailed testimonies of the issues of sexual harassment, unofficial bans, wage payments and other disputes before the commission. An academy official said the government had in 2020, after the submission of the commission report, asked the academy to submit proposals to tackle the various issues prevailing in the industry. Following this, the academy had submitted the proposals in November 2020. It also suggested steps to ensure the setting up of an internal complaints committee (ICC) in all film sets. “Things were not in a standstill after the commission report was submitted. The Cultural Affairs Minister in the previous government as well as the current one chaired meetings, especially to discuss the way forward following the submission of the report. A tribunal mechanism is being considered without coming into conflict with the responsibilities of the existing mechanisms,” said the official. The Women in Cinema Collective (WCC) has been constantly raising the non-implementation of the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/committee-to-find-ways-to-implement-hema-panel-report/article38263523.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Phase 2 of shuttle bus services starts today||The second phase of the city circular bus services of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will be launched on Thursday. General Education Minister V. Sivankutty will flag off the city shuttle services and Transport Minister Antony Raju will release the ‘Today’ tickets. The shuttle service is meant to connect the city suburbs to the existing circular services, enabling those residing in these areas to reach their workplaces in the city more easily.Shuttle services will be launched in the following routes - Pallichal - East Fort - Thampanoor, Mudavanmugal - Jagathy - Bakery Junction, Malayinkeezh - Thirumala, Karakulam - Peroorkada, Vattappara - Medical College, Kazhakuttam - Sreekaryam - Medical College, Pothencode - Akkulam- Medical College, Sreekaryam- Pongumoodu - Medical College, Anayara- Oruvathilkotta - Medical College, Veli - Chacka - Medical College, Kulathoor - Medical College, Kovalam - Thiruvallam - Thiruvananthapuram, Poovar- Thiruvananthapuram, Pravachambalam - East Fort and Nemom - East Fort. The services connecting Pallichal, Pravachambalam and Nemom will have services every 15-30 minutes from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.The newly introduced ‘Today’ ticket, costing Rs. 30 and with 12 hours validity, allows passengers to take any number of services within 12 hours in the circular and shuttle buses. The existing ‘Good Day’ ticket allows passengers to avail themselves of any number of services within 24 hours at a cost of Rs. 50.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/phase-2-of-shuttle-bus-services-starts-today/article38263718.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||Rooftop solar power plants inaugurated||Grid-connected rooftop solar power plants with a total capacity of 1.5 megawatts (MW) were formally inaugurated by Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty on Wednesday under the Soura scheme of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). The 40 rooftop units are part of the Soura programme that envisages generation capability of 29 MW in its first phase. Solar panels are being installed atop schools, colleges, government and non-governmental institutions. Once the first phase is completed, 2,535 consumers stand to benefit, according to the government. Establishing rooftop plants in the domestic sector by offering subsidies is planned in Phase II. Self-sufficiency in electricity generation is key to industrial growth and employment generation in the State, Mr. Krishnankutty said, carrying out the State-level inauguration of the projects at the Mohandas College of Engineering here where a 300 kilowatt (KW) solar power facility has been established. Important role Rooftop solar power plants play an important role in the efforts taken by the KSEB and the government to supply electricity at affordable rates to the consumers, the Minister said. Nedumangad block panchayat president V. Ambili presided over the function. Anad panchayat president S. Shailaja, KSEB chairman and managing director B. Ashok, KSEB director R. Suku and chairman of Mohandas Engineering College G. Mohandas were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rooftop-solar-plants-inaugurated/article38263511.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Respite for fishers from loan repayment||The Cabinet on Wednesday granted families of seafaring fishers a respite of six months to repay the loans they had availed themselves of for fishing operations, housing, education, marriage of wards, and medical treatment. The moratorium on repayment of loans will kick in with retrospective effect from January 1, 2022 to June 30, 2022. The suspension of repayment is for loans availed till December 31, 2008. The Cabinet also barred lenders from recovering the mortgages or impounding property put up as collateral for bank loans by the fishers. The government has sanctioned post-graduate in pathology courses for the Institute of Integrated Medical Sciences, Palakkad. It has created three teaching posts (associate professor, assistant professor and senior resident) for the new course. The Cabinet upgraded the Government High School, Kanjirapally-Kunnumbhagam, as a sports school. It has allocated Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board funds to create the necessary sporting infrastructure. It has vested 155.89 acres of government land at Veyalloor village in Thonackal with the KSIDC subsidiary, Kerala Life Sciences Industries Parks Pvt Ltd, to start a life sciences park on the campus. The Cabinet decided to give a government job to the widow of M. Rajesh, a snake catcher who worked for the Forest Department on a contract basis and was bitten fatally by a venomous snake. It created a supernumerary post to appoint Rajesh’s wife, Rekha Rajesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/respite-for-fishers-from-loan-repayment/article38263711.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||76 more Omicron cases confirmed||Kerala has confirmed that 76 more of the COVID-19 cases reported in the State are of the Omicron variant. Nine of these are reported in contacts. So far, the State has detected 421 cases of Omicron from amongst the small proportion of COVID-positive samples of international travellers and community samples that are sent for genomic sequencing regularly. Of these 43 cases were detected from amongst the COVID-positive contacts of primary cases. In a cluster A Health department bulletin said that an Omicron case had been identified in a COVID cluster identified in a private nursing college in Pathanamthitta. Officials suspect that the cluster could be traced to a student who had been one of the contacts of an international traveller. Of the new cases reported, 13 were detected in Pathanamthitta; eight each in Alappuzha and Kannur; six each in Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam and Malappuram; five in Kollam; four in Kozhikode; two in Kasaragod; and one each in Ernakulam and Wayanad. One case was reported in a person from Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/76-more-omicron-cases-confirmed/article38263524.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||3,498 new COVID cases||The daily COVID-19 caseload in the capital district crossed the 3,000 mark on Wednesday, while the test positivity rate (TPR) also witnessed an alarming jump to 30.1%. The caseload on Wednesday stood at 3,498, while 273 people recovered from the infection, according to the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3498-new-covid-cases/article38263716.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||Adoor, Chithra chosen for Sree Chithira awards||Filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan has been chosen for the 15th Sree Chithira Thirunal National Award for the year 2020, while playback singer K.S. Chithra has been chosen for the 16th edition of the award for the year 2021. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 2 lakh and a citation. The award was not presented in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic situation. To be presented Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan will present the awards at a function to be held at the Bishop Pereira Hall at Palayam in the capital on January 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adoor-chosen-for-sree-chithira-award/article38263552.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Case against CPI(M)’s ‘mega’ Thiruvathira||The police have registered a case against around 550 people, including a district panchayat member, who participated in a ‘mega’ Thiruvathira event organised at Parassala ahead of the CPI(M) Thiruvananthapuram district conference. The Parassala police have registered the case against Salooja V. R., district panchayat member, and around 550 others who can be identified, under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, according to the DySP Neyyattinkara. Ms. Salooja, who represents the Parassala district panchayat ward, was reportedly the coordinator of the event. Widespread criticism The event had sparked widespread criticism as it was held at a time when the daily COVID-19 caseload is rising alarmingly across the State, including the district. The Parassala police have suo motu registered the case||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-cpims-mega-thiruvathira/article38263708.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||Southern Railway GM holds meeting||Members of Parliament representing constituencies under the Thiruvananthapuram Division of Southern Railways held a virtual meeting with General Manager, Southern Railways, John Thomas on Wednesday. The MPs were informed about the development of various passenger amenities and infrastructural development in progress and those completed successfully during the pandemic. They were also briefed about the development of stations, cleanliness of railway premises and the operation of Oxygen special trains, Shramik special services for migrant workers and freight express trains during the pandemic lockdown and the post-pandemic period. MPs who attended the meeting include Kodikunnil Suresh, N.K. Premachandran, Anto Antony, Adoor Prakash, Thomas Chazhikadan, T.N. Prathapan, A.M. Ariff, Benny Behanan, Hibi Eden, Ramya Haridas and John Brittas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/southern-railway-gm-holds-meeting/article38263555.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Panels for labour disputes||The Labour department and the Food and Civil Supplies department have launched measures to address labour disputes in the food and civil supplies sector. It was decided at a meeting attended by Minister for Labour V. Sivankutty and Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil that five regional dispute redressal committees will be formed to resolve labour disputes in connection with National Food Security Act (NFSA) godowns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panels-for-labour-disputes/article38263709.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Take action against parking on footpaths, police urged||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has asked the District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) to direct all station house officers (SHOs) in the city limits to take strict action against people who illegally park vehicles on footpaths, putting pedestrians to hardship. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic was acting on a complaint from Thiruvananthapuram Development Forum secretary M. Vijaykumaran Nair. The District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City), in his report to the commission, said police stations in the Cantonment sub-division limits had been asked to take action against those parking vehicles on footpaths. Special attention would be paid to preventing parking on footpaths at Statue Junction. The police and the city Corporation had appointed traffic wardens to prevent unauthorised parking. The complaint said footpaths near the Cantonment police stations and in front of the Secretariat Annex complex were regularly encroached upon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/take-action-against-parking-on-footpaths-police-urged/article38263720.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Renovated market opens||General Education Minister V. Sivankutty inaugurated the renovated market at Kumarichantha in the city on Wednesday. The market was renovated as part of a project under the city Corporation’s People’s Plan. Mayor Arya Rajendran presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovated-market-opens/article38263719.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Man arrested for abetting girl’s suicide||The Vithura Police on Wednesday arrested a 21-year-old man on charges of abetment of suicide of his girlfriend. The accused has been identified Akash Nath of Chittar. According to the police, the accused has also been charged under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act as the deceased belongs to an SC community. The 18-year-old woman, a student of the Government College, Nedumangad, is believed to have called the accused before her alleged suicide. The police said he had got hold of her mobile and deleted the call history. But some neighbours caught him in the act. The two reportedly had a quarrel before she committed suicide. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA – 1056, 0471 – 2552056).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-for-abetting-girls-suicide/article38263714.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||Single-teacher schools: 344 instructors to be redeployed||The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to redeploy 344 teachers of single-teacher schools in the State as permanent employees. The decision comes in the wake of the organisation of single teachers, Alternative School Teachers Union (ASTU), under the leadership of the former MP P. Karunakaran, bringing the matter to the government’s attention. In 1997 The single-teacher schools were set up in 1997 in order to ensure universal primary education as part of the District Primary Education Programme in isolated coastal or forest regions that had almost no travel facilities and were educationally backward. Districts The single-teacher school programme was first implemented in Kasaragod, Wayanad and Malappuram districts. Such schools now exist as multi-grade learning centres for children from Classes I to IV. The teachers in these centres are paid an honorarium every month for their services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/single-teacher-schools-344-instructors-to-be-redeployed/article38263512.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Addressing power mishaps||A district-level committee for preventing electrical accidents on Wednesday decided to confiscate generators that have been installed by flouting norms or without authorisation. The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) and the Electricity Inspectorate will hold joint inspections in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/addressing-power-mishaps/article38263717.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Kudumbashree group polls conclude today||Elections to Kudumbashree neighbourhood groups to elect new office-bearers will conclude on Thursday. The elections began Friday last. As of Wednesday, of the 2,90,810 neighbourhood groups in the State, elections had been held to 2,24,760 groups and 710 of the 730 neighbourhood groups formed as part of the Attappady Adivasi comprehensive development project. With the election to the remaining groups slated to be completed by Thursday, the first phase of the polls is set to conclude. The elections are being held to select a five-member governing body for each neighbourhood group. It includes a president, secretary, livelihood sub-committee convener, social development sub-committee convener and infrastructure development sub-committee convener. A majority of the office-bearers are new faces, a statement from Kudumbashree said. There had been a good response to the election to select governing body members to the lowest tier of the three-tier Kudumbashree network. The achievement of women was also in focus in the elections held in the Attappady tribal belt that includes Puthur, Kurumba, Sholayar, and Agali, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-neighbourhood-group-polls-to-conclude-today/article38263510.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||New waterbird species spotted||A recent survey conducted at Thrissur-Ponnani kole fields has found 16,634 birds in 61 species. The bird survey was conducted as part of Asian Waterbird Census on January 2. This has been the 31st waterbird survey conducted with people’s support in the kole fields. The survey was held in 12 sites of kole fields such as Adatt, Manakkodi, Enamavu, Pullu, Alappad, Palakkal, Pullazhi, Thommana, Konthipuram, Muriyad, Maranchery, and Uppungal, according to survey coordinator P.O. Nameer. 15,959 birds The survey conducted in 2021 recorded 15,959 birds. Around 60 bird watchers, including students and environmental activists, participated in the survey conducted by Kole Birders Collective and the Kerala Agricultural University.. Little egret, cattle egret, painted stork, woolly-necked stork, pelican, little cormorant, pond heron, median egret and whistling teal were the commonly seen birds in the kole fields. The collected data will be available at (www.ebird.org) for reference. Kole fields, one of Asia’s largest wetlands spread in 13,500 hectares, is an important stopover in the migratory route of birds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/61-species-of-waterbirds-spotted-in-thrissur-kole-fields/article64950586.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Demand on track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-on-track/article64950612.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Traffic conundrum||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-conundrum/article64950732.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Up in arms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/up-in-arms/article64950606.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:14 IST,KERALA||Strong demands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strong-demands/article64950582.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Hard work and some break||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hard-work-and-some-break/article64950588.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Show-cause notice to Ward Secretariat staff||Mandal Parishad Development Officers in many of the 63 mandals on Thursday served notices of cutting a day’s salary of all the village secretariat employees for not registering their biometric attendance on Monday and participating in the agitation. All the Panchayat Secretaries (Grade-III &IV) who are the Drawal and Disbursement Officers of these employees have been warned of severe action against them if they permitted salary for the day of agitation. Meanwhile, 11 ward secretariat staff working under the Kalyandurg Municipality jurisdiction were served a show-cause notice on Wednesday for not attending duties on Monday and participating in agitation for regularisation of their probation against the service rules of the Ward and Village Secretariat employees. Municipal Commissioner Venkateshulu in an official notice served sought to seek their explanation within 24 hours for their not attending to work on OTS and vaccination and threatened disciplinary action if a satisfactory reply was not received. At Anantapur Municipal Corporation and Tadipatri Municipality, the employees came to offices and put their biometric attendance, but many continued pen down by not taking up official work. The employees said talks were taking place in Amaravati between Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the top brass in the Panchayat Raj and Municipal Administration departments along with the Chief Secretary and a final word on the issue from government was expected late in the night or Thursday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/show-cause-notice-to-ward-secretariat-staff/article38263644.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka HC grills govt. on padayatra||The High Court of Karnataka has questioned if the State Government and its authorities were “helpless and totally incompetent” to stop the padayatra by the Congress on the Mekedatu project when no permission was granted and the guidelines on COVID-19 prohibited such rallies and gatherings. The court directed the Government to explain how it allowed the padayatra to take place and why appropriate action was not taken by the authorities to restrain the KPCC when the guidelines, issued in view of the rise in COVID-19 cases, prohibited such activities. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Suraj Govindaraj, issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition filed by Nagendra Prasad A.V., a resident of Bengaluru. The petitioner questioned inaction of the State Government in stopping the political rally when guidelines had clearly banned such activities. The Bench took up the petition for hearing on an urgent basis as petitioner’s counsel cited health risk posed owing due to continuation of the rally. “Do you mean to say that State authorities were helpless to stop the rally?” the Bench said when Additional Advocate-General R. Subramanya pointed out that no permission was granted to the rally in view of COVID-19 guidelines, and the Deputy Commissioner of Ramanagaram had on January 6 issued notice to KPCC, stating that they could not hold the rally as no permission was granted, and criminal cases were being registered against the organisers. “What were you watching.... when permission was not granted... Are you [State authorities] totally incompetent to stop it [rally] knowing fully wellthat it was not in public interest in the present COVID-19 situation,” the Bench questioned orally while asking if the State Government and the Deputy Commissioner of Ramanagaram could not act sans judicial orders. The Bench directed the KPCC counsel to inform the court if permission was obtained for the rally, named ‘Namma Neeru NammaHakku’, and if KPCC had taken measures in compliance with the Standard Operating Procedure prescribed by the Government. Senior Advocate Arvind Kamath, appearing on behalf of the petitioner, pointed out that holding a rally in violation of the guidelines had caused serious threat to health of the public at large. The court adjourned further hearing till January 14, asking both the Government and the KPCC to submit their responses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-hc-grills-govt-on-padayatra/article64950420.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers worried over movement of 3 elephants close to their fields||Three lone elephants, which are reportedly on prowl close to the fields at Jagamarla, Keelapatla and Kuppam, are giving tense moments to farmers at villages abutting the Koundindya wildlife sanctuary. The crop-raiding elephants have become active in the Kuppam, Punganur and Palamaner ranges since the last week of January, a time when the mango gardens in the region are set for flowering. The field activity is considered a big lure to the pachyderms. Given the movement of the lone elephants, the farmers have appealed to the forest officials to initiate steps to end the menace. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar said that the three elephants keep rejoining the herds now and then, and other times they move separately. Presence of herd adds to their concerns “This is hampering our efforts to locate them,” he added. The officials, who are on tenterhooks because of the stray elephants, are also concerned over the presence of a 14-member herd of elephants, which are on the prowl close to the forest-fringe areas and alongside the fields between Chittoor and Kuppam. “Our personnel are constantly monitoring the movement of the lone tuskers and the herd, preventing them from entering fields and human habitations,” Mr. Ravi Shankar added. The DFO attributed the presence of stray elephants near the agriculture fields in the district to the large presence of mango gardens with the flowering season on. ‘Jumbo population on the rise’ “We are also finding it tough to deal with the wild herds in recent months, with several of them coming from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. After a while, the herds would be returning to their habitations. We have information that the population of elephants is on the increase with an estimated figure of 6,000 tuskers in Karnataka and 3,000 in Tamil Nadu,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-worried-over-movement-of-3-elephants-close-to-their-fields/article64950522.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Camp clerk suspended||Raj Kumar, camp clerk of the Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP-Administration) of West Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh was suspended on Tuesday on charges sexually harassing a woman police constable. The accused had reportedly demanded sexual favour from the constable when she applied for a transfer. Following a complaint lodged by the constable, Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma ordered an enquiry into the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/camp-clerk-suspended/article38263181.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan: rural areas witnessing transformational changes||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that transformational changes are taking place in rural hinterlands of the State. He was addressing a meeting after inaugurating the ITC-Welcome Hotel in Guntur on Wednesday. Chairman and Managing Director, ITC, Sanjay Puri, Minister for Tourism Muttamsetty Srinivas, Minister for Housing Ch. Ranganatha Raju, Minister for Home M. Sucharita, MLCs and MLAs, were present. “If you go to any village in Andhra Pradesh, you can see transformational changes taking place in the Education, Health and Agricultural sectors. We have 10,700 Rythu Bharosa Kendras across the State, hand-holding the farmers right from what seed, what crop to be planted, to hand-holding the farmers right up to the stage of marketing the produce. The concept of RBK will transform agriculture and the kind of infrastructure being created at the primary processing level and at the secondary processing level. ITC will have an important role to play in food processing, and we hope to have a strong partnership with ITC in sectors pertaining to tourism, food processing and agriculture,” Mr. Jagan said. The new facility, a five-star Hotel, with a lead platinum certified premises, was a wonderful facility in Guntur, the Chief Minister added. Mr. Puri said that Andhra Pradesh stood as a role model in inclusive growth and good governance. Mr. Jagan had shown his mettle as an able administrator in dealing with the COVID pandemic. The State had also bagged first rank in Ease of Doing Business. He said that ITC Ltd had an enduring relationship with farmers in the region and empowering the stakeholders. Guntur was the national headquarters of ITC-ABD and was the global hub of chilli exports. Further, ITC was committed to an investment of Rs. 400 crore in food processing industry sector in the State and would continue to partner the State in the agriculture sector, which would bring a socio-economic transformation in the state, Mr. Puri added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-rural-areas-witnessing-transformational-changes/article64950510.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire at Hyderabad municipal body’s zonal office, files gutted||Several files and records in the tax section of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s (GHMC) zonal office at Secunderabad were burnt down after a fire broke out during office hours on Wednesday. The incident, Fire officials said, was reported from the third floor of GHMC’s North Zone office located at Marredpally at around 3 p.m. By the end of fire-fighting, only the loss of paper records was reported. All the employees were evacuated safely. According to a senior fire officer, the operation that lasted for about an hour, was a difficult one as the office had a glass facade and the premises was already engulfed with dense smoke. About 50 employees who panicked had already moved to the lower and upper floors, and by the time fire-fighters broke the glass and were clearing the smoke-logged hall, another ten employees had an exit. Old files There were piles of old files, records and bills, visibly cloth-bound and standing against the wall, almost reaching the electrical panels, the official said. Another official, however, said, the origin and cause of the fire remains unknown and is pending investigation. An internal inquiry, besides examination by engineers from the Electricity Department, is being taken up. Fire officials estimated that the damage from fire and smoke did not extend beyond about ten cubicles in the section. Another fire accident reported at Ranigunj’s electrical warehouse at around 5.40 a.m., saw more property damaged. The store had various kinds of lights and electrical fixtures. Officials said the watchman of a private hotel, above the locked store, raised the alarm after he observed smoke billowing out. The proprietors of the establishment too were alerted on their smartphones thanks to smoke and alarm systems installed on the premises. “The owner had made several partitions to store the goods and there was only one narrow stairway from inside that made firefighting difficult,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-at-hyderabad-municipal-bodys-zonal-office-files-gutted/article38263122.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Omicron to become the dominant strain: CCMB scientists||Omicron is sure to become the predominant COVID strain across the country soon as it has been spreading rapidly and although it is causing “mild” symptoms in infected individuals, it is capable of circumventing the protection offered by vaccines, said scientists of Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) on Wednesday. The latest strain, first noticed in Africa, has been behaving like a typical pandemic-causing pathogen in being more infectious, yet with “mild” symptoms of cold, fever, headache, sore throat, etc. This could, however, prove dangerous for the immuno-compressed and the elderly, and so it cannot be taken lightly, they asserted in an online interaction. Evidence from South Africa and England is showing that the current vaccines do protect from severe disease and mortality, if not from the infection itself, as the hospitalisation rate is considerably low in comparison to the scenario during the Delta-induced second wave last year, they said. The premier scientific institute has been closely following the quick spread of the variant in a small duration of time, including through genome sequencing. Scientists have said that Omicron was reported in November last year and within a month, there was an uptick in the country’s caseload. The variant is slated to quickly overtake Delta, given the increased local transmission. “Every week we have been looking at this lineage and it has now become the predominant variant. We are also monitoring the three sub-lineages to check their progress. We have designed primers to detect Omicron and made it into RT-PCR kits. We have tested samples and they have been showing good accuracy,” said scientist Divya Tej Sowpati. His colleague Karthick Bharadwaj explained that Omicron had developed significant immune escape properties and was infectious as can be seen in highly vaccinated countries like the UK where the cases have shown a steep rise. However, the mortality rate is low. Testing and isolation A N-95 mask, open spaces, good ventilation and vaccination reduce the risk of infection. A regular RT-PCR test does detect the infection, even if it may not be able to identify Omicron as the variant, and it was not necessary to go for repeat ‘negative’ test, he said, adding that nine days of isolation should be sufficient. CCMB director Vinay Kumar Nandicoori said booster doses provide “some level of protection if not total” but ruled out the possibility of the pandemic ending any time soon as another variant of concern could well emerge. “It is anybody’s guess; science is evolving and our mitigation methods are getting better,” he said. He pointed out that India, with 5 lakh fatalities, ranks second in the number of reported deaths after the United States (8.5 lakh). Over 55 lakh deaths have been reported worldwide. The Spanish Flu, which raged on for two years a century ago, and had three waves, claimed four crore lives which meant that the current mitigation efforts have been effective in terms of diagnosis or vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/omicron-to-become-dominant-strain-ccmb-scientists/article64950418.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||120 students of IIT-Hyderabad test positive||As many as 120 students, including two faculty of the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IITH), located at Kandi in Sangareddy district, tested positive for coronavirus and they are being kept in isolation. All of them are having mild symptoms.  Confirming this, an official from the IITH informed TheHindu that the spike in cases was not a sudden development and for the past few days, the numbers are increasing.  It was reported that after recent admissions of students in the first year, the number of cases have increased. However, from where theCovid-19 virus entered the campus is not clear. Those who tested positive are being kept in isolation on the top floors of their respective accommodations, so that they do not come into contact with other students and staff members. Regular medical check-up is being conducted on them and the health staff are attending to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/120-students-of-iit-hyderabad-test-positive/article38263116.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shepherd killed in road accident||A 48-year-old shepherd was killed on the spot when he was knocked down by the official vehicle of the Vice-Chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU-Kakinada) on the national highway, at Chebrolu village in East Godavari district on Wednesday. JNTU-K Vice-Chancellor G.V.R. Prasad Raju was not traveling in the vehicle when the incident occurred, according to police. The vehicle ran over K. Kondababu and a few goats while he was taking the herd to the fields. The police said that the vehicle was on the way to Visakhapatnam to receive Prof. Raju when the incident occurred. The body had been sent to the government hospital in Pithapuram. The police registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shepherd-killed-in-road-accident/article38263685.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:39 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rahul brings out calendar to promote Wayanad farm produce||Rahul Gandhi, Wayanad MP, has come out with a crop theme-based calendar to promote across the country the agricultural produce of the district. Each page of the 12-page calendar depicts a crop that is cultivated in the Wayanad constituency. Details of major crops such as banana, ginger, coffee, nutmeg, pepper, cocoa, turmeric, rice, cardamom, cloves, and coconut are given. Apart from this, the area of cultivation, number of farmers who are engaged in it, the total amount of production, and varieties of each crop being cultivated are also incorporated in the calendar. “It gives me immense pleasure to present a calendar that celebrates the rich agricultural diversity in Wayanad, Malappuram, and Kozhikode”, says Mr. Gandhi. While some crops are native, others originating in various corners of the world made their way to this land and assumed a unique Wayanadan identity, Mr. Gandhi says in the preface of the calendar. Mr. Gandhi says each crop charted the history of the people, which, today defines the essence of Wayanad. The artworks in this calendar are also a tribute to them. “No account of Wayanad will be complete without acknowledging the contribution of our brothers and sisters of tribal communities, who have been the custodians of our traditional knowledge and exemplify the spirit of peaceful coexistence”, he says. They truly are the bridge between the past, present, and future. The last page of the calendar is dedicated to tribespeople, giving details on the collection of wild honey by tribesmen in the district. The calendar also represents the beauty of brand Wayanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rahul-brings-out-calendar-to-promote-wayanad-farm-produce/article64950416.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||More opportunities for Nellorians as IT company opens its branch today||Terralogic Solutions Inc., a leading IT services company from the Silicon Valley, the USA, will open its branch in Nellore on Thursday to unlock the potential of IT professionals from here. Engineers aspiring for a career in the IT field now don't have to go to bigger cities for opportunities as Terralogic, which has carved out a niche for itself in software development, cyber security, cloud services, and UI UX Design Services, will provide the same opportunities for Nellorians here itself. It plans to build a team of 200-plus engineers. “The aim is to generate more job opportunities for the people. And since the pandemic broke out, we have noticed that people want to work closer to their hometown without having to compromise on their career. We are excited to open this new branch in Nellore,” says its Chief Executive Officer Renil Komitla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-opportunities-for-nellorians-as-it-company-opens-its-branch-today/article38263643.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:39 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thiruvabharanam procession sets off to Sabarimala||The customary procession carrying the Thiruvabharanam (sacred jewellery of the presiding deity at Sabarimala) set off to the Sannidhanam from Pandalam at 1 p.m. on Wednesday. The three boxes containing the Thiruvabharanam were being carried on head by a 25-member team led by Kulathinal Gangadharan Pillai. A team of Travancore Devaswom Board officials and the police are too accompanying the procession. Shankar Varma, who represents the Pandalam palace, is leading the procession. Felicitation The proceedings began with the authorities shifting the sacred jewellery from the strongroom of the Srambickal palace to the adjoining Valiyakoickal Sastha temple by 4 a.m. It was later taken out by 1 p.m. following a felicitation of the group members. Notwithstanding the COVID-19 regulations, a huge number of devotees thronged the palace and the temple to witness the occasion. The procession, which began in the afternoon, is slated to reach Laha on Thursday after halting at the Puthiyakavu Devi temple at Ayroor on Wednesday night. After halting at Laha, it will each the Sabarimala Sannidhanam via Valiyanavattom and Saramkuthi on Friday afternoon. On Makaravilakku day The presiding deity of the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple will be adorned with the sacred jewellery prior to the deeparadhana ritual on the Makaravilakku day on January 14. The Pathanamthitta police have initiated steps to avoid crowds along the procession route. The palace representative is slated to return from Sabarimala with the ornaments after the kalabham and guruthui rituals at the Ayyappa temple and the Malikappuram Devi temple respectively||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thiruvabharanam-procession-sets-off-to-sabarimala/article64950415.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:39 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Modi exhorts youth to adopt motto of ‘compete & conquer’||Foreseeing the dawn of the golden age of start-ups in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday issued a call to the country’s youth to adopt the motto of “compete and conquer” as their guiding principle in life. Inaugurating, in virtual mode, the 25th National Youth Festival (NYF) hosted by the Union Territory of Puducherry, Mr. Modi said the evolution of the start-up ecosystem that had grown to over 50,000 units, about 10,000 of them initiated during six to seven months of the COVID-19 pandemic, reflected the “can-do” spirit of the youth of today. The resilience, spirit of innovation and the zest for problem-solving should be a source of inspiration for every generation, he said. The Prime Minister said the sense of social responsibility shown by the youngsters in the 15-18 age-group in volunteering for COVID-19 vaccination that led to a coverage in excess of 2 crore children in a short span of time, strengthened his belief that India’s youth would be at the forefront of building a vibrant nation and a better world in future. The government had initiated several schemes focused on creating space for the youth to translate their ideas and develop their skills such as MUDRA, Start-Up India, Stand-Up India and the Atal Incubation centres, the Prime Minister said. Drawing from the words of Sri Aurobindo, whose 150th anniversary also coincided with the NYF, that “a brave, frank, clean hearted, courageous and aspiring youth is the only foundation on which the future nation can be built,” Mr. Modi said he believed that the nation’s youth were not only a “demographic dividend” but “drivers of development” and proponents of democratic values. The Prime Minister also gave a call to the youth to espouse a “vocal for local” motto as a fitting tribute to the great sons that the country had produced. Mr. Modi also opened a Technology Centre of the MSME Ministry in Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/modi-exhorts-youth-to-adopt-motto-of-compete-conquer/article64950413.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Blocking of PM’s convoy a conspiracy of Congress’||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Wednesday said the party suspected a conspiracy by the Congress behind the blocking of the Prime Minister’s convey in Punjab. Addressing the media here, he said a preliminary inquiry “supports the conspiracy angle.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blocking-of-pms-convoy-a-conspiracy-of-congress/article38263666.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vivekananda’s teachings will be relevant forever, says Dharmana||Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas has said that Swami Vivekananda’s teachings will continue to inspire future generations also as his philosophy is suitable for mankind forever. In the presence of former minister and TDP leader Gunda Appala Suryanarayana and YSRCP leader Dharmana Rammanohar Naidu, he unveiled the bronze statue of Swami Vivekananda on Wednesday at Surya Mahal Junction of Srikakulam on the occasion of Swami Vivekananda’s 159th birth anniversary. Spreading message He lauded the initiative of Swami Vivekananda Seva Samiti for spreading Vivekananda’s messages in all the towns and mandals of the district. Sarada Ramakrishna Seva Samiti president M. Ramakrishna Rao said that National Youth Week was observed in connection with the birth anniversary. Former CBI Joint Director V.V. Lakshminarayana and former Vice-Chancellor of Ambedkar University Hanumanthu Lajipathi Rai unveiled another Vivekananda’s statue in Gatalavalasa of Meliyaputti mandal of Srikkaulam district. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rai urged youngsters to read biography of Swami Vivekananda and serve the country with patriotic devotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vivekanandas-teachings-will-be-relevant-forever-says-dharmana/article64950433.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala varsity Syndicate backs V-C in D.Litt row||A special meeting of the Syndicate of Kerala University on Wednesday backed Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai in the controversy over the proposal to confer the DLitt on President Ram Nath Kovind. The Syndicate, which endorsed Prof. Pillai’s stance that the proposal had been discussed among its members, albeit informally, cited protocol and legal hurdles as reasons behind the move to turn it down. The meeting also witnessed a section of Syndicate members faulting Governor Arif Mohammed Khan’s handling of the issue. It also bemoaned any attempt made to malign the Vice Chancellor. Syndicate member K.H. Babujan said the informal discussions had decided against conferring the honorary doctorate in view of the age-old policy of the Rashtrapati Bhavan. “The Kerala University does not wish to drag the Rashtrapati Bhavan into an unnecessary controversy by going ahead with the proposal. Such circumstances had led the university to decide against placing the matter before the Syndicate,” Mr. Babujan said. Meanwhile, the Governor denied personally targetting the Vice Chancellor. It was the refusal to obey his directive to call a Syndicate meet to discuss the proposal that he had frowned upon, he told mediapersons..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-varsity-syndicate-backs-v-c-in-dlitt-row/article38263123.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||21,000-km walk for blood donation awareness||Kiran Verma, who runs Simply Blood, a virtual blood donation platform, is on a mission to create awareness of the importance of donating blood. Kiran started his 21,000-km walk across the nation from Thiruvananthapuram on December 28 to create awareness about blood donation so that “nobody should die waiting for blood in India after December 31, 2025.” In December, 2016 Kiran got a call that a poor family from Raipur, Chhattisgarh, needed blood. After donating blood, he went to meet the family. He realised that the man who called him sold the blood to the family for Rs. 1,500 and also that the woman who paid for the blood took to prostitution to pay the medical bills of her husband. This prompted Kiran to start Simply Blood. Several incidents There are many such incidents. “I donated blood to a 14-year-old boy Mayank in June, 2016. He was suffering from cancer. In August, I got a call from his father that Mayank was no more. The day he died he didn’t get a platelet donor. Delhi has about two crore people. Not a single person came forward to donate blood for him,” he says. This walk is meant to be the “longest blood awareness campaign ever by an individual” and will run for over two years. He has covered Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, and Thrissur so far. He will be soon entering Tamil Nadu. “Every day, over 12,000 people fail to get blood in India. More than three million had died waiting for blood. If five million youth start donating blood, there will not be even a single death due to non-availability of blood in India.” Kiran, a social worker based in Delhi, is the founder of Change With One Foundation, under which he runs two programmes — Simply Blood and Change With One Meal. In 2018, Kiran travelled 16,000 km across India, covering more than 6,000 km on foot, raising awareness of blood donation. “Change With One Meal is an initiative in which unlimited meals will be served for Rs. 10 in Delhi. We have served more than 4,00,000 meals in the past one year,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/21000-km-walk-for-blood-donation-awareness/article64950421.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for ‘Vaikunta Ekadasi’ in Tirumala||The hill temple of Sri Venkateswara in Tirumala is fully geared up to meet the heavy rush anticipated for the auspicious ‘Vaikunta Ekadasi’ day on Thursday. It is coinciding with ‘Bhogi’ festival this year as per the almanac. Devotees started arriving on Wednesday to gain entry through the sacred ‘Vaikunta Dwaram’, which would be kept open for 10 days from January 13. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) management made elaborate arrangements for the occasion, considered the first major festival for the Hindus in a calendar year. TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy and Chief Vigilance and Security Officer (CVSO) Gopinath Jatti inspected the Vahana Mandapam, ‘Supadham’ and ‘Vaikuntam’ first and second queue complexes to ensure the arrangements were in place in tune with the COVID-19 guidelines. ‘Follow COVID-19 norms’ Addressing the media, Dr. Jawahar Reddy said all categories of devotees, including VIPs, holders of the Rs. 300 darshan ticket and ‘Sarva Darshan’ devotees had been given time slots to avoid waiting in the queue lines. “All the devotees are requested to have Vaikunta Dwara Darshanam by duly following the COVID-19 norms and cooperate with the management,” Dr. Jawahar Reddy appealed. Similarly, the Health Department officials took up a sanitisation in the areas such as the accommodation counters, Annaprasadam, Kalyanakatta (tonsuring centre), and the laddu counters, where pilgrim gathering was expected to be huge on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-vaikunta-ekadasi-in-tirumala/article64950500.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chief Justice offers prayers at Tirumala||Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Prashant Kumar Mishra, along with his family members, offered prayers at the Sri Venkateswara temple at Tirumala on Wednesday morning. TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, along with the priests, received him at the main entrance and escorted him into the temple. After darshan and ‘Vedasirvachanams’, Mr. Justice Mishra was presented ‘Srivari Theertha Prasadam’ and the TTD’s newly-launched incense sticks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chief-justice-offers-prayers-at-tirumala/article64950498.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘‘Hero’ will be commercial entertainer’||Ashok Galla, a young hero, is all set to set the Tollywood screen on fire this Sankranti with his debut film ‘Hero’. Ashok Galla needs no introduction as his paternal and maternal families have their roots deeply entrenched in the Telugu land. The film is presented by former Minister Galla Arunakumari (his paternal grandmother) and ‘Super Star’ Krishna (maternal grandfather), while the producer is his mother Galla Padmavathi, wife of Member of Parliament Jayadev Galla. Ashok Galla, who attended a pre-release meeting in Tirupati on Wednesday, exuded confidence of making a bright beginning with his maiden venture. “Films have always been a passion for me and I am here today with a lot of hope to leave an indelible mark,” he says. Without revealing the genre and other finer details of the film, he called it a ‘commercial entertainer’ that would turn out to be a festival-eve feast. Director Sriram Aditya said the film would not be inferior to his previous ventures and assured full entertainment to the viewers. Actress Nidhi Agarwal also took part. Ashok’s grandfather and Amara Raja group founder Ramachandra N. Galla, grandmother Galla Arunakumari, aunt G. Ramadevi, father Jayadev Galla and mother Padmavathi Galla were among the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hero-will-be-commercial-entertainer-ashok-galla/article64950517.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP stages protest against price rise||Activists of the TDP staged a demonstration across the State on Tuesday against the rising prices of commodities. In Kadapa district, the party’s politburo member R. Sreenivasa Reddy staged a ‘Maha dharna’ at the Rayachoti Tahsildar’s office and demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy step down, citing his “inability” to keep the prices under control. Breathing fire at the ruling party for having failed on all fronts, he said the State government had nothing to boast of, except for breaking the common man’s back by hiking the prices of most goods and services. “In the name of doling out welfare schemes, the government is taking ten times from the public through higher collections. The government is more bothered about trivial issues like film tickets, but is not evincing interest on issues pertaining to the poor and middle classes. The State is not just in a state of financial mess, but is caught in a debt trap,” Mr. Sreenivasa Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-stages-protest-against-price-rise/article38263645.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports highest daily COVID tally in six months||Continuing to witness a surge in COVID-19 infections daily, the State reported 3,205 fresh cases in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. It was the highest single-day tally in the past six and half months or 194 days since July 3. Contrary to the rising incidence of infections, no death was reported in the State during the past three days. During the week (January 6 to 12), 9,503 infections were reported registering a 500% rise over the 1,527 infections reported in the previous week (December 31 to January 5). The test positivity rate of the 41,954 samples tested in the past day was 7.64%, the highest in seven months (214 days) since June 12, which was just a month after the peak week of the second wave in May last year. Until a week ago, on January 6, the daily positivity rate was around 1%.  The cumulative tally increased to20,87,879while the toll remain at14,505. The active cases tally crossed 10,000 and reached10,119for the first time in 101 days. The number of recoveries increased to20,63,25 with 281 fresh recoveries, while the recovery rate came down to 98.82%. During the past week, 1,226 patients recovered.  Vizag, Chittoor top Visakhapatnam and Chittoor continue to report a spike in infections. Visakhapatnam reported 695 infections, the highest daily tally by a district since June 2021. It was followed by Chittoor with 607 infections. While the two districts reported more than 40% of the fresh cases together, the remaining 11 districts reported not more than 300 fresh cases each. They include East Godavari (274), Srikakulam (268), Guntur (224), Krishna (217), Vizianagaram (212), Nellore (203), Anantapur (160), Kurnool (123), Prakasam (90), West Godavari (90) and Kadapa (42). More than half of the State’s active cases were in Chittoor (2,129), Visakhapatnam (1,967) and Krishna (1,008) districts, while the other districts have only three-digit active case tallies. Bed occupancy According to the Health Department’s bed occupancy report, 203 ICU beds, 556 oxygen beds, 225 general beds, 41 beds with ventilators and two paediatric ICU beds were occupied by COVID patients in the State as of 5 pm, Wednesday. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,95,960), Chittoor (2,50,980), West Godavari (1,80,440), Guntur (1,80,209), Visakhapatnam (1,60,959), Anantapur (1,58,984), Nellore (1,47,881), Prakasam (1,39,089), Kurnool (1,24,531), Srikakulam (1,24,333), Krishna (1,21,725), Kadapa (1,16,200) and Vizianagaram (83,693).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-six-month-highest-daily-covid-tally/article64950503.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police hold traditional games to wean away youth from cockfights||To wean away youth from banned games during Sankranti festival, the police are conducting games and sports in villages in Krishna and the Godavari districts. The police, in association with some locals and some organisations, are conducting rangoli competitions, kite festival and other events. “We request the parents to keep their children away from gambling, cockfights and other vices which will spoil their lives. The police also launched enforcement work in the hamlets to stop cockfights,” said Krishna district Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal. Banners have been erected in villages cautioning the people against organising gambling and cockfights during Sankranti. Besides, awareness meetings were being held against the banned games, the SP said on Wednesday. In West Godavari district, police were conducting basket ball, volleyball, hockey, cricket, kho kho, kabaddi and other sports for the youth. Rangoli and kite festivals have been planned during the three-day festival, said SP Rahul Dev Sharma. “Mahila Police have been pressed into service to collect information on cockfights. Services of Special Enforcement Bureau are being utilized to stop the bloodsport,” the SP said. East Godavari SP M. Ravindranath Babu said banners with slogans ‘Jooda Kreedalu Vaddu – Sampradaya Kreedalu Muddu’ were put up in many villages in the district. Prizes were being distributed to the winners in games and sports. The DSPs, CIs and Station House Officers have been instructed to take steps to prevent cockfights during Sankranti festivities, Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. “Special control rooms and joint action teams will be formed at divisional level to intensify raids in villages. Drones will be used at the police station-level to prevent rooster fights,” Mr. Kaushal said. The Police, Revenue and other department officials will move around villages, book cases against the cockfight organizers, gamblers and punters, who conduct the games, the SP added. “Apart from awareness programmes, banners were put up as per the High Court directions against rooster fights in the villages. Stern action will be taken against those conducting cockfights and gambling on the pretext of Sankranti festivities,” Mr. Sharma warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/games-to-wean-away-ap-youth-from-cockfights/article64950512.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. highlights bifurcation issues at meet with Union Home Secretary||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla convened a meeting of the Chief Secretaries of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to sort out the issues pertaining to the A.P. Reorganization Act-2014, on Wednesday. According to information, Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma highlighted the pending issues such as development of a port at Ramayapatnam instead of at Dugarajapatnam, the Visakhapatnam- Chennai Industrial Corridor, tax concessions due from the Centre, among others. He also explained the issues such as pending dues of the Polavaram project, AP greenfield crude oil refinery and petrochemical complex, Kadapa steel plant, need for development of the Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Tirupati airports as international airports. Mr. Sameer Sharma also put forth the pending issues relating to Schedule IX and X of the A.P. Reorganization Act, 2014. He urged the Central government to take necessary steps regarding AP Heavy Machinery Engineering Limited, a subsidiary of the Singareni Collieries. Refund of tax dues as per Section 50 and 51 of the Act and division of AP Bhavan in New Delhi were some of the other issues he wanted the Central Government to address. Both the Chief Secretaries discussed subjects that were not listed in any of the sections of the Reorganization Act. The issues included division of cash balance, bank deposits, dues from Discoms of Telangana to A.P., among others. Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar stated that the total dues to be received from A.P. was to the tune of Rs. 12,111 crore. Moreover, the AP utilities had filed a case in the High Court, and the Telangana government was firm that the case be withdrawn so that the amounts could be settled. The A.P. government had said the dues payable by TS-Genco to its power utilities were Rs. 3,442 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-highlights-bifurcation-issues-at-meet-with-union-home-secretary/article64950495.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two Rajasthanis arrested for duping city man online||Two persons were arrested by the city police for allegedly duping a footwear shop owner to a tune of Rs. 78 lakh on the pretext of business opportunity. According to the police, the victim Dinesh, who owns a footwear shop in Hanuman Pet, received a friend request from a person on a social networking portal with the name 'Evie Leo', who reportedly befriended Dinesh and later made a business proposal of selling 'Mongogo nuts' from Africa. Dinesh was reportedly told Mongogo nuts had a great demand in the international market and their partner quit due to financial issues. They wanted Dinesh to replace the partner who quit, the police said. The fraudsters reportedly made Dinesh 'invest' Rs. 78 lakh on various occasions for the business over a period of time. Dinesh approached cybercrime police upon realising that he had been cheated. The city police who traced the accused to Rajasthan arrested Satish Sharma, 42, and Krishna Sharma,35, of Udaipur. They were produced before a court and were sent to judicial remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-rajasthanis-arrested-for-duping-city-man-online/article38263750.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Atmakur violence: BJP urges Governor to ensure communal harmony in State||A delegation of the BJP, led by its State president Somu Veerraju, met Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan at the Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday, and appealed to him to ensure that communal harmony prevailed in Andhra Pradesh by directing that a ban be imposed on the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), which was “posing a threat to peace in the State.” The BJP leaders also requested the Governor to direct the police to book all those involved in rioting and arson at Atmakur, and provide security to those fighting against the atrocities. In a memorandum submitted to the Governor, Mr. Veerraju said that in the incident that had taken place at Atmakur on January 8, a violent mob, allegedly comprising hundreds of anti-social elements, attacked B. Srikanth Reddy, the BJP president for Nandyal Parliamentary constituency, when he was peacefully protesting against the “illegal construction of a mosque” in an area dominated by the Hindus. More than a year ago, the Hindus had objected to the construction of the mosque, following which the administration had stopped it, Mr. Veerraju said. But, with the support of the local YSRCP MLA, a fresh attempt had been made to construct the mosque in a short time, the BJP leader alleged. On knowing about it, Mr. Reddy had reached the construction site along with a few journalists, and the miscreants allegedly attacked them with weapons, the BJP leader alleged. “Sensing danger, Mr. Srikanth Reddy had rushed to the nearest police station in his car. But the mob had chased and attacked him in the police station,” Mr. Veerraju alleged in the memorandum. Thought the police had confirmed the involvement of radical Muslim outfits such as the SDPI, and arrested a few of them, they later registered false cases against the BJP leaders, and framed charges against Mr. Srikanth Reddy under IPC Sec. 307 (attempt to murder), he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atmakur-violence-bjp-urges-governor-to-ensure-communal-harmony-in-state/article64950499.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||People heading to hometowns for festival throng PNBS||Spurt in cases of Omicron variant of the COVID-19 pandemic notwithstanding, people in large numbers are travelling to their hometowns to be with their family and friends during the Sankranti festivities. Life seems to have returned to the Pandit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS), the main bus station of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC), after it witnessed almost a deserted look for a prolonged period owing to the rising number of infections. The virus scare has certainly had its impact on people’s preferences in their mode of transport. While the middle and the upper classes mostly choose to travel by private vehicles, the lower sections rely on the public transport. Cashing in on the festival mood, the APSRTC is operating more than 6,000 special buses to cater to the commuting needs of the public. The corporation is running these buses before, during and after the festival. The Private bus operators, who have been crying foul over the huge revenue losses incurred by them during the pandemic, are trying to make hay when the festival sun shines. Most operators have increased the bus ticket fares by almost 150 %. Ask them about the steep hike and they cite the case of APSRTC collecting additional charges in the special buses it is operating. Sankranthi is the time for collective fun and people don’t mind spending extra money to be with their near and dear ones during the celebrations. “It is a win-win situation. They get the comfort they seek in the travel and we make some extra money during the season,” said a private bus operator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-heading-to-hometowns-for-festival-throng-pnbs/article64950513.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC officials warn people against fake job promises||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation authorities have cautioned people against a trickster on the prowl. In a statement on Wednesday, the authorities said it was brought to their notice that a person named Naveen Kumar had been allegedly cheating unemployed persons by promising them jobs in the APSRTC and by issuing fake appointment orders to them through websites apsrtcmadanapalli@gmail.com and apsrtcvijayawada3@gmail.com he reportedly created for the purpose. He sent mails to unemployed persons saying that the APSRTC’s main office in Vijayawada had called for applications for vacant posts in Madanapalle bus station and Palamaner depot, and allegedly demanded money for appointment as a regular employee. His mails carried the names of the corporation Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao and Chairman Mallikarjuna Reddy. The statement said that the APSRTC had nothing to do with Naveen Kumar and that he was operating from fake mail IDs. It said that since the RTC employees were merged in the government on January 1 in 2020, any appointment would have to be made with the government permission and through a notification published in a newspaper. A police complaint had been lodged against the person and a hunt was on to nab him, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-officials-warn-people-against-fake-job-promises/article38263749.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to continue fight against three capitals||Amaravati Joint Action Committee (JAC) and Farmers’ Joint Action Committee have jointly brought out a calendar for the year 2022. The calendar depicts different stages of Amaravati agitation against the State government’s decision to have three capitals with Visakhapatnam as the executive capital. On the occasion, Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi leaders leaders called upon the people to continue their struggle against the three capitals proposal. The government, instead of allotting already finished houses to the beneficiaries, was resorting to real estate business. To keep the agitation alive and create awareness among the people, the calendar should be displayed in every house, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-continue-fight-against-three-capitals/article38263169.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers’ body opposes 23% fitment||The State executive body of the Andhra Pradesh United Teachers’ Federation has urged government employees, teachers and pensioners to wage a united and relentless fight to oppose 23% fitment allowance being offered by the State government. In a statement on Wednesday, federation’s State president N. Venkateswarlu and general secretary K. S. S. Prasad said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had gone back on his promise given to the employees on PRC. Loss to retirees They said instead of implementing the pay revision from July 1 in 2018, the government proposed to pay monetary benefit from April 1, 2020, because of which employees who retired between July in 2018 and April 2020 stand to lose money. The leaders said it was unfortunate that the government was resorting to manipulative tactics. It was trying to take the employees for a ride by projecting the five pending DA installments as PRC. They also demanded that the government spell out its stand on the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and not while away precious time any more. They said the employees would be forced to adopt the confrontationist path if the government failed to heed to their fair demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-body-opposes-23-fitment/article38263179.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Private operators warned||Ahead of the Sankranthi festival, the Transport Department has handed out a stern warning to private contract carriage operators against violation of the rule book. In a statement on Wednesday, Transport Commissioner P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said following instructions from Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah, District Transport Commissioners and Regional Transport Officers had been asked to carry out a special drive to check violations by private operators such as collecting excess fares from passengers, running the vehicle without paying the tax, permit or fitness certificate. He said focus would be on border check posts like Garikapadu and Panchalingala. He advised the private bus operators to strictly adhere to COVID protocol to ensure safety of the passengers. He said should there be any violation on the part of the bus operators, the public could reach out to the department by sending their complaints to the WhatsApp no. 9154294722.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/private-operators-warned/article38263176.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Question Jagan on promised SCS, jobs, Naidu tells youth||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has slammed the YSRCP government for cheating the youth by not fulfilling the promises it made to them in the run-up to the elections. Speaking after garlanding the portrait of Swami Vivekananda on his birth anniversary on Wednesday, which was also observed as National Youth Day, Mr. Naidu said the youth should demand an explanation from Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on his pre-poll statement that jobs and work opportunities could be created only with Special Category Status (SCS) for the State. The youth should ask the Chief Minister on what happened to the SCS and the jobs that he had promised, Mr. Naidu said. Suicides “The thoughtless policies of the YSRCP government are destroying the future of the youth. The unemployment rate is increasing rapidly. About 358 unemployed youths had committed suicide after losing hope of landing the jobs promised,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/question-jagan-on-promised-scs-jobs-naidu-tells-youth/article38263662.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panels reconstituted||The State has reconstituted the district and sub-district level committees for the Implementation of Pre-conception and Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act, 1994 and Rules 1996. In a G.O. issued by the Health Department, the District Level Multi-Member Appropriate Authorities will have a Joint Collector as chairperson and District Medical and Health Officer as convener or member-secretary, and additional district judge, Superintendent of Police and an NGO nominated by the Collector as members. The district committees can grant, suspend or cancel the registration of genetic counselling centres, genetic labs or genetic clinics. The sub-district committees will have the Revenue Divisional Officer as a chairperson, programme officer in DMHO office as convener and legal expert, police representative and NGO as members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panels-reconstituted/article38263172.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sankranti holidays from today||The State government has revised the Sankranti festival holidays schedule. In G.O. 58, the government has declared the holidays from January 13 to 15 for Bhogi, Makara Sankranti and Kanuma. Earlier, the government, in its annual calendar, had declared the holidays from January 14 to 16. January 16, being a Sunday, is anyway a holiday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sankranti-holidays-from-today/article38263663.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. High Court to function virtually from January 17||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has resolved to function in the virtual mode from January 17 until further orders due to the alarming rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, according to a notification issued by the Registrar General. Cases in the cause list will be heard virtually, and the number of cases to be listed before each Bench will be decided by the respective Benches. Offices under the administrative control of the High Court will also be functioning in the virtual mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-high-court-to-function-virtually-from-january-17/article38263651.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC departmental tests from March 4||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has informed that the departmental tests pertaining to the November 2021 session are scheduled to be held from March 4 to 9 at all the district centres of the State. In a statement on Wednesday, commission Secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said 87,763 candidates had applied for the tests. “A detailed time- table is available on the commission’s website https://psc.ap.gov.in,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appsc-departmental-tests-from-march-4/article38263654.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Administrator-General for HC appointed||The State government has appointed Janardhana Reddy Ponaka as Administrator-General and Official Trustee for Andhra Pradesh High Court. Mr. Ponaka is the son of the late Subba Reddy.Secretary, Legal and Legislative Affairs and Justice, Law Department, V. Sunitha released orders to this effect on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/administrator-general-for-hc-appointed/article38263655.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sankranti homecoming fills bogies of city-bound trains||All the regular trains coming to Visakhapatnam from Hyderabad, Bengaluru are fully booked ahead of Sankranti. There is also high demand for dedicated overnight trains from Chennai to Visakhapatnam, but the existing overnight train was converted into a day train, forcing passengers to sit through the 780-km journey. A large number of people from Visakhapatnam region, especially those employed in the IT sector, are living in Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai. Many families normally return to Vizag during weekends and holidays, and most of them make it a point to return home for Sankranti. It may be recalled that a special weekly train, run by the South Western Railway (SWR) on a regular basis from Visakhapatnam to Yeswantapur (Bengaluru), in the past on the demand from Telugu people, was an overwhelming success. The train no. 06579/80 was withdrawn in November 2018 despite the huge demand, and the previous Railway Minister had promised in Parliament to revive it but the pandemic came in handy for the authorities to delay its revival. A special train has been announced from Visakhapatnam to Bengaluru by the East Coast Railway (E Co R) for those returning to Bengaluru after the festival. While the SWR is ready to operate a special train from Bengaluru to Visakhapatnam, South Central Railway (SCR), through which this train has to run for more than half the distance, is said to have not given the slot, on the plea of path constraints and platform availability en route, according to sources. The special train announced by E Co R from Visakhapatnam to Yelahanka (Bengaluru) is getting good response. There are no vacant berths in the regular trains 18464 Prasanthi and 12864 Yeswantpur-Howrah, between Bengaluru and Visakhapatnam, on January 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. Both trains have a huge wait list. The regular trains between Hyderabad to Visakhapatnam like Janmabhoomi, Garibrath, Godavari,Visakha and Kacheguda are fully booked in all classes on January 12, 13 and 14 and in Sleeper Class on January 15 and 16 also. The regular trains from Visakhapatnam to Howrah are also fully booked on January 12 and 13. A comparison between various modes of transport between Visakhapatnam and Bengaluru shows that the starting fares of trains are the lowest compared to other modes. Public and various rail forums demand introduction of more trains from Visakhapatnam to Benguluru, Chennai, Hyderabad and Howrah on a regular basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sankranti-homecoming-fills-bogies-of-city-bound-trains/article38263764.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID cases triple in last two days in the district||The district has been seeing a rapid increase in the number of daily COVID-19 cases and in just two days, the day count has tripled. The number of cases recorded on January 10 was 151 and on Wednesday morning (January 12) the day count was 695. On December 27, the number of cases recorded was just 7 and the active cases were 121. Since then, the district has recorded 2,129 cases in just 15 days and the active cases have gone up to 1,926, as on Wednesday morning. The district also recorded five deaths, during this same period. “This is a clear indication that the third wave is on us and the crucial period would be from January 20 to the first week of February when the cases would peak,” said a senior doctor from King George Hospital. According to the former Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, the cases would see a steep rise post January 20, immediately after the Sankranti festivities. Experts from the medical field say that since the government has not imposed any kind of restrictions, keeping the festival in mind, people have let their guard down and shopping is at its peak. Every mall or shop is bursting at its seams and since the virus is highly transmissible, we can expect a peak post the festival, said a senior doctor from King George Hospital. ‘No clarity on variant’ “As very few samples are being sent for genome sequencing, we cannot say if the virus circulating now is Omicron or Delta,” said senior microbiologist from GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Hema Prakash. But whatever may be the variant, the spread is rapid, as it is highly transmissible, but the good sign is that most of the cases so far are milder than what we have seen during the second wave, she said. Analysing the wave pattern, Dr. Hema said during the first wave the spread was gradual and infections were of moderate nature and during the second wave the infections peaked for about 40 to 50 days and the severity was high. There is a prediction that the third wave would peak and sustain for about 20 to 25 days, and the transmissible rate would be all time high, but the severity would be milder, she said. Meanwhile, with 695 new cases, the total count in the district has gone up to 1,61,469. During the last 24 hours , 24 persons undergoing treatment have recovered, taking the total recoveries to 1,58,390. No deaths were recorded, keeping the count at 1,112 and active cases have gone up to 1,967.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-cases-triple-in-visakhapatnam/article64950429.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lack of staff, defunct boats make Coastal Security Police ineffective||A few days ago, five fishing boats belonging to two fishing communities were torched in the sea, barely about 100 metres from the coast, by the members of the communities after they clashed over the use of ring seines or ring nets, near Vasavanipalem, a fishing hamlet by the coast near the city. Eight persons from the communities were injured in the clash and the incident shook the peaceful fabric of the city. City Police, Coastal Security Police (CSP) and the Indian Coast Guard had to move into action to resolve the issue. But the question that arises after the incident is whether the damage could have been minimised, and many senior police officers say that its intensity and scale of rioting could have been minimised, if the CSP was empowered to its desired vision. The CSP personnel couldn’t do much during the clash as they lacked the teeth to take control of the situation on sea and had to wait till the Indian Coast Guard could come and intervene. “We want to do, but we lack the support and infrastructure,” said an officer in the CSP.The CSP was formally set up in Andhra Pradesh and across all coastal States based on an order from the Union Government, post the Mumbai attack in 2008. However, there was a shortcoming in every department and much needed to be done, if the vision to make it an elite force was to be realised, said experts. The idea was to have a three-tier security system with the Navy and the Indian Coast Guard forming the first and second tiers. In Andhra Pradesh, the CSP has a jurisdiction of 12 nautical miles from the coast and 500 metres inside the coast. The Centre had sanctioned funds for building 21 police stations and acquiring 18 fast interceptor boats (FIBs) in two phases from 2006. “But today, the police stations are existent but they are understaffed by at least 60% and many of them who are posted are either on the verge of retirement or are on punishment transfer, without any motivation,” said a senior officer, who has retired from CSP as an Additional DG. All the 18 boats are presently lying defunct and though there are police stations along the coast there are no jetties built close by. All the FIBs are not in working condition, as the annual maintenance contract expired years ago. “Though the boats are supplied by the Union Government, their maintenance, including fuel supply, is the State’s responsibility and the State has no funds to cater to the need,” said another officer, who is presently serving in the police wing. The Centre has also sanctioned about Rs. 3.5 crore for building jetties, but it was insufficient and the State government did not want to chip in. Even arms and communication equipment are in shortfall,” he said. Training Though some former senior officers, including those in the rank of DGPs, had earlier stated that the CSP needed to be made a strike force such as the Greyhounds, keeping in view the threats from the sea side, very little has been done so far. Even the proposed training facility at Machilipatnam was shelved after land was identified and sanctioned. The force was not trained for seafaring and still had to depend on ICG, it is said. “To give a fillip to the force, there should be separate recruitment or at least young recruits should be made to work for a year to two on deputation, the arms should be procured and the force trained to be seafarers. The boats should be repaired and made functional and at least five new police stations with jetties should be built and the 12 new FIBs that had been sanctioned in the third phase should be procured,” said a senior officer. “We have the second longest coastline of 974 km after Gujarat and we need to take a leaf from Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, on how effectively they are managing their CSP. The CSP should be brought up at least to act as a deterrent,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lack-of-staff-defunct-boats-make-coastal-security-police-ineffective/article64950505.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gear up to fight COVID surge, Collector tells nodal officers||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has directed the COVID nodal officers concerned to be prepared with the tasks assigned to them in view of the rising number of cases in the district. In a review meeting here on Wednesday, he asked the officials concerned to personally monitor the work in view of the pandemic situation. He advised the officials on duty to wear double masks and all self-protection measures while attending to patients. The Collector reviewed the functioning of various committees. He directed the Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC) and Superintendent of King George Hospital (KGH) to ensure the availability of required medical equipment at the hospital. He asked the AMC Principal to issue orders to the staff of the testing centres to work in three shifts. Joint Collector P. Arun Babu and ITDA Project Officer Ronanki Gopalakrishna, COVID nodal officers and MPDO s were present. Important phone numbers COVID Testings 0891 - 2501255, 2501256, 2501257 Hospital Admissions 0891 - 2501271, 2501272 104 call centre Nodal officer Dr Jeevan:-9849112471 Hospital admissions in-charge ED, BC Corporation 9849906006||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gear-up-to-fight-covid-surge-collector-tells-nodal-officers/article38263752.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Post office upgraded at Arilova||The existing Branch Post Office at Arilova was upgraded into a Departmental Sub Post Office in tune with the demands of residents of the area. Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, who attended the function as chief guest, inaugurated the new Departmental Sub Post Office. He appreciated the services provided by the Department of Post, especially during the pandemic times. Presiding over the programme, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Visakhapatnam Division, N. Soma Sekhara Rao, explained about various add on services being provided by the Department like Citizen Centric Services, Aadhaar services and DLC ( Digital Life Certificates). Superintendent of Post Offices, Anakapalle Division, J. Prasad Babu, Superintendent of RMS K.Sriramulu, Assistant Director, Post Master General Office, W. Adityakumar, Senior Accounts Officer P. Satyamraju and the Senior IPPB Manager T. Prasanth were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/post-office-upgraded-at-arilova/article38263763.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||National Youth Day celebrated||Patriotic and devotional songs and other cultural programmes marked National Youth Day, which was celebrated by Ramakrishna Mission Ashram, on the occasion of birth anniversary of Swamy Vivekananda, here on Wednesday. Children from the Ramakrishna Mission School participated. Speaking on the occasion, former Rector of Andhra University A. Prasanna Kumar, who attended the programme as the chief guest, said that Swami Vivekananda gave much importance to the education of youth and women. Indian poet Ravindranath Tagore used to tell that if you need to know about India, then read books written by Swami Vivekananda, said Secretary of Rama Krishna Mission, Atmavidananda . Vice-Chancellor, Centurion University G.S.N. Raju and CMD of SR Infrastructures M. Satyanarayana Raju also spoke. Members of NSS Unit, St. Joseph College for Women, celebrated National Youth Day. Programme officer K. Manikya Kumari along with the student volunteers offered floral tributes to Swami Vivekananda’s statue on Beach Road. Students were explained about the importance of the day and various government programmes specially planned for the youth. Various literary and cultural competitions were conducted on youth-centric topics in the college. The district administration also celebrated National Youth Day at the Collector’s office here on Wednesday. Joint Collector P. Arun Babu and a few other officials paid floral tributes to the portrait of Swami Vivekananda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/national-youth-day-celebrated/article64950425.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division earns Rs. 13.20 crore through e-auction of scrap in a day||The Materials Management Department of the Waltair Railway Division has earned a record revenue of Rs. 13.20 crore, through e-auction of scrap, in a single day on Wednesday. This is the highest ever single-day auction record by the Waltair Division so far. Similarly, the Division has earned Rs. 89.13 crore (including today’s sale) through the sale of scrap in the first nine months of the present fiscal year. The record could be achieved due to innovative initiatives taken by Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy and the efforts of Senior Divisional Materials Manager K.B. Tirupathaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waltair-division-earns-rs-1320-crore-through-e-auction-of-scrap-in-a-day/article38263760.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Do not light Bhogi fires on BT roads: Lakshmisha||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Lakshmisha appealed to the citizens not to light Bhogi fires on BT roads as part of Sankranti festival. He said that the fire can create holes and further cause trouble to motorists. He also urged people to use cow dung cakes in the fire instead of any plastic or rubber tyres. The Commissioner also sought people to cooperate with the sanitary staff while cleaning. The GVMC also encouraging people to celebrate Sankranti festival in their homes avoiding public gatherings amid increase in COVID-19 cases, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-light-bhogi-fires-on-bt-roads-lakshmisha/article38263759.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police officials visit Maoist-affected villages||Additional Superintendent of Police, Paderu, P. Jagadish, and Sub-Inspector of Pedabayulu Police Station, Manoj Kumar, visited several Maoist-affected villages in Injari and Bongaram Panchayats of Pedabayulu mandal in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. The police officers interacted with the villagers and created awareness on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. They urged the tribals to wear masks without fail, when they attend weekly shandies and asked them to approach government hospitals in case of any health issue without neglecting it. Interacting with the local youth, they asked them to study well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/go-to-govt-hospitals-in-case-of-health-problems/article38263684.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP unions threaten strike on wage hike||Representatives of all party trade unions of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) have warned the plant management of a strike, if it does not give up its adamant attitude on implementation of the wage hike for steel workers. A dharna was held by all party trade unions at the Balacheruvu Gate on Wednesday in protest against the ‘lack of commitment’ on the part of the VSP management on the issue. The union leaders said that in the last nine months, workers, officers and contract workers have made joint efforts and the result was VSP achieved a turnover of about Rs. 19,370 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-party-unions-threaten-strike-on-wage-hike/article38263746.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||YHAI organises heritage walk in city||A heritage walk was organised by the Youth Hostels Association of India (YHAI) State branch in the Old Town area here on Wednesday. The event was organised on the directions of the YHAI to all State branches to organise such walks to mark National Youth Day celebrations being organised all over the country as part of the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda. The participants went round the Old Town Hall, Kurupam Market, European Cemetery, Queen Victoria pavilion, St. John’s Church, Queen Mary’s School, Ishaq Madeena Dargah, St. Aloysius School and the Light House. They learnt about the historical importance of the heritage structures and took pictures. YHAI AP chairman B. Umamaheswara Rao, honorary secretary and national vice-president Ch. Ravi Paul, were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yhai-organises-heritage-walk-in-city/article38263754.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sekhar Babu elected chairman of SIRC of ICSI||A. V. V. S. S. Ch. B. Sekhar Babu has been elected chairman of Southern India Regional Council of Institute of Company secretaries of India (ICSI). He will take charge on January 19 in Chennai. He is first from the city of Visakhapatnam to get the post. Earlier, he had served as the chairman of the Visakhapatnam chapter of the Southern India Regional Council during 2012-2013, and was the vice-chairman of SIRC in 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sekhar-babu-elected-chairman-of-sirc-of-icsi/article38263753.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||89 cases booked against private bus operators||The Transport Department has conducted special drives on stage carriers (private buses) during the past five days, booked 89 cases on them for violation of rules and levied fines to the tune of Rs. 1.80 lakh. Special drives Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam said in the statement on Wednesday that special teams were formed and the drives were conducted from January 8. The violations pertain to carrying of goods and other offences. Fare hike He warned of strict action against private operators, including seizure of the buses, if they hike the fares to cash in on the festival rush. He called upon the public to inform the Transport Department, if the private operators increase the fares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/89-cases-booked-against-private-bus-operators/article38263682.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Do not allow visitors without masks to tourist spots’||Project Officer of Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Paderu, R. Gopala Krishna, has instructed the tahsildars, mandal parishad development officers (MPDOs) to conduct regular checks at tourist spots in Visakha Agency such as Araku, Paderu, Chintapalle and other areas and ensure that COVID-19 protocols are strictly followed. He has asked them not to allow any tourists into the locations, if they do not wear masks. He conducted a virtual meeting with all health officers, medical superintendents, tahsildars and other officials under the ITDA purview from his Office at Paderu, on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-allow-visitors-without-masks-to-tourist-spots/article38263758.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||(Minor fire at VSP)||A minor fire occurred in the conveyor system at the coke oven in Visakhapatnam Steel Plant on Wednesday afternoon. According to the officials in VSP, one contract worker received minors burns on the hand and he was treated and discharged from the VSP’s hospital by evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minor-fire-at-vsp/article38263648.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. notifies rules for AP Mahila Police wing||The State government has notified Andhra Pradesh Mahila Police (Subordinate Service) Rules, 2021, facilitating the creation of separate women police cadre under the Police Department. The special uniformed (khaki) women wing consists of inspectors (non-gazetted), sub-inspectors, assistant sub-inspectors, senior Mahila police and Mahila police personnel, according to a G.O. issued by the Home Department on Wednesday. Apart from the khaki uniform, all the Mahila Police personnel will wear the Mahila Police emblem on the dress as well as the beret cap. Ninety per cent of the cadre will be recruited directly by the police recruitment board and 5% will be selected from among eligible home guards and the remaining 5% picked up from eligible village and ward volunteers. The Mahila inspectors and sub-inspectors will report to Additional SP (Admin) and DSP or ACP respectively while ASI will report to circle inspector and senior Mahila police, and Mahila police will report to the station house officer concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-notifies-rules-for-ap-mahila-police-wing/article38263748.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Caught unawares||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/caught-unawares/article64950524.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||The colours of Sankranti||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-colours-of-sankranti/article64950515.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two thieves arrested||The Jangareddygudem police on Wednesday arrested two notorious thieves, S. Nagendra Babu alias Nagendra and K. Babu Rao, and recovered 406 gm of gold ornaments, two motorcycles and other electronic equipment, all worth about Rs. 23 lakh, said Superintendent of Police, Rahul Dev Sharma. The accused, both natives of Usarlagudem village in Aswaraopeta mandal of Telangana, were allegedly involved in about 25 offences in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-thieves-arrested/article38263180.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:39 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Floral fest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/floral-fest/article64950414.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-fervour/article64950431.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:04 IST,TELANGANA||KCR writes to PM on faulty agri policies||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing dismay that contrary to the Centre’s policy of doubling farmers’ income, the input costs of agriculture had doubled in the last five years and the income of farmers declined causing them distress. He recalled it was in February 2016 that the Centre had announced it will double the farmers’ income in six years by 2022 but after five years, no specific or structured programme had been initiated in that direction. Mr. Rao brought to Mr. Modi’s notice that the Centre had turned a blind eye to the increasing prices of fertilizers in the last six years while encouraging States to take up campaigns to reduce Urea and Di-Ammonium Phosphate consumption. It was sad to note that the prices of two most consumed fertilizers 28.28.0 and Muriate of Potash had increased by more than 50% and 100% respectively in the last 90 days itself. The Centre instead of bearing the increasing import costs of raw materials and maintaining the prices of fertilizers at an affordable level, chose to pass on the burden to farmers. The fuel consumption in agriculture sector had increased manifold due to promotion of farm mechanisation. Even in the case of petrol and diesel prices, indiscriminate imposition of cess across the board despite no increase in import price of crude oil had added great distress to farmers. The farmers bore the brunt due to faulty policies of the Centre in both petrol and diesel pricing and fertilizer pricing. These steps caused anxiety to farmers as the seven decade old fertilizer subsidy regime under the purview of Centre was modified against their interests. The Centre had also not responded to the resolution passed by Telangana Assembly seeking integration of the National Rural Employment Guarantee programme with agriculture so that the cost of labour was partially borne by governments along with farmers. Mr. Rao also said that the claim of the Centre that the minimum support price was pegged at 150% of costs of crop was misleading. Apart from announcing MSP and procuring small quantities of crop, the Centre had no reliable mechanism of ensuring price guarantee to farmers for their produce. Farmers were denied MSP and compelled to sell at lower prices, thereby making agriculture non-remunerative. By raising fertilizer prices, increasing fuel prices and faulty fixation of MSP prices, the Centre was not only contributing to increase the cost of cultivation but defaulted on the promise of doubling farmers’ income. These policies coupled with the threat of proposed reforms in agriculture electricity distribution sector by fixing power consumption meters caused great deal of anxiety to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-writes-to-pm-on-faulty-agri-policies/article64950618.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:03 IST,TELANGANA||In 11 days, 62,711 fined for not wearing masks||Within eleven days from the beginning of this New year, Telangana police have slapped 62,711 e-challans on people not wearing masks. With the Telangana High Court recently passing a slew of instructions, including enforcement of compulsory wearing of mask by every person moving at public places, police stepped up the surveillance. Fine amount Out of these 62,711 challans nearly 14,000 had already paid the fines online.  “With the imposition of one thousand rupees fine for every violation, we already received over 14 lakh rupees in the form of fines online,” a police officer told The Hindu . These e-challans were issued in two modes.  In the jurisdiction of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda police commissionerates, e-challans were imposed using the camera surveillance systems. Based on the video footage, persons riding two-wheelers without wearing masks were identified. Challans were sent to the vehicle owners for violation of the rules relating to not wearing masks under the provisions of Disaster Management Act. “This is similar to imposing challans online for traffic rule violations identified through footage of video cameras,” the police officer said. In the districts, the field-level police officers clicked pictures of the violators using the tabs given to them by the government. Mulugu the lowest Hyderabad police commissionerate got the top spot with highest violations (16,569) of not wearing masks, while the lowest was recorded in Mulugu (222) district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/62711-people-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-in-11-days/article64950627.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||AIMIM hopes to create Muslim leadership in U.P.||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen threw itself into the fray in the election-bound State of Uttar Pradesh and has organised dozens of rallies and public meetings. The party has emphasised the importance of Muslim leadership in that State and underscored the socio-economic and political conditions of the minorities. Muslims in Uttar Pradesh constitute approximately 20% of the total population. In a recent public meeting in U.P., AIMIM party president Asaduddin Owaisi said, "It is our objective to create a Muslim leadership. and at the same time see to it that the BJP does not come to power and that Yogi Adityanath does not become the Chief Minister again." While urging people to vote for his party's candidates, he said that the AIMIM would work with the people of Uttar Pradesh. He also stated that it is time for people of that State to come forward and become leaders and that he would stand behind them. He said that if the minorities want to remain politically relevant, they will have to discard political secularism, and at the same time pointed out that secularism as promised by the Constitution is needed. He criticised the Congress, Bharatiya Janta Party and the Samajwadi Party for their approach towards Muslims and handling their issues.  Speaking to The Hindu , a party functionary said that the AIMIM is working in areas with a substantial population of Muslims. Additionally, a strong booth-level presence in Uttar Pradesh is also a contributing factor. Rampur, Balrampur, Asmoli, and Moradabad are constituencies where the party is likely to field candidates.  "In the last three or four months, there have been over 50 rallies, public meetings and interactions with people. In the previous UP elections in 2017, the party contested over 35 seats," said a party functionary. While it was reported that the party is likely to contest 100 seats, a clearer picture would emerge when the first list of candidates is released. Mr Owaisi has also sought to rely on data and its interpretation as done by the Centre for Development Policy and Practice (CDPP) to state that Muslims in Uttar Pradesh have not been appeased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mim-to-create-up-muslim-leadership/article38263464.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:05 IST,TELANGANA||Withdraw all court cases: TS to AP||The Telangana government has taken a serious note of the court cases filed by Andhra Pradesh government seeking resolution of pending bilateral issues between the two States and asserted that further progress could not be made as the cases were not withdrawn. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, who participated in a virtual meeting convened by Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Wednesday, recalled how the Andhra Pradesh government took to legal recourse on the disputes pertaining to division of Schedule IX and X institutions between the two States. These included resumption of 5,000 acre land allotted to Deccan Infrastructure Land Holdings Limited by Telangana government in 2015 as conditions of allotment were violated as was the case with 250 acre land allotted to the erstwhile AP State Finance Corporation.Recalling that the Centre had issued orders related to AP State Council of Higher Education on the directions of the Supreme Court, he said that the same was applicable to all the Schedule X institutions. However, the AP government had questioned the very order issued by the Centre and filed a writ petition in the High Court. “The whole issue of bifurcation of Schedule IX and Schedule X institutions is pending because of these court cases filed by the AP government. The government of Telangana has taken a stand that unless court cases are withdrawn, further progress on the bifurcation of Schedule IX and Schedule X institutions cannot be made,” Mr. Kumar said. With respect to apportionment of tax arrears and refund under Sections 50, 51 and 56 of the Reorganisation Act and apportionment of institutions not listed anywhere in the Act, the State said it was firm that there was no need for taking up amendment of AP Reorganisation Act after seven and a half years. “This would open endless litigations and further complicate the settled matters,” Mr. Kumar said, adding that the AP government had said in the meeting that in case an amendment was not feasible, the Centre could compensate the loss.The Telangana government had made a strong demand that dues from Andhra Pradesh and the Centre should be settled immediately and payment be made when the issue of division of cash balance and bank deposits came up during the discussion. The State asserted that Rs. 495 crore pertaining to Central schemes was due to Telangana for more than seven years. Similarly, dues to the tune of Rs. 315 crore by AP government towards the amount spent on common institutions like High Court, and Raj Bhavan, were not released yet.“Even the monies that are accepted such as the share of buildings under constructions, welfare fund of Rs. 456 crore and resumption of net credit forward of Rs. 208 crore is also not paid,” the Chief Secretary said. Responding to the request, the Union Home Secretary suggested that two nodal officers be appointed to look into division of cash balances. Telangana had accordingly nominated Finance department special chief secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao and his AP counterpart Rawat was nominated by the neighbouring State government for single point contact in this direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/withdraw-all-court-cases-ts-to-ap/article38263482.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||Medicos concerned, but calm over COVID cluster||Clusters of COVID-19 cases among doctors and healthcare staff used to cause alarm during the first and second waves of the pandemic. Demands were made for better precautionary measures and robust testing. Even letters were shot off to higher authorities underscoring those demands. But this time round, with 115 medicos and doctors at Gandhi Medical College and Osmania Medical College testing COVID-positive by Tuesday night, the level of anxiety and fear seems faint. Citing high transmissibility of Omicron variant, the junior and senior doctors said that they had anticipated cases to be widespread among them. Their only request is that people maintain precautions so that the healthcare system is not burdened, again. Such a situation would hamper COVID as well as non-COVID medical services. Call for caution While infection with Omicron has been mild, senior doctors from government hospitals have called for caution as long term effects and impact on people of various age groups is still unknown. “No one expected Mucromycosis to be detected among COVID-recovered persons during the second wave. We continue to see how it can leave people devastated. We don’t know what impact Omicron will have in the long run. So it is better that all of us continue to take precautions,” said a senior doctor at Osmania General Hospital. The fear about them spreading the infection to their family members, however, plays on their mind. Assurance was sought from authorities that their family members testing positive will be taken care of. Another senior doctor said maintaining precautions helps people keep themselves safe to avoid possible hospitalisation. This helps brings down the risk to healthcare workers too. “If a doctor contracts COVID and isolates for seven days, it increases the time a patient has to wait for medical consultation or treatment. People have to take all precautions for their safety and for the larger cause of not causing discomfort to people who visit hospitals,” said another senior doctor. As the infections surge, more doctors and health staff would be dedicated to attending COVID patients. This would impact non-COVID services too, in terms of extended waiting time for doctor consultation, undergoing diagnosis tests and receiving treatment. Junior doctors at Gandhi Hospital point out that the tertiary care centre was turned into a COVID-exclusive facility twice in the past two years. “Thousands rely on our hospital for non-COVID services. Besides, if Gandhi Hospital is again turned into COVID facility, our academics will be impacted,” said a junior doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medicos-concerned-but-calm-over-covid-cluster/article64950635.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:05 IST,TELANGANA||TPCC to insure its members with Rs. 2 lakh coverage||Every Congress member will now be covered with an accidental insurance of Rs. 2 lakh. This is the first time that the party enrolled members were being provided with the insurance coverage Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and MP A. Revanth Reddy said that the party has signed an agreement with the New India Assurance company. This will be applicable from April 1, and by then the party plans to complete its target enrolment of 30 lakh in Telangana. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday with senior leaders, including Mohammed Ali Shabbir, G. Chinna Reddy, and Harkara Venugopal, he said that there would be no bogus membership since it is being done digitally in a transparent manner with all the credentials of the enrolled members being registered. “Telangana PCC is the first in the country to provide accidental insurance to all Congress members,” he said. He added that the digital membership drive launched on December 9, 2021, on the occasion of Congress president Sonia Gandhi's birthday and the anniversary of Telangana Formation announcement has evoked tremendous response from people. Over seven lakh members have already been registered. Enrollers were being appointed for all 34,765 polling booths in Telangana and at least 100 members would be enrolled in each booth. He said AICC general secretaries Priyanka Gandhi and Digvijay Singh had a three-hour-long Zoom meeting last week with membership in-charge Praveen Chakravorthy and Congress workers achieving the highest enrolment would be felicitated. He said that the target is to enrol at least 15,000 members in each mandal, about 50,000 in an Assembly constituency and nearly 3.5 lakh members in a Parliamentary constituency. Former Minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir has personally enrolled 400 members while the overall membership in his Kamareddy constituency crossed several thousand. Similarly, former Minister G. Chinna Reddy has so far completed the enrolment of 20,000 members in his Wanaparthy constituency, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tpcc-to-insure-its-members-with-rs-2-lakh-coverage/article64950614.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||Infection risk robs health personnel of family warmth||Kissing and hugging their toddlers, driving children to school, or showing up at family get-togethers may sound like routine activity for most people, but for several healthcare professionals at the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences, the little joys of life are off limits. Those detected with the Omicron variant of COVID-19 in the State are admitted to this government health facility. Patients with other forms of COVID also undergo treatment here. Over the past month or so, it has been a busy as well as scary time for the healthcare workers there as they have limited physical contact with their loved ones, including parents, spouses, children and siblings, to avoid risk of infection. Even at non-COVID hospitals, the health staff is exercising caution. However, as chances of contracting the infection are higher at TIMS in case of the slightest lapse, doctors and staff are being careful about taking extra precautions to keep themselves and their families safe. “Many of us have been keeping away from our family members, including children. If my morning shift ends early, I stay back at the hospital till my children leave for school. I am maintaining physical distance from them, which means I have to avoid taking them into my arms for a hug,” said a healthcare worker at TIMS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/infection-risk-robs-health-personnel-of-family-warmth/article38263689.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:04 IST,TELANGANA||‘Centre looking into charges against KCR’||The Centre is getting ready to take action against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s corruption and he may land in trouble anytime, claimed Telangana BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday.“The Centre is serious about his corruption and hence, he has been resorting to new tactics of exploring a political front,” Mr. Sanjay said at a meeting held in BJP office here to celebrate the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda.The Chief Minister’s meeting with Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav is yet another ‘eyewash’ to divert the people’s attention from the current agitation against the mass transfer of employees. Mr. Rao and former Bihar Chief Minister Lalu Prasad Yadav shared a common platform of corruption, he chargedThe meetings with the Left parties and now the RJD leaders is meant to gain ‘sympathy’, he said and reminded that Mr. Lalu Prasad Yadav also went to jail for his corruption.. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said the Telangana youth should take inspiration from the life of Swami Vivekananda and strive for a ‘second stir’ to realise the ideals for which the separate State was formed. Youth are a disappointed lot because of lack of job notifications and the current regime has been functioning against interests of the TS, he said.In a separate press conference, senior leader P. Muralidhar Rao charged the Punjab government and the Congress party of spreading canards about Prime Minister Narendra Modi convoy getting stranded on the flyover instead of accepting the ‘security lapses’. Earlier in the day, the BC morcha held a human chain on the Tank Bund to highlight the same issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-looking-into-charges-against-kcr/article64950623.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||Megaphone twist to Sankranti tradition||The Sankranti tradition of Gangireddu melam has a wider reach as the folks playing the instrument have now incorporated amplifiers. The pipe instrument called shehnai ( sannai in Telugu) is not heard just in the street but across streets as many residents of Anand Bagh Colony, Khairatabad, and Banjara Hills are discovering.  “Earlier, they used to start coming from January 1 till Sankranti. It could be heard only in a small area. Now, it can be heard across the colony,” said a resident in Khairatabad. Most of the men leading the colourful decorated bulls with bells and tassels hail from surrounding areas of Nalgonda, Warangal and Medak. The festival observance is a relic of tradition from the harvest festival where farmers would gift new clothes, grain and money to the men leading the bulls. FinMin’s interest There have been other changes with the tradition which have been noted by India’s Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. “Recd a video of a Gangireddulata, where alms are given thru a QR code! India’s #digitalpayment revolution, reaching folk artists. In AP + Telangana, Gangireddulavallu dress up old oxen no longer helpful on farms, walk door to door during fests, performing with their nadaswarams (sic),” tweeted Ms. Sitharaman recently. “It is a wonderful change that people have shifted to cashless transactions due to COVID-19 and are using technology to keep alive a tradition. They come to Somajiguda in the morning, change their attire to a traditional one and go around apartments,” says artist Laxman Aelay, talking about the men who jog memories of the good ol’ rural life for city apartment dwellers.  The sannai players and decorated bulls have been the muse of Mr. Aelay for quite some time.   It is a wonderful change that people have shifted to cashless transactions due to COVID-19 and are using technology to keep alive a tradition. They come to Somajiguda in the morning, change their attire to a traditional one and go around apartments. Laxman AELAY, Artist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/megaphone-amplifying-the-impact-of-sankranti-tradition/article64950632.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||Testing, COVID cases go up||Telangana saw an increase in testing as well as new COVID-19 infections on Wednesday as 90,021 samples were examined, leading to the detection of 2,319 cases. Results of 11,217 samples were awaited. In the past three days (January 9 to 11), the daily caseload ranged between 1,600 and 2,000. With the 2,319 new infections, the total cases in the State since the outbreak of the pandemic has crossed the 7-lakh mark. As of Wednesday evening, the tally stood at 7,00,094. The fresh infections included 1,275 from Greater Hyderabad region, 234 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 173 from Rangareddy. Two more COVID patients died on the day, taking the toll to 4,047. So far, a total of 3.03 crore samples have been tested. Of the total cases, 18,339 were active. ICU admissions A marginal rise has been noted in hospital bed occupancy. On Wednesday, a total of 455 ICU beds and 654 oxygen beds had been occupied by COVID patients. The numbers were around 430 and 600, respectively, two days earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/testing-covid-cases-go-up/article38263461.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:03 IST,TELANGANA||Laptops, cash distributed to meritorious TSWREIS students||Minister for Scheduled Castes Development Koppula Eshwar distributed free laptops and extended financial assistance to 196 students of TS social welfare residential educational institutions who had secured admission in IITs, NITs, medical and dental colleges in 2020. The Minister congratulated the students for their achievement in national level competitive exams and joining premier IITs, NITs and medical colleges across the country. Telangana is a role model State in providing quality education to poor students and extending end-to-end support to needy SC, ST, BC and minority students aspiring to join higher studies. He thanked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for launching 683 welfare residential educational institutions and 45 residential degree colleges exclusively for marginalised women. Major transformation This has been a major transformative step in terms of educational empowerment of SC and ST women and breaking the vicious cycle of poverty and early girl marriages, he pointed out. Principal Secretary SCDD Rahul Bojja and secretary of TSWREIS Ronald Rose congratulated the toppers and reiterated that the government is committed for top quality education to needy students on a par with corporate institutions. Thirty seven students who got into IITs got Rs. 50,000 each, 45 students who got into NITs got Rs. 40,000 each, four students admitted to IIITs got Rs. 30,000 each, 103 students who got into medicine received Rs. 50,000 each and five dental science students received Rs. 40,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/laptops-cash-distributed-to-meritorious-tswreis-students/article38263695.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||President’s help sought to reclaim university land||All India OBC Students Association (AIOBCSA) has written to Ram Nath Kovind, President of India and Visitor of the University, requesting his intervention in the land dispute related to the University of Hyderabad (UoH). The letter said that 2,324.05 acres of Kancha Gachibowli Village in Serilingampalli Mandal of Rangareddy district was promised to be transferred by the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh government to establish a university campus in Hyderabad in 1975. The university was formed as part of the six-point formula in 1973 and under Article 371E of the Constitution. However, the Telangana government is now claiming that the UoH doesn’t have the right over the land as per the writ filed by the university in the Telangana High Court. The government also mentioned that no concluded alienation proposals in respect of the said land were made till today. It was also painful to note that the university land was being allocated for private purposes, students said in the letter. Request for expert panel The student group requested the President to immediately constitute an inquiry committee with experts to explore various options for the alienation of 2324.05 acres to the university as per the assurance made in 1975 as a part of the six-point formula. “Otherwise, there are high chances of encroachment of the university land by private players.” Students reminded that the UoH was named an Institution of Eminence (IoE) and that it was expanding fast and offering new interdisciplinary courses as well as cutting-edge research opportunities to the youth.  The students’ body has requested the President to constitute a panel to explore various options for the alienation of 2324.05 acres to the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/presidents-help-sought-to-reclaim-uoh-land/article38263456.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:04 IST,TELANGANA||Support State in its fight against Centre, CM urges public||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has appealed to farmers to rally behind the State government in its struggle against the Centre till it rolled back the fertilizer prices. The government will launch an agitation throughout the State and across the country if the prices are not brought down immediately, Mr. Rao warned in a release and appealed to farmers to confront the BJP leaders till the objective was achieved. He expressed anguish that the farmers were in no position to save agriculture until they retaliated against the Centre with their ploughs in hand. The Centre conspired to work against the farmers by withdrawing the decades-old subsidies to farm sector. Mr. Rao appealed to the people to uproot the BJP as it had watered down agriculture and allied activities and pushed the rural economy into doldrums. The BJP conspired to hand over the sector to corporate forces. It was clear that the BJP-led Central government was undoubtedly anti-farmer. A conspiracy was hidden behind the Centre’s strategy to fix metres to agricultural pumpsets, not linking up agriculture with national rural employment guarantee programme, steeply increasing fertilizer prices and not procuring the rice cultivated by farmers. He expressed anger that the Centre had handicapped farmers by steeply increasing the prices of fertilizer after indulging in tall talk that it will double their income by 2022. On the contrary, the expenditure of farmers had doubled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/support-state-in-its-fight-against-centre-cm-urges-public/article38263471.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:04 IST,TELANGANA||TS: APHMEL is SCCL’s subsidiary, will remain so||The Telangana government has said that the Andhra Pradesh Heavy Machinery Equipment Limited (APHMEL) has been a subsidiary of public sector miner Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) and would continue to remain in future. The State has recalled that according to Schedule XII A coal (item 1) of the AP Reorganisation Act 2014, of the total equity of SCCL, 51% should be with the Telangana government and 49% was with the Central government. “As there is a specific provision in the very Act itself, the government of India should not have entertained any request raised by Andhra Pradesh regarding the same,” Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said. Division of SCCL came up during the meeting of chief secretaries of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh convened by Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Wednesday. Mr. Bhalla had concurred with the view expressed by the State that APHMEL is a subsidiary of SCCL and would continue to remain so in future too. The meeting also discussed about the allocation of AP Bhavan in New Delhi. It was suggested that a committee consisting of Finance special chief secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao, Roads & Buildings engineer-in-chief and Resident Commissioner of Telangana along with their AP counterparts be constituted. The committee should submit a report giving various options for the division of Andhra Pradesh Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-aphmel-is-sccls-subsidiary-will-remain-so/article38263473.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:03 IST,TELANGANA||Fire accident at Ranigunj||A fire accident, reported at an electrical warehouse in Ranigunj at around 5.40 a.m. It was learnt that the store and its contents were insured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fire-accident-at-ranigunj/article38263693.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:03 IST,TELANGANA||TRS will come to power again, say Ministers||Endowments Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy and ST and Women and Child Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod expressed confidence that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) will come to power with higher number of seats in the State for the third time. “Various welfare and development schemes are being implemented in the State. Impressed with the performance of the government, voters gave 88 seats, higher than 63 seats given in first election after formation of Telangana. Farmers are celebrating Rythu Bandhu,” they said after participating in a review meeting held in Nirmal district on Wednesday. “Farmers have become kings with the policies being implemented by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Farming is going on in about 1.3 crore acres in Telangana with a production of three crore metric tonnes of paddy while it was only in 30 lakh acres in the past. Even Kaleshwaram project, which everyone thought as impossible, was completed. Sriramsagar project (SRSP), which was once a desert-like area, is now full of water,” they said adding that Telangana is the only State in the country that has been providing round the clock power supply to farm sector. The Ministers said that Rs. 1,450 crore premium is being paid by the government for insurance of farmers’ and a loan waiver of Rs. 17,000 was cleared by the government. Stating that pattas will be issued to podu lands, the Ministers assured to take all required steps to transform those lands as cultivable. They have also stated that only after formation of Telangana, tribal leader Komuram Bheem was honoured, and Jodeghat was developed with Rs. 30 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-will-come-to-power-again-say-ministers/article38263696.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:04 IST,TELANGANA||Payment of power dues comes up prominently in TS, AP meeting||As expected, differences over the payment of power dues between Telangana State and Andhra Pradesh figured prominently during the meeting convened by the Union Home Ministry to amicably resolve pending bilateral issues between the two States. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, who participated in the discussions, asserted that the total dues to be received from AP was to the tune of Rs. 12,111 crore. And the AP government had said that the dues payable by TS Genco to its power utilities were Rs. 3,442 crore. The Chief Secretary recalled how Telangana was deprived of low cost hydel power from Sileru project because of which the distribution companies had to procure high cost power. The Central government had constituted a committee headed by Neeraja Mathur in 2014 to resolve the issues pertaining to power sector that arose after the AP Reorganisation Act 2014. Though the committee had convened several meetings ever since, its report was yet to be submitted even after lapse of seven and a half years. The CS informed Mr. Bhalla that TS utilities should receive a net amount of Rs. 12,111 crore if all the dues like debt servicing of Anantapur and Kurnool and costs incurred due to purchase of thermal power were considered and not the other way round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/payment-of-power-dues-comes-up-prominently-in-ts-ap-meeting/article38263478.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:37 IST,TELANGANA||‘Contest winnable seats only’||All India Muslim Personal Law member Board (AIMPLB) Maulana Khalil-ur-Rahman Sajjad Nomani on Wednesday wrote an open letter in which he requested Hyderabad parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi to contest in Uttar Pradesh only for seats where winning is certain, and enter into alliance on others. Maulana Sajjad Nomani, a noted cleric, is a member of the influential Working Committee of the AIMPLB. He tweeted the letter from his verified Twitter handle. The cleric stated that he admires the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president’s abilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contest-winnable-seats-only/article38263463.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:38 IST,TELANGANA||AIMIM’s Jafri is new protem Chairman of Legislative Council||Senior-most MLC Syed Aminul Hasan Jafri has been appointed as the Protem Chairman of Telangana State Legislative Council. A notification was issued by Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday. He replaces protem Speaker Bhupal Reddy, who retired on January 4. Mr. Jafri, a journalist-turned-politician, has been in the Council for the past 12 years. The Council does not have a full-time chairperson since Gutha Sukender Reddy retired in June last year. In his place, V Bhoopal Reddy was appointed as protem chairman. Mr. Jafri will be the first from the Muslim minority community after Telangana was formed as a separate State. He will also be the first AIMIM functionary to hold the position. The AIMIM has only two MLCs in the Council that has a strength of 40 members.  He has worked as a journalist before moving into politics when he was elected as the MLC. He worked as the Chief of Bureau of Newstime and Deccan Chronicle apart from reporting with BBC and Reuters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aimims-jafri-is-new-protem-chairman-of-legislative-council/article38263472.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:03 IST,TELANGANA||Cases booked against actor Siddharth||The Cyber Crime police of the Hyderabad city police on Wednesday filed cases against actor Siddharth for allegedly making derogatory comments against badminton champion Saina Nehwal. The actor, based on a complaint by one Prerna Thiruvaipati, was booked for two offences. For publishing obscene material in electronic form, as per Section 67 of The Information Technology Act, and for words intended to insult the modesty of a woman, as per Section 509 of the IPC. Mr. Siddharth, on January 6, had tagged Ms. Nehwal’s tweet that expressed concern of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security breach in Punjab. He commented: “subtle cock champion of the world.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cases-booked-against-actor-siddharth/article38263465.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||1,000-plus brain tumour surgeries with advanced tech||Surgeons at Yashoda Hospitals have performed more than 1,000 brain tumour operations using intraoperative 3T MRI (IMRI) and neuronavigation over the past few months. Hospital director Pavan Gorukanti said surgery of the brain, which controls all organs of the body, can prove fatal and cause panic attacks related to changes in bodily functions. “However, the introduction of microscopes into the field of neurosurgery has made these surgeries safer and more effective. We are able to perform surgeries for tumours even on sensitive areas usingneuronavigation, another advanced modality,” he said. Tumour removal The hospital management said that usually it is not clear whether a tumour is completely removed after completion of surgery. Surgeons get to know this post-surgery, when the patient undergoes another MRI or CT scan . If there is residue of tumour, another surgery has to beperformed. “With IMRI, a scan can be performed during surgery to make changes on the spot. That means there is no need to do repeated surgeries,” said Dr Pavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1000-plus-brain-tumour-surgeries-with-advanced-tech/article38263449.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:05 IST,TELANGANA||T.V. Narayana passes away||Padmashri awardee and former member of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission T.V. Narayana passed away at the age of 96. He was a well known educationist who was also in government service as District Education Officer and Secretary of Board of Secondary Education before joining governing bodies of several colleges and universities. Social Welfare Minister Koppula Eshwar and TRS MLC K. Kavitha paid tributes to Narayana at his house in Masab Tank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tv-narayana-passes-away/article38263479.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||Firm sets up $100,000 grant for startups||Digital and IT services company JK Tech has set up a $100,000 grant for startups focused on hyperautomation in healthcare/medtech, insurtech and manufacturing as well as those in the field of Retail AI /ML. It said it intends to connect with multiple startups through an open innovation programme by tech startup incubator T-Hub, with whom it has a partnership. “Innovation workshops, startup interactions and guidance will serve as a great opportunity for upcoming technology-driven startupsto find their momentum and accelerate in the right direction. ,” company president and CEO Aloke Paskar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/100000-grant-for-startups/article38263450.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:03 IST,TELANGANA||Man kills mother- in- law||A woman was killed by her son-in-law at Nagapur village in Sangareddy mandal of Sangareddy district on Tuesday night. According to Sangareddy (Rural) police, one Bhagaiah of Mantur village was married to Lakshmi, daughter of Balamma (60). As he was not doing any work Balamma scolded him. Irritated over this, Bhagaiah strangulated Balamma to death and later surrendered to the police. The rural police registered a case and are investigating into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kills-mother-in-law/article38263467.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:04 IST,TELANGANA||Mukkoti Ekadasi to be a low-key affair||All the major temples across the State, including the historic temple dedicated to Lord Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy in Dharmapuri and the famous Kondagattu hill shrine in Jagtial district, will witness low key celebrations of Mukkoti Ekadasi festival on January 13 (Thursday) as the government has prohibited religious gatherings and processions due to spread of COVID-19. Uttara Dwara Darshanam and other rituals associated with Mukkoti (Vaikunta) Ekadasi festival will be held internally as per the traditions under the aegis of priests and Vedic pundits without devotees by scrupulously following COVID safety precautions in all the major temples on Thursday. The authorities of the famous Sri Raja Rajeshwara Swamy temple in Vemulawada of Rajanna-Sircilla district on Tuesday announced the decision to bar entry of devotees during the Mukkoti Ekadasi public festivities on Thursday citing the government orders. However, devotees will be allowed to have only darshan of the temple deity in adherence to COVID-19 safety norms later in the day, temple sources said. Many other major temples including the historic Mallikarjuna Swamy temple at Inavolu in Hanamkonda district, various other shrines elsewhere in the State including the twin cities of Hyderabad followed suit. Meanwhile, the annual religious event - Teppotsavam was conducted internally in line with age-old rituals and temple traditions on the precincts of the historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam on Wednesday evening. Only the temple priests, Vedic pundits and the essential staff were present. Teppotsavam was telecast live allowing devotees to watch the event on televisions at their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mukkoti-ekadasi-to-be-a-low-key-affair/article64950620.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||State’s industrial hub sees a spike in cases||The detection of 54 COVID-positive cases in the district predominantly in the industrial hub of Ramagundam-Godavarikhani on Tuesday prompted the official machinery to be more vigilant. In view of the new cases ahead of two major festivals Bogi and Sankranti, health authorities ramped up testing as well as vaccination drive. The district has not reported any case of Omicron, so far, according to sources in the health department. However, genome sequencing result of one sample, which was sent for testing two days ago, is still awaited. To check the spread of coronavirus infection, authorities intensified the vaccination drive to inoculate the remaining about 40,000 eligible adults with the second dose, ensure all children aged between 15 and 18 years get vaccinated and also administer the booster doses to frontline workers and those aged above 60 years. Focus on facilities Special focus has been laid on ensuring availability of adequate beds, essential drugs and medical oxygen in the Government Area Hospital in Godavarikhani and other State-run health facilities which served as COVID care centres during the second wave of coronavirus infections last year. Meanwhile, as many as 13 Ayyappa devotees from Perumandla Sankeesa, Chilukodu and a few other villages in Dornakal mandal of Mahabubabad district reportedly tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. They were diagnosed with the infection soon after returning from their pilgrimage to Sabarimala in Kerala, sources added. All of them have been advised home isolation. The old undivided Warangal district has also been witnessing a spike in COVID cases over the past few days.  13 Ayyappa devotees in Dornakal mandal of Mahabubabad district have tested positive after returning from their pilgrimage to Sabarimala in Kerala. Sources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-industrial-hub-sees-a-spike-in-cases/article38263460.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:04 IST,TELANGANA||Hailstorm wreaks havoc in Warangal, Karimnagar||Hailstorm accompanied by unseasonal rain destroyed chilli, maize and other crops in Itikalapalli, Narsampet mandal, and various other villages in the erstwhile composite Warangal district late on Tuesday night. Strong gales uprooted trees and snapped power lines in several villages in Nallabelli and Duggondi mandals. Gusty winds uprooted tin roofs of several houses at Itikalapalli and Swamyraopalli villages. One person sustained a head injury when the tin sheet of a shed fell on him under the impact of the gusty winds in Nallabelli village on Tuesday night. Several chilli and maize growers bore the brunt of nature’s fury in Itikalapalli village as their crops were flattened by hailstorm and strong winds. In the old undivided Karimnagar district, heavy spell of unseasonal rains wreaked havoc in many parts of Karimnagar, Shankarapatnam, Huzurabad, Jammikunta mandals and various mandals in Rajanna Sircilla district on Tuesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hailstorm-wreaks-havoc-in-warangal-karimnagar/article38263698.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:05 IST,TELANGANA||For CM’s security||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-cms-security/article64950616.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:29 IST,||Cong. appoints 13 district, city unit presidents in Gujarat||With Assembly polls in Gujarat due in December this year, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday approved the appointment of 13 district and city unit presidents in the State. The party gave the information about these appointments in an official release. The appointments came a month after former MP Jagdish Thakor took over as the party’s State unit president. Of the total 13 city and district unit presidents in Gujarat appointed by the high command, six are new while seven have been repeated, the release said. While the existing chiefs of Chhotaudepur, Morbi, Patan, Porbandar, Kheda, Junagadh districts and of Jamnagar city were retained, the party leadership appointed new presidents for Porbandar city, Nadiad city, Anand, Dang, Devbhumi Dwarka and Dahod district, said Gujarat Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-appoints-13-district-city-unit-presidents-in-gujarat/article38263548.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:29 IST,||Will announce CM candidate for Punjab next week: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the party’s Chief Ministerial candidate for the upcoming Punjab Assembly election would be announced next week. He was speaking to journalists here, ahead of the start of his door-to-door campaign for the election in Punjab’s Kharar constituency. Mr. Kejriwal had earlier stated that a member of Sikh community would be the party’s Chief Minister face in Punjab. Mr. Kejriwal, along with the party’s Punjab convener Bhagwant Mann and its candidate from Kharar Anmol Gagan Mann, went door to door, listened to people’s problems, and informed them of the party’s plans for Punjab. During the campaign, Mr. Kejriwal distributed pamphlets on the party’s plans and promises, urging people to vote for AAP to restore peace and prosperity in Punjab, and to establish harmony and brotherhood in the State. “Our legislators and Ministers are from normal families. As a result, they have a complete understanding and knowledge of the common people’s sufferings and pains. After we assume power in Punjab, all facilities available to the so-called important people —‘MLAs, MPs, Ministers, Chief Ministers’ —will be made available to the general public as well,” he said. EC notice Meanwhile, the Election Commission of India issued a notice to the AAP for allegedly violating the model code of conduct as its leaders and workers approached people in groups of more than five for door-to-door campaigning on Wednesday. The poll panel issued the notice shortly after the Mr. Arvind Kejriwal launched the door-to-door campaigning from the Kharar Assembly segment. The ECI on January 8 had banned public rallies, roadshows and corner meetings till January 15 in the five poll-bound States, citing the fresh surge in COVID-19 cases, and issued stringent safety guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/will-announce-cm-candidate-for-punjab-next-week-aap/article64950677.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:28 IST,||Majithia questioned by SIT for two hours||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia was on Wednesday questioned for more than two hours by a Special Investigation Team probing a drugs case registered against him. Mr. Majithia, who was granted anticipatory bail by the Punjab and Haryana High Court two days ago, appeared before the SIT at the State Crime Branch office at 11 a.m. ‘Full cooperation’ Talking to reporters after appearing before the SIT, he said he assured the investigating officers of his full cooperation in the case. Mr. Majithia said he asked the officers to take note of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s statement on the appointment of Siddharth Chattopadhyaya to the post of Director General of Police and also the comments of Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa against him. The Akali leader again raised the issue of an alleged conspiracy hatched against him by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Mr. Randhawa. Mr. Majithia’s counsel Damanbir Singh Sobti said the former State Minister was ready to assist in every possible investigation. “He joined the probe today,” said Mr. Sobti. The High Court on Monday had directed the SAD leader to join the investigation on Wednesday at 11 a.m., while granting him anticipatory bail in the matter. Mr. Majithia was asked to not leave the country till the next date of hearing and was also requested to share with the investigating agency his live location through WhatsApp. ‘Political vendetta’ Mr. Majithia, who was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act last month, had moved the HC seeking anticipatory bail after a Mohali court dismissed his pre-arrest bail plea on December 24. Mr. Majithia is the brother-in-law of Sukhbir Badal and the brother of former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Mr. Majithia, who made his first public appearance on Tuesday after registration of the case against him, had accused Mr. Channi and Mr. Randhawa of hatching a conspiracy against him. He had also dubbed the registration of the case against him a ‘political vendetta’. He was booked on December 20 last year under the NDPS Act on the basis of a 2018 report of a probe into a drugs racket operating in the State. The report was filed by the Anti-Drug Special Task Force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2018. The 49-page FIR in the matter was registered by the State Crime Branch at its Mohali police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/majithia-questioned-by-sit-for-two-hours/article64950688.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:28 IST,||Anganwadi workers, helpers court arrest across Haryana||Several thousand Anganwadi workers and helpers courted arrest across Haryana in support of their demands, including implementation of increase in the honorarium promised by the Central government and retirement benefits, on Wednesday. The activists of various organisations of State government employees, farmers and women also courted arrested in support at several places. ‘Give DA, benefits’ Around 52,000 Anganwadi workers and helpers across the State are on strike since December 8 seeking implementation of Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 750 hike in honorarium announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018. They are also demanding grant of skilled and unskilled workers status along with Dearness Allowance arrears as announced in 2018 and Rs. 1 lakh and Rs. 50,000 retirement benefits to the workers and the helpers respectively, among other demands. The agitation is supported by the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, All India Democratic Women’s Association, Sarv Karamchari Sangh, Haryana Karamchari Sangh and Kisan Sabha, among others. AIDWA vice-president Jagmati Sangwan said the government should immediately agree to the demands since these were justified and more than 50,000 women were impacted. “Instead of looking into the justified demands of the agitating women workers, the government is playing politics by trying to create differences between different unions. But their tactics have failed miserably during the farmers agitation and will fail again,” she said. CITU vice-president Satvir Singh, leading the protests in Rohtak, said around 1,000 women workers gathered for a public meeting at Mansarovar Park in the morning before marching towards the Deputy Commissioner’s office and eventually courted arrest at Netaji Subhash Chander Chowk in the afternoon. “The agitating women and men were taken to different police stations in ten buses and let off a few hours later. There were reports of similar arrests in almost all districts, including Kaithal and Karnal,” said Mr. Singh. Shakuntala, general-secretary, Anganwadi Workers and Helpers Union, said the strike would continue till January 15 and a decision on future course of action would be taken at a meeting of the co-ordination committee of various unions. “We would not hesitate to hold sit-in demonstrations outside the residences of BJP MLAs and Ministers, if our demands are not met,” said Ms. Shakuntala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/anganwadi-workers-helpers-court-arrest/article64950684.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:28 IST,||Four nabbed for forging visa papers||Four persons have been arrested here for allegedly preparing forged documents for Pakistani citizens in order to get them Indian visas, police said. Two accused are relatives while the other two include a student and an employee of an NGO. “Narendra, Sohel Rohani, Chiranjit and Shital Bheel were found guilty of preparing forged documents. We have arrested them on Tuesday evening,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/four-nabbed-for-forging-visa-papers/article38263543.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:15 IST,||Pilgrims start arriving for Ganga Sagar Mela in WB||Thousands of pilgrims on Wednesday started arriving in West Bengal for the annual Ganga Sagar Mela even as the COVID-19 infections continued to mount and remained a cause of concern in the State. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee visited Babu Ghat in Kolkata where devotees have thronged in large number from adjoining States and urged the people who will be visiting Sagar to strictly follow COVID-19 guidelines and the Calcutta High Court order. The Calcutta High Court in a recent order directed that only those who are having COVID negative in RT-PCR report of within 72 hours, will be permitted to enter the Sagar Island for Ganga Sagar Mela. The Court had also set up a committee to ensure that COVID-19 protocols are followed on the ground. “This is the time avoid large gathering. The infection has spread in almost every family. I welcome you all, but you have to take care of your health,” Ms. Banerjee said. The Chief Minister urged organisers “not to send too many people to Ganga Sagar Mela” and said that they can take the help of police and local administration. Ms. Banerjee said that even if a single person with the viral infection travels in a vehicle most of people in the vehicle will get infected. The State government had set up several camps for pilgrims arriving for the festival where people are getting tested for the infection and are also being administered second dose of vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pilgrims-start-arriving-for-ganga-sagar-mela-in-wb/article38263368.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:29 IST,||Maharashtra faces shortage of Covaxin||Maharashtra is facing a shortage of Covaxin, which has been prescribed for the 15-18 age group by the Central government. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will be placing the State’s demand for 40 lakh more doses to Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a videoconference on Thursday. The State government has also clarified that restrictions implemented are unlikely to be lifted before the end of January, as curve of new COVID patients does not seem to be flattening. “Maharashtra has around 60 lakh students in the age group of 15-18 and 35% of them have been given first dose. As per the directions from the Central government, this age group should be given Covaxin only. We are getting reports from several districts about its shortage. We have briefed our Chief Minister regarding it and he will be making the demand for more vaccines in a meeting with the Prime Minister on Thursday,” said Maharashtra Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope. The State hopes to vaccinate the entire 15-18 age group in next 10 to 12 days with the first dose. Mr. Tope said that the State will also be making a demand of 50 lakh doses of Covishield as reports of its shortage are coming in. More Covishield doses “Since we have begun giving booster shots, we will require more doses of Covishield as well,” he said. As per the data, 90% of the State’s population has received first dose while 62% has been given the second dose. The State Cabinet on Wednesday discussed the dropping rate of COVID vaccination in the State. “We are giving 6.50 lakh vaccines daily. But we had achieved more than 8 lakh doses in a day. District Collectors and Municipal Commissioners are being informed to increase the pace,” he said, pointing out that decrease in number of patients in last three days cannot be seen as flattening of curve. He informed that the State is presently using 400 MT of oxygen out of which 150 MT is for COVID patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-faces-shortage-of-covaxin/article64950679.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:28 IST,||Small shops can display banners in Marathi||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday cleared the decision for shops to display banners outside their establishments in Marathi, irrespective of the number of people working. As per the earlier provision, shops with less than 10 employees were exempted from having a Marathi banner. “The rule to have shop banners in Marathi was not implemented effectively as small shops with less than 10 employees were not covered under this. Now, the Cabinet has passed the decision to amend the Maharashtra Shop and Establishments (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 2017, by making it mandatory for each and every shop, irrespective of number of employees,” said Subhash Desai, State’s Marathi language Minister. Mr. Desai added that the decision also mandates the shops to use identical font size for names in Marathi and other language. “One cannot have Marathi name in small font size and a bigger size for English script. Both should be identical,” he said. The issue of shop banners in Marathi was always on the agenda of Shiv Sena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/small-shops-can-display-banners-in-marathi/article38263547.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:28 IST,||Lata Mangeshkar under observation in ICU: doctor||Legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar is still under observation in the ICU, three days after she tested positive for COVID-19 and was subsequently admitted to a city hospital, the doctor treating her said on Wednesday. Ms. Mangeshkar, 92, tested positive for the coronavirus with mild symptoms and was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of the Breach Candy Hospital in south Mumbai on Saturday. Sharing her health update, Associate Professor Pratit Samdani from the Breach Candy Hospital told PTI, “She continues to be under observation in the ICU”. On Tuesday, Ms. Mangeshkar’s niece Rachna Shah had told PTI that the veteran was admitted to the ICU as she requires “constant care”. “ Considering her age, doctors advised us that she should be in the ICU because she requires constant care. And we cannot take a chance.” Ms. Shah added the singer “will be fine”, but will take time for full recovery. In November 2019, Ms. Mangeshkar was admitted to the same hospital after she complained of difficulty in breathing and was diagnosed with pneumonia. She was discharged after 28 days.  Ms. Mangeshkar started her career at the age of 13 in 1942 and has sung over 30,000 songs in several Indian languages in an over seven-decade career. Some of her most loved tracks are Ajeeb dastan hai ye , Pyar kiya to darna kya , Neela asman so gaya and Tere liye .  Considered one of Indian cinema’s greatest singers, Ms. Mangeshkar received the Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian honour, in 2001. She is also the recipient of several other awards, including the Padma Bhushan, the Padma Vibhushan and the Dada Saheb Phalke Award, and multiple National Film Awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lata-under-observation-in-icu/article64950689.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:14 IST,||Hospital admissions double the number of recoveries||The number of COVID-19 patients admitted to Delhi hospitals every day over the past week was double than those who got discharged, government data accessed by The Hindu show . While 449 hospital admissions were reported on an average per day between January 5 and 11, an average of 217 discharges were reported daily. In all, 3,146 patients were admitted against 1,525 recoveries. The data show the admission rate grew steadily over the period, while the discharge rate fluctuated.  In terms of deaths, an analysis of figures in the last four days — January 9 to 12 — has revealed that those aged between 41 and above 80 accounted for over 74% (72) of the 97 patients who succumbed to the virus.  During the week, admissions consistently rose on a daily basis, crossing 400 on January 7, 500 on January 10, and the highest — 511 — the next day. On the other hand, the maximum number of discharges was 315 on January 8, followed by 311 on January 11. As of January 12, the day when Delhi reported 40 deaths, up from 23 a day earlier, 2,363 hospital beds were occupied. These include 99 suspected cases of COVID-19. Of the total patients admitted, 739 were on oxygen support — including those on ventilators — and 618 were in the ICU. Steady rise in deaths Deaths have been increasing over the past four days — 17 deaths each were recorded on January 9 and 10, 23 on January 11 and 40 on Wednesday . Of the total deaths, while seven patients were aged below 18, as many as 18 were aged between 19 and 40. The highest number of patients succumbed to the virus — 37 — were aged between 41 and 60, followed by 27 who were aged between 61 and 80. Eight were aged above 80. On Tuesday, the total tally of patients at city hospitals stood at 2,209 — including 48 suspected cases — of which 568 were on oxygen support and 523 were in ICU. Of the 46 people who succumbed to COVID at city hospitals between January 5 and 9, 25 were aged above 65 years, 14 were between 41 and 60, 5 between 21 and 40 and one each between 16 to 20 and below 15 years of age. As many as 34 had comorbid conditions, according to government records.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hospital-admissions-double-the-number-of-recoveries/article64950771.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:29 IST,||Delhi BJP questions AAP over pension for widows in Punjab||The Delhi BJP on Wednesday questioned Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over his promise of pension to widows in Punjab even though the AAP government had not been able to ensure the same in the Capital. It also questioned Mr. Kejriwal’s continued silence on the alleged security lapse of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Punjab recently. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said there was “a huge difference” in the words and the deeds of Mr. Kejriwal. “In Punjab, Mr. Kejriwal is promising Rs. 1,000 a month to women above 18 years of age, but in Delhi, destitute women and widows are not getting pensions for the last four years,” he said. He added that while the AAP was talking about free electricity in Punjab, in Delhi, even though electricity was free up to 200 units, after that, the consumers were required to pay an average of Rs. 8 per unit for domestic electricity and Rs. 18 per unit for commercial electricity. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta added that the Chief Minister’s silence on the PM’s security breach showed his support for it. “His keeping quiet on the PM’s security breach, which was an anarchist incident, shows his silent support for the incident,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-bjp-questions-aap-over-pension-for-widows-in-punjab/article38263367.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:29 IST,||From next session, admission in JNU through common test||The Academic Council of the Jawaharlal Nehru University in its 159th meeting on Wednesday cleared the proposal to conduct the university entrance examination through the Common Universities Entrance Test (CUET) from the academic session 2022-23. The university said the decision is in conformity with the one taken in the 157th meeting of the AC to adopt and admit students through CUET whenever the examination would be planned by the National Testing Agency (NTA). Level playing field In a statement, the university said, “During the deliberations in the Academic Council, a large number of members including the Deans of Schools, Centre Chairpersons and External Members of the Council emphasised that CUET would provide a level playing field to numerous eligible students from across the country reducing the burden of taking several entrance examinations.” The JNU Students’ Union criticised the move saying that JNU offers programmes and courses that are unique to the university, and a ‘one size fits all’ approach of CUET will be detrimental in this regard. The Union added that it will not be sufficient to accommodate the diverse range of the programmes offered in different universities. Move criticised It said the CUET will lead to JNU losing autonomy over setting of question papers and declaration of results. it also said the CUET lacks transparency as it indicates pass/fail instead of displaying the student’s grade. “CUET with a centralised institutional set up, makes (any) redressal an elaborate procedure, further pushing aspirants belonging to the marginalised communities to deeper margins,” the JNUSU said. The JNU Teachers’ Association said Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar selectively orchestrated the discussion on the CUET by stating that the decision on the matter had already been taken in the 157th meeting of the Academic Council. “This, however, is not true. A perusal of the minutes of the 157th meeting clearly shows that this was not even listed on the agenda of that meeting. Members of the AC have reported that there was no discussion on CUET during the 157th AC meeting,” the JNUTA said in a statement. Jayant K. Tripathi, Director of Admissions, JNU, said misinformation was being spread by a few faculty members about the CUET that was noted by the AC and was deplored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/from-next-session-jnu-admission-through-cuet/article38263366.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:29 IST,||Court discharges 6 persons in Delhi riots case||Noting that the only ‘incriminating’ material against the accused persons were their own disclosure statements made after the arrests which “has no value in the eyes of law”, a Delhi court has discharged six persons in a case pertaining to the 2020 northeast Delhi riots. The persons discharged by Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat were identified as Amir, Saddam, Mohd. Rahis, Amir, Akram and Wasim. “The only incriminating material against the said six accused persons is the disclosure statements made by them consequent to their arrest,” ASJ Rawat said, adding that disclosure statements, by themselves, have no value in the eyes of law. The court further went on to observe that based on the contents of the chargesheet in the case, there was no worthwhile material at all to frame charges against the accused persons. ‘No witnesses’ ASJ Rawat also said that there was no witness available in the case, neither public nor police, who had identified the accused persons as committing the offence. According to the case records, the matter pertained to that of rioting and arson, registered at the Jyoti Nagar police station, where it was stated that two tractors and other property were vandalised and burnt by around 700 to 800 rioters who were armed with sticks, rods and explosive material and were also sloganeering. Hence, the prosecution pressed for framing of charges against the accused under IPC sections pertaining to mischief of burning, ransacking and arson of property, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-court-discharges-six-persons-in-riots-case/article64950683.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:14 IST,||Key conspirator in Rohini court shoot-out nabbed from Narela||The Delhi Police Special Cell has arrested the “key conspirator” of the Rohini court shoot-out in which gangster Jitender Gogi was killed last year. The accused, Rakesh Tajpuria, was arrested from outer Delhi’s Narela on Tuesday. According to the police, Tajpuria is involved in 12 other heinous offences, including murder, attempt to murder and extortion. He was carrying a reward of Rs. 50,000 on his arrest. DCP (Special Cell) Jasmeet Singh said Tajpuria was one of the closest confidants of gangster Sunil Tillu and sharpshooter of Tillu gang. He allegedly hatched the plan to kill Gogi inside the Rohini courtroom on the directions of Sunil Tillu from jail. Held after encounter Gogi was shot dead by two assailants dressed as lawyers on September 24, 2021, while he was being produced at the Rohini court for a hearing. The assailants, subsequently shot down in a crossfire, were identified as Jagdeep Singh and Rahul. The police said they arrested the gangster from Narela after a brief encounter. Recently, a chargesheet was filed in a Rohini court in connection with the incident in which the Delhi Police Crime Branch named seven accused, including the two deceased assailants, as being part of the conspiracy to kill Gogi. Tajpuria allegedly disclosed to the police that he provided logistical support and weapons to the two assailants to commit the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/key-conspirator-in-rohini-court-shoot-out-nabbed-from-narela/article64950769.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:14 IST,||‘No separate pass needed for night, weekend curfew’||A separate pass will not be required for movement during the night and weekend curfew if someone who is part of, or associated with the essential services has already got an e-pass in January, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said on Wednesday. “It is clarified that an e-pass possessed by a person on or after January 4 for movement connected to ‘essential goods and services’ or under the ‘exempted category’ shall be valid during the entire period of imposition of night and weekend curfew,” the DDMA order said. Individuals associated with medical establishments, financial institutions, transportation and food produce among others fall under the essential and exempted categories. A government estimate puts the number of e-passes issued to such citizens at over one lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-separate-pass-needed-for-night-weekend-curfew/article38263350.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:14 IST,||‘A case for Uniform Civil Code’||The teachings of Swami Vivekanand make out a strong case for Uniform Civil Code which is recommended in Article 44 of the Constitution of India, Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain said on Wednesday. ASG Jain, speaking at an event to mark the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekanand, emphasised that character building was based on all-inclusive and uniform value system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-case-for-uniform-civil-code/article38263357.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:14 IST,||Civil defence volunteer alleges sexual harassment||A 23-year-old civil defence volunteer has accused a deputy division warden with the Sub-Divisional Magistrate office in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar of sexually harassing her, the police said on Wednesday. A case has been registered and an internal inquiry has been initiated. DCP (East) Priyanka Purohit said the complainant alleged that the deputy division warden was harassing her for “sexual favours”. He even threatened her with dire consequences if she reported the matter, the police said. No arrests have been made yet and the woman’s allegations are being verified, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/civil-defence-volunteer-alleges-sexual-harassment/article38263347.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:14 IST,||‘Marital rape not rape till husbands protected’||Married women will be denied the right to call a rape a rape till the law provides protection to the husband from prosecution for a non-consensual sexual act with the wife, an amicus curiae told the Delhi High Court on Wednesday.  “In my view, the exception is bad,” he said. Provisions under section 375 (rape) of the IPC exempt sexual intercourse by a man with his wife from the offence of rape, provided the wife is above 15 years of age.  A Bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and C. Hari Shankar observed when two people live under the same roof as husband and wife, an offence of rape is firewalled because of the exception given under the law. “If there would have been no exception, he would have been amenable to the same punishment as any other person,” said Raj Shekhar Rao, the amicuscuriae in a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/marital-rape-not-rape-till-husbands-protected/article38263356.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:14 IST,||Brief- shop||A wine shop and a popular eatery in Karol Bagh were sealed on Wednesday by the district administration for flouting DDMA guidelines on social distancing. Karol Bagh SDM Balram Meena said a fine of Rs. 50,000 was imposed on the wine shop and Rs. 1 lakh on the eatery for flouting the COVID-19 guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/brief-shop/article38263353.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:28 IST,||Chhattisgarh: Naxals kill villager in Bijapur; 5th murder by ultras in one week||Maoists thrashed a 50-year-old villager to death in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district, police said on Wednesday. Inspector General, Bastar Range, Sundarraj P. said, “The victim, Jagat Sodi, ran a small grocery shop and was beaten to death by Maoists.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chhattisgarh-naxals-kill-villager-in-bijapur-5th-murder-by-ultras-in-one-week/article38263355.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:29 IST,||Kalicharan Maharaj held in Wardha for remarks against Mahatma Gandhi||The Wardha police arrested Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj on January 12 in connection with a case registered against him in Wardha, in Maharashtra, for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi. The seer was brought here around 5 a.m. from Raipur in Chhattisgarh, where he was lodged in a jail in connection with a similar case registered against him there, Sub-Divisional Officer of Police Piyush Jagtap said. He was produced before the court of a local magistrate who remanded him in judicial custody. The case against the religious leader was registered at Wardha city police station on December 29, 2021. Earlier, Mr. Maharaj had been arrested by the Raipur police for allegedly making derogatory comments about Mahatma Gandhi at an event in the Chhattisgarh capital on December 26 last year. A similar case was also registered against him by Akola police in Maharashtra. Last week, the Pune police had arrested him for allegedly making inflammatory speeches during the ‘Shiv Pratap Din’ programme there on December 19, 2021, organised to celebrate the killing of Adilshahi commander Afzal Khan by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in 1659.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kalicharan-maharaj-arrested-in-wardha/article64950678.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:28 IST,||All quiet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/all-quiet/article64950686.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:14 IST,||AAP accuses BJP of selling heritage buildings||New Delhi The AAP government on Wednesday alleged that the BJP-governed South Delhi Municipal Corporation is “selling off heritage buildings to the mafia”. “BJP’s corruption has crossed all limits... A proposal to auction a heritage building of 280 square metres in Mehrauli has been presented in the agenda of the upcoming South MCD Standing Committee meet- ing,” AAP leader Atishi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-accuses-bjp-of-selling-heritage-buildings/article38263354.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:50 IST,||Russia, NATO lay out stark differences on Ukraine crisis||The NATO allies warned Russia on Wednesday that they would not compromise on the alliance's right to defend its eastern members to avoid further conflict in Ukraine, but invited Moscow to further talks on calming security concerns. Speaking after talks with Russian envoys at NATO headquarters in Brussels, alliance Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg warned: “There are significant differences between NATO allies and Russia on these issues.” Gen. Stoltenberg said it would be impossible for the 30 NATO members to agree to Moscow’s core demands for a new security order in Europe, and in particular added that Russia would have no veto on Ukraine’s right to eventually join the alliance. President Vladimir Putin's government has issued a series of demands for the West to rule out accepting new members like Ukraine, Georgia or Finland on its eastern flanks and demanded limits on allied deployments in former Soviet allies that joined NATO after the Cold War. Gen. Stoltenberg said it was “positive” that the two sides had been able to sit down together, reviving the NATO-Russia Council platform, and that NATO members had invited Russia to agree to a series of talks to discuss arms control and “many other issues to prevent a new armed conflict”. “Russia was not in a position to agree on that proposal. They didn’t reject it either, but the Russian representatives made it clear that they needed some time to come back to NATO with an answer,” he said. Future members The West defends NATO's ‘open-door policy’ towards potential future members, while Moscow is demanding a cast-iron guarantee that the alliance will not expand further towards its territory. Russia denies that its massive troop build-up around Ukraine is a threat, but the deployment has forced Washington to engage with Moscow to head off fears of an all-out military confrontation. After the meeting, US Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman tweeted: “In today's NATO-Russia Council, I reaffirmed the fundamental principles of the international system and of European security: Every country has the sovereign right to choose its own path.” Just ahead of the talks, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said: “The continuation of NATO's open-door policy and the further advancement of NATO towards our borders is precisely what, from our point of view, threatens us.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-nato-lay-out-stark-differences-on-ukraine-crisis/article38262910.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:50 IST,||Kim urges more ‘military muscle’||Kim Jong Un personally oversaw the successful test of a hypersonic missile, state media said on Wednesday, and urged North Korea to press ahead with building more “strategic military muscle” despite international sanctions over its nuclear weapons programme. Pictures in state media showed Mr. Kim using binoculars to observe the second missile launch by the nuclear-armed nation in less than a week. Hypersonic missiles are listed among the “top priority” tasks for strategic weapons development in North Korea’s five-year plan. After the launch, Mr. Kim said North Korea must “further accelerate the efforts to steadily build up the country’s strategic military muscle both in quality and quantity and further modernise the army”, according to KCNA. The Tuesday test, which came as the UN Security Council met in New York to discuss Pyongyang’s weapons programme, sparked swift condemnation, with the U.S. State Department branding it a “threat... to the international community.” Third test It was the third reported North Korean test of a hypersonic gliding missile.  North Korea’s state news agency KCNA said the most recent test demonstrated “the superior manoeuverability of the hypersonic glide vehicle”. It also claimed it accurately hit a target some 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) away.  South Korea’s military, which had cast doubt on Pyongyang’s initial claims, said the missile launched on Tuesday had reached hypersonic speeds and showed clear signs of “progress” from last week’s test. The missile flew 700 kilometres (435 miles) at an altitude of about 60 kilometres (37 miles) at Mach 10 speed, Seoul’s Joint Chiefs of Staff said. Hypersonic missiles travel at speeds of at least Mach 5 — five times the speed of sound — and can manoeuvre mid-flight, making them harder to track and intercept. ‘Bid to modernisation’ “Everything about this test is a reminder that North Korea is all-in on a new military modernisation campaign,” Ankit Panda of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace said. Meanwhile, the U.S. imposed sanctions on Wednesday on five North Koreans linked to the country's ballistic missile program. said. The Treasury Department said the five were “responsible for procuring goods for the DPRK’s (North Korea’s) weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missile-related programs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kim-urges-more-military-muscle/article64950808.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:50 IST,||Hong Kong to list out more national security offences||Hong Kong will draw up a host of new national security crimes, the city’s leader said on Wednesday, as she presided over the first session of a new “patriots only” legislature scrubbed of political opposition. The current national security law defines four crimes — secession, subversion, terrorism and colluding with foreign forces — and offenders can face up to life in prison. But on Wednesday, Chief Executive Carrie Lam confirmed that her government would create new “local legislation” that meets Article 23 of Hong Kong’s mini-constitution, which calls for the city to pass its own national security laws. Constitutional duty “Article 23 legislative work is part of Hong Kong’s constitutional duty and cannot be further delayed,” Ms. Lam told lawmakers, adding that the government aimed to publish a draft by June. Ms. Lam did not outline what the new crimes would be. But the specific offences Article 23 lists are treason, secession, sedition, subversion and theft of state secrets. It also includes prohibiting any foreign political organisations from conducting activities in Hong Kong or local political organisations establishing ties with similar overseas bodies. It is unlikely the city government will face much opposition in passing the new law. On Wednesday, Ms. Lam said it would be difficult for the new national security Bill to be completed by the end of her first term, meaning the legislation will probably fall to her successor. Addressing a chamber, Ms. Lam praised Beijing’s security law. “Its function now is to act as an anchor to guarantee stability, to let people know there are consequences,” she told lawmakers, adding the new legislation would be similarly “well written”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-to-list-out-more-national-security-offences/article64950814.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:50 IST,||Johnson ‘sorry’ for attending garden party during lockdown||Prime Minister Boris Johnson apologised on Wednesday for attending a garden party during Britain’s first coronavirus lockdown, but brushed aside Opposition demands that he resign for breaching the rules his own government had imposed on the nation. The apology, which stopped short of admitting wrongdoing, was Mr Johnson’s attempt to assuage a tide of anger from the public and politicians after repeated accusations he and his staff flouted pandemic restrictions by socializing when it was banned. ‘Work event’ Trying to calm the furor, Mr. Johnson acknowledged for the first time on Wednesday that he went to a May 2020 garden party at his Downing Street office, though he said that he had considered it a work event to thank staff for their efforts during the pandemic. “I want to apologise. … With hindsight, I should have sent everyone back inside,” Mr. Johnson told lawmakers in the House of Commons. An invitation to “bring your own booze” to a “socially distanced drinks” gathering was emailed to about 100 government staff by a senior prime ministerial aide. Opposition Labour Party leader Keir Starmer said the British public thought Mr. Johnson was “lying through his teeth.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/johnson-sorry-for-attending-garden-party-during-lockdown/article38262911.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:35 IST,||COVID-19 cases rose by more than 50%: WHO||The number of new coronavirus infections in the last week jumped by about 55%, although the number of deaths remained stable, the World Health Organization said in its latest pandemic report. In the weekly report issued on Tuesday night, the UN health agency said there were about 15 million new COVID-19 cases last week and more than 43,000 deaths. Every world region reported a rise in COVID-19 cases except for Africa, where officials saw an 11% drop. Last week, WHO noted a pandemic record high of 9.5 million new infections in a single week, calling it a “tsunami” of disease. WHO said the extremely contagious Omicron variant continues to define the pandemic globally and is now crowding out the previously dominant delta variant. WHO said Omicron had now proven to have a shorter doubling time, with increasing evidence it was able to “evade immunity.” Scientists in Britain and the U.S. say there are early signs the crush of Omicron may have peaked, but they are still uncertain how the next phase of the pandemic might unfold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/covid-19-cases-rose-by-more-than-50-who/article38262912.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:50 IST,||Sri Lanka seeks new China loan||Sri Lanka ruled out an IMF bailout on Wednesday and said it plans to seek another loan from China to address an economic crisis that has led to food and fuel shortages. Central bank governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal rejected mounting calls from local and international economists to seek an International Monetary Fund bailout and debt restructure. “The IMF is not a magic wand,” he told a news conference in Colombo. “At this point, the other alternatives are better.” Mr. Cabraal added that talks with China over a new loan were at an “advanced stage”, and a fresh agreement would service existing debt to Beijing. Mr. Cabraal’s remarks come days after a visit from Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi who discussed a debt payment restructure with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-seeks-new-china-loan/article38262908.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:50 IST,||Several killed in jihadist-claimed blast in Somali capital||Several people were killed in a suicide car bomb blast in Somalia’s capital Mogadishu. The attack was claimed by a jihadist group, which said it was targeting “foreign officers”.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/several-killed-in-jihadist-claimed-blast-in-somali-capital/article64950813.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:50 IST,||Kazakhstan detains nearly 1,700 more after violent unrest||Kazakh authorities said that they detained 1,678 more people over their alleged participation in the violent unrest. This takes the total number of arrests to about 12,000 since the protest began.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kazakhstan-detains-nearly-1700-more-after-violent-unrest/article38262909.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:34 IST,||A quest for social consensus against hate speech||On January 12, 2022 , the Supreme Court of India agreed to hear petitions asking for legal action to be taken against the organisers of, and speakers at, the ‘Haridwar Dharm Sansad’, held in Uttarakhand. During this ‘Dharm Sansad’ that had taken place between December 17 and 19, 2021, numerous speeches had been made. These speeches ranged from open calls to violence (“… waging a war that would be more gruesome than 1857” or “if you want to eliminate their [i.e., Muslim] population, then kill them”), to the economic and social boycott of Muslims (“… there is no Muslim buyer here, so throw that [Muslim] vendor out”), and to dog whistles (such as drawing comparisons to the ethnic cleansing of Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar). Before the Supreme Court, it was argued that the reason why the Court needed to take up the issue was that despite first information reports having been registered in the aftermath of the event, no arrests had been made. Meanwhile, in the aftermath of a similar ‘Dharm Sansad’ in Chhattisgarh, the State police arrested one Kalicharan Maharaj, who had accused Gandhi of destroying India, and praised Nathuram Godse for assassinating him. While it may rightly be pointed out that political patronage and ideological complicity are responsible for this contrast, there remains a deeper problem: and that is, the absence of any legal or social consensus around what constitutes “hate speech”. To start with, it is evident that the statements for which Kalicharan Maharaj has been arrested — no matter how personally distasteful they might be — do not, or at least should not, constitute illegal speech. The fact that Gandhi is a towering figure in Indian history does not preclude individuals from expressing repugnant views about him and the circumstances of his assassination. On the other end of the spectrum, it is clear that direct calls to violence — such as taking up arms and killing Muslims — are not, and ought not to be, protected under the right to free speech. No society can survive for long when incitement to violence is normalised, and enjoys legal impunity. Strengthens and entrenches However, there are a range of cases — many of them at the forefront in the ‘Haridwar Dharm Sansad’ — that present more difficult problems. As societies around the world have long understood, the harm in hate speech is not simply restricted to direct and proximate calls to violence. Hate speech works in more insidious ways, creating a climate that strengthens existing prejudices and entrenches already existing discrimination. A good example of this is the history of anti-Semitism in Europe. While anti-Semitism took its most ghastly form in frequent pogroms and — ultimately — the Holocaust, on a daily level, it took the form of inculcating in society a “cultural common sense” about the Jewish people. This “cultural common sense” traded on stereotypes and social prejudice, and justified ongoing discrimination, social and economic boycotts, and ghettoisation, on a day-to-day level. The end result of this — which is the continued subordination of a section of society — can be accomplished without direct calls to violence. This is why — with the exception of the United States of America — most societies define hate speech in terms of both inciting violence, but also, inciting discrimination. This is why, for example, calls to socially boycott a community (as advocated for at the ‘Dharm Sansad’) fall within most definitions of hate speech. This understanding of hate speech is informed by a long history where violence and discrimination have often blurred into each other, and where hate speech has not merely set the stage for future violence but has also been weaponised in its own right to further entrench and endorse inequality and subordination. Key problems It is here that three further problems arise. The first is specific to India. Our laws — as they stand — are unequipped to deal with the challenges of hate speech. The laws commonly invoked in such cases are Section 295A (blasphemy) and Section 153A of the Indian Penal Code (creating enmity between classes of people). Hate speech, however, is most certainly not the same as blasphemy; nor is it captured by a vague phrase, “enmity between classes”. Hate speech is speech that targets people based on their identity, and calls for violence or discrimination against people because of their identity. The Supreme Court has gestured towards this understanding of hate speech, both in prior judgments, and in the ongoing case involving Sudarshan TV. More clarity, however, is needed. The second problem is that hate speech, by its very nature, will not always trumpet itself to be hate speech. Rather, it will often assume plausible deniability — as has been seen in the Haridwar case, where statements, worded with the right degree of ambiguity, are now being defended as calls to self-defence rather than calls to violence. Here again, the history of anti-Semitism in Europe is instructive. Over a long time, a number of visual and verbal cues were developed that everyone knew referred to the Jewish community, to the point where it was no longer necessary to take the community by name. These included, for example, hooked noses and drooping eyelids, and a grasping nature, among others. Indirect hate speech of this kind is known as a “dog-whistle”: while it may escape the attention of an external observer, both the speaker and the listener know what — and who — is being referred to. In the Haridwar case, for example, veiled references about what was done to the Rohingyas fall within the definition of dog whistling. Any comprehensive understanding of hate speech is a matter of judgment, and must take into account its ambiguous and slippery nature. Court’s gaze is important The third problem is perhaps the most difficult and intractable. As we have seen above, no matter how precise and how definite we try to make our concept of hate speech, it will inevitably reflect individual judgment. If, therefore, social and legal norms against hate speech are to be implemented without descending into pure subjectivity, what is needed first is a social consensus about what kind of speech is beyond the pale. In Europe, for example, Holocaust denial is an offence and is enforced with a degree of success precisely because there is a pre-existing social consensus about the moral abhorrence of the Holocaust, and the determination not to see it repeated. Social consensus allows us to discount whataboutery, and also distinguish cases of hate speech from other forms of confrontational or agitational speech — that often comes from hitherto marginalised classes — which nonetheless deserves to belong to the marketplace of ideas. Achieving this social consensus is an immense task, and will require both consistent legal implementation over time, but also daily conversations that we, as a society (and especially, the socially privileged classes) need to have among ourselves. However, here, as in many other cases, circumstances have made it possible for the Supreme Court to initiate that much-needed conversation. For these reasons, its intervention in the ‘Haridwar Dharm Sansad’ case will be an important one. Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based lawyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-quest-for-social-consensus-against-hate-speech/article64950831.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:35 IST,||Reaping India’s demographic dividend||A nation’s growth requires the productive contribution of all segments of society, particularly the children and the youth, who need to be provided opportunities for self-expression. Household and national investments in children and youth yield long-term returns in terms of high productivity of the economically active population till they enter the elderly cohort. Fertility decline As fertility declines, the share of the young population falls and that of the older, dependent population rises. If the fertility decline is rapid, the increase in the population of working ages is substantial yielding the ‘demographic dividend’. The smaller share of children in the population enables higher investment per child. Therefore, the future entrants in the labour force can have better productivity and thus boost income. With the passage of time, the share of the older population rises and that of the working age population begins to fall and hence the dividend is available for a period of time, ‘the window of demographic opportunity’. However, realisation of the benefits of potential demographic dividend is not automatic and thus presents many challenges. Without proper policies, the increase in the working-age population may lead to rising unemployment, fueling economic and social risks. This calls for forward-looking policies incorporating population dynamics, education and skills, healthcare, gender sensitivity, and providing rights and choices to the younger generation. With falling fertility (currently 2.0), rising median age (from 24 years in 2011, 29 years now and expected to be 36 years by 2036), a falling dependency ratio (expected to decrease from 65% to 54% in the coming decade taking 15-59 years as the working age population), India is in the middle of a demographic transition. This provides a window of opportunity towards faster economic growth. India has already begun to get the dividend. In India, the benefit to the GDP from demographic transition has been lower than its peers in Asia and is already tapering. Hence, there is an urgency to take appropriate policy measures. Forward-looking policies Countries like Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea have already shown us how demographic dividend can be reaped to achieve incredible economic growth by adopting forward-looking policies and programmes to empower the youth in terms of their education, skills and health choices. There are important lessons from these countries for India. The first is to undertake an updated National Transfer Accounts (NTA) assessment. Using NTA methodologies by Lee and Chen (2011-12) and M.R. Narayana (2021), we find that India’s per capita consumption pattern is way lower than that of other Asian countries. A child in India consumes around 60% of the consumption by an adult aged between 20 and 64, while a child in China consumes about 85% of a prime-age adult’s consumption. The NTA data for India needs to be updated to capture the progress made on such investments since 2011-12. State-specific NTAs need to be calculated every year and States need to be ranked for investing in the youth. The second is to invest more in children and adolescents. India ranks poorly in Asia in terms of private and public human capital spending. It needs to invest more in children and adolescents, particularly in nutrition and learning during early childhood. Given that India’s workforce starts at a younger age, a greater focus needs to be on transitioning from secondary education to universal skiling and entrepreneurship, as done in South Korea. The third is to make health investments. Health spending has not kept pace with India’s economic growth. The public spending on health has remained flat at around 1% of GDP. Evidence suggests that better health facilitates improved economic production. Hence, it is important to draft policies to promote health during the demographic dividend. We need more finance for health as well as better health facilities from the available funding. The fourth is to make reproductive healthcare services accessible on a rights-based approach. We need to provide universal access to high-quality primary education and basic healthcare. The unmet need for family planning in India at 9.4% as per the latest National Family Health Survey-5 (2019-21) is high as compared to 3.3% in China and 6.6% in South Korea, which needs to be bridged. Fifth, education is an enabler to bridge gender differentials. The gender inequality of education is a concern. In India, boys are more likely to be enrolled in secondary and tertiary school than girls. In the Philippines, China and Thailand, it is the reverse. In Japan, South Korea, and Indonesia, the gender differences are rather minimal. This needs to be reversed. Sixth, India needs to increase female workforce participation in the economy. As of 2019, 20.3% of women were working or looking for work, down from 34.1% in 2003-04. New skills and opportunities for women and girls befitting their participation in a $3 trillion economy is urgently needed. For example, a girl who passes Class 10 needs more choices to learn skills that will help her find appropriate work. She will need safe transport to travel to work. Finding work will likely delay her age of marriage and make her participate in the economy more productively, as also exercise her rights and choices. South Korea’s female workforce participation rate of 50% has been built on i) legally compulsory gender budgeting to analyse gender disaggregated data and its impact on policies, ii) increasing childcare benefits, and iii) boosting tax incentives for part-time work. It is predicted that if all women engaged in domestic duties in India who are willing to work had a job, female labour force participation would increase by about 20%. Seventh, India needs to address the diversity between States. While India is a young country, the status and pace of population ageing vary among States. Southern States, which are advanced in demographic transition, already have a higher percentage of older people. These differences in age structure reflect differences in economic development and health – and remind us of States’ very different starting points at the outset of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals Agenda. But this also offers boundless opportunities for States to work together, especially on demographic transition, with the north-central region as the reservoir of India’s workforce. Eight, a new federal approach to governance reforms for demographic dividend will need to be put in place for policy coordination between States on various emerging population issues such as migration, ageing, skiling, female workforce participation and urbanisation. Inter-ministerial coordination for strategic planning, investment, monitoring and course correction should be an important feature of this governance arrangement. Rakesh Sarwal is a civil servant and has a Doctorate in Public Health from Johns Hopkins University; Sriram Haridass is UNFPA Representative India and Country Director Bhutan a.i. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reaping-indias-demographic-dividend/article64950825.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:34 IST,||Act now, recast the selection process of the ECs||Reports of the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) and his Election Commissioner colleagues ‘attending’ an ‘informal’ meeting with the Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, late last year, has brought renewed focus on the independence and the impartiality of the Election Commission of India (ECI). The CEC’s initial hesitation when ‘summoned’ was appropriate given that the ECI is a constitutionally mandated body that should maintain its distance from the Executive, in perception and reality. Charges levelled Over the last seven years, the ECI has faced multiple accusations of favouring the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). For instance, the Citizens’ Commission on Elections (CCE), chaired by the retired Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B. Lokur, in its report titled “An Enquiry into India’s Election System”, has highlighted several instances of inaction on the part of the ECI while conducting the 2019 general election. The Government was also accused of hounding (now former) Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa when he favoured taking action against the Prime Minister for violations of electoral codes of conduct. Given that the ECI is the institutional keystone holding up the edifice of Indian democracy, we suggest that changes in the appointment process for Election Commissioners can strengthen the ECI’s independence, neutrality and transparency. The appointment of Election Commissioners falls within the purview of Article 324(2) of the Constitution, which establishes the institution. Pertinently, it contains a ‘subject to’ clause which provides that both the number and tenure of the Election Commissioners shall be “subject to the provisions of any law made in that behalf by Parliament, be made by the President”. This ‘subject to’ clause was introduced, in the words of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, to “prevent either a fool or knave or a person who is likely to be under the thumb of the Executive”. It was left to Parliament to enact legislation regarding the appointment of Election Commissioners. Apart from enacting a law in 1991, which was subsequently amended to enlarge the number of Election Commissioners from one to three, Parliament has so far not enacted any changes to the appointment process. The judiciary could act In the face of legislative inaction, there is now a possibility that the judiciary will force Parliament’s hand. Three writ petitions, with one pending since 2015, are urging the Supreme Court to declare that the current practice of appointment of Election Commissioners by the Centre violates Articles 14, 324(2), and democracy as a basic feature of the Constitution. These petitions argue for an independent system for appointment of Election Commissioners, as recommended by previous Law Commission and various committee reports. In 1975, the Justice Tarkunde Committee recommended that Election Commissioners be appointed on the advice of a committee comprising the Prime Minister, the Lok Sabha Opposition Leader and the Chief Justice of India. This was reiterated by the Dinesh Goswami Committee in 1990 and the Law Commission in 2015. The Fourth Report (2007; https://bit.ly/3HYhS7P) of the Second Administrative Reforms Commission (https://bit.ly/3nkzwL1) additionally recommended that the Law Minister and the Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha be included in such a Collegium. The nature of the ECI  Precedent does exist in the case of Rojer Mathew vs South Indian Bank Ltd. , to argue against the Executive being the sole appointer for a quasi-judicial body. The pending writ petitions, therefore, argue that the “Election Commission is not only responsible for conducting free and fair elections but it also renders a quasi-judicial function between the various political parties including the ruling government and other parties. Accordingly, the Executive cannot be a sole participant in the appointment of members of Election Commission as it gives unfettered discretion to the ruling party to choose someone whose loyalty to it is ensured and thereby renders the selection process vulnerable to manipulation”.   Hence, establishing a multi-institutional, bipartisan committee for the fair and transparent selection of Election Commissioners can enhance the perceived and actual independence of the ECI. Such a procedure is already followed with regard to other constitutional and statutory authorities such as the Chief Information Commissioner, the Lokpal, the Central Vigilance Commissioner, and the Director of the Central Bureau of Investigation. The quasi-judicial nature of the ECI’s functions makes it especially important that the appointments process conform to the strictest democratic principles.   The Executive’s role in the current appointment process has come under judicial scrutiny over its lack of transparency. Anoop Baranwal vs Union of India, Ministry of Law and Justice Secretary (WP (C) 104/2015) which has been pending since 2015, and referred to a Constitution Bench in 2018, has raised this very demand for a Collegium system for the ECI. Even though it was listed multiple times in 2020, it is yet to reach the hearing stage. A Bench comprising the then Chief Justice of India, J.S. Khehar and Justice D.Y. Chandrachud had also noted in 2017 that “The Election Commissioners supervise and hold elections across the Country, and this is the significance of their office, and their selection has to be made in the most transparent manner.” The Bench referred to the mandate of Article 324(2) of the Constitution to state that, “it is expected from Parliament to make the law, but it has not been made.”  Advice for Parliament Parliament would do well to pre-empt judicial strictures by going ahead and formulating a law that establishes a multi-institutional, bipartisan Collegium to select Election Commissioners. Separation of powers is the gold standard for governments across the world. The ECI’s constitutional responsibilities require a fair and transparent appointment process that is beyond reproach, which will reaffirm our faith in this vital pillar of our polity. The existing veil over the appointment process of Election Commissioners potentially undermines the very structure on which our democratic aspirations rest. M.V. Rajeev Gowda is Chairman, All India Congress Committee (AICC) Research Department and a former Member of Parliament. Aiman Hashmi is a Judicial Law Clerk and Legal Researcher at the Supreme Court of India. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/act-now-recast-the-selection-process-of-the-ecs/article64950830.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:34 IST,||Establishing India’s Apple||This month, the U.S. tech company Apple reached the $3 trillion-mark in market capitalisation. This made it wealthier than most countries. The question is: can or will India be able to produce a company like Apple? The answer is ‘no’ — not until we turn our university campuses into powerful economic accelerators. But how? This will require an understanding of how innovation works. For that, we need to get into how a research- and development-driven economy works and the universities’ indispensable role in it. The foundation Innovation requires establishing ecosystems, which requires building institutional frameworks and research infrastructure. To build ecosystems, we should start by connecting institutions nearby. Facilitating easy access to tools and equipment for each others’ students and faculty, creating an open, inclusive atmosphere, and encompassing each other’s strengths should follow that. Building research infrastructure should be envisioned for an ecosystem rather than an institution. Such a system will use optimal resources. The initial funding to build large research infrastructures needs to come from the public exchequer. Government funding is the initiator of turning ideas into workable solutions in science and technology-led innovation. Once kick-started, the start-up companies need to be financed by private investors, like angel investors and venture capitalists. Fostering innovation goes beyond making the physical infrastructure and providing access. It includes having excellent tech transfer offices, access to legal counsel and law firms, funding opportunities outside the government, and most importantly, having world-class faculty members. Tech transfer offices and incubators play a vital role in commercialising technologies. Their part is to make sure that the universities are incentivised while providing a physical space with technical and legal help for individual faculty-driven innovations to get commercialised. To do this, they need to build independent mechanism(s) for their governance, funding, and a competitive process of licensing inventions to third parties. University incubators need the freedom to operate and to establish linkages with funders, both government and private, to raise funds to support start-up companies within their ecosystem. They need to draw mechanisms to be incentivised back too. Finally, the tech transfer offices need to formulate clear guidelines regarding ownership rights on inventions coming out from the universities. Proper legal frameworks are needed for university-driven innovation to mature . After consultations and modifications, Parliament needs to pass the Protection and Utilization of Public Funded Intellectual Property Bill (PUPFIP), 2008. Although there are other policies and guidelines, making PUPFIP a law will help formulate a clear and uniform set of rules and remove the universities' lack of clarity on intellectual property rights to commercialise inventions from government-funded research programmes. Apart from infrastructure, funding, and legal help, the innovation ecosystems need early adopters to risk their time and energy to take products and solutions to the broader masses. A broader reach While STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) subjects will lead innovation out of the university campuses, it is essential to broaden the reach to cover all streams within the liberal arts. Universities need to engage a broader group with integrated curricula incorporating all disciplines' best practices. Additionally, the university curricula need to get away from focusing exclusively on awarding degrees on broad subjects to providing vocational training towards developing students' skills for a specific task. Focusing on innovation must not take our minds away from problems in fundamental sciences or other streams. Funding for applied sciences should not be at the cost of fundamental sciences. With the market caps of many technology-driven companies ranking in the top 20 of global GDP alongside the nation-states, universities can play a significant role in fostering the economies of all nations. The time has come for the universities in India to provide value outside of their traditional niche of creating knowledge and teaching. Sustained public funding to build world-class research and development infrastructure and hiring the best faculty in our university system are the first steps to realising this dream. Equally important is encouraging and providing the faculty the freedom to dive more into the space without sacrificing critical thinking. This will propel ‘innovation quotient“ to be used as a defining parameter for ranking universities rather than parameters like the size of the graduating class and faculty-to-student ratio. Binay Panda is a Professor at JNU, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/establishing-indias-apple/article64950826.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:35 IST,||Political heat over a padayatra||The Vokkaliga heartland in the Cauvery river basin is witnessing a political slugfest between the ruling BJP and the principal Opposition Congress over the past week as the latter’s padayatra for the Mekedatu drinking water project got underway on January 9 amid COVID-19 concerns. The 11-day padayatra for ‘our water, our right’ is being seen as a poll bugle by the Congress for the Assembly elections a year away. The Congress will pass through 15 crucial Assembly constituencies that have a big Vokkaliga population during the padayatra. Central to the walkathon is the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President, D.K. Shivakumar, a Vokkaliga and a strong contender for the chief minister’s post. The padayatra, believed to be strong optics ahead of elections, the legal and administrative delays in implementing the Mekedatu project notwithstanding, will supposedly galvanise Vokkaliga votes to the Congress. With impressive performances in recent elections to the Upper House and urban local bodies, the Congress has been in an upbeat mood and expects Lingayats to back it in the Assembly polls after Lingayat strongman and former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was forced to step down by the BJP. The BJP, which has so far failed to make big inroads into the Cauvery basin districts, seems to be on the back foot. A recent public function attended by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai saw a Congress MP and a senior cabinet minister coming close to blows on the dais. The function itself was seen as a political attempt by the BJP to nullify the effect of the padayatra through the launch of development schemes. The Mekedatu ‘balancing reservoir’ in Kanakapura taluk of Ramanagaram district close to the Tamil Nadu border has remained contentious. The project for the balancing reservoir to impound about 67 tmc ft. of excess water and generate power started getting shape after the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal award was notified in 2013. A Rs. 9,000-crore detailed project report (DPR) was submitted in 2019. While Tamil Nadu, the lower riparian State, got a stay from the National Green Tribunal bench in Chennai, the principal bench in Delhi vacated the stay, which has been questioned in the Supreme Court now. The BJP and Congress have been sparring over the project. Terming the padayatra a “political gimmick”, Mr. Bommai accused the Congress of delaying the submission of a DPR. The government also released documents to prove the delay during the Congress regime. The Congress, on the other hand, has been blaming the BJP’s desire to expand its footprint in Tamil Nadu as the reason for delay in according sanction to the project by the Centre. The party has also been saying that having BJP governments at both the Centre and State have not helped Karnataka’s cause. Meanwhile, the JD(S), which draws its political strength from the Vokkaligas and is in a direct fight with the Congress in the Old Mysuru region comprising Cauvery basin districts, has remained muted. Only its leader H.D. Kumaraswamy has taken potshots at the padayatra. For, any upswing in Congress votes in the region could damage the party politically since it is already struggling to remain relevant in the State’s politics. The State government has so far been unable to prevent the padayatra from rolling on. Worried about Congress claiming sympathy if the padayatra is stalled, the government has only lodged FIRs against Congress leaders. Only after the Karnataka High Court rapped the government on Wednesday after hearing a PIL has the government issued an order banning inter-district (Karnataka) and intra-district (Ramanagaram) movement of persons and vehicles for the purpose of participating in the padayatra. The Leader of Opposition has announced that Congress will abide by the court’s decision. sharath.srivatsa@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/political-heat-over-a-padayatra/article64950823.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:34 IST,||Talking to Russia||The Geneva talks between the United States and Russia were, not surprisingly, inconclusive. It was practically impossible for the former Cold War rivals to iron out their differences in the first round at a time when tensions are running high in Europe, especially over Ukraine. But the fact that hurried talks were held between the two powers and they agreed to continue the negotiations to discuss both the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s expansion and Russia’s troop mobilisation is itself a welcome step. The U.S. was actually forced to come to the table by President Vladimir Putin, who has amassed about 100,000 troops along Russia’s border with Ukraine. The Kremlin has also issued a host of demands to the West that sought to stop NATO’s further expansion into Eastern Europe and roll back the alliance’s military presence to 1990 levels. Now, the deadlock is that the U.S. has publicly said that it will not shut NATO’s door on potential future members. And nobody knows what Mr. Putin would do if the talks collapse. By forcing the U.S. to come to the table to discuss NATO’s expansion — an issue which Moscow has been complaining about for years — Mr. Putin has scored the first victory. But it would be naive of him to believe that the Russian demands would be accepted by the West without any resistance. So, the challenge for both sides is to find common ground. The source of Russia’s staunch opposition to NATO is its deep insecurity. After the disintegration of the Soviet Union, a substantially weakened Russian Federation saw NATO’s continued expansion into Eastern Europe as a violation of the post-Cold War consensus. Russia responded militarily in 2008 when Georgia was considering joining NATO, and in 2014, it took Crimea from Ukraine after the pro-Russian regime in Kiev was toppled by protests. On the other side, the West sees Russia as an aggressive, abrasive and destabilising giant that breathes down the neck of Europe. In hindsight, both NATO’s expansions and Russia’s military responses are driving instability in Eastern Europe. Finding a solution to the crisis will not be easy. It depends on whether both sides are able to get out of their Cold War mentality and build mutual confidence in bilateral relations. For all practical purposes, Ukraine and Georgia, both faced with separatist conflicts, cannot join NATO in the foreseeable future. NATO could use this reality as a policy promise to calm Russian nerves. Mr. Putin, on the other hand, is also in a tough spot. Russia is still battling with the economic costs of his Crimea annexation, which has left a wide chasm in Russia’s ties with Europe. Further aggression against Ukraine might serve his tactical interests but could deal a deadly blow to any plan to bring the Russia-Europe ties back on track. A war is in nobody’s interests. Russia and the West should keep that in mind when they sit down for the next round of talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/talking-to-russia/article38262893.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:35 IST,||Mujib becomes Bangla Prime Minister||Banga Bandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rehman stepped down as the nation’s first President and assumed office as Prime Minister to-day in a chain of developments underlining the democratic character of the Government of Bangla Desh. In a 90-minute ceremony this evening in the palatial lounge of Banga Bhavan, the entire structure of the Government went through vital and significant changes in the presence of members of diplomatic missions in the national capital, a large number of members of the Constituent Assembly and the world press. Mr. Justice Abu Sayeed Choudhury, who was leader of Bangla Desh delegation to the U.N. and Bangla Desh’s roving Ambassador, was sworn in as the nation’s second President after Banga Bandhu’s resignation was formally announced by the Cabinet Secretary, Mr. H.Z. Imam. The new 12-member Cabinet headed by Sheikh Mujibur Rehman included all the outgoing members of the Ministry led by Mr. Tajuddin Ahmed, besides inducting the former acting President Syed Nazrul Islam and Dr. Kamal Hussain, Constitutional Adviser and close associate of Banga Bandhu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mujib-becomes-bangla-prime-minister/article38262901.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:34 IST,||Letters||Election time will always be ‘harvest time’ for politicians to grab possible inducements and power by hopping from one party to the other. Till now, it was the Indian National Congress that was the most affected party, with the many resignations and the defections of senior leaders and talented partymen from its fold. It appears now that even the BJP is not immune from this (Page 1, January 12). One thing which is clear is that people, possibly even in Uttar Pradesh, are looking for change. Is it also a signal that they are tired of divisive politics? Voters are now much wiser and cannot be deceived anymore by empty slogans. They want a government that cares for people’s welfare and not one that solely cares about its own agenda. D. Sethuraman, Chennai The allegations that the OBC leader, Swami Prasad Maurya, has made deserve to be reviewed as they concern a large section of people. The COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent economic turmoil could reflect on the performance of the ruling party. As such, it is a litmus test for the Yogi Adityanath government. Coming back to Mr. Maurya, he should have resigned a long time ago. That he enjoyed the spoils of ministership and timed his resignation before the elections must cast aspersions on his integrity and strategy. Govardhana Myneedu, Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh This appears to be a case of “Operation Kamal on Kamal”! For the BJP which has been accused of orchestrating defections, it seems to be a case of history repeating itself and reaping what it sows. Aditya Jha, Bengaluru Defections before and immediately after elections are making a mockery of Indian democracy. This is a malady that is growing in strength across India. The judiciary has to take note of this and nudge the executive to put an end to this dangerous ‘hobby’ of our politicians. How long can the electorate watch this silently? It is an act of misgovernance by unethical politicians. To empathise with such politicians is unacceptable. It is time to say enough is enough. M.V. Nagavender Rao, Hyderabad   The Election Commission of India may have stopped political rallies till January 15, but there have still been brazen utterances by the political parties, an example being the ‘ 80 vs 20’ jibe. It is baffling how political parties across the spectrum can afford to play with the sentiments of people when many parts of the country are apprehensive about the effects of a third wave of COVID-19. Arguably, it is that time and moment when our people’s representatives must act like “frontline warriors” rather than “political warriors”. G. Ramasubramanyam, Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh   In Kazakhstan, with the protestors being labelled as terrorists and being dealt with brute force with the help of Russian troops on the one hand and the denial of talks by the Kazakh President on the other, the unfolding crisis in the region has the potential to make it the ‘New Middle East’. As the region is both oil and resource rich, the West is sure to be doing much to counter Russia and perhaps China. Abdul Rahman, Faizabad, Uttar Pradesh   When cases of COVID-19 are rising, the decision of the Tamil Nadu government to permit jallikattu with ‘restrictions’ is strange. In India, rules are mostly followed only in breach. How will there be social distancing when it comes to bull-tamers and spectators? If jallikattu can be permitted, why are there restrictions imposed on places of worship and even examinations? The different yardsticks, especially in these trying times, only end up baffling the discerning. Is the move on jallikattu to fortify a certain votebank? V. Lakshmanan, Tirupur, Tamil Nadu This is a ‘sport’ where many end up critically injured. This is also a time when there is a health crisis. Is it necessary to conduct jallikattu this year? There are other sporting events where our youth can exhibit their muscle power. Mani Nataraajan, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/letters/article64950829.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||TCS Q3 net profit rises 12.3% on clients’ long-term investments||Tata Consultancy Services said consolidated net profit for the third quarter ended December grew 12.3% to Rs. 9,769 crore backed by strong broad-based growth across verticals and markets. Revenue grew 16.3% to Rs. 48,885 crore. TCS, India’s largest IT services company, said it had hit the $25-billion revenue mark on a calendar year basis on the back of strong growth over the last four quarters . The board recommended an interim dividend of Rs. 7 per share. It also approved a proposal for buy-back of shares amounting to Rs. 18,000 crore at Rs. 4,500 per share. “While mapping out [customers’] innovation and growth journeys, we are also helping them execute new-age operating model transformations to support those journeys,” said MD and CEO Rajesh Gopinathan. CFO Samir Seksaria said sustained investments in talent had helped ‘power strong growth despite a challenging supply environment’. “We have exercised various operating levers in Q3 to mitigate the higher costs and manage our employee expense,” he added. During the quarter, the company added a net of 28,238 employees and attrition stood at 15.3%. All industry verticals grew in the ‘mid to high teens’. Growth was led by the retail and CPG (20.4%), BFSI (17.9%) and the manufacturing vertical (18.3%) verticals. Among major markets, growth was led by North America (18%) and Continental Europe (17.5%). The quarter witnessed a clear trend of enterprises investing in technology initiatives for longer term growth, TCS said. The momentum for cloud adoption had continued unabated, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tcs-q3-net-profit-rises-123-on-clients-long-term-investments/article64950484.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||Infosys Q3 profit rises 12%, firm raises revenue estimate||Infosys raised revenue growth estimates for the current fiscal to the 19.5-20% range on the back of a strong set of third quarter numbers, robust deal pipeline and a sound demand environment. This compares with the earlier projection of 16.5-17.5% revenue growth. The tech major reported a 12% rise in net profit to Rs. 5,809 crore from a year earlier. Revenue rose 23% to Rs. 31,867 crore. “[The] overall demand environment remains strong,” said Salil Parekh, CEO and MD. “Our deal pipeline is larger than anytime we have seen in the past. We expect healthy technology spend to continue with large enterprises progressing on digital transformations.” Infosys said it continued to see momentum in the large-deal space with total contract value at $2.53 billion in the quarter. In the third quarter, the company reported an operating margin of 23.5%, 10 basis points lower than the previous quarter while it maintained operating margin guidance of 22-24% for the fiscal. “It seems Infosys is getting some pricing benefits,” said Ashis Dash, research analyst, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas “The company revised its revenue growth guidance, which is higher than our expectations.’’ Infosys reported employee attrition of 25.5%, 540 basis points higher than the previous quarter. It pointed out that attrition was an industry-wide issue. CFO Nilanjan Roy said: “We have seen some stabilisation in Q3 attrition and hope to see improvement in the coming quarters. We... have increased our global graduate hiring programme to over 55,000... in FY22.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infosys-q3-profit-rises-12-firm-raises-revenue-estimate/article64950483.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||Wipro Q3 net flat at Rs. 2,969 cr.||Wipro posted a net profit of Rs. 2,969 crore for the December quarter compared with Rs. 2,968 crore reported in the year-earlier period, indicating little profit growth The tech services firm’s reported third-quarter numbers were largely in line with expectations though the momentum decelerated a bit in terms of revenue growth. In Q3, gross revenues increased 29.6% year-on-year (YoY) to Rs. 20,313 crore ($2.7 billion)while on a sequential basis it rose 3.3%. Deal bookings remained robust and new business strategy, improved execution and a strong deal pipeline brought in growth, according to CEO and MD, Thierry Delaporte. IT services, which contributes more than 95% of Wipro’s total income, stood at $2.64 billion, a 2.3% rise sequentially and 27.5% YoY growth. For the fourth quarter, Wipro expects its revenues to be in the range of $2.692 billion to $2.745 billion, which will translate into a sequential growth of 2% to 4%, as per the company. “We have a broad-based growth in Q3,” said Mr. Delaporte. “Our order booking and pipeline remain very strong. Our deal wins are also accelerating. We don’t see any fundamental change in the market going ahead. That is the reason we have given strong guidance for Q4.” Attrition, a challenge Wipro’s attrition stood at 22.7% in Q3 or 220 basis points higher than the last quarter. “We have stabilised our attrition as the rate of attrition has come down. We expect to see a moderation in Q4. As far as hiring of freshers is concerned, we are looking to hire almost 30,000 freshers in FY23,” said Chief HRO Saurabh Govil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wipro-q3-net-flat-at-rs-2969-cr/article64950482.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||Mercedes to unveil 10 new models in India in 2022||Mercedes-Benz India on Wednesday committed to introduce 10 new models in the current year as it aims for a double-digit compounded annual growth rate in the next two years. The firm said sales grew 42.5% year-on-year to 11,242 units in 2021. The cars will span Maybach, AMG and EQ brands in 2022, including the Maybach S-Class and the locally-produced Mercedes-Benz EQS electric sedan. “[Year] 2022 will be another milestone year as we aim to lead the luxury EV segment by expanding our EV portfolio with the debut of the first-ever all-electric luxury sedan from Mercedes-Benz, the EQS,” Martin Schwenk, MD and CEO, Mercedes-Benz India, said. He added the firm had decided to start the local production of the EQS and is confident the start of local production will be pivotal in driving the expansion of luxury EVs in the market. “We will see significant growth, we will see double-digit growth. We have very strong order intake. Now, whether we will hit the numbers of pre-pandemic years, will also depend on how the overall supply chain situation will develop. “But, I am confident we will see a significant increase and we will be getting to levels of good years before,” he told reporters, adding that the company presently has an order bank of over 3,000 units. He, however, added that supply chain constraints were unlikely to improve over the next couple of months. “I think the stability of the supply chain will also take a significant amount of this year to get really stable again,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mercedes-to-unveil-10-new-models-in-india-in-2022/article64950476.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||‘Credit demand points to private capex revival’||Credit growth turned buoyant in the third quarter of this fiscal by a wide margin at Rs. 3.5 lakh crore, pointing to corporates’ plans for capital expenditure on capacity expansion across sectors, SBI Research said in a report on Wednesday. Credit growth across banks, which had weakened since FY20, picked up and was at 7.3% till December 17, 2021 — a tad lower than the pre-pandemic level of 7.5% in December 2019. Deposit growth, which had consistently been in double digits since the pandemic began and was at 12.3% in March, declined to 9.5% in December — lower than the pre-pandemic level of 10%, SBI Research said. The third quarter saw incremental credit-deposit ratio at 133 as against only 2 in the first half. Incremental deposits dipped by Rs. 2.2 lakh crore; net credit sales rose by Rs. 3.5 lakh crore, said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser at the State Bank of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/credit-demand-points-to-private-capex-revival/article64950481.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||Vodafone Idea, Tata Tele won’t become PSUs: DoT||The Centre on Wednesday said the three telecom companies, namely Vodafone Idea Ltd. (VIL), Tata Teleservices Ltd. and Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) Ltd. (TTML), which have opted to convert certain statutory dues into equity shares in favour of the government, will not become public sector undertakings. “These three companies will not become PSUs. [They] will continue to be managed as professionally-run, private companies,” the Department of Telecom (DoT) clarified in a statement, adding that the government could sell these shares at appropriate time and thereby receive the amounts due. On the impact of the move on the industry, the DoT said the government’s reforms and support in times of a pandemic means that companies will be able to sustain their business. Meanwhile, MD and CEO Ravinder Takkar said the government will not take a seat on the board nor will it manage VIL. On fundraising, he said, “we hope to be back shortly to announce some of the fundraising process very, very soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vodafone-idea-tata-tele-wont-become-psus-dot/article64950477.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||TCS to buy back shares for Rs. 18,000 cr.||The board of directors of Tata Consultancy Services Ltd (TCS) has approved a proposal to buy back up to four crore equity shares for an aggregate amount not exceeding Rs. 18,000 crore, being 1.08% of the total paid-up equity share capital, at Rs. 4,500 each. The buy-back is proposed to be made on a proportionate basis under the tender offer route, the company said in a filing. As on January 7, promoter companies held 72.19% stake in the company. The buy-back does not include transaction costs, applicable taxes and other related expenses, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tcs-to-buy-back-shares-for-rs-18000-cr/article38262869.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||‘General fiscal deficit in FY22 likely at 10.4%’||Rating agency ICRA on Wednesday said it expects a miss in the disinvestment target to cause the government’s fiscal deficit to print at Rs. 16.6 lakh crore, or 7.1% of the GDP in FY2022, overshooting the budgeted target. With the State governments’ fiscal deficit projected at a relatively modest 3.3% of the GDP in FY2022, the general government fiscal deficit is estimated at about 10.4% of the GDP, the agency said. In the base case for FY2023, it sees the government’s fiscal deficit moderating to Rs. 15.2 lakh crore, or 5.8% of the GDP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/general-fiscal-deficit-in-fy22-likely-at-104/article38262868.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||RailTel to build ‘edge data’ centres||State-owned RailTel on Wednesday said it will set up several ‘edge data centres’ in railway premises across 102 locations in public-private partnership mode. The project is expected to attract investments of more than Rs. 500 crore. “The major benefit of an edge data centre is the quick delivery of services with minimal latency,” the company said in a statement. “The move will accelerate the pace of digital transformation and efficient digital delivery in rural and semi-rural areas.” It added the process to establish these centres had been set in motion with the floating of ‘expression of interest’ by the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/railtel-to-build-edge-data-centres/article38262875.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||‘Textile exports rose 41% in April-Dec.’||Textile exports grew 41 % during April-December 2021 over the year-earlier period. A press release from the Ministry of Textiles said the 2020-2021 fiscal saw a deceleration in textile exports as the pandemic had disrupted supply chain and demand. However, the 2021-2022 financial year shows signs of recovery. During April-December 2021, the total exports of textiles, apparel and handicrafts were worth $29.8 billion compared with $ 21.2 for the same period of the previous year. The exports were higher by 14.6% compared with April-December 2019, which was the pre-pandemic period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/textile-exports-rose-41-in-april-dec/article38262870.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||Ashok Leyland signs MoU with Aidrivers on autonomous vehicles||Aidrivers, a global specialist in AI-enabled autonomous solutions across industrial mobility and commercial vehicle manufacturer Ashok Leyland have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for the development of clean, greener autonomous vehicles, the firms said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ashok-leyland-signs-mou-with-aidrivers-on-autonomous-vehicles/article38262876.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,||We need to be more consistent, says captain Mithali||India skipper Mithali Raj has stressed on the need to be “more consistent” in the areas the team worked on over the last one year, besides talking about the scope for improvement in her own batting ahead of the Women’s World Cup in March and April. To cap off the “best possible” preparation for the ODI World Cup, India will play a five-match series against host New Zealand from February 11. The World Cup will begin in the same country on March 4. India introduced many new faces in England and Australia. The likes of Sneh Rana, who made a successful comeback to the team, Meghna Singh, Yastika Bhatia and Richa Ghosh were tried in those two series. Top-order batter Yastika, wicketkeeper-batter Richa and pacer Meghna made their ODI debuts Down Under and all of them made an impact. Though India lost the three-match series 1-2, it was able to push the mighty Australians to the limit. Speaking from Vijaywada where she is training, Mithali looked back at the positives from the two tours and also said what her side needs to do in New Zealand. “We will look to fix our combinations for the World Cup during the ODIs against New Zealand and try out a few compositions and also get a little more consistent in the things that worked for us in the last year,” she said. Mithali felt the team had enough fire-power in middle order now, thanks to Richa and Pooja, while swing bowlers Meghna and uncapped Renuka Singh have been welcome additions to the pace department. Potential “The lower middle order contributed in Australia and we would want it to be a little more consistent. They have the potential and all-rounders like Pooja and Sneh have done well in England and Australia. Openers Smriti Mandhana and Shafali Verma will have to play a big role if India hopes to do well in the World Cup while Mithali will be expected to pile on the big runs in the middle order. Strike rate The veteran recorded four 50-plus scores in the six games in England and Australia but her strike rate, especially early in the innings, became a talking point. “There are areas that as a player you feel you need to work on, no matter how many years you put in at that level. Because there are always teams and bowlers trying to come up with strategies and you need to counter that. “There are a few things that I have seen (from my innings) in England and Australia that I can really work on.” On her plans, Mithali said: “Let’s focus on the World Cup, the next two months are going to be crucial.”  Let’s focus on the World Cup, the next two months are going to be crucial||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-need-to-be-more-consistent-says-mithali/article38263186.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:39 IST,||Saina advances as opponent retires with injury||A understandably-rusty Saina Nehwal fought off a game-point to clinch the only completed game of her campaign-opener in the $400,000 India Open badminton here on Wednesday. Saina, seeded four, was not required to do much after bouncing back from 19-20 against Tereza Svabikova to win 22-20. Trailing 0-1 in the second game, the player from Czech Republic retired due to excruciating back pain. The 25th-ranked Saina was happy to get some serious practice against an opponent ranked a distant 142. Despite leading 7-2 and 16-10, Saina could not prevent her rival from catching at 17 and then moving ahead by a point thrice to reach game point. Saina got out of trouble with some clever net-play and added the last two points to take the game. At the K.D. Jadhav Hall, where the first-round matches ended after two days of action, the percentage of an already-large Indian presence in the men’s singles draw improved after Lakshya Sen, H.S. Prannoy and Mithun Manjunath advanced at the expense of overseas rivals. In women’s doubles, second seeds Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy unexpectedly dropped a game to young compatriots Janani Ananthakumar and Divya R. Balasubramanian. For the second seeds in men’s doubles Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty, the passage was smooth against Ravi and Chirag Arora. However, seventh seeds Krishna Prasad and Vishunuvardhan Goud lost.  Important first-round results (Indians unless stated):   Men: Mithun Manjunath bt Arnaud Merkle (Fra) 21-16, 15-21, 21-10; H.S. Prannoy bt Pablo Abian (Esp) 21-14, 21-17; Lakshya Sen bt Adham Hatem Elgamal (Egy) 21-15, 21-7; Ng Tze Yong (Mas) bt Tommy Sugiarto (Ina) 21-16, 14-21, 21-5; Nihat Nguyen (Ire) bt Ajay Jayaram 19-21, 21-7, 21-14. Doubles: Hee Hong Kai Terry & Loh Kean Hean (Sgp) bt Krishna Prasad & Vishnuvardhan Goud 21-16, 21-16; Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Chirag Shetty bt Ravi & Chirag Arora 21-14, 21-10.   Women: Akarshi Kashyap bt Anura Prabhudesai 21-14, 21-14; Malvika Bansod bt Samiya Imad Farooqui 21-18, 21-9; Saina Nehwal bt Tereza Svabikova (Cze) 22-20, 1-0 (retd.). Doubles: Ashwini Ponnappa & N. Sikki Reddy bt Janani Ananthakumar & Divya R. Balasubramanian 21-7, 19-21, 21-13 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saina-advances-as-opponent-retires-with-injury/article64950412.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:39 IST,||Kohli among the greats: Procter||A formidable all-rounder in his time, an impact cricketer and a game changer, Mike Procter is among the golden greats of the game. His Test career was cut short by the South African government’s then apartheid policies — he played all his seven Tests against Australia, knocking over 41 batsmen and scoring 226 runs. In First Class cricket, he featured a lot in the English county. Procter, generating extreme pace, took out a mind-boggling 1417 batters at 19.53 and scored a whopping 21936 runs at 36.01.  The South African legend spoke to The Hindu in an exclusive conversation on Wednesday. What are his thoughts on a transitional South African team? Procter answered, “The side has shown character chasing down 240 against India at the Wanderers, an above par score to chase on that pitch.”  Procter added, “And the skipper Dean Elgar is a gutsy player. He knows his strengths and limitations. Somewhere his character rubs on this team.” The South African legend added, “They are taking on an Indian team that has defeated Australia in Australia. And yet this has been a hard fought series.” Asked about Kagiso Rabada’s 50th Test, Procter said, “He’s strong, got great stamina, can move the ball and he’s fast and hostile. He can change matches. He will play in a lot more Tests.” Queried about tall left-armer Marco Jansen’s emergence, Procter said, “He has the left-armer’s angle and bounce. Very promising.” Procter was sure about who the best Indian batter was. “It’s your captain. Virat (Kohli) has been a magnificent player. You can see this in the way he goes about his business. He’s among the greats.” And Jasprit Bumrah has caught his attention. “He’s got a unique action, has bounce and movement. India now has great depth in its pace attack. Someone like Mohammed Shami is so good.” Travelling to his playing days, Procter revealed Viv Richards, Graeme Pollock and Sunil Gavaskar were the toughest trio he bowled at. “Richards was destructive, Pollock could play you so easily and Gavaskar’s bat, he played for Somerset, was always broad when I bowled at him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-among-the-greats-procter/article64950405.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:39 IST,||‘I focused on what I had to do’||A fired-up Jasprit Bumrah’s five-wicket haul could not have come at a more opportune time for India. It has arrived in the series decider. And Bumrah had returned to the venue where he made his Test debut in 2018. Bumrah led the fightback by the Indian bowlers after the batters had posted 223. He said, “I was just focusing on what I had to do. Bowling the right length. Following a process. The success is a byproduct of a routine. “The outside noise does not bother me. Some days you get wickets, some days you don’t.” He said captain Virat Kohli always backs his bowlers. “He brings with him a lot of energy.” On a possible target, Bumrah said, “There is no magic number. It is a new ball wicket. Once the ball gets old, it becomes easier for batting. We are looking at some sizable partnerships. Right now a lot of wear and tear has not happened.” Zeroing in on the pitch at Newlands, Bumrah said, “It has truer bounce than the one at Jo’burg. If you do not get wickets with the new ball, it can get difficult.” “I think his two quick wickets with the older ball when things were not going well for us was very important,” Bumrah said about Mohammed Shami. For South Africa, Keegan Petersen impressed with an innings of 72. The top-order batter said, “We were a little short with the bat in terms of the runs. We wanted to get a good lead. That was the plan.” On batting at No. 3 (he walked in at No. 4 on Wednesday after nightwatchman Keshav Maharaj), he said, “It is challenging. I like batting at No. 3. We have two outstanding openers. Unfortunately, Markram is going through a rough time.” About facing this Indian pace attack, he said, “Extremely challenging. You have to be at the top of your game otherwise they will expose you. One of the best bowling attacks in the world.” On the host’s plans for day three, he said, “If we get two or three wickets in the morning, it would be the key.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-focused-on-what-i-had-to-do-bumrah/article64950408.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||Harnoor on song||Opener Harnoor Singh's unbeaten 100 negated Cooper Connolly's 117 as India mauled Australia by nine wickets in a warm-up game ahead of the Under-19 World Cup here on Tuesday. Australia posted 268 in 49.2 overs. Hanooor led India's charge with his century that had 16 fours. He was well supported by Shaik Rasheed, who scored 72. Both players retired hurt but captain Yash Dull (50 not out) took the side past the finish line with 15 balls to spare.  The scores: Australia 268 in 49.2 overs (Cooper Connolly 117, Tobias Snell 35, Rajvardhan Hangargekar 3/53, Ravi Kumar 4/34) lost to India 269/1 in 47.3 overs (Harnoor Singh 100 retd. hurt, Shaik Rasheed 72 retd. hurt, Yash Dhull 50 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harnoor-on-song/article64950472.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:35 IST,||Antibes claims the Byerley Turk Stakes||Arjun Mangalorkar-trained Antibes (Antony up) won the Byerley Turk Stakes, the main event of the races held here on Wednesday (Jan 12). The winner is owned by Diamond Band Racing Syndicate Pvt. Ltd. rep by. Mr. Shiven Surendranath, Mr. Kersi H. Vachha, Mr. Haider Soomar & M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing LLP. 1. PREMIUM SPIRIT STAKES (Div. III) , (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 5-y-o & over: QUICK SHOTS (P. Surya) 1, Altair (Prabhakaran) 2, Elite Agent (Angad) 3 and Song And Dance (Shreyas Singh) 4. Not run: Sir Jersey. 1-1/4, 1-3/4 and 4-3/4. 1m, 14.88s. Rs. 51 (w), 21, 13 and 18 (p), SHP: 35, THP: 49, FP: 195, Q: 214, Trinella: 1,138 and 460, Exacta: 21,068 (carried over). Favourite: Altair. Owners: Mr. Nitin Himmatmal Jain & Mr. Jatin Laxmikant Trivedi. Trainer: B. Prithviraj.  2. DANCING FOUNTAIN STAKES (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 5-y-o & over: LUCKY CHANCE (Akshay K) 1, General Patton (S. John) 2, Smithsonian (Vishal Bunde) 3 and Nostradamus (M. Prabhakaran) 4. Not run: Skyfire and Lightning Attack. 2-1/4, 1-3/4 and 10. 1m, 13.33s. Rs. 17 (w), 15, 10 and 13 (p), SHP: 27, THP: 34, FP: 48, Q: 23, Trinella: 88 and 43, Exacta: 569 and 479. Favourite: Lucky Chance. Owner: Mr. H. Thambuswamy. Trainer: S. Dominic.  3. PREMIUM SPIRIT STAKES (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 5-y-o & over: SENSATIONAL GREY (Darshan) 1, Unyielding (Aakash Chavan) 2, Lifeisamiracle (Arvind Kumar) 3 and Areca Angel (Rajesh Kumar) 4. 1-1/4, 2-3/4 and 4-1/2. 1m, 13.56s. Rs. 35 (w), 19, 14 and 42 (p), SHP: 40, THP: 56, FP: 125, Q: 80, Trinella: 1,690 and 2,172, Exacta: 5,203 and 1,115. Favourite: Sensational Grey. Owner: Mr. H.K. Lakshman Gowda. Trainer: V. Lokanath.  4. GODOLPHIN BARB STAKES (1,600m), rated 20 to 45: SETAREH (Shane Gray) 1, Tyto Alba (Rajesh Kumar) 2, Antinori (Arshad) 3 and Royal Thunder (Dhanu Singh) 4. 2, 1 and 1-1/2. 1m, 40.33s. Rs. 12 (w), 11, 17 and 19 (p), SHP: 49, THP: 47, FP: 68, Q: 58, Trinella: 555 and 430, Exacta: 1,895 and 542. Favourite: Setareh. Owner: Sarainaga Racing Pvt Ltd. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  5. BLACK CAVIAR STAKES (1,100m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): SHABELLE (Akshay K) 1, Star Glory (Kiran Rai) 2, Ravishing Form (Suraj) 3 and Roudy (Darshan) 4. Snk, 1/2 and 3-1/4. 1m, 07.73s. Rs. 18 (w), 11, 76 and 12 (p), SHP: 387, THP: 46, FP: 1,726, Q: 603, Trinella: 1,174 and 284, Exacta: 50,790 (carried over). Favourite: Shabelle. Owners: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd & Mr. Daulat Chhabria. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  6. BYERLEY TURK STAKES (1,600m), rated 40 to 65, 5-y-o & over: ANTIBES (Antony) 1, Garamond (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Green Channel (S. John) 3 and Towering Presence (Akshay K) 4. 1-1/2, Shd and 6. 1m, 37.64s. Rs. 34 (w), 17, 12 and 44 (p), SHP: 35, THP: 77, FP: 78, Q: 59, Trinella: 690 and 398, Exacta: 2,969 and 1,163. Favourite: Garamond. Owners: Diamond Band Racing Syndicate Pvt. Ltd. rep by. Mr. Shiven Surendranath, Mr. Kersi H. Vachha, Mr. Haider Soomar & M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing LLP. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  7. DANCING FOUNTAIN STAKES (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 5-y-o & over: BLACK COFFEE (A. Qureshi) 1, Baltimore (S. John) 2, Embosom (S. Shareef) 3 and Queen Regnant (Ashok Kumar) 4. 6-1/2, 2-1/2 and Nose. 1m, 12.94s. Rs. 23 (w), 12, 13 and 23 (p), SHP: 35, THP: 43, FP: 109, Q: 45, Trinella: 335 and 176, Exacta: 2,649 and 1,845. Favourite: Black Coffee.  Owner: Mr. Saurabh Jetli. Trainer: Neil Darashah. 8. PREMIUM SPIRIT STAKES (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 5-y-o & over: CODE OF HONOUR (Shane Gray) 1, Impelling Power (Akshay K) 2, Chisox (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Habanero (Shreyas Singh) 4. Hd, 1-3/4 and 3/4. 1m 14.61s. Rs. 31 (w), 17, 17 and 10 (p), SHP: 36, THP: 64, FP: 136, Q: 84, Trinella: 202 and 57, Exacta: 3,236 and 5,547. Favourite: Chisox.  Owners: Mr. P.J. Vazifdar, Mr. Firoze Adi Vakil, Mr. M. Rishad & Mr. Prem F. Vazifdar. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan. Jackpot: Rs. 654 (69 tkts.); Runner-up: 72 (268 tkts.); Treble (i): 77 (43 tkts.); (ii): 311 (18 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/antibes-claims-the-byerley-turk-stakes/article38262878.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:10 IST,||Arsenal can still attract elite players: Arteta||Mikel Arteta is adamant that Arsenal can still attract the world’s best players despite its struggles in recent years as rumours persist of a move for Fiorentina forward Dusan Vlahovic. Arsenal manager Arteta said on Wednesday he would not comment on transfer rumours but told reporters that the north London club remained an attractive destination for elite players. “Historically this club has always been targeting the best players in the world and the best players in the world were always interested to come here and I can say that situation hasn’t changed,” he said. “Every time I have spoken to any player, they were so willing to come. I haven’t faced any other situation and that’s one of our biggest powers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arsenal-can-still-attract-elite-players-arteta/article64950590.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:39 IST,||New franchises to submit signings||The two new franchises in the Indian Premier League (IPL) have been asked to submit their pre-auction signings by Jan. 22. A day after the IPL Governing Council formally approved Lucknow and Ahmedabad as the ninth and the tenth IPL franchises, the IPL executives on Wednesday communicated the deadline to the promoters of both the franchises. As a result, each franchise will have to submit names of a maximum of three players by 5 p.m. on Jan. 22. The Lucknow promoters are understood to have offered K.L. Rahul the captaincy, Hardik Pandya is the front-runner to lead the Ahmedabad franchise. The biggest tussle, however, is over Rashid Khan, who is being chased by both the teams. Venues for WI series Meanwhile, Ahmedabad and Lucknow have been shortlisted as the possible hubs for India’s limited-overs series against the West Indies, scheduled from Feb. 6 to 20. According to the initial itinerary, Ahmedabad (Feb. 6), Jaipur (Feb. 9) and Kolkata (Feb. 12) were scheduled to host the ODIs, while Cuttack (Feb. 15), Visakhapatnam (Feb. 18) and Thiruvananthapuram (Feb. 20) were to stage the T20Is. However, the COVID-19 surge has resulted in the BCCI deciding to prune the venues. At the moment, Lucknow has been shortlisted to stage the ODIs, while Ahmedabad will host T20Is. In case the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh result in logistic challenges, all the games will be played in Ahmedabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-franchises-to-submit-signings/article38263137.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,||Kerala Blasters back on top||The dream run continues for Kerala Blasters at the ISL. The men from Kochi defeated Odisha FC 2-0 at Vasco’s Tilak Maidan Stadium on Wednesday night to extend their unbeaten streak to 10. And they are back at the top of the table, too. They have 20 points from 11 games, one more than Jamshedpur, whose stay at the top proved as short as it possibly could be. Odisha remains eighth with 13 points from 10 matches. On a night when the Blasters stars stayed away from the scorers’ list, Nishu Kumar and Harmanjot Khabra struck to ensure their team got three points, though the primary roles assigned to them were away from the frontline. Confidence If Blasters could record a comfortable victory even when the likes of Alvaro Vazquez, Jorge Pereyra Diaz, Sahal Samad and Adrian Luna do not score, that shows the kind of confidence and depth of this team this season. This match was decided in the opening half, in which both the sides had begun a bit cagily. But once Blasters took the lead in the 28th minute, with Nishu angling his powerful right-footer beautifully off a fine ball from Luna into the box, the passes and the flow was back. It was then a struggle for Odisha to minimise the damage till the half-time whistle. It had to concede one more goal, though. That too was set up by Luna, the Uruguayan midfielder who has been controlling the game for Blasters in admirable fashion this season. His corner-kick was headed past the Odisha custodian Arshdeep Singh by Khabra. In the second half, the Odisha men did create some chances, but there was no comeback for them on this night, like in their last match, against defending champion Mumbai City.  The result: Odisha 0 lost to Kerala Blasters 2 (Nishu Kumar 28, Harmanjot Khabra 40) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-blasters-roars-back-to-the-top/article64950490.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,||18 male boxers test COVID positive||At least 18 members at the National men’s boxing camp at NIS Patiala have tested positive for COVID-19. Boxers Ashish Chaudhary, Sachin, Akash and Mohammed Etash Khan, chief coach Narendra Rana and assistant coaches C.A. Kuttappa and M. Suranjoy Singh are among those who have been infected, as per a list shared by a source. Boxing Federation of India (BFI) secretary Hemanta Kalita confirmed the development. “Some members at the National camp have tested positive and they have been put in isolation. However, the camp will go on as per the schedule,” said Kalita. Altogether 63 boxers and 27 support staff are part of the men’s National camp at Patiala. Kowli suspended Meanwhile, according to another source, former BFI secretary and present Maharashtra association president Jay Kowli has been temporarily suspended from all activities on the grounds of “some irregularities.” The BFI executive committee took the decision on Monday on the basis of a recommendation made by a disciplinary committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/18-male-boxers-test-covid-positive/article38263239.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,||Savita to lead India in women’s Asia Cup||Experienced goalkeeper Savita will lead India at the upcoming women’s Asia Cup in Muscat as Hockey India named a 18-member squad for the event on Wednesday, including 16 players who featured in the Tokyo Olympics. Since regular skipper Rani Rampal is recovering from an injury in Bengaluru, Savita will be at the helm for the tournament, scheduled between January 21 and 28. Experienced defender Deep Grace Ekka will be Savita’s deputy. India is in Pool A along with Japan, Malaysia and Singapore. It will open the title defence against Malaysia on the opening day and will next play Japan on Jan. 23 and Singapore on Jan. 24. The semifinals will be held on Jan. 26 and the final on Jan. 28. The top-four teams will qualify for the 2022 World Cup to be held in Spain and the Netherlands. “This is a very important tournament for us and I am happy with the team. It is a mix of some very experienced players along with talented youngsters who have shown great potential at the international level,” chief coach Janneke Schopman said. “Though we were a bit disappointed with how things panned out for us at the Asian Champions Trophy, we were able to return to the camp in SAI, Bengaluru and put in some good sessions of hockey to prepare well for this challenge.” In the previous edition in 2017, India downed China 5-4 in shootout to lift the title.  The team:   Goalkeepers: Savita (capt.), Rajani Etimarpu.   Defenders: Deep Grace Ekka, Gurjit Kaur, Nikki Pradhan, Udita.   Midfielders: Nisha, Sushila Chanu, Monika, Neha, Salima Tete, Jyoti, Navjot Kaur.   Forwards: Navneet Kaur, Lalremsiami, Vandana Katariya, Mariana Kujur, Sharmila Devi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/savita-to-lead-india-in-womens-asia-cup/article64950486.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:20 IST,||Chaposa Springs for feature event||Chaposa Springs, who has improved after her second to Priceless Romance, has an edge over her rivals in the A.M.M. Arunachalam Memorial Trophy (1,000m), the main event of the races to be held here on Thursday (Jan. 13). STAR BLAZE HANDICAP (1,100m), rated 00 to 25 (no whip), 2-00 p.m.: 1. Beauregard (10) Farhan Alam 60.5, 2. Obsession (4) Yash Narredu 59.5, 3. Priceless Treasure (5) Farid Ansari 59, 4. Stern Maiden (11) C. Umesh 59, 5. Sunday Warrior (3) Ramandeep 58.5, 6. Fantastic Hit (9) Indrajeet Kumar 58, 7. Driftwood Pacific (2) M.S. Deora 57, 8. Rajputana (1) B. Dharshan 56.5, 9. Azeria (7) Santosh G 56, 10. Autumn Shower (6) A. Ayaz Khan 55.5, 11. Vibrant Approach (8) S. Kamble 54.5 and 12. Star Chieftain (12) R. Manish 52.  1. OBSESSION, 2. STERN MAIDEN, 3. VIBRANT APPROACH SAY MY NAME HANDICAP (1,100m), 6-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Pinewood (12) Dhanu Singh 60, 2. Queens Hall (9) C. Umesh 59.5, 3. Beauty Of The Turf (5) Farid Ansari 57.5, 4. Fiat Justitia (3) Yash Narredu 57.5, 5. Henrietta (7) Santosh G 57, 6. Olympicduel (11) B. Dharshan 57, 7. Choir (10) M.S. Deora 53.5, 8. Rush More (6) A. Ayaz Khan 53.5, 9. Cineraria (8) Manikandan 53, 10. Demesthenes (4) P. Sai Kumar 51.5, 11. Renzaccio (2) Mubs Kareem 51.5 and 12. Uncle Sam (1) Ashhad Asbar 51.5.  1. FIAT JUSTITIA, 2. UNCLE SAM, 3. CHOIR MONTE CARLO HANDICAP (1,400m), maiden 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 45, 3-00: 1. Django (5) Yash Narredu 60, 2. Euphoric (11) C.S. Jodha 60, 3. Roka (1) Shane Gray 60, 4. Masterpiece (3) C. Brisson 59.5, 5. Wisaka (4) Ramandeep 59.5, 6. Conscious Keeper (2) P. Sai Kumar 59, 7. Royal Eminence (9) Nakhat Singh 59, 8. Mystical Magician (10) C. Umesh 58.5, 9. Abilitare (6) Shahar Babu 58, 10. Coup De Etait (8) Vishal Bunde 58 and 11. Reign Of Terror (7) B. Dharshan 58.  1. DJANGO, 2. ROKA, 3. EUPHORIC TRACK THUNDER HANDICAP (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (0 to 19 eligible), 3-30: 1. Bring It On (3) Shahar Babu 60, 2. Walking Brave (4) Yash Narredu 58.5, 3. Chaitanya (10) Gaurav Singh 58, 4. Dominant (6) Antony Raj 58, 5. King Roger (11) Ashhad Asbar 58, 6. Moresco (2) Shane Gray 55.5, 7. Wellington (12) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 8. War Chieftain (8) Dhunu Singh 53, 9. Wonderful Era (9) Nakhat Singh 53, 10. Golden Streak (7) Mubs Kareem 52.5, 11. Roses In My Dreams (1) Farhan Alam 50 and 12. Perfect Support (5) R. Manish 50.  1. KING ROGER, 2. WALKING BRAVE, 3. WELLINGTON A.M.M. ARUNACHALAM MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,000m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 4-00: 1. Admiral Shaw (5) C. Umesh 56, 2. Little Wonder (4) Dhanu Singh 56, 3. Still I Rise (8) Ashhad Asbar 56, 4. Terminator (3) Yash Narredu 56, 5. Versatile (9) Farhan Alam 56, 6. Chaposa Springs (7) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 7. Great Spirit (1) S. Kamble 54.5, 8. Royal Symbol (6) C. Brisson 54.5, 9. Shivaratri (2) Nikhil Naidu 54.5 and 10. Timeless Romance (10) Nakhat Singh 54.5.  1. CHAPOSA SPRINGS, 2. TERMINATOR, 3. TIMELESS ROMANCE TEASE ME HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 40 to 65 (no whip), 4-30: 1. Butterfly (3) C. Jaiswar 60.5, 2. Fun Storm (5) Farid Ansari 59, 3. Magnetism (1) Shahzad Alam 58, 4. Glenary (9) Gaurav Singh 57, 5. Empress Eternal (10) Nakhat Singh 56, 6. Krishaa’s Choice (8) B. Dharshan 56, 7. Embrace (4) M.S. Deora 54.5, 8. Ms Boss (6) Ashhad Asbar 54.5, 9. Lady Royal (7) Nikhil Naidu 54 and 10. Proud (2) Farhan Alam 52.5.  1. EMPRESS ETERNAL, 2. MS BOSS, 3. KRISHAA’S CHOICE BARBIDAS HANDICAP (1,000m), 6-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65, 5-00: 1. Magical Wish (8) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Mon General (6) A.M. Alam 60, 3. Storm Flag (7) Shaliyar Khan 60, 4. Judy Blue Eyes (2) Yash Narredu 59.5, 5. Star Waves (3) Koshi Kumar 59, 6. Celeritas (9) M.S. Deora 58, 7. Queen Of Venice (5) Inayat 56.5, 8. Namaqua (1) Ram Nandan 56 and 9. Wakanda (4) C. Umesh 54.  1. JUDY BLUE EYES, 2. MAGICAL WISH, 3. WAKANDA Jkt: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7; Mini Jkt: 4, 5, 6 & 7; Tr (i): 2, 3 & 4; (ii): 5, 6 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chaposa-springs-for-feature-event/article38263238.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,||Ministry okays additional financial aid for Bajrang||The Union Sports Ministry’s Mission Olympic Cell (MOC) has granted additional financial assistance to the tune of Rs. 1.76 lakh to wrestler Bajrang Punia to support his training in Moscow. Bajrang, a bronze medallist at the Tokyo Olympics, was earlier approved an amount of Rs. 7.53 lakh for a 26-day training camp ahead of a busy season. He is now being supported with an additional Rs. 1.76 lakh for his camp that started on December 27. Jitender and Anand Kumar accompanied Bajrang as sparring partner and physiotherapist respectively. International meets Bajrang is set to compete in international meets, including UWW Ranking events, Commonwealth Games in Birmingham as well as the Asian Games in Hangzhou, China. “I have to compete in ranking series in Italy and Turkey in February and then the Asian Championships in Mongolia in April. I’m going to give my best as I aim to change the colour of my medal in Paris 2024,” Bajrang said in a statement issued by the Sports Authority of India. Meanwhile, Greco-Roman wrestler Sunil Kumar has been approved an amount of Rs. 10.85 lakh towards a special training camp in Romania and Hungary with his sparring partner and coach. Sunil, who is a part of TOPS, will use the foreign exposure trip to prepare for the upcoming United World Wrestling Ranking events. Ghangas in TOPS Judoka Yash Ghangas has been included in the development group in TOPS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ministry-okays-additional-financial-aid-for-bajrang/article64950493.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,||Southampton drubs Brentford||Southampton earned its biggest Premier League win of the season by beating Brentford 4-1 with the south-coast club’s new owner in attendance on Tuesday. Jan Bednarek, Armando Broja and Che Adams scored and Southampton added an own-goal from Brentford goalkeeper Alvaro Fernandez in a match rescheduled from December because of a COVID-19 outbreak in the Brentford squad. Brentford midfielder Vitaly Janelt’s goal cancelled out Bednarek’s fifth-minute header off James Ward-Prowse’s corner, but the home team went to halftime up 2-1 after the own-goal. Southampton’s win in front of new majority owner Dragan Solak moved the team to 11th place — two spots and one point above Brentford. Solak’s Sport Republic recently purchased the 80% stake that was held by Chinese businessman Gao Jisheng.  The results: Premier League: Southampton 4 (Bednarek 5, Fernandez 37-og, Broja 49, Adams 70) bt Brentford 1 (Janelt 23).   Serie A: Cagliari 2 (Pavoletti 71, Pereiro 90+4) bt Bologna 1 (Orsolini 54). On Monday: Torino 4 (Singo 19, Brekalo 23, 31, Sanabria 59) bt Fiorentina 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/southampton-drubs-brentford/article64950485.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,||Jabeur bests Kvitova, makes the last eight||Ons Jabeur advanced to the quarterfinals of the Sydney Tennis Classic by beating two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova 6-4, 6-4 on Wednesday in one of several warm-up tournaments for next week’s Australian Open. The seventh-seeded Jabeur had five aces and won 76% of her first-serve points to set up a match against fourth-seeded Anett Kontaveit. “I’ve been working a lot on myself and my mentality,” said Jabeur, who will be seeded ninth at the Australian Open. “Everyone knows if I decide to do something then I do it, and I am going with that mentality from now on.” Kontaviet advanced to the quarterfinals by beating Elena-Gabriela Ruse 6-3, 6-1. French Open champion Barbora Krejcikova had to wait out a rain delay before beating Jaqueline Cristian 6-1, 7-5 in her first singles match of 2022. She will next play Caroline Garcia, who advanced after ninth-seeded Elena Rybakina withdrew from their second-round match because of an injured left thigh. Third-ranked Garbine Muguruza defeated Ekaterina Alexandrova 6-1, 7-6(4) to set up a quarterfinal match against Daria Kasatkina. Kasatkina backed up her win earlier this week over 2020 Australian Open champion Sofia Kenin with a 6-3, 6-4 victory over Elise Mertens. In the men’s draw, top-seeded Aslan Karatsev beat Miomir Kecmanovic 7-5, 6-4 and Brandon Nakashima defeated seventh-seeded Fabio Fognini 7-6 (7), 7-6 (6). Third-seeded Daniel Evans and fourth-seeded Reilly Opelka advanced with straight-set wins. The top two seeds are already out of the Adelaide International 2. Thiago Monteiro was leading 6-7(2), 6-3, 1-0 when top-seeded Gael Monfils retired with what was reported to be a neck or shoulder problem. Thanaski Kokkinakis laboued for almost three hours to beat John Isner 6-7(5), 7-6(5), 7-6(4) in a match with no service breaks. Isner had 23 aces, but Kokkinakis replied with 15 to oust the second-seeded American. Third-seeded Karin Khachanov beat Gianluca Mager 7-5, 6-3, fourth-seeded Marin Cilic defeated Jaume Munar 7-6 (6), 6-2, and Corentin Moutet of France eliminated eighth-seeded Marton Fucsovics 6-2, 6-2. Gauff moves up In the women’s event in Adelaide, 17-year-old American Coco Gauff beat Marta Kostyuk 6-3, 5-7, 6-3, Madison Keys defeated Tereza Martincova 6-1, 6-3, and Ana Konjuh eliminated sixth-seeded Marketa Vondrousova 4-6, 6-2, 7-6(3). Tuneup tournaments for the season-opening major are continuing in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide this week. While those tournaments were in full swing, the top-seeded players at the Australian Open had practice sessions on the main court at Melbourne Park, with women’s No. 1 Ash Barty followed by nine-time champion Novak Djokovic at Rod Laver Arena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jabeur-bests-kvitova-makes-the-last-eight/article38263309.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:39 IST,||Jayant, Saini added to ODI squad||India off-spinner Washington Sundar was on Wednesday ruled out of the upcoming three-match ODI series against South Africa after testing positive for COVID-19 and Jayant Yadav was named as his replacement for the assignment starting Jan. 19. Pacer Navdeep Saini was also added to the ODI squad as a back-up for pacer Mohammed Siraj, who is recovering from a hamstring injury. “Team India off-spinner Washington Sundar has been ruled out of the forthcoming ODI series against South Africa after testing positive for COVID-19 during the camp in Bengaluru,” the BCCI said in a statement. The five-member selection panel, headed by former India pacer Chetan Sharma, has named Jayant as Washington’s replacement.  The ODI schedule: Jan. 19 (Paarl), Jan. 21 (Paarl) and Jan. 23 (Cape Town).   The squad: K.L. Rahul (Capt.), Jasprit Bumrah (Vice-capt.), Shikhar Dhawan, Ruturaj Gaikwad, Virat Kohli, Suryakumar Yadav, Shreyas Iyer, Venkatesh Iyer, Rishabh Pant (wk), Ishan Kishan (wk), Yuzvendra Chahal, R. Ashwin, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Prasidh Krishna, Shardul Thakur, Md. Siraj, Jayant Yadav and Navdeep Saini .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jayant-saini-added-to-odi-squad/article64950411.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,||U-19 shuttler Tasnim ranked World No. 1||Tasnim Mir on Wednesday became the first Indian to grab the World no 1 ranking in under-19 girls singles in the latest BWF junior rankings. The 16-year-old from Gujarat was rewarded for last year’s stellar run when she had secured titles in three junior international tournaments. She was also part of the Uber Cup team. “I can’t say that I expected this. I thought I will not be able to become No. 1 as tournaments were getting affected by COVID-19 but I won in Bulgaria, France and Belgium. So I am really excited and happy that finally I could become World No 1. It is a great moment for me,” said Tasnim Guwahati. “I will completely focus on the senior circuit from now on and looking forward to playing at Iran and Uganda next month. My aim now is to improve my senior ranking. If I can weave some good performances and get into top 200 by end of the year that would be great.” Tasnim, who is supported by OGQ, is currently ranked 602. in women’s singles. In boys’ singles, Lakshya Sen, Siril Verma and Aditya Joshi had been World no 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/u-19-shuttler-tasnim-ranked-world-no-1/article38263183.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:33 IST,||A crucial southern derby today||In the Indian Super League southern derby on Thursday, Chennaiyin FC will take on Hyderabad FC at Fatorda in what will be a crucial match for either sides. Both are going through a recent lean patch and desperately need a win to regain momentum. While CFC has lost three of its last four, HFC has just one win in its last five matches with the latter holding a two-point advantage over its opponent. A win for CFC on Thursday will take the side into the top four ahead of HFC. In its last match, Chennaiyin struggled to create chances as it slumped to a 1-0 defeat to FC Goa and it is something coach Bozidar Bandovic says the team needs to correct soon. “We need to be better in the attack. Especially in the last game [against FC Goa], we were not good — we lost so many duels and second balls from the opponent. We need to be close to them to be in a better position and be more aggressive,” said Bandovic. CFC has scored the least amount of goals so far in the tournament and in Hyderabad faces a strong defensive side that has conceded the joint-fewest number of goals along with Kerala Blasters FC. In the first meeting between the two sides, CFC eked out a 1-0 win thanks to a penalty but was outplayed by Hyderabad. HFC head coach Manolo Marquez said that his team would need to take its chances on Thursday and not let history repeat itself once again. “Chennaiyin are a team that prefers to play on the counter. We did not deserve to lose the last game against this team. “They played with 10 players behind the ball and took advantage of one mistake,” said Marquez. “So, we have to make sure that we are more prepared this time and should take our chances to win the game,” added the Spaniard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-crucial-southern-derby-today/article64950739.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:39 IST,||Entry form mistake human error: Djokovic||Novak Djokovic said “human error” was behind a mistake on his documents for entry to Australia that breached its strict laws on reporting recent travel, as the government weighed whether to deport the player. On Wednesday, Djokovic said his travel declaration was filled in by his support team, who made an “administrative mistake” when they ticked the “no” box in response to whether he had travelled elsewhere in the 14 days before arriving in Australia. “This was human error and certainly not deliberate,” Djokovic said in a post on Instagram. “We are living in challenging times in a global pandemic and sometimes these mistakes can occur.” Giving false or misleading information on the form is an offence, carrying a maximum penalty of 12 months in prison, and a fine of up to A$6,600 ($4,730) and can lead to cancellation of the offender’s visa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/entry-form-mistake-human-error-djokovic/article64950406.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:23 IST,||Bushan puts it across Nandal||Bushan Haobam defeated Yuvan Nandal, champion of the last tournament, 7-6(6), 2-6, 6-4 in the pre-quarterfinals of the ITF grade-2 junior tennis tournament at the CLTA Complex on Wednesday. The wiry and talented Bushan, who trains at the National Tennis Centre (NTC) in the Capital, will play Korean Woohyuk Chang in the quarterfinals. Qualifier Manas Dhamne continued his fine run, beating National under-16 champion Daksh Prasad 6-3, 6-4. In the last eight, Manas will play Fadi Bidan of Lebanon. In the girls’ section, the champion of the last tournament at the same venue, Tejasvi Dabas, retired after failing to win any of the first nine games against Vlada Mincheva of Russia. Top seed Shruti Ahlawat got past Jo-Leen Saw of Malaysia for the loss of six games. Lucky loser Lakshmi Gowda reached the quarterfinals and will challenge Vaishnavi Adkar, who eased past Anya Murthy. Suhitha Maruri and Sanjana Sirimalla were the other Indian girls to progress.  The results (pre-quarterfinals):   Boys: Chirag Duhan bt Rethin Pranav 6-3, 6-2; Aayush Bhat (USA) bt Shingo Masuda (Jpn) 6-2, 6-3; Woohyuk Chang (Kor) bt Aryan Shah 6-3, 6-3; Bushan Haobam bt Yuvan Nandal 7-6(6), 2-6, 6-4.   Daksh Agarwal bt Monil Lotlikar 4-4 (retired); Lucas Phanthala (Fra) bt Denim Yadav 6-3, 6-2.   Fadi Bidan (Lbn) bt Rushil Khosla 6-3, 6-2; Manas Dhamne bt Daksh Prasad 6-3, 6-4.    Girls: Shruti Ahlawat bt Jo-Leen Saw (Mas) 6-2, 6-4; Lanlana Tararudee (Tha) bt Hannah Nagpal 6-2, 6-2; Lakshmi Gowda bt Charmi Gopinath 6-2, 6-3; Vaishnavi Adkar bt Anya Murthy (USA) 6-1, 6-1.   Vlada Mincheva (Rus) bt Tejasvi Dabas 6-0, 3-0 (retired); Suhitha Maruri bt Kotistha Modak 6-4, 6-3; Sanjana Sirimalla bt Saumrita Verma 6-2, 6-0; Meshkatolzahra Safi (Iri) bt Kristi Boro 6-2, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bushan-puts-it-across-nandal/article38263339.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:23 IST,||Mukund crashes out||Sasikumar Mukund was beaten 7-6(4), 6-0 by Evan Furness of France in the first round of the €45,730 Challenger tennis tournament here on Wednesday. Mukund had made the final of the last tournament.  The results:   €45,730 Challenger, Forli, Italy: Singles (first round): Evan Furness (Fra) bt Sasikumar Mukund 7-6(4), 6-0.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Kaichi Uchida (Jpn) & Tung-Lin Wu (Tpe) bt Marco Bortolotti (Ita) & Arjun Kadhe 6-2, 6-4.   $25,000 ITF men, Bath, Britain: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Joshua Paris (GBR) & Vijay Sundar Prashanth bt Ben Jones & Daniel Little (GBR) 6-4, 3-6, [10-6].   $15,000 ITF men, Cairo, Egypt: Singles (first round): Volodymyr Uzhylovskyi (Ukr) bt Nishant Dabas 5-1 (retd.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mukund-crashes-out/article38263338.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:10 IST,||Victories for Muthoot and Athreya||Athreya, Thrissur, and Muthoot Microfin, Kochi, scored wins in the Dr. M.S. Nair memorial all-Kerala cricket tournament here on Wednesday.  The scores:   Athreya 180/7 in 30 overs (Rojith 51, E.R. Sreeraj 32, K. Akbar 4/42) bt Parappanangadi 81 in 18.4 overs (Athif Bin Ashraf 5/38).   Muthoot Microfin 170/6 in 30 overs (Vishnu Mohan 59, P.G. Gireesh 8, Sreejith Sanjeev 30) bt Sussex, Kozhikode 154 in 28.5 overs (Bharat Soorya 40, Alwyn Philip 4/29).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/victories-for-muthoot-and-athreya/article38263483.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:54 IST,||Daivik does it for The Bangalore Cricketers||S. Daivik (150 n.o. and 3/25) helped The Bangalore Cricketers defeat Friends XI in the KSCA inter-club under-14 tournament here.  The scores:   The Bangalore Cricketers 342/9 in 50 overs (A. Rishik 51, S. Daivik 150 n.o., Hayth Nagori 54, Nityansh Singh 4/70) bt Friends XI 211/8 in 50 overs (Abhay Surya 73, Arjun Naik 36, Shankargouda Sidaraddi 39, S. Daivik 3/25).   Chintamani SA 172 in 36 overs (Dhruv Shetty 29, Tanshh Krishna 40, Vidhur Reddy 38, K.P. Ahan 5/40) lost to Vijaya CC 176/7 in 34 overs (A.J. Eashan 72 n.o., Pranjal Jain 35, Shreehaan Arinjai 3/49).   Jawahar (1) 201 in 48 overs (Abhinav Jha 53, P. Vidyasagar 26, Praneeth Shetty 26, Kritin Yedidi 3/23, Kumar Sharma 3/36) lost to Rajajinagar Cricketers 202/3 in 45.3 overs (Nitish Arya 136 n.o.).   Modern 228/4 in 50 overs (Ankush Anuashok 66, A. Tanish 51 n.o., Mohammed Sajjad 39 n.o.) lost to Jawahar (2) 229/6 in 40 overs (Shritan Jagadish 65, P. Bhanu 72 n.o.).   Hanumanthnagar 110 in 34.2 overs (J. Kishan 48, Vignesh Rana 3/32) lost to Social Cricketers 112/1 in 12.4 overs (Raunak 35 n.o., Omkar Bhandari 45 n.o.).   Visweswarapuram (1) 73 in 27.1 overs (Mohammad Rayan 3/20, C. Kushal 4/17) lost to Young Lions 74/1 in 11.2 overs (Aravind Potti 25 n.o.).   Friends Union (2) 245 in 42.4 overs (A.N. Pradyumna 96, Preetam Chimmalagi 44, Aditya Shahapurkar 39, Siddarth Sharan 5/30) bt Jawans 149 in 42 overs (Hithayu Reddy 32, Ikkurthi Lakshmi Raghavendra 39, M. Athreya 3/29, M.C. Sathvik 4/9).   Sir Syed Cricketers 217 in 47.2 overs (N.P. Vivek 33, Dheeganth Mavinkere 36, Aaditya Khilare 31, Divith Vishwanath 3/29, S.M. Harshal 3/31) bt Bangalore Occasionals 202 in 48.1 overs (Aditya Agarwal 62, Vedant Malhotra 26, Labh Vernekar 38).    An all-round show from T. Bharath (3/35 and 105 n.o.) powered Anekal Town CC past Friends Cricket Club (Kolar) in the KSCA Group I Division V league here.  The scores:   Friends 231 in 43 overs (Pavan 89, G. Mallikarjuna 53, D. Pradeep 5/32, T. Bharath 3/35) lost to Anekal Town 234/2 in 46.5 overs (T. Bharath 105 n.o., M. Sagar 54 n.o.).   Blaze 227 in 46.1 overs (Swapneel Bhange 28, Vishal Bhat 85, Vaidyanath Subbaraman 36, Narayan Basavaraju 32) bt Gandhinagar Cricketers 125/6 in 50 overs (Samanyu Raina 40 n.o., Mayank Bhatia 39).   Oriental 172 in 44.1 overs (T. Srivardhan 47, Ayush Sharma 60, Anil Kumar 5/30) lost to Kengeri Cricketers 177/6 in 27.3 overs (K.M. Vinod 28, Mainak Ghosh 50, Adimulam Venkatesh 26, Edward Stephen 48 n.o., Ayush Sharma 3/20).   Caravan Cricketers 125 in 29.5 overs (Harish Kamath 37, Mahesh Reddy 31, Shadab Azar 3/33, Royston 3/31) lost to United Cricketers 127/3 in 12.1 overs (S. Prasen 37, G. Gautam 74 n.o.).   Prathibhe Talented Trust 226 in 50 overs (Rajiv Lochan 74, K. Pradeep 35, Naveen Sharmal 3/51) lost to Super 277/3 in 35.5 overs (R.K. Yashas 94, Gouspeer 55, P. Abhishek 35 n.o.).   New National 164 in 36.3 overs (S.A. Sachin 40, Ganesh Kailash 3/28) lost to Yankees 165/3 in 33.1 overs (Vishal Bangera 58, M.G. Raju 45 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/daivik-does-it-for-the-bangalore-cricketers/article38263182.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 04:33 IST,||OU enters final||Osmania University, led by G. Sai Karteek Reddy, entered the semifinals of the South Zone inter-university tennis championship in Chennai on Wednesday. In the quarterfinals, OU shocked defending champion Jain University 3-1.  The result, quarterfinals:   Osmania bt Jain 3-1 (Sai Karteek Reddy bt Pankaj Pandey 6-0, 6-0; Suhith lost to Rishi Reddy 0-6, 3-6; Karteek & Suhith bt Rishi & Pankaj 3-6, 6-1, 10-4; Suhith bt Pankaj 6-1, 6-1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ou-enters-final/article38263447.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:39 IST,||SCOREBOARD||INDIA — 1ST INNINGS    223 in 77.3 overs    SOUTH AFRICA    — 1ST INNINGS   Dean Elgar c Pujara b Bumrah 3 (16b), Aiden Markram b Bumrah 8 (22b, 1x4), Keshav Maharaj b Umesh 25 (45b, 4x4), Keegan Petersen c Pujara b Bumrah 72 (166b, 9x4), Rassie van der Dussen c Kohli b Umesh 21 (54b), Temba Bavuma c Kohli b Shami 28 (52b, 4x4), Kyle Verreynne c Pant b Shami 0 (2b), Marco Jansen b Bumrah 7 (26b), Kagiso Rabada c Bumrah b Shardul 15 (25b, 1x4), Duanne Olivier (not out) 10 (39b, 2x4), Lungi Ngidi c Ashwin b Bumrah 3 (17b); Extras (b-4, lb-4, nb-4, w-1, penalty 5) 19; Total (in 76.3 overs): 210.   FALL OF WICKETS   1-10 (Elgar, 4.4 overs), 2-17 (Markram, 8.2), 3-45 (Maharaj, 20.2), 4-112 (van der Dussen, 39.2), 5-159 (Bavuma, 55.2), 6-159 (Verreynne, 55.4), 7-176 (Jansen, 62.2), 8-179 (Petersen, 64.4), 9-200 (Rabada, 71.3).   INDIA BOWLING   Bumrah 23.3-8-42-5, Umesh 16-3-64-2, Shami 16-4-39-2, Shardul 12-2-37-1, Ashwin 9-3-15-0   INDIA — 2ND INNINGS   K.L. Rahul c Markram b Jansen 10 (22b, 2x4), Mayank Agarwal c Elgar b Rabada 7 (15b, 1x4), Cheteshwar Pujara (batting) 9 (31b, 2x4), Virat Kohli (batting) 14 (39b, 2x4); Extras (b-8, lb-4, nb-5): 17; Total (for two wkts. in 17 overs): 57.   FALL OF WICKETS   1-20 (Mayank, 4.5), 2-24 (Rahul, 5.5).   SOUTH AFRICA BOWLING    Rabada 6-1-25-1, Duanne Olivier 2-0-13-0, Marco Jansen 5-3-7-1, Lungi Ngidi 3-3-0-0, Maharaj 1-1-0-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/scoreboard/article38263142.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:34 IST,||Raging Bulls post win||Raging Bulls scored a 46-run win over Ramesh Cricket Nets in the Devineni Venkatramana & Pranitha memorial KDCA B-Division T20 league cricket championship at K.L. University ground on Tuesday.  The scores: Raging Bulls 176/9 in 20 overs (Vinay Kumar 42, Kranthi 36) bt Ramesh Cricket Nets 130/4 in 20 overs (K. Ramkumar 56).   GLGR 89/3 in 15 overs (Mahesh 45, Sudhakar 30) lost to KK Warriors 90/4 in 8.5 overs. Match reduced to 15 overs because of rain.    The league match between Passion Cricket Club Juniors and KK Global Cricket Academy in the GoSports Little Champs (under-14) tournament was abandoned following heavy rain.  The scores:   Passion CC Juniors 104/9 in 50 overs (C.M. Kalyan 3/25) vs KK Global CA 32/1 in 6.2 overs. Rain abandoned play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/raging-bulls-post-win/article38263640.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 06:39 IST,||Bumrah finds his rhythm, gives Team India a slender advantage||Jasprit Bumrah rediscovered his mojo, Keegan Petersen conjured an innings of sublime beauty and the South African seamers hit back hard on an engrossing second day at Newlands. At stumps, India dismissing the Proteas for 210 and gaining a first innings lead of 13, was 57 for two, both its openers back in the hut on Wednesday in the third Freedom Test. Kagiso Rabada, his line immaculate, moved one away from Mayank Agarwal and Dean Elgar held on to a flying ball in the cordon. And K.L. Rahul, who did not get his foot to the ball’s pitch, was lured by left-armer Marco Jansen into a fatal drive to a delivery shaping away; he was well caught by Aiden Markram in the cordon. The decider promises to be an edge of the seat affair. Bumrah, bowling with speed and bounce from an off-stump line, moved the ball both ways and made effective use of the angles - he used the crease extremely well - to scalp five. And Petersen batted with footwork, balance and composure for a sublime 72 on a surface that constantly tested the batsmen. The pitch became decidedly quicker on day two. And the sun beating down would have impacted the cracks. In the morning, Markram fell in the day’s second delivery; shouldering arms to a Bumrah ball that nipped back. Mohammed Shami could have dismissed Petersen on four, when he took one away, but Rahul, at third slip, put down a low chance. Nightwatchman Keshav Maharaj, whose back-footed punch off Shami sped to the cover boundary, performed the role given to him, batting 45 balls for 25 valuable runs. Umesh Yadav brought one back to take out Maharaj’s middle stump. Umesh was bowling to a lovely rhythm. He can be dangerous since he can threaten both the inside and the outside edge at a telling pace. For South Africa, Petersen and Rassie van der Dussen dug in. The more you see of Petersen, the more you are impressed. He is short in stature but has supple wrists and can find the gaps with precision. And the compact batsman gets into good positions for both defence and offence. He essayed several shots, the cover-drive, the square-drive, the cut, the reverse sweep, and the flick but one stroke stood out - he went deep into his crease, got on top of the bounce, and punched Umesh to the cover-point fence. van der Dussen, resolute in defence, added 67 runs for the fourth wicket with Petersen, before falling to a lovely, late away going delivery from Umesh. Temba Bavuma played his shots. He flicked Umesh and cut when Shardul Thakur gave him room. Bavuma had the rub of the green too. He went for a cut off Shardul, edged and the low catch was put down by Pujara at first slip. Shami ended Bavuma’s breezy stay with a delivery that held its line close to the off-stump. Kohli held a fine catch low at second slip. Soon, Shami, his seam position brilliant, moved one away from wicket-keeper batter Kyle Verreynne, who nicked to Pant. And Bumrah’s change of angle sent Marco Jansen’s stumps flying. Bumrah ended Petersen’s threatening tenure, with a length delivery of bounce just outside off. Some useful blows from Rabada and Duanne Olivier ensured the first innings was almost a dead heat. Importantly for India, the bite was back in Bumrah’s bowling.     *Rahane has taken 99 catches||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bumrah-finds-his-rhythm-gives-india-a-slender-advantage/article38263138.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:33 IST,||What’s the good word?||1. A printed or handwritten notice or sign for public display. _____________ 2. An area of fairly level high ground. _____________ 3. Relating to or characterised by rainfall. _____________ 4. A synthetic material made from a range of organic polymers. _____________ 5. An expression of praise or approval. _____________ Answers:1. Placard, 2. Plateau, 3. Pluvial, 4. Plastic, 5. Plaudit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/whats-the-good-word/article64950832.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:33 IST,||The W Corner||If you have been following cricket, you must have noticed that the International Cricket Council has tweaked the playing conditions in T20 internationals. Do you know what change has been made regarding slow over-rates? Or do you think you can guess the answer? Fill in the space provided and check it with the answer. _____________________________ _____________________________ _____________________________ _____________________________ _____________________________ ______________________________||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/the-w-corner/article38262834.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:32 IST,||Know the scientist||Richard Leakey (1944 to 2022) was a Kenyan palaeoanthropologist and conservationist, whose groundbreaking discoveries helped prove that humankind evolved in Africa. He spearheaded campaigns against the ivory trade to save the dwindling African elephant population.  Born in 1944, Leakey was destined for palaeoanthropology - the study of the human fossil record - as the middle son of Louis and Mary Leakey, perhaps the world's most famous discoverers of ancestral hominids. Initially, Leakey tried his hand at safari guiding, but things changed when at 23 he won a research grant from the National Geographic Society to dig on the shores of northern Kenya's Lake Turkana, despite having no formal archaeological training. In the 1970s he led expeditions that recalibrated scientific understanding of human evolution with the discovery of the skulls of Homo habilis (1.9 million years old) in 1972 and another in 1975. In 1984, his team discovered the Turkana Boy, a nearly complete skeleton of a Homo ergaster (though some, including Leakey, call it erectus) who died 1.6 million years ago at about age 9–12. Shortly after the discovery of the Turkana Boy, Leakey and his team made the discovery of a skull (known as "Black Skull") of a new species, Australopithecus aethiopicus. Conservation efforts Leakey shifted away from palaeontology in 1989. As the slaughter of African elephants reached a crescendo in the late 1980s, driven by insatiable demand for ivory, Leakey emerged as one of the world's leading voices against the then legal global ivory trade. President Daniel arap Moi in 1989 appointed Leakey to lead the national wildlife agency - soon to be named the Kenya Wildlife Service, or KWS. That year he pioneered a spectacular publicity stunt by burning a pyre of ivory, setting fire to 12 tonnes of tusks to make the point that they have no value once removed from elephants. In 1993, his small Cessna plane crashed in the Rift Valley where he had made his name. He survived but lost both legs. The legendary paleoanthropologist remained energetic into his 70s despite bouts of skin cancer, kidney and liver disease. He breathed his last on January 2, 2022. At the time of his death, he was serving as chairman of the Turkana Basin Institute, which he cofounded at Stony Brook University in the United States. It works to facilitate research and education in palaeontology and archaeology in northern Kenya. For years Leakey served in various roles in the government and also tried his hand at politics but with little success.Agencies Now that you have read about Richard Leaky, try answering the following questions. 1. When did his team discover the Turkana Boy skeleton? 2. Name the institute he cofounded in Stony Brook University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/know-the-scientist/article64950838.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:32 IST,||When the oceans turn acidic||Did you know the oceans absorb 30% of the CO2 emitted on Earth? At the outset, this might seem like a good thing because it means less carbon dioxide in the air and therefore reduction in global warming. But in the past decades, scientists have realised this comes at the cost of changing the ocean’s chemistry. When carbon dioxide dissolves in seawater, it forms carbonic acid. When emission increases, a lot of CO2 dissolves in the ocean. Incidentally, the rise in CO2 emission is primarily attributed to human activities. The more the CO2, the more acidic the water gets. Subsequently, the pH level of water goes down. (pH is a measure of how acidic or basic water is.) This process is known as ocean acidification. Ocean acidification has the potential to damage the ocean chemistry. Even a small change in the acidity of seawater can have harmful effects on marine life, impacting chemical communication, reproduction, and growth. Ocean acidification affects ocean species in varying degrees. Creatures such as mussels, clams, urchins, starfish and corals are the worst affected. They make their shells and skeletons by combining calcium and carbonate from seawater. As acidification changes the chemistry of the ocean, these organisms struggle to build their shells and skeletons. Even if they are able to build skeletons in more acidic water, they may have to expend more energy which might otherwise be needed for activities such as reproduction. Further, scientists have found that ocean acidification causes shells of some species to dissolve and slows moulting in crabs and lobsters. Acidification may also limit coral growth by corroding its skeletons. When reef-building corals are affected, a host of marine life that call the reef their home will also be affected. A small change in pH can make a huge difference to survival. In humans, a drop in blood pH level of just 0.2-0.3 can cause seizures, coma, and even death. Similarly, fishes are sensitive to pH. If their blood pH drops, they will have to burn extra energy to get rid of the excess acid in their blood through their gills, kidneys and intestines. This will reduce their ability to carry out other tasks such as hunting, escaping predators and reproducing. Studies have shown that acidification changes the way sounds get transmitted through the water, making the underwater environment noisier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/when-the-oceans-turn-acidic/article64950842.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:32 IST,||Record number of winged visitors||Hirakud reservoir in Odisha's Sambalpur district has received 2.08 lakh winged visitors of 104 species, including 19 new ones, this winter, the highest in the last one decade, an official said on Tuesday. The five most-numerous bird species that arrived this year are the lesser whistling duck, tufted duck, common coot, little cormorant and the red crested pochard. The 19 new species that were sighted include black bittern, peregrine falcon, white-bellied sea eagle, black-shoulder kite and baer's pochard. The state government undertook a census of migratory birds at the 533-sq km-reservoir on January 7. Thousands of winged guests from Caspian Sea, Baikal Lake, Aral Sea, Mongolia, central and southeast Asia and the Himalayas, make the reservoir home from November to March every year. “This was the highest count of birds in the reservoir in winter in the last one decade,” Hirakud Wildlife Divisional Forest Officer Anshu Pragyan Das said. The census included an additional 38 sq km area and that could be the reason behind the sighting of a record number of birds this year, another Hirakud Wildlife Division official said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/record-number-of-winged-visitors/article64950839.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:32 IST,||Grizzlies defeat Warriors for win 10th straight||Ja Morant scored 29 points as the red-hot Memphis Grizzlies won their 10th-straight game with a 116-108 victory over the Golden State Warriors on Tuesday night. Morant seized control in the final moments, scoring five points in the final minute as the third-place Grizzlies closed the gap on the second place Warriors in the Western Conference standings. “I was aggressive” "I felt like I was aggressive. I got going very early," said Morant. "I made them change their scheme up. If you blitz me I feel like I have a lot of guys who can score the basketball. "Pretty much cat and mouse, we just had to take what their defence gave us." The Grizzlies are now within 2 1/2 games of the Warriors after having been eight games back on November 29. Ziaire Williams and Tyus Jones had 17 points each for Memphis in front of a crowd of 17,800 at FedExForum arena. Jones keyed a fourth-quarter rally that put the Grizzlies ahead for good. He connected on all five of his three-point attempts. Stephen Curry led the Warriors with 27 points, while Klay Thompson finished with 14 points. Andrew Wiggins and Gary Payton II scored 13 each. Elevates his game Morant, the 2020 rookie of the year, is just a week removed from a sprained knee that sidelined him for 12 games. He has consistently been able to elevate his game against the best teams in the league, scoring 30 or more points against the Phoenix Suns, Brooklyn Nets, and Los Angeles Lakers during the 10-game streak. The Warriors were missing Draymond Green who was out with a sore left calf. Elsewhere, Jae Crowder scored 19 points and Chris Paul finished with 15 points and 12 assists as the Phoenix snapped Toronto's six-game winning streak with a 99-95 victory in Toronto. Devin Booker provided the late-game heroics for the Suns, nailing the go-ahead jump shot with 62 seconds remaining and then adding two free throws with six seconds left before fouling out. Booker finished with 16 points. In Chicago, Nikola Vucevic scored 22 points and DeMar DeRozan delivered 20 points and 12 rebounds as the Chicago Bulls clobbered the Detroit Pistons 133-87 to win their 10th game in the last 11. AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/grizzlies-defeat-warriors-for-win-10th-straight/article64950843.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:32 IST,||stunning snowy owl!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/stunning-snowy-owl/article64950841.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:33 IST,||Word of the day||The word means doing something in a way that prevents other people from finding out who one is. Origin  The word finds its origins in mid 17th century, from Italian, ‘unknown’. This borrows from Latin incognitus , from in , meaning ‘not’ and cognitus (past participle of cognoscere ) meaning ‘know’.  Usage Many celebrities go incognito during vacations to avoid being photographed. Activity: Use the word in a sentence of your own: _____________________________ _____________________________||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/word-of-the-day/article38262843.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:33 IST,||ww.magicsquarepuzzles.com(9840662780)||Fill the empty cells using numbers from 1 to 64 each only once such that 1) Each row, column and two main diagonals of each 4x4 sub square gives the magic sum of 130. 2) Each 2 x 2 square marked in the same colour gives the sum of 130. 3) The center 2 x 2 marked in black border in each 4x4 sub square gives a sum of 130. 4) Group of cells in boxes within dotted lines is a cage. Cage sum is mentioned at the top in respective colours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/wwmagicsquarepuzzlescom9840662780/article64950833.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:12 IST,||Nadiya Moidu and Joju George on working together in Amazon Prime’s ‘Putham Pudhu Kaalai Vidiyaadhaa...’||Many actors across film industries had a quiet last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Not Joju George. He was prolific and has been a part of eight Malayalam releases, including Lijo Jose Pellissery’s eerie supernatural thriller Churuli , Martin Prakkat’s political drama Nayattu , and Mahesh Narayanan’s Malik . Thanks to the recent popularity of Malayalam cinema,Joju is not just an acclaimed Malayalam actor anymore. Last year, he also made his Tamil debut with Karthik Subbaraj’s Dhanush-starrer Jagame Thanthiram .   Meanwhile, missing in action from Tamil films for a while is Nadiya. After Thiraikku Varadha Kathai , a Tamil-Malayalam bilingual in 2016, she has not acted in a Tamil film. “I don’t know why,” she replies when asked about the reason for the long break, “It’s just that I got busy in Telugu. Nothing exciting came my way in Tamil. But I am working on a Tamil-Telugu bilingual film right now.”   Both actors unite for Madhumitha’s short film, Mouname Paarvayaai , in Amazon Prime Video’s Putham Pudhu Kaalai Vidiyaadhaa , an anthology set during the COVID-19 pandemic.  They talk about how they pulled through the pandemic, working together, the difference between a feature film and a short, and more. Putham Pudhu Kaalai Vidiyaadhaa... is about hope. What was your moment of hope from the pandemic?  Nadiya: It kept changing. When COVID first hit, we had to deal with the curfew. When the restrictions were lifted, there was a moment of hope. But then came the lockdown. Once the lockdown lifted, things opened up. There was again a moment of hope that things were getting back to normal. Now, we are facing more restrictions. So, there is so much uncertainty and you just accept what comes your way and make the best out of the situation.  Joju: I got a lot of work after the lockdown. So, that gave me hope. It felt like going back to school after a vacation.   Nadiya, what made you sign up for Mouname Paarvayaai ?  Nadiya:Mouname Paarvayaai’s script was interesting. Madhu [Madhumitha] gave it a different treatment. That excited me more. Just being able to work with Joju and Madhu, whose works I have seen earlier, was a good reason to do it. Can you tell us more about it? Nadiya: All five films in the anthology deal with hope, love, friendship, and important human emotions. What we have tried to tap on [in Mouname Paarvayaai ] is communication or the lack of it sometimes. It talks about the importance of communication in a relationship. In this film, it is the relationship between a husband and a wife.  Joju, how was it working with a veteran like Nadiya?  Joju:For me, Nadiya ma’am was the most exciting aspect of Mouname Paarvayaai before it even began. But once we started shooting, I loved all the other things about it as well. Madhumitha and her team were so good.  In a feature film about a relationship, you have enough time to flesh out the characters and show the gradual progress of that relationship. Can you do the same in just 20-30 minutes? Nadiya: Yes, it is challenging. But it can be the other way around as well, where people say, ‘Oh my god! They just dragged the whole thing.’ So, if the characters are fewer, the smaller, the better.  Joju, of late, people across the country have been discovering and praising Malayalam cinema. But how do people in Kerala see Tamil films? Joju: Malayalam industry is small. So, we try to make good content with a small budget. But we are always waiting for Tamil films. We are fans of Tamil actors and directors like Vetri Maaran and Pa Ranjith.  Nadiya: There are so many south Indian films dubbed in Hindi. In Mumbai, where I live, people recognise me from these films. And, some of the favourite stars of these people are from south India. This market for dubbed films has been unbelievable in the last few years.  Joju, will you be doing more Tamil films? Joju:Absolutely! I know my Tamil is not that great. So, I am trying to improve that. In 2022, I will be doing two-three Tamil films. I have heard a script, wherein I play a character spanning three age groups. It is one of the best scripts I have heard. If it happens, it will be a superb film.  Stories of new beginnings||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/nadiya-moidu-and-joju-george-on-working-together-in-amazon-primes-putham-pudhu-kaalai-vidiyaadhaa/article38263534.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:47 IST,||Nadiya Moidu and Joju George on working together in Amazon Prime’s ‘Putham Pudhu Kaalai Vidiyaadhaa...’||Many actors across film industries had a quiet last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Not Joju George. He was prolific and has been part of eight Malayalam releases including Lijo Jose Pellissery’s eerie supernatural thriller Churuli , Martin Prakkat’s political drama Nayattu , and Mahesh Narayanan’s Malik . Thanks to the recent popularity of Malayalam cinema,Joju is not just an acclaimed Malayalam actor anymore. Last year, he also made his Tamil debut with Karthik Subbaraj’s Dhanush-starrer Jagame Thanthiram .   Meanwhile, missing in action from Tamil films for a while is Nadiya. After Thiraikku Varadha Kathai , a Tamil-Malayalam bilingual in 2016, she has not acted in a Tamil film. “I don’t know why,” she replies when asked about the reason for the long break, “It’s just that I got busy in Telugu. Nothing exciting came my way in Tamil. But I am working on a Tamil-Telugu bilingual film right now.”   Both actors unite for Madhumitha’s short film, Mouname Paarvayaai , in Amazon Prime Video’s Putham Pudhu Kaalai Vidiyaadhaa , an anthology set during the COVID-19 pandemic.  They talk about how they pulled through the pandemic, working together, the difference between a feature film and a short, and more. Putham Pudhu Kaalai Vidiyaadhaa... is about hope. What was your moment of hope from the pandemic?  Nadiya: It kept changing. When COVID first hit, we had to deal with the curfew. When the restrictions lifted, there was a moment of hope. But then came the lockdown. Once the lockdown lifted, things opened up, there was again a moment of hope that things were getting back to normal. Now we are facing more restrictions. So, there is so much uncertainty and you just accept what comes your way and make the best out of the situation.  Joju: I got a lot of work after the lockdown. So, that gave me hope. It felt like going back to school after a vacation.   Nadiya, what made you sign up for Mouname Paarvayaai ?  Mouname Paarvayaai ’s script was very interesting. And, Madhu [Madhumitha] gave it a different treatment. That excited me even more. Just being able to work with Joju and Madhu, whose works I have seen earlier, was a good reason to do it.  Can you tell us more about it? Nadiya: All five films in the anthology deal with hope, love, friendship, and important human emotions. What we have tried to tap on [in Mouname Paarvayaai ] is communication or the lack of it sometimes. It talks about the importance of communication in a relationship. In this film, it is the relationship between a husband and a wife.  Joju, how was it working with a veteran like Nadiya?  For me, Nadiya ma’am was the most exciting aspect of Mouname Paarvayaai before it even began. But once we started shooting, I loved all the other things about it as well. Madhumitha and her team were so good.  In a feature film about a relationship, you have enough time to flesh out the characters and show the gradual progress of that relationship. Can you do the same in just 20-30 minutes? Nadiya: Yes, it is challenging. But it can be the other way around as well, where people say, ‘Oh my god! They just dragged the whole thing.’ So, if the characters are fewer, the smaller the better.  Joju, of late, people across the country have been discovering and praising Malayalam cinema. But how do people in Kerala see Tamil films? Joju: Malayalam industry is small. So, we try to make good content with a small budget. But we are always waiting for Tamil films. We are fans of Tamil actors and directors like Vetri Maaran and Pa Ranjith.  Nadiya: There are so many South Indian films dubbed in Hindi. In Bombay, where I live, people recognise me from these films. And, some of the favourite stars of these people are from South India. This market for dubbed films has been unbelievable in the last few years.  Joju, will you be doing more Tamil films? Absolutely! I know my Tamil is not that great. So, I am trying to improve that. In 2022, I will be doing two-three Tamil films. I have heard a script, wherein I play a character spanning three age groups. It is one of the best scripts I have heard. If it happens, it will be a superb film.  Stories of new beginnings||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/nadiya-moidu-and-joju-george-on-working-together-in-amazon-primes-putham-pudhu-kaalai-vidiyaadhaa/article64950820.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:24 IST,||Bolstered by heritage||“At the Organic Farmers Market (OFM) Chennai, we sold 100 tonnes of 91 different varieties of heritage rice in the last two years,” says Ananthoo, founder, OFM. Radhika Augustus, of the city-based Heritage Essentials, adds that their sales of heritage rice doubled in 2021. Despite the challenges of the pandemic, it has resulted in people making more thoughtful food choices. This Pongal, many traditional farmers are celebrating the city’s growing enthusiasm for heritage rice. Though this surge of interest has been especially visible over the past two years, stakeholders point out that this movement has been almost two decades in the making, across Tamil Nadu and beyond. “The [more recent] shift is due to an increased awareness about the benefits of traditional rice, as well as the general importance given to healthy living during the pandemic,” says Ananthoo. “Farmers are able to meet the surging demand now as they have mastered techniques to cultivate these crops, steadily increasing the yield per acre,” he states, adding that farmers’ collectives have played a significant role in this revival. Radhika describes how Anand Rajarathinam — founder of the organisation Heritage Inspired, of which Heritage Essentials is a part — motivated farmers in the Kumbakonam region to take up traditional farming methods with a promise to buy their produce and take it directly to dedicated customers. “We also started organising cooking sessions on native rice, and have compiled an ebook with recipes, so customers can use heritage rice on a regular basis,” she says. These are not isolated stories. In Thanjavur district alone, for instance, “around 45,000 farmers shifted to natural farming during the past 15 years”, says R. Sriram, of SVR Organic Way Farm Kathiramangalam. He credits environmental activist G. Nammalvar, who accelerated the heritage rice revival movement during the past two decades, as well as seed saver Nel Jayaraman, who organised seed festivals all over the State. “Their efforts resulted in a significant increase in the cultivation of native rice as well as widening the area of land that is completely into natural farming. It is the marginal and mid-size farmers who made this shift, and more and more are joining the movement all over Tamil Nadu to cater to the rising demand,” says Sriram. In his 80-acre farm, Sriram has since 2008 revived close to 60 different types of heritage rice varieties. “In the Thanjavur region, which was known as Nerkalanjiyam, there existed 175 or more varieties and we are trying to revive all of them.” In Chennai, Qidhan, a platform that supports natural farming, has worked with farmers to revive and market an ancient rice variety called rakthashali, which was on the verge of extinction in 2018. Qidhan’s founder, Harjas Singh, who procures produce from farmers and sells it online, says they have collaborated with farmers in Kerala’s Palakkad region to grow native rice such as the GI-tagged Kerala Matta’s various varieties: chenkazhama, jyothi and chavalakannan. Currently they have six types of Kerala Matta rice, besides jeerakasala, mappilai samba and thooyamalli. Back in Tamil Nadu’s Odakkanallur village, K. Ilayaraja transitioned to natural farming five years ago, focussing on traditional rice. “The transition was beautiful. It is a labour-intensive process, but the financial investment was comparatively less. We have to plough the land well and sow the seed, and ensure good flow of water. The yield may be less compared to commercial farming, but the cost is also minimal, therefore it is profitable,” he says. Farm to home One big advantage of this revival is that the produce is being sold directly to consumers, with help from farmers’ collectives in every region or cluster. “Right now, we farmers cultivate based on the demand or pre-order. Presently, a part of the land is used for native rice cultivation, and I am sure gradually more acres will be utilised,” says Ilayaraja. In Bodi, Theni district, Jayanth Kaaliappan discusses how his ancestors had cultivated a traditional rice variety called puzhudhi nel and adapted traditional farming in the region. “We lost this particular variety, and I am trying to revive it, but I am unable to find the seeds. As there is a huge demand for traditional rice, I leased five acres of land in Karaikkal five years ago and began the cultivation of maapplilai samba, thooyamalli, and karuppu kavuni,” says Jayanth, who has been involved in reviving native mango varieties.  “My favorite among them is kalanamak or well known as Buddha rice and iluppaipoo samba. This light pink Buddha rice is flavourful and aromatic, can be used as table rice or porridge, and even in south Indian tiffin items,” says Sriram.  Ilayaraja adds, “It is such a joy to see our land being rejuvenated. With natural farming, the quality of the soil improves gradually. When we see snails and crabs on the farm, it is an indication that the soil is at its best.”  Popular native rice varieties of Tamil Nadu Mapplilai Samba, Karun kuruvai Thooyamalli Kattuyanam Seeraga samba Kichili Samba Karuppu kavuni Kodaivalai Ponni Poongar Kothamalli samba Garudan Samba   Know your source||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bolstered-by-heritage/article64950695.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:48 IST,||A party in the cow shed||“Come on now, Ponni. Stay still for a moment, will you?” Farmer G Thangavel sighs as the five-month-old calf scuttles about the shed. He has brought her a marigold garland in view of Mattu Pongal and is trying to tie it around her neck. “She was expecting the bananas I fed her yesterday,” chuckles the 62-year-old, who finally succeeds after several attempts. Ponni’s mother Kaveri, although playful, accepts her garland without protest; so does the other six-month-old Kangayam bull, who Thangavel is yet to name. The harvest festival is the best time of the year for the farmer and his cattle. As the big day approaches, there is a bustle about farms across the State, and Thangavel’s four-acre field in Irugur near Coimbatore is no exception. “Cattle form the base of agriculture,” says Thangavel, a fourth-generation farmer who runs his farm using organic, zero-waste practices. “Those of us who do not use chemicals, use cow dung and urine to make fertilisers,” he says. A farmer hence tends to his cattle like his own children. Maatu Pongal is their day. Their sheds are tidied up and they are given the customary bath early in the morning, followed by some dressing-up, according to the farmer’s taste. At Thangavel’s farm, festivities start at 3pm. “We make pongal in a mud pot by the cattle shed,” he says, adding: “Once this is ready, we start setting up the place to make the offering.” Thangavel explains that he creates atheppamusing dung on the floor, which is a 2x3 feet rectangular canal-like structure into which he pours water.  The offering consists of pongal, fruits, and coconut, and is placed near the theppam . “All of us at the farm gather around to pray,” he explains. Those tending to the cattle then take the lead. “They walk past the animals asking them to be ready for the feast,” he adds.   There is one other ritual he follows: “We make a rope out of mudakathan shoots (balloon vine), hold it out for a bull calf to cross,” he says. “This is a prayer; we do so hoping that the cattle, and hence the farmer, will overcome all barriers this year.” The animals are then set free. “They are free from farm responsibilities for four days,” smiles Thangavel.  Farmers go to great lengths to give their livestock a Pongal makeover. Some smear turmeric and sandalwood paste on their cattle and garland them, while others tie balloons around the animals’ horns. “I rub castor oil into their horns for their upkeep,” explains Thangavel. Karthikeya Sivasenapathy, the managing trustee of Senaapathy Kangayam Cattle Research Foundation at Kuttapalayam, 80 kilometres from Coimbatore, says that his cattle receive a coating of red soil on the horns, hump, and back. “They also get new ropes,” adds VM Parthasarathy, whose farm is located at Pandeshwaram, 34 kilometres from Chennai.  Some 10 years ago, Parthasarathy recalls how bulls, all decked up, would be lined up and sent on a run along the main village road. “The ones that came first would receive prizes,” he remembers. “People would gather by the village temple following this and sweets would be passed around.” The festivities are usually followed by a “community dinner”, according to Karthikeya. “Everyone gets together for a meal, irrespective of who they are,” he adds. “This meal is usually served on the leaf of the castor oil plant and consists of pongal with nattu sakkarai (country sugar).”  Meanwhile at Irugur, Ponni is still cross with Thangavel for not feeding her bananas. He sweet-talks her, and offers her mulberry leaves instead. “They are rich in protein,” Thangavel tells us, his eyes on the calf. She finally walks over to him and he wraps an arm around her neck. The embrace lasts just a fleeting second. Ponni grabs the leaves, pulls away from him and hop-skips towards her mother, her nose in the air.  Animals of the soil  Tamil Nadu has five native breeds of cattle recognised by the National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources:  Kangayam: A sturdy draft animal of West Tamil Nadu (Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode, Namakkal, Salem) Bargur: A hill variety native to hills of the same name in Erode, raised by people from two particular tribal communities in the region Umbalachery: A short breed found in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, and Nagapattinam Pulikulam: Distributed in Madurai, Sivaganga, and Ramanathapuram. Known for their wild nature. The breed is popular in jallikattu. Alambadi: The breed from Dharmapuri is quite rare, and is surviving with only a few females that are capable of breeding left. Theni hill cattle, although not recognised, is popular. It is raised under the pastoral system in which shepherds graze hundreds of cattle together, covering several kilometres on foot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-party-in-the-cow-shed/article64950817.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:48 IST,||Tit for tat||Eight months into the lockdowns in 2020, Chepauk’s rapper K Nigavithran released his first album82 D Block, a well-rounded bag of eight songs about his memories growing up in the neighbourhood. It was the album that put him on the map. However, a few months before the album released, Nigavithran was entangled in an episode with the police for being the flagbearer of a protest that happened in Chepauk’s Lock Nagar. He was on the lookout for two days, until it was proven to the officers in-charge that he had little to do with the issue.  Nigavithran turned the anger and frustration he felt at that point into a catchy rap song ‘Pazhiku Pazhi’ which is part of his first EP, Dishonored , that was released recently across streaming platforms. But it wasn’t this incident that triggered him to come up with the EP. Through Dishonored , says Nigavithran, he wanted to register the pain of Chennai’s budding rap artistes and the price they pay.  He attributes this to how corporate-driven the independent music scene has now become. “They [music platforms] have only been encouraging and publicising already established indie artists. Very little space is given to emerging rappers,” he says, adding, “If you have to make a big mark, you have no other option but to go through them.” He adds, “I am not blaming anybody, it’s just that that is how it works.” Finding his space Like many indie artists, Nigavithran says his EP stems from the rejection he has faced so far. “I have performed at music shows and events. There have been times I have felt they have used me as a filler before the main performance.” Which is why the first song ‘N.I.G.A’ is all about himself and acts as an introduction to those who might not know Nigavithran or where he comes from.  Nigavithran is unabashed about who he is and the distinctive voice he seems to have in the indie space, which forms most of the lyrics of ‘Black Panther’. A fan of Marvel and DC films, he says that he could relate to Black Panther the most and hence the song. The groovy ‘Peruku Hip-Hop’ discusses the politics of the indie scene and how most of the talented artistes are waiting for that one chance. But he ends the EP on a positive note with ‘Ondraga Payanipom’ which says something to the effect of: “I and my music shall travel along.”   Produced by Dudez in Madras and marketed by RayApp, Dishonored marks Nigavithran’s first collaboration with other indie artistes such as Stan, Nina Sam and Lenix. But life came a full circle when he recorded D Vinoth, a sound engineer who pushed Nigavithran to become a rapper, for ‘Ondraga Payanipom; incidentally, a song about journey.   Since his debut album82 D Block, Nigavithran has been putting out singles on streaming platforms. But he says the reception he got for Dishonored has been heartening. “A lot of rappers in the city reached out to me via DMs and calls and said that they could relate. After all, it was made for us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tit-for-tat/article64950815.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:48 IST,||Goodness of gud||sample    For over 20 years we have been buying gud ( jaggery) from a farmer at a nearby village who visits the neighbourhood during Sankranti. Guda Mausa (gud uncle) as he is fondly called by regular customers, travels 30 km on his Luna carrying two earthen pots full of gud. . The matkas are covered with a gunny cloth for cushioning and strapped to his luna on either side. The gud in each of these containers is different. One is the slightly softer gud that is used for pithe making, while the other has the regular hard gud that has a longer shelf life. Seeing this mausa in January marks the beginning of the festival. because Sankranti is incomplete without a pithe that involves gud.  Pithe-making during Sankranti is a ritual in every home. As Sankranti draws closer, neighbourhoodsare enveloped in a sweet aroma that wafts from the various pithes made with gud and rice flour. Some common pithas are arisey, monda and gheela. Unadulterated gud of good quality can also be sourced is the Tal Guda Bhavan, a State owned outlet in Cuttack.. Rachit Keertiman is a professional freelance chef    If I don’t know the source, I won’t buy the gud. This arrogance is because, in all my growing years, I have seen gud being prepared in our house in Midnapore. We owned a few date palm trees. The siulis (jaggery makers) used to come home after collecting the nectar and make it in our compound. As the steam from the huge shaltis (the kadhais in which gud is made) (TRANSLATE PLS) rose, the area would be engulfed in a sweet aroma. After the jaggery was ready, it would be packed for home and also for relatives. This nostalgic connection stops me from buying jaggery randomly. I live in a new town, near the airport and thankfully I have discovered siulis who come to a spot to prepare gud and sell to customers. Owing to my Midnapore connection, my food has a bit of Odisha influence. The gud pithe I make has a lot of similarities with the pithas made by Oriya people; it comprises jaggery, rice flour, ginger and coconut.   Before the discovered the siulis in New Town, I would source gud from an NGO who work with farmers. I love making doodh pithey, pati shapta, choosi payesh, doulla pitha or maera pitha . I source my jhola gud from Birbhum, Shantiniketan.  Sayantani Mahapatra is a Kolkata-based influencer   My grandfather would mix gud with hot water to check for its quality; if there was no residual content at the bottom, it meant the gud is of good quality. We too follow the same method. To date even though I live in Almora, I have always depended on my mother to source the right jaggery. We don’t remember buying it from shops; it is either bought directly from a farmer or a known source. A lot of jaggery makers come to Tezpur where my parents live to make jaggery. Sugarcane farmers sell the juice to these makers or bring the juice to be made into gud. Our relatives based out of Jamugurihat in Sonitpur district, Assam have always ensured we never have to search for good jaggery.  During every Magh Bigu (Sankranti) we get to hear stories of sugarcane fields being a good hideout for Joha Maal/ Bobcats and how while making jaggery they come face to face with humans. My personal favourite snack with gud is the muri laru (puffed rice jaggery laddoo).  Irin Kashyap is an Almora-based influencer who chronicles traditional food of the Northeast and Almora    While the festival calls for pujas, family get-togethers, I look forward to the food. Sankranthi to me means snacks like chegodi, janthikalu, bellam gavvalu, ariselu, paakuundalu, chakkilalu and more. Most of the Sankranthi specials involve jaggery and we make sure the jaggery used is the best. I source my jaggery from our village in Saluru (a village on the Andhra-Orissa border). It is processed locally and called jiguru/jigata/kundabellam and has a distinctive golden brown colour, sharp sweet smell and taste.  It is unadulterated brown jaggery which is hard to break, probably needs a hammer and chisel for that. It is also more viscous, unlike the regular store-bought ones that are light and yellow-coloured. Though these snacks are now available around the year, it is seasonal snacks prepared with jaggery during winters that keep us warm from dipping temperatures. Bharath Suthapalli a Hyderabad-based blogger   As someone who has been giving Mumbai a taste of vegetarian Kerala cuisine for years, I find that my work involves not only cooking, but also sometimes educating my clientele about the names and significance of certain dishes. Appam, for example, is not just that fluffy thing you eat with chicken curry. A host of items are referred to as appams: the word essentially means ‘soft’. Another significant part of my work involves sourcing authentic, local ingredients from farms across Kerala. This includes my favourite Marayur jaggery. The Marayur region is in Kerala’s Idukki district. I source unrefined Marayur jaggery from small-scale farmers who are based there and use it in most of my sweet dishes. The jaggery comes in big clumps, and once grated and melted it has a beautifully creamy texture. It has a cloying flavour that is not overly sweet, and it blends beautifully with coconut milk. IS sarkara jaggery or sugar or sugar candy? Give translation in brackets  So many of my dishes involve Marayur sarkara (as we call it in Malayalam), not just the payasam . I use it to make sweet little uniyappam s, an important dish during Onam.  At the moment, Mumbai is preparing for Sankranti with all its treats. For people in Kerala, however, the next big celebration will be Vishu, in April. Till then, I will go on cooking what I usually cook, with plenty of jaggery from Marayur. Marina Balakrishnan is chef and founder of the experiential dining brand Oottupura .     Jaggery is associated with good tidings in Gujarat.Whenever there is auspicious news, we say gaud dhana kariye , do the Guad dhanna ritual, which is the distribution of a jaggery coriander mix among friends and family. One of my earliest memories related to jaggery is my mother’s repeated admonishment when as kids we had the Khatiawada or Kutch thali, with its delicious gaud na dephna (jaggery balls).My mother would say, “Eat something besides the gaud na dephna ; this was her constant refrain through the meal.”The jaggery balls resembled little pebbles and were broken from a freshly pounded five to ten-kilogram jaggery ball.Freshly made balls were brought to our village home in Vallabhipur, near Bhavnagar in Kathiawad, in clay pots or oil tins.   Jaggery is used in almost all our preparations from the iconic khati-meethi dal (sweet-sour lentils), which has gaud (jaggery) and imli (tamarind), to bhakri roti (short-crust bread) slathered with ghee and sprinkled with jaggery shavings and is eaten as comfort food. Sukhdi is the Gujarati version of an energy bar made with roasted wheat, ghee and grated jaggery. “ Sukhi kare sukhdi ” meaning Sukhdi makes one happy is commonly said about this preparation, which is now part of mid-day meals at schools.   S heetal Bhatt is an Ahmedabad based social worker and has been documenting Gujarati food for two decades    I associate jaggery with Punjab’s biggest harvest festival, Lohri. It marks Uttarayan when the sun travels North and ushers in warmer days. gud or jaggery is one of the five foods on the Lohri plate, along with sesame seeds, peanuts, gajak (dry sweet) and corn.   Come winter and we have the masala gud or spiced jaggery in our homes. I have restarted the making of masala gud, a tradition that was discontinued.It is a mix of melted jaggery, ginger powder, fennel, ajwain, chironji, almonds, melon and pumpkin seeds to which is added ghee. It is set and cut into rectangular shaped burfis . An interesting jaggery recipe I came across during my research for my TV show Lost Recipes was in Puducherry that used to have a thriving French communityby virtue of being a French colony. Some of the soldiers came back from Vietnam, a French colony, with Vietnamese wives who would make a pork preparation using lots of jaggery. I met a Tamil Vietnamese woman in Puducherry who still makes the Tit -Koh, which uses fish sauce and jaggery.   S hubhra Chatterji aka Historywali, documents culinary traditions of India and hosts the TV Show‘ Lost Recipes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/goodness-of-gud/article64950816.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 05:12 IST,||‘I put pressure on Taapsee’||The next few months are crucial for Indian cricketer Mithali Raj. She faces her biggest cricketing test in the upcoming Women’s Cricket World Cup being hosted in New Zealand. All eyes will be on Team India, but more specifically, on Mithali as this will probably be her last big international sporting appearance. For the 39-year-old, who made her international debut in 1999, this time — leading to the World Cup — is both “exciting and anxious”. “We are focussed and keen to do well,” says the sportswoman, who was recently roped in as the brand ambassador for Jacob’s Creek, which has long been associated with popular Australian cricketer Brett Lee. Excerpts from a virtual conversation: How is preparation for the World Cup going? lIt is a big event, and all of us have worked hard for it. The 2017 World Cup has been a game-changer for women’s cricket in India. We came second then, and now, we have the team to cross that hurdle. As the World Cup is a one-month-long event, there will be ups and downs, but we hope to win. Considering the significance of the tournament, how do you deal with the pressure? lYou know the entire world is looking at you and the team. There is a lot of pressure, but I have tried keeping things simple. I am working on keeping a clutter-free mind, because the more clear you are, the better you can execute what you have planned. Shabaash Mithu ,your biopic, is due to hit screens soon. Why did you give a go-ahead for a film based on your life?   lI wanted everyone to know not just my struggles, but also the journey of Indian women’s cricket. Back in the ’90s, if a young girl was interested in taking up the sport, they had to face several challenges. The evolution of women’s cricket from then to now has been phenomenal, especially thanks to the great outing in the 2017 World Cup. A lot of young girls have taken up the sport now as it is becoming more viable. What has hugely helped now is having the matches on television. I don’t have any clippings of my first match to watch and rewind. What were your biggest challenges in the ’90s? lIt was difficult travelling abroad when I was in my teens. Without gadgets, all decisions I used to take were my own. I learnt from those experiences. It made me fiercely independent. These days, we head to the hotel room after a match but back then, touring was more fun, with teammates hanging out together. How did Taapsee become Mithali for the big screen? lI did put pressure on her saying that ‘acting might be your profession, but you need to play me in this film’. She has put in a lot of hard work to appear as close as possible to what I am in real life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/i-put-pressure-on-taapsee/article64950698.ece
13 January 2022||January 13 2022 03:47 IST,||‘I put pressure on Taapsee’||The next few months are crucial for Indian cricketer Mithali Raj. She faces her biggest cricketing test in the upcoming Women’s Cricket World Cup, hosted in New Zealand. All eyes will be on Team India, but more specifically, on Mithali as this will probably be her last big international sporting appearance. For the 39-year-old who made her international debut in 1999, this time — leading to the World Cup — is both “exciting and anxious”. “We are focussed and keen to do well,” says the sportswoman, who was recently roped in as the brand ambassador for Jacob’s Creek, which has long been associated with popular Australian cricketer Brett Lee. Excerpts from a virtual conversation: How is preparation for the World Cup going? lIt is a big event, and all of us have worked hard for it. The 2017 World Cup has been a game changer for women’s cricket in India. We came second then, and now, we have the team to cross that hurdle. As the World Cup is a one-month long event, there will be ups and downs, but we hope to win. Considering the significance of the tournament, how do you deal with the pressure? lYou know the entire world is looking at you and the team. There is a lot of pressure, but I have tried keeping things simple. I am working on keeping a clutter-free mind, because the more clear you are, the better you can execute what you have planned. Shabaash Mithu ,your biopic, is due to hit screens soon. Why did you give a go-ahead for a film based on your life?  lI wanted everyone to know not just my struggles, but also the journey of Indian women’s cricket. Back in the Nineties, if a young girl was interested in taking up the sport, they had to face several challenges. The evolution of women’s cricket from then to now has been phenomenal, especially thanks to the great outing in the 2017 World Cup. A lot of young girls have taken up the sport now as it is becoming more viable. What has hugely helped now is having the matches on television. I don’t have any clippings of my first match to watch and rewind! What were your biggest challenges in the Nineties? lIt was difficult travelling abroad when I was in my teens. Without gadgets, all decisions I used to take were my own. I learnt from those experiences. It made me fiercely independent. These days, we head to the hotel room after a match but back then, touring was more fun, with teammates hanging out together. How did Taapsee become Mithali for the big screen? lI did put pressure on her saying that, ‘Acting might be your profession, but you need to play me in this film.’ She has put in a lot of hardwork to appear as close as possible to what I am in real life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/i-put-pressure-on-taapsee/article64950819.ece
