16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:04 IST,||EC extends ban on rallies in five poll-bound States till January 22||The Election Commission on Saturday banned rallies and roadshows in the five election-bound States, but allowed political parties to hold indoor meetings of up to 300 people or 50% of the venue’s capacity. While announcing the poll schedule for Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand on January 8, the EC had banned all physical rallies, roadshows, padyatras, processions and vehicle rallies in view of the rising COVID-19 cases. Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra had said the ban would be till Saturday, when it would be reviewed. On Saturday, the EC held virtual meetings with the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry and Chief Electoral Officers, chief secretaries and health secretaries of the five States going to polls. The three-member Commission held a “comprehensive review of present status and projected trends of COVID-19 pandemic with special focus in the five poll going States”, an EC statement said. The progress of the vaccination drives and plans to complete first, second and booster doses for frontline workers were also reviewed. The EC also took into consideration the State Disaster Management Authorities’ (SDMAs) restrictions and State-specific guidelines on gathering of people. The EC decided to continue the ban on roadshows, padyatras, cycle/bike/ vehicle rallies, processions and rallies by political parties and candidates till January 22, when it would review the decision again. “However, the Commission has granted relaxation for the political parties to the extent that indoor meetings of maximum 300 persons or 50% of the capacity of the hall or the prescribed limit set by SDMA will be allowed,” the EC statement read. The EC said political parties would have to ensure compliance of COVID-appropriate behaviour and the Model Code of Conduct. All other restrictions and guidelines announced on January 8 would continue to apply, the EC said, adding that the State and district authorities would ensure compliance. Other guidelines in place for the polls include the option of online filing of nominations, ban on victory processions and allotment of double the usual airtime on Doordarshan and All India Radio for parties. The guidelines were first brought out by the EC in 2020, ahead of the Bihar elections, and have been observed for all polls since then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ec-extends-ban-on-rallies-in-five-poll-bound-states-till-january-22/article64949617.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:04 IST,||Daily COVID-19 cases remain high; 305 deaths recorded||India recorded 2,62,938 COVID-19 cases and 305 deaths on Saturday. The country has so far reported 3,68,52,416 cases and 4,85,807 deaths. The active cases stand at 14.19 lakh. The figures are based on the State bulletins released until 9.30 p.m. on Saturday. Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura and Lakshadweep had, however, not yet released data for the day. Maharashtra reported 42,462 infections followed by Karnataka (32,793), Tamil Nadu (23,989) and Delhi (20,718). Kerala recorded the highest number of casualties (106) on Saturday followed by West Bengal (39) and Delhi (30). The results of 16,13,740 samples tested on Friday were made available on Saturday. Positivity rate The positivity rate on Saturday was around 16.4%. Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka reported 4,955 and 32,793 cases, respectively, while Telangana had witnessed a dip in cases. As of Saturday, India has fully vaccinated 64.2% of its eligible population (15+) and partially vaccinated 89.2%. Around 45.6% of the 15-17 age group population has received at least one dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-covid-19-cases-remain-high-305-deaths-recorded/article64949618.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||Positivity rate touches a record high of 37% in Visakhapatnam district||The COVID-19 third wave appears to be hitting Visakhapatnam district hard, as within a span of about 16 days the positivity rate has gone up from below 1% to 37.65%. The number of positive cases recorded on Friday was 992 and on Saturday morning it was 1,103. This has taken the total cases to around 1.64 lakh in the district since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020. On the brighter side, there have been on deaths in the last two days, keeping the count at 1,112 and the rate of hospitalisation continues to be on the lower side. According to the predictions, the cases in the State would hover around 40,000 to 50,000 by the end of January, and are likely to see a drop in February, where we can except around 20,000 cases in the first two weeks and slowly it would tapper down by March, said a senior doctor from the CSR COVID block of King George Hospital (KGH). Second place But for a change, Visakhapatnam, that normally stood in the fourth or fifth position in the earlier two waves, is now in the second place after Chittoor. Fortunately, the death and severity is on the lower side, said Director of Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) K. Rambabu. We have around 600 beds, including 200 ICU beds and 400 oxygenated beds. And so far, we have no admissions, as on date. We are treating people affected by the virus and putting them on home isolation, by giving the home isolation kits. But we are ready for the eventualities with around 247 ventilators, 40 oxygen concentrators, one 30 kl LMO tank, 2 PSA (Pressure swing adsorption) plants and at least 3 D-Type cylinders, said Dr. Rambabu. Acquiescing with Dr. Rambabu, Dr. Vijay Sekhar, neurosurgeon from KGH, said, “Though the active cases have gone up from 121 on December 27 to over 4,600 as on date, the number of admissions is on the lower side, compared to the second wave.” It is learnt that the admission into the CSR block, as on Saturday was around 114 with about 73 in the ICU. Most of the ICU patients were the ones suffering from severe and chronic co-morbidities. But the cause of concern for the medical fraternity is the rapidity in the spread of the third wave. Now not only trauma care patients who are being admitted are turning positive, but also the staff, including nurses, paramedics and PG residential doctors are turning positive. We are advising at least one week home isolation for the staff, said a HoD in KGH. Unlike in the first two waves, where the Health Department was sure of the variant prevalence, the positivity in the third wave is a mix of both the Delta and Omicron variant. It appears that most of the positive cases continue to be affected by the Delta variant, there are also a number of Omicron cases. But fortunately, vaccination had been the saving grace. The severity had been grossly reduced, said former principal of Andhra Medical College, Dr. P.V. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/positivity-rate-touches-a-record-high-of-37-in-visakhapatnam-district/article64949610.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||BJP plays it safe in U.P., fields Adityanath from Gorakhpur||The BJP on Saturday declared its first list of candidates for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath set to contest from the Gorakhpur (Urban) and Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya from the Sirathu Assembly constituencies. Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and BJP general secretary Arun Singh made the announcement while declaring names of 105 candidates for the first two of the seven-phase election and two more seats. With the declaration of Mr. Adityanath’s seat as Gorakhpur, all speculation that he might contest from Ayodhya has also been put to rest. Sources in the party said Ayodhya may have been under consideration with the aim that the Chief Minister’s presence in a seat outside of his turf of Gorakhpur may influence more areas. However, the recent exit of 10 MLAs including three Ministers — Swami Prasad Maurya, Dara Singh Chauhan, and Dharam Singh Saini — from the Yogi Adityanath government, most from eastern Uttar Pradesh and their switch to the Samajwadi Party, made the decision go towards protecting existing turfs rather than expanding political presence in other seats. The list of 107 seats — 57 for phase I and 48 for phase II of election — saw 63 out of 83 sitting MLAs of the party being renominated and 20 MLAs dropped. The exit of Mr. Maurya and his supporters, belonging to non-Yadav OBC communities, is also reflected in the caste break-up of the candidate list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-plays-it-safe-in-up-fields-adityanath-from-gorakhpur/article64949613.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:36 IST,||People with mild illnesses barred from visiting hospitals||In an indication that the next two-three weeks are crucial, the State Government on Saturday issued a public notification stating that only sick patients and those requiring emergency care should visit the hospitals for the next two weeks. This is to prevent crowding and the spread of COVID-19 among patients. Next two weeks “Patients with mild illness, which require outpatient care/follow-up care/elective surgeries, including dental issues, should not visit the hospitals for the next two weeks or till further orders,” stated the notification issued by T.K. Anil Kumar, Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare).  “This is primarily for non-COVID patients. With a steep rise in cases, it is important to initiate measures to curb transmission. This notification has been issued with an intention to curtail the spread within the hospitals and among patients. We had issued a similar notification in March last year during the second wave,” Mr. Anil Kumar told The Hindu .  He said private hospitals have also been instructed to take similar steps to prevent crowding and halt the spread of COVID-19. Meanwhile, the State Health Department has advised all those who have provided swab samples for COVID-19 testing to strictly isolate/quarantine themselves at home till their lab results are communicated. “Any irresponsible behaviour by people who have given swabs for testing, such as going outdoors, socialising, going to work, etc. will result in spread of infection in the community. Consequently, such acts will invite stringent legal action under Epidemic Diseases Act,” stated a separate circular. 10,000 medicos for tele-triaging Meanwhile, to reduce unnecessary burden on the health infrastructure, the State Government is utilising the services of about 10,000 medical, dental and AYUSH students for tele-triaging and monitoring patients under home isolation. “Over 500 experts are supporting the system,” said Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Saturday. “We have a process to regularly monitor the health of those under home isolation. Several people seek hospitalisation due to panic, even if they are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. If proper counselling is provided through phone, we can reduce unnecessary burden on our health infrastructure,” he said. Speaking after inaugurating a virtual training programme in home isolation care for the medical, dental and AYUSH students, the Minister said Karnataka has effectively leveraged technology in its battle against the pandemic. The training programme was held in association with Project StepOne. “So far about 2.5 lakh healthcare and frontline staff have been trained through online platforms. This is a model for the entire country,” the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/people-with-mild-illnesses-barred-from-visiting-hospitals/article38276655.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:56 IST,||Rationalising distribution of welfare schemes based on data||A few weeks ago, certain sections of political parties and farmers’ bodies raised their eyebrows when the Registrar of Co-operative Societies, in a communication, stated that 35.37 lakh loans against jewellery, out of about 48.85 lakh loans, would not qualify for the loan waiver scheme. As for Social Security Pension Schemes which cover destitute senior citizens, differently-abled persons, widows and agricultural labourers, the authorities found that 8,800 beneficiaries were not alive. The two illustrations form part of the steps taken by the State government under the data purity project. “The purpose is to achieve the right targeting of numerous welfare schemes, as the government is keen on ensuring that only the needy and eligible persons should be brought under the fold of welfare schemes. The project operates on the principle of having a data-driven and evidence-based decision support system,” said a senior official. In respect of the jewellery loan waiver scheme, the identification of beneficiaries was preceded by a host of stipulations and guidelines issued by the Cooperation, Food and Consumer Protection Department in November. Similarly, the Social Security Pension Schemes have been governed by several government orders. The official said that a close scrutiny of the data on jewellery loan borrowers revealed that there were a number of persons who had taken the loans under different names despite belonging to same families or had availed themselves of the loans even in different districts. Such borrowers were declared ineligible, given the main condition of the waiver scheme of covering each family which had pledged the jewellery of up to five sovereigns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rationalising-distribution-of-welfare-schemes-based-on-data/article64949673.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:11 IST,||Child’s welfare key in custody battle: SC||A child’s welfare, and not the legal rights of the parents, is the paramount concern in a custody battle, the Supreme Court has held. In fact, the parents’ rights are “irrelevant” in such cases, a recent judgment by a Bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S. Oka said. The apex court laid down that no court can force a parent to travel abroad with the child in question in a custody battle or compel him or her to reside in a foreign country against their wishes. That would be a violation of the parent’s privacy, it said. The judgment came in a case concerning a child, a U.S. citizen, who was brought to India by his mother for medical treatment in 2019. The mother did not abide by a consent document signed with the boy’s father to return to the U.S. with the child after about eight months following the completion of treatment and a surgery. The mother contended that the couple was without familial support in the U.S. and her rights as a primary caregiver to the child cannot be ignored. “The law regarding custody does not and cannot completely eliminate a woman in the name of child welfare,” she argued. The apex court differed with her point of view. Justice Oka said the issue with regard to repatriation of a child has to be addressed not on a consideration of legal rights of the parties but on the sole criterion of the welfare of the child. “The paramount consideration is the welfare of the minor child and the rights of the parties litigating over the custody issue are irrelevant,” the court said. However, the court said what would be in the best interest of a child was a question of fact in each case. “A custody dispute involves human issues which are always complex and complicated. There can never be a straightjacket formula to decide the issue of custody of a minor child as what is in the paramount interest of a minor is always a question of fact,” Justice Oka said. ‘Choice with mother’ He, however, did not agree with the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s direction to the mother to travel back with the child to the U.S. The court said the choice would be left to the mother. The court then issued directions to the father to make monetary and residential arrangements for the mother if she chooses to accompany their son abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/childs-welfare-key-in-custody-battle-sc/article38276743.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:04 IST,||‘Unexpected weather led to chopper crash’||The tri-services inquiry into the Mi-17 V5 helicopter crash, in which Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and 13 others had died, has submitted its preliminary findings stating the crash occurred due to “unexpected change” in weather conditions that led to spatial disorientation of the pilot resulting in Controlled Flight into Terrain (CFIT), the IAF said on Friday. “The Court of Inquiry (CoI) has ruled out mechanical failure, sabotage or negligence as a cause of the accident. The accident was a result of entry into clouds due to unexpected change in weather conditions in the valley. This led to spatial disorientation of the pilot resulting in CFIT,” the IAF said in a statement. “Based on its findings, the CoI has made certain recommendations which are being reviewed.” The IAF said the inquiry team had analysed the Flight Data Recorder and the Cockpit Voice Recorder besides questioning all available witnesses to determine the most probable cause of the accident.  As reported by The Hindu on January 1, the inquiry findings which were sent for legal vetting before being submitted to the Defence Ministry had indicated CFIT as the probable cause.   The IAF helicopter with Gen. Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 12 others, including his staff, was en route to the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unexpected-weather-led-to-chopper-crash/article38276419.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||Prosecution to appeal against bishop’s acquittal||A day after the Additional District and Sessions Court I in Kottayam acquitted bishop Franco Mulakkal, former head of the Latin Catholic diocese of Jalandhar, of all charges in connection with a rape complaint filed by a nun, the prosecution has decided to move an appeal against the verdict in the High Court. In an order on Friday, the court held that it had been unable to place reliance on the solitary testimony of the survivor and to hold the bishop guilty of the offences charged against him. Verdict in 289 pages According to Jithesh Babu, Special Public Prosecutor, a decision on the appeal followed a detailed analysis of the judgment which runs to 289 pages. From discrediting of all prosecution witnesses to undue delay in its publication, the prosecution pointed out several shortcomings in the court order. The judgment sought to discredit the survivor on minor differences in various statements, the prosecution said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prosecution-to-appeal-against-bishops-acquittal/article64949612.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:00 IST,||Prosecution to appeal against bishop’s acquittal||A day after the Additional District and Sessions Court I in Kottayam acquitted bishop Franco Mulakkal, former head of the Latin Catholic diocese of Jalandhar, of all charges in connection with a rape complaint filed by a nun, the prosecution has decided to move an appeal against the verdict in the High Court. In an order on Friday, the court held that it had been unable to place reliance on the solitary testimony of the survivor and to hold the bishop guilty of the offences charged against him. According to Jithesh Babu, Special Public Prosecutor, a decision on the appeal followed a detailed analysis of the judgment which runs to 289 pages. From discrediting of all prosecution witnesses to undue delay in its publication, the prosecution pointed out several shortcomings in the court order. The judgement sought to discredit the survivor on minor differences in various statements, the prosecution said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prosecution-to-appeal-against-bishops-acquittal/article38276423.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||RS seat offer mere speculation: Chiranjeevi||‘Mega Star’ Chiranjeevi expressed dissatisfaction over media reports that his one-on-one meeting with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on January 13 was a sign of his inclination to stage a comeback in politics by accepting an offer of Rajya Sabha (RS) seat purportedly made by the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), and clarified that it was a baseless campaign.  In a brief chat with mediapersons at the airport here, while returning from Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple at Dokiparru in Krishna district where he took part in Goda Devi Kalyanam along with his wife on Friday, Mr. Chiranjeevi said he was staying away from politics and that there was no question of a Rajya Sabha seat being offered to him.  He maintained that he was not aspiring for any such post and his deliberations with the Chief Minister were confined to the issues faced by the Telugu film industry. “I have distanced myself from politics, but a section of the media gave my interaction with the Chief Minister a political colour through their report. There is no intention to make a re-entry into politics. I want to put a full stop to be put to all this,” he tweeted as his meeting with the Chief Minister triggered intense speculation that it was a prelude to his joining the YSRCP and being sent to the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-seat-offer-mere-speculation-chiranjeevi/article64949609.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||‘Army to keep status quo on border intact’||The Army will not let any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along the country’s borders succeed, Army Chief Gen M.M. Naravane said, addressing the rank and file on Saturday while the Army’s paratroopers showcased new combat dress at the Army Day parade. “Our patience is a sign of our self-confidence, but no one should make the mistake of testing it... Our message is clear, the Indian Army won’t let any attempt to unilaterally change status quo along country’s borders to succeed,” Gen. Naravane said addressing the parade on the 74th Army Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-to-keep-status-quo-on-border-intact/article38276420.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:56 IST,||Rugged race||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rugged-race/article64949677.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:11 IST,||Flight club||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flight-club/article64949793.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:04 IST,||Kohli steps down as Test captain||A day after India lost the Test series 1-2 to South Africa at Cape Town, Virat Kohli stepped down as captain on Saturday. He revealed his decision through Twitter. “Every thing has to come to a halt at some stage and for me as Test captain of India, it is now,” he stated. The Delhi batsman, who took charge as the Test captain in 2014 after M.S. Dhoni stepped down, has been India’s most successful leader in the longest format with 40 wins in 68 matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kohli-steps-down-as-test-captain/article38276418.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||BSP names 53 contestants||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati slammed the Samajwadi Party on Saturday, accusing the rival of only favouring Yadavs while in power. She declared 53 out of 58 candidates for the first phase of U.P. election. The list includes 14 Muslims and 10 Dalits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsp-names-53-contestants/article38276427.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||Cong. releases Punjab list||The Congress, in its first list of candidates for the Assembly election in Punjab has only replaced four sitting MLAs. It has decided to repeat CM Charanjit Singh Channi from Chamkaur Sahib and State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu from Amritsar East.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-releases-punjab-list/article38276428.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:56 IST,||Tasmac Pongal sales cross Rs. 500 crore in T.N.||Tasmac sold liquor worth Rs. 520.13 crore during this Pongal festival season, an increase of 24.67% when compared to last year’s sales. On January 13, the total collection was Rs. 203.05 crore and on the day of Pongal it was Rs. 317.08 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tasmac-pongal-sales-cross-rs-500-crore-in-tn/article38276472.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:06 IST,||Current COVID wave has peaked in Delhi: Minister||The current COVID-19 wave has peaked in Delhi and cases are expected to fall now, Health Minister Satyendra Jain said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/current-covid-wave-has-peaked-in-delhi-minister/article38276747.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||NEARBY-1||Despite a ban on the blood sport, cockfights were organised under floodlights in specially set up arenas at many villages as part of Sankranti celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearby-1/article38276424.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:53 IST,||Karnataka reports 32,793 new COVID-19 cases||Karnataka on Saturday recorded another big single-day spike with 32,793 new cases of COVID-19, up from 28,723 reported on Friday. Of the new cases, Bengaluru Urban alone reported 22,284.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-reports-32793-new-covid-19-cases/article38276654.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:53 IST,||White-topping of Commercial Street over||After months of undergoing a makeover followed by white-topping, work on Commercial Street is finally completed, much to the relief of traders and shopkeepers. The authorities will take a call on when to allow motorists to use the stretch on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/white-topping-of-commercial-street-over/article38276653.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:53 IST,||Hottest days in Jan. have all been in last decade||As new studies increasingly provide evidence of winters getting warmer, India Meteorological Department data too shows Bengaluru has been witnessing a hotter January. The hottest days in the month have all been in the last decade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hottest-days-in-jan-have-all-been-in-last-decade/article64949882.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:36 IST,||Modi: We will work for people of Karnataka||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the Union and the State Governments will keep working for Karnataka. He acknowledged Karnataka as a State which makes unprecedented contributions to national progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-we-will-work-for-people-of-karnataka/article38276809.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:11 IST,||Maharashtra may seek prescription for self-tests||The Maharashtra government is planning to make doctor prescription mandatory for buying COVID-19 self-test kits from chemists. Government authorities have observed that people are not reporting cases to them despite testing positive for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-may-seek-prescription-for-self-tests/article38276912.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:56 IST,||T.N. logs 23,989 COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu registered a marginal rise in fresh COVID-19 infections with 23,989 persons testing positive on Saturday. A total of 8,978 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai. The State recorded 11 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-logs-23989-covid-19-cases/article64949676.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:11 IST,||NCP to go it alone in Goa Assembly poll||The Nationalist Congress Party is set to go it alone in the Goa Assembly election after failing to reach a seat-sharing arrangement with the Congress. The party has, however, finalised an alliance with the Congress in Manipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncp-to-go-it-alone-in-goa-assembly-poll/article38276911.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:56 IST,||ISO certifications for maintenance of rakes||Maintenance of the rakes of Maveli Express, one of the overnight train services operated between Thiruvananthapuram Central and Mangaluru Central stations, has received three ISO certifications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iso-certifications-for-maintenance-of-rakes/article38276934.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:06 IST,||SP, ASP trade charges on failure of alliance talks||Talks for an alliance in the U.P. election between the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Azad Samaj Party led by Dalit leader Chandra Shekhar Azad have failed. Mr. Azad accused SP president Akhilesh Yadav of insulting the “Bahujan Samaj” on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sp-asp-trade-charges-on-failure-of-alliance-talks/article64949854.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:36 IST,||Medha Patkar opposes Mekedatu project||Social activist Medha Patkar has expressed concern that the proposed Mekedatu balancing reservoir project could seriously affect bio-diversity as well as river Cauvery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/medha-patkar-opposes-mekedatu-project/article38276808.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:36 IST,||Salaries of guest lecturers more than doubled||Keeping up its promise of examining the demands of guest lecturers on humanitarian grounds, the State Government has more than doubled their salaries besides taking various measures to streamline the system of their appointment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/salaries-of-guest-lecturers-more-than-doubled/article64949766.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:06 IST,||Civic polls postponed in Bengal after case surge||The West Bengal poll panel has postponed elections to four civic bodies following a rise in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/civic-polls-postponed-in-bengal-after-case-surge/article38276748.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:56 IST,||‘Quota not followed on law officers appointment’||No reservation policy has been followed in the appointment of law officers in the High Court of Madras and its bench at Madurai, according to the Public Department (Law Officers) in response to a query under the Right to Information (RTI).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/quota-not-followed-on-law-officers-appointment/article38276473.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:11 IST,||Civic polls postponed in Bengal after case surge||The West Bengal State Election Commission on Saturday decided to postpone elections to four municipal corporations to February 12 following a rise in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/civic-polls-postponed-in-bengal-after-case-surge/article64949794.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:33 IST,||At the helm of India’s space research||He grew up in an era when, kindling the imagination of an entire nation, the first sounding rockets were smartly lifting off from what was once a nondescript beach in southern Kerala. So it should come as no surprise when S. Somanath, the new chief of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), says his interest in space technology was first piqued as a young student; an interest which would quickly evolve into a lifelong passion. Armed with a degree in engineering, he joined the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) — the leading unit of ISRO for launch vehicles — in 1985. The eclectic eighties was a happening decade on many counts for fledgling space scientists such as Mr. Somanath. More so because the space agency was right in the middle of one of its biggest undertakings; building the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV), an elegant, 44-metre tall rocket that would eventually come to be dubbed the “reliable workhorse” of ISRO. The young engineer from a small village near Cherthala in Alappuzha district was assigned to the PSLV project, where he quickly honed his skills. It was also at this time when he was first noted by his immediate bosses as “one of the bright boys” who was destined for bigger things. Time, it appears, has proved them right. In 2015, ISRO chose him to head its Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre (LPSC), Valiamala, and in 2018, the VSSC. On Friday, he once again proved his mentors right when he took over as the new Chairman of ISRO. New Delhi had issued orders appointing him as Secretary, Department of Space, and the Chairman, Space Commission, on January 12, Wednesday, for a “combined tenure of three years”. At 58, Mr. Somanath comes across as a smiling, outspoken man who is quite at ease in a crowd. Younger colleagues at Thumba (VSSC) describe him as someone who is confident about his craft and willing to adapt and innovate. They also draw attention to his aptitude for learning new things, a trademark trait of many of the leading ISRO lights. Senior scientists of the space agency, many of them now retired, say he is “the right person” to lead the agency which is at a crossroads. He is also lauded for his management and diplomatic skills. What is obvious is that Mr. Somanath, who succeeds K. Sivan as Chairman, would have to draw extensively on all these qualities to address the formidable challenges that await the country's space sector, which, poised for reforms on the one hand, also wants to see its pandemic-hit mission schedules back on track. Born in July 1963 — incidentally the same year the first sounding rocket, an American-made Nike-Apache, made its way into the blue skies from Thumba — Mr. Somanath grew up in Thuravoor, a village near Cherthala. The son of Sreedhara Panicker, a teacher of Hindi, and Thankamma, Mr. Somanath was a bright student, excelling in the science subjects. He obtained his BTech degree in Mechanical Engineering from the TKM College of Engineering, Kollam. After joining the VSSC, he also took his Masters in Aerospace Engineering from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, with specialisation in Dynamics and Control. Mr. Somanath joined the PSLV team at the VSSC when G. Madhavan Nair, who would go on to become Chairman, ISRO, was the project director. “Developing the PSLV was one of the important projects of ISRO at the time. We had noticed the spark in him even in those days,” recalls Mr. Nair, who led the space agency from 2003 to 2009. Later, as project manager of PSLV, Mr. Somanath handled mechanisms, pyro systems, integration and satellite launch service management. GSLV project In 2003, he joined the Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle Mk-III (GSLV Mk-III) project, serving as the deputy project director responsible for overall design of the vehicle, mission design, structural design and integration, according to an ISRO profile on him. From 2010 to 2014, he was project director of GSLV Mk-III. “His contributions in PSLV and GSLV Mk-III were in their overall architecture, propulsion stages design, structural and structural dynamics designs, separation systems, vehicle integration and integration procedures development,” says ISRO. After a stint as deputy director, VSSC, he moved to the LPSC as director in June 2015. He played a key role in the development and qualification of the CE-20 cryogenic engine and the C25 cryogenic upper stage of the GSLV. Mr. Somanath has had a role in all the major missions undertaken by ISRO in recent decades, but which one is the most memorable for him personally? “I would say the LVM3-X/CARE mission,” he said on Saturday. This first, suborbital, experimental flight of the GSLV Mk-III took place at Sriharikota on December 18, 2014. On January 22, 2018, he was back at the VSSC, this time as the director. Mr. Somanath has taken over as the Chairman, ISRO, at a time when the Central government is pushing for sweeping space sector reforms. From a decades-old, purely government-run affair, the sector is set to see a larger role played by the private sector and start-ups. The prevailing philosophy is that production should be left to the industry, and ISRO should focus on research. With this in mind, NewSpace India Ltd, responsible for enabling Indian industries to take up space-related activities and promote and commercially exploit products and services arising from the space programme, was incorporated in 2019. A year later, the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre was announced as “an independent nodal agency under the Department of Space (DoS) for allowing space activities and usage of DoS-owned facilities by non-government private entities.” List of priorities Mr. Somanath has made it clear that space sector reforms and spurring the growth of India’s space economy find top billing in his list of priorities. Forging a lasting and meaningful collaboration between ISRO and the relatively younger private players in India’s space sector is one of the challenges awaiting the new chairman, point out ISRO veterans. On another, equally important front, the space agency would also want to get on with ongoing projects which have been delayed by the outbreak of COVID-19. The pandemic hit the day-to-day operations of ISRO, forcing critical facilities such as VSSC, LPSC and the Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota, to adapt to the new normal. Under Mr. Somanath, the VSSC was actively engaged in combating the virus by producing hand sanitisers and developing mechanical ventilator models for COVID-19 care.  In December 2019, speaking to The Hindu ahead of the 50th mission of the PSLV, Mr. Somanath had commented that the first 50 missions had taken 26 years, but the next 50 would not take even half as long. It reflected the bubbling enthusiasm in ISRO circles in the immediate months preceding the pandemic as the space agency was gradually pushing up the frequency of launches. But as he shoulders the task of helming the organisation, the challenge of putting aright a schedule that has skittered off the tracks awaits Mr. Somanath.  One of his top priorities will be the ‘Gaganyaan’, India's ambitious push to put a human crew in space. ISRO hopes that the mission would help lay the robust foundation for a sustainable human space flight programme in the long run. Development of a Reusable Launch Vehicle, the semi-cryogenic engine and the keenly-awaited Chandrayaan-3 and Aditya-L1 missions are some of the projects awaiting his immediate attention. In September 2019, giving away prizes at a function in Thiruvananthapuram, Mr. Somanath had opined that finding solutions to problems is the essence of engineering. On the occasion, he has also emphasised that for a country like India, the solutions also need to be cost-effective besides being efficient. Mr. Somanath is now at the helm of one organisation which the nation has traditionally looked up to for such solutions.  In Focus   Forging a lasting collaboration between ISRO and the relatively younger private players in the space sector is one of the challenges awaiting the new chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-the-helm-of-indias-space-research/article64949921.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||Cloud over foreign leaders’ R-Day visit||With COVID-19 cases still on the rise 10 days ahead of Republic Day, the government is considering putting off plans to invite the leaders of five Central Asian nations as the chief guests to the parade, and holding a summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually in Delhi this month. The contingency plans and a number of options to reduce the size of the Republic Day parade and audience were discussed at a meeting chaired by Mr. Modi on Saturday. According to officials involved in the planning of the January 26 events, a proposal has been sent to the five leaders of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan to attend a video-conference summit, in case there is no let-up in the pandemic situation. At present, say officials, the cases in the current wave are likely to peak at the end of January which prompted the review as the foreign dignitaries had confirmed their attendance last month. The Kazakhstan President’s visit was already under some question given the unrest in the capital Nur Sultan earlier this month that was brought under control with the help of Russian troops, after which President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev appointed a new government. However, when asked, diplomats from the countries said preparations for the visits were still very much in place. Mr. Modi chaired a meeting on the Republic Day arrangements on Saturday where discussions on truncating the parade route and reducing the number of invitees further down from the arrangements last year were included. Strictly official According to reports earlier this week, which officials confirmed, the parade will be restricted mainly to officials, diplomats and journalists and the government has decided to disallow invitations to those below 15 years given vaccinations do not yet cover them. Among the decisions taken was an announcement that the official celebrations would begin from this year onwards from January 23 instead of January 24 to include the birth anniversary of Subhash Chandra Bose which has been named “Parakram Divas”. Government sources said in a message the decision was in line with the “Modi government’s focus on celebrating/commemorating important aspects of history and culture”. Besides Mr. Tokayev, Presidents Sadyr Japarov (Kyrgyzstan), Emomali Rahmon (Tajikistan), Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov (Turkmenistan) and Shavkat Mirziyoyev (Uzbekistan) are due to attend the India-Central Asia Summit with Mr. Modi on January 25 in Delhi. At the India-Central Asia Foreign Ministers convened by Minister of External Affairs (MEA) S. Jaishankar in December, several initiatives for increasing connectivity, trade and regional cooperation had been finalised. Speculation has been growing on the plans for the Republic Day as the (MEA) has not yet formally announced the visit by the five leaders, though Turkmenistan Foreign Minister Rashid Meredov had referred to the “upcoming Central Asia-India Summit in January” during his Delhi visit last month. Officials said if the contingency proposal goes into effect, the summit would be held as scheduled but via video-conference instead, as several others have been since the global pandemic first broke out in early 2020. In 2021, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson had to cancel his attendance as the Republic Day chief guest and the India-U.K. summit was held subsequently via video-conference in May. Officials have also had to take into account progress on the Central Vista project while deciding on the route and the number of stands that can be accommodated around the areas down Rajpath still under construction and renovation. A source associated with the project said while there was some delay in the Republic Day parade arrangements and in the work at the traffic junctions, it was not a “major” delay. (With inputs from Damini Nath)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cloud-over-foreign-leaders-r-day-visit/article38276347.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,||Jaishankar and Basil Rajapaksa review loans to help Sri Lanka||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Saturday held talks with Sri Lanka’s Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa virtually and reviewed an imminent Indian credit facility of $1.5 billion to help Sri Lanka import food, medicines, and fuel amid an unprecedented economic meltdown. “Just concluded a detailed virtual meeting with Sri Lankan Finance Minister @RealBRajapaksa. Reaffirmed that India will be a steadfast and reliable partner of Sri Lanka,” Mr. Jaishankar said in a tweet, days after India had extended about $900 million relief. On Thursday, India provided $400 million to Sri Lanka under the SAARC currency swap arrangement and deferred a settlement of $515.2 million to the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) by two months. “Positively noting” the development, Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Rajapaksa also “reviewed progress” in New Delhi extending a credit facility of $1 billion to help Sri Lanka import essential items including food and medicines and $500 million for importing fuel from India, the MEA said. Responding to the development in a tweet, Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Ajith Nivard Cabraal said: “Deeply welcome the understanding reached between the governments of #SriLanka and #India today [Saturday] which will help to greatly stabilise Sri Lanka’s external sector further.” Chinese Minister’s visit The interaction comes a week after Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s visit to Colombo. Sri Lanka has sought assistance from both China and India, as it battles one of its worst economic crises in history, reflected in the rapidly draining foreign reserves, sharp price rise and a shortage of some essentials. The online meeting was a follow up to Mr. Rajapaksa’s New Delhi visit early December, when he held talks with Mr. Jaishankar and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, and sought emergency financial assistance to help cope with the dollar crunch that has severely impacted the country’s capacity to pay its imports bill and repay foreign debt. Mr. Rajapaksa, the MEA statement said, “recalled India’s long-standing cooperation with Sri Lanka and deeply appreciated the gestures of support”, and welcomed investments in Sri Lanka ports, infrastructure, energy, power and manufacturing. The Ministers noted the recent steps taken by the government of Sri Lanka for jointly modernising the Trincomalee Oil Tank Farms, with the Indian Oil Corporation subsidiary Lanka IOC playing a role. Mr. Jaishankar urged Colombo to ensure early release of fishermen on humanitarian considerations, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-and-basil-rajapaksa-review-loans-to-help-sri-lanka/article64949588.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||Punjab polls: Congress releases its first list||Cautiously negotiating the fractious terrain, the Congress, in its first list of candidates for the Assembly election in Punjab, has only replaced four sitting MLAs. The party has decided to repeat Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi from Chamkaur Sahib and State Congress President Navjot Singh Sidhu from Amritsar East. The party announced candidates for 86 seats out of a total of 117 in the Punjab Assembly. The first list did not include the Patiala Urban constituency which was represented by former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. Voting for Punjab’s 117 seats will take place in a single phase on February 14. Deputy Speaker of the Punjab Assembly Ajaib Bhatti is among those who have been told to sit out. Moga MLA Harjot Kamal had to make way for Malvika Sood, sister of actor Sonu Sood, who joined the party on the eve of polls. Mr. Kamal was quick to join hands with the BJP. Steady competition All other sitting Ministers will contest from their respective constituencies they currently represent. The party has also fielded the Deputy Chief Ministers — Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa from Dera Baba Nanak and Om Prakash Soni from Amritsar Central, the seats they already represent. Throwing his hat in the ring for the already messy race to the Chief Minister’s post in case of a Congress victory, Rajya Sabha member Pratap Singh Bajwa will contest the Qadian Assembly seat in Gurdaspur. His younger brother Fatehjang Singh Bajwa made way for him, since the party insisted on a ‘one family, one ticket’ formula while distributing the party ticket. Following this formula, former State unit president and campaign committee chief Sunil Jakhar will not contest the Assembly polls. In his place, his nephew Sandeep Jakhar will contest the Abohar Assembly seat instead. Similarly, Punjab Minister Brahm Mohindra will not contest and his son Mohit Mohindra will contest in his place from Patiala rural Assembly seat. Controversial Punjabi singer Sidhu Mussewala, who joined the Congress some time ago, will contest from Mansa. Rupinder Kaur ‘Ruby’, who had switched sides from the AAP to the Congress, has been fielded by the party from the Malout-SC seat. She was elected from Bathinda Rural in the last election on AAP ticket. Former Punjab Youth Congress chief Amarpreet Singh Lally has been given the party ticket from Garhshankar. Jagpal Singh Abulkhurana has been fielded from the Lambi constituency currently represented by Parkash Singh Badal. Poor representation In Uttar Pradesh, women’s empowerment is the Congress’s main poll plank, but a similar push is missing in Punjab. The first list only has nine women candidates, roughly 10% so far in contrast to 40% women representation in the Congress list in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-polls-congress-releases-its-first-list/article64949591.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:33 IST,||Big-ticket defection||In less than a week’s time, senior backward caste leader Swami Prasad Maurya has shaken up the caste-based political narrative in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. For five years, he remained on the sidelines of power despite holding a Cabinet berth in the BJP government — dwarfed in stature by the BJP’s home-grown Maurya leader Keshav Prasad Maurya, the Deputy Chief Minister. Soon after he quit the BJP government on January 11, Mr. Maurya positioned himself to spearhead the Samajwadi Party’s (SP) new-found social justice politics. Opportunistic re-alignments, nepotism and defections close to elections are nothing new in politics. But Mr. Maurya’s sudden exit, subsequent rebellion by several other BJP MLAs and Ministers, mostly OBCs, and their quick shift to the SP, the BJP’s main rival in the State, all have provided a psychological boost to Akhilesh Yadav’s party. The BJP, which successfully pitted the non-Yadav OBC and upper castes against the Yadavs in the last three elections, has been forced to the backfoot, at least for now. Stung by the swift losses, the BJP has tried to reclaim the backward caste space and projected Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the guardian of the backward sections. A sitting legislator from Padrauna seat on the eastern fringes of the State, Mr. Maurya is a five-time MLA, who joined the BJP in 2016 after rebelling against Mayawati with whom he worked for two decades. He was not only the leader of the opposition in the Assembly but also the undeclared backward caste face of the BSP, the only leader authorised by Ms. Mayawati to address the media. Born in Pratapgarh, Mr. Maurya studied in the Allahabad University and started his political journey with the Yuva Lok Dal in 1980. He rose to be the State general secretary of the Janata Dal in 1991 before shifting to the BSP in 1996. He was elected an MLA for the first time that year. He went on to hold ministerial positions in governments led by Ms. Mayawati. From State general secretary of the BSP to its national general secretary, by the time he quit, Mr. Maurya was counted among the few backward caste leaders in the State who could sway voters across districts. Well-versed in Ambedkarite values and Bahujan politics, Mr. Maurya, also a Buddhist, made a big philosophical jump when he joined the BJP, the proponent of Hindu nationalism. However, since the BJP was in the pole-position to take advantage of the anti-incumbency against the SP government, especially among the OBCs, Mr. Maurya’s shift turned out to be mutually beneficial. OBC base He earned a Cabinet berth in U.P., while his daughter, Sanghamitra Maurya, was elected to the Lok Sabha from Budaun in 2019. (She’s still with the BJP). In the 2017 Assembly election that the BJP swept, the BSP was reduced to 19 seats. Mr. Maurya takes credit for the BSP's downfall and the BJP's rise to power. Will he deliver the same success for Akhilesh Yadav? An important OBC leader who commands support among the Maurya-Kushwaha-Sakhya-Saini castes, which are spread across the State, Mr. Maurya’s departure, followed by that of his supporting MLAs, is bound to unsettle the BJP’s backward caste narrative. His entry complements Akhilesh Yadav’s attempts to build a larger social alliance of backward castes and enhance his acceptability among them. In his introductory speech after joining the SP on Friday, Mr. Maurya challenged the BJP’s “80% vs 20%’ narrative through an aggressive pitch for unity of the Dalits, tribals and backward castes against the upper castes. “Not 80 vs 20, now it is between 15 and 85. All of 85 is ours and even in the remaining 15, we have a share,” he said. His political move had immediate repercussions. Eight years after he delivered a speech in Sultanpur asking the Dalits and the OBCs to not worship some Hindu gods during weddings, terming it a conspiracy by the upper castes-dominated system to mislead them, Mr. Maurya was served an arrest warrant. The developments over the next few weeks will reveal the exact intensity of Mr. Maurya’s rebellion as well as his real political value and support base. He has promised to destroy the BJP in the Assembly election. “The mongoose-like Swami will not rest till he finishes off the Naag-like RSS and the snake-like BJP in U.P.,” Mr. Maurya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/big-ticket-defection/article64949923.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:33 IST,||Game of words||Guess a five-letter word in six tries. That simply is what Wordle, the latest craze for puzzle lovers across the world, is about. Josh Wardle, a Brooklyn-based coder, reportedly created this in order to play with his puzzle-loving partner. On that basis alone, Wordle has been wildly successful. A few million play it during the weekends now, according to media reports, a big leap from the 90 who solved it on November 1. For many who haven’t attempted it yet, their first touch point is usually a proud Wordle solver who shares a green-grey-yellow grid — a “spoiler-free emoji grid”, as Wardle puts it — on social media. On the site, though, a clean 5*6 matrix (meaning, availability of six attempts to guess a five-letter word) stares at the solver. There are no letters, no prompts. The first guess is a blind guess, or so one thinks initially. The colours that the Wordle grid produces for the individual letters of the word so guessed are essentially the only clues one gets in this puzzle. A letter in green means it is in the word and is in the correct spot. A letter in grey means it is not in the word. And a letter in yellow means it is in the word but in the wrong spot. You have five more chances to figure this out.  Mr. Wardle hadn’t designed Wordle with worldly success in mind. In a digital world, awash with content, puzzles, and games, and marketed with an eye on holding on to the user as long as possible, Wordle has come across as an exception. Once you are done with a day’s puzzle, you have no option but to wait till the next day for the next puzzle. It is simple and scarce. Mr. Wardle told The Guardian , “It going viral doesn’t feel great, to be honest.” He added: “I feel a sense of responsibility for the players. I feel I really owe it to them to keep things running and make sure everything’s working correctly.”  Unique products Mr. Wardle’s ‘About’ tab on the LinkedIn profile page says he is someone who loves “building unique products that focus on human interactions”. Wordle wasn’t his first such product to catch the fancy of a large number of people. In his earlier job with Reddit, he was behind the ‘Place’ and ‘The Button’ projects. ‘The Button’, introduced on April Fool’s day in 2015, involved the presence of a timer which went down from 60 seconds, and a button which could reset the timer back to 60 seconds. In the few months that this project was alive, Reddit users formed serious communities based on whether they pressed the button or not. Even those who were for pressing the button, found themselves in different camps according to when they intervened.  Place was a collaborative project wherein registered Reddit users could change the colour of a pixel in a vast digital canvas, 1,000 x 1000 pixels big. A million users did, resulting in a user describing it to Newsweek “as a massive multiplayer version of Microsoft Paint”. Mr. Wardle told Newsweek in 2017 that “Early on, Place definitely resembled the kind of graffiti you would see in a bathroom stall. What was really amazing was seeing how quickly the community organised and started to self-police the canvas to keep it positive.”   With fame, Wordle, Mr. Wardle’s latest creation, is taking a life of its own. Programmers and math enthusiasts have come up with the best way to crack Wordle. Tyler Glaiel, for instance, has written a whole post on the word that is the most mathematically optimal first guess. And that’s ROATE, he says. A Wired article mentions NOTES, RESIN, TARES, and SENOR to be good starting options, based on letter frequency analysis. Some others have placed their bets on ADIEU. Then, there is this Reddit user who feels “YUMMY is the worst opener.” Another says, “I think we don’t need to make WORDLE too complicated. I am seeing a flux of algorithms to crack it. Let’s keep it fun and suspenseful.”   The Wordle popularity has rubbed off on others. Someone has made a sequencer that turns results into music. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi used the Wordle format to hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Brands have done the same to market themselves. And there have been plenty of rip offs on app stores to take advantage of the original’s success. And that’s why The New York Times ’ latest article on it is titled ‘Everyone Wants to Be Wordle.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/game-of-words/article64949922.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||5 dead in suspected hooch tragedy||At least five people died in Bihar on Friday in what is suspected to be a hooch tragedy. Officials said the cause of the deaths could be ascertained only after the post-mortem reports are available. The deaths occurred under the limits of Sohsarai police station of Nalanda district on Friday night, said villagers. The victims were identified as Bhago and Manna Mistri, both 55, Sunil Kumar, 24, Dharmendra alias Nageshwar, 50, and Arjun Pandit, 51. A few more have been admitted to hospital and are in a critical condition, they said. “My father came home last night drunk and complained of a burning sensation in his stomach. He died even before we could take him to the hospital,” said Jyoti Kumar, daughter of Manna Mistri. Lalita Devi, a relative of Bhago Mistri, also said the same. On Saturday, officials reached the spot and said only three people had died but the reason for their death had not been ascertained yet. An official, Kumar Anurag, said they were waiting for the post-mortem report. In 2021, more than 40 people had died after consuming spurious liquor in Gopalganj, West Champaran, Samastipur and Vaishali districts. The Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016 had declared it a dry State in April that year. Police records say over 3.5 lakh cases have been lodged and over 4 lakh arrests made under the stringent prohibition laws till December, 2021. Recently, the Chief Justice of Supreme Court had said at a seminar that cases under the Act have been clogging the courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-dead-in-suspected-hooch-tragedy/article38276345.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||Assemblies had fewer sittings than Parliament||After a low of 33 days in 2020, Parliament saw only a small improvement in 2021 by functioning for 58 days, keeping the Opposition outcry alive on the reduced number of working days.  Against this backdrop, an analysis by The Hindu on the functioning of nine State Assemblies revealed that the situation was not very different from the working of Parliament.  In 2021, the Assemblies of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Odisha, Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh worked for 11 to 43 days with Punjab lowest in the tally and Odisha at the top. These States have been randomly picked to have a judicious mix of States ruled by the BJP and various Opposition parties. Both Parliament and the State Assemblies cited restrictions imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic as the primary reason for cutting back on scheduled sittings. The Constitution does not prescribe a minimum number of sittings, said Chakshu Roy, head of outreach, PRS Legislative Research. Article 174 of the Constitution only says that the State legislature has to meet within six months of the last session. Within this period, it is up to the State governments to call for the session.  “One would expect that with the COVID-19 pandemic, the legislature would sit for longer providing guidance and proposing solutions. But in fact, the very opposite happened. It was used as an excuse to further shorten the legislative sessions,” Mr. Roy told The Hindu . All of last year, the Punjab Assembly sat only for 11 days, this included eight days of the Budget session. This was lower than its 2020 record of 15 days.  All the data of 2020 was sourced from PRS Legislative Research’s report “Annual Review of State Laws 2020”. Uttar Pradesh — where a heated contest is on between the BJP and the Samajwadi Party — was no better. The Assembly, over four sessions, met only for 17 days, fulfilling the bare minimum. This was a minor improvement from its 2020 record of 13 days. BJP-ruled States The Opposition often cites Gujarat to criticise the Narendra Modi government’s alleged disinterest in running Parliament. Making the criticism valid, the Gujarat Assembly sat only for 25 days in 2021 (in 2020, it was in session for 23 days). On the last day of the Budget session, the Assembly passed the controversial “Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Bill, 2021” which has stringent provisions against forcible religious conversion through marriages. In the two-day September session, four Bills were hurriedly passed, without much of debate. In Haryana, where the Manohar Lal Khattar government survived a no-confidence motion, the indifference towards the Assembly’s functioning continues. In the year 2021, the Haryana Assembly held 18 sittings, which included 11 during Budget session, three during monsoon session and four in the winter session. In 2020, it was in session for 13 days. In its limited time, the Assembly passed the controversial legislation that allows authorities to recover compensation from violent protesters for damage to property. Besides, the Haryana Parivar Pehchan Bill, 2021, aimed at creating a unique identification number for each family and preparing a database to allow easy access to government services was also passed. The hill State of Himachal Pradesh has a relatively better track record. In 2021, it had 32 sittings, an improvement from 25 days in 2020. The key Bills passed in the Assembly included the Himachal Pradesh Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which provides for appointment of a High Court judge as Lokayukta. The Himachal Pradesh Abadi Deh (record of rights) Bill, 2021 was also passed, which aims at giving ownership rights of land to people living in “Abadi Deh or Lal Dora” areas of villages. No ordinance was passed during the year. Opposition-ruled States In 2021, the Maharashtra Assembly was in session for 15 days, three fewer than 18 days in 2020. The pandemic not only shortened the legislative sessions in Maharashtra but also forced the State government to shift the venue of 2021’s winter session to Mumbai from its usual destination of Nagpur. While the pandemic was one of the reasons to shorten the winter session, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s spinal surgery was also reportedly one of the reasons cited by legislature sources for the shorter duration. In Maharashtra’s Budget (March 1-10, 2021) and monsoon session (July 5-6, 2021), the question hour was suspended. The Opposition had complained that the ruling coalition was rushing through legislation, not allowing them the space to ask questions or seek accountability. Rajasthan had 26 sittings last year, while in 2020 they had 29 sittings. Out of the 26 sittings in 2021, 20 were in the Budget session, which saw Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who is also the Finance Minister for the State, present a universal health care scheme worth Rs. 3,500 crore. A total of 20 Bills were passed, including the contentious legislation amending the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages Act, 2009. The government was forced to re-examine the law, after protests from the BJP-led Opposition, which pointed out that the Bill would validate child marriages as it provided for registration of marriage of minors. The West Bengal Assembly met for 19 days in 2021, a slight increase from 14 sittings in 2020. The 19 days were spread across Chief Minister’s Mamata Banerjee’s second term and re-election for a third term. In what was probably a first for the State Assembly, West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had to cut short his address due to chaos in the House on July 2, 2021. The Odisha Assembly was the best performer in terms of the number of sittings in 2021. It met for 43 days last year. But the State is seeing a decline in the number of sittings. Since 2005, it has functioned for over 60 days in a year only twice: in 2006 and in 2010. Though, it may have trumped quantitatively, qualitatively it is on the same page as the others. The last session of 2021, held between December 1 to December 31, was a complete washout. The session ran only nine days and no fruitful discussion could be held as a stalemate continued over the Mamita Meher murder case. As against 3,576 starred questions received, Ministers could respond to only 60 questions. (With inputs from Sobhna K. Nair, Omar Rashid, Mahesh Langa, Alok Deshpande, Mohammed Iqbal, Satyasundar Barik, Vikas Vasudeva and Shiv Sahay Singh)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assemblies-had-fewer-sittings-than-parliament/article64949592.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,||‘BJP encourages having a rainbow of thoughts’||Union Environment MinisterBhupender Yadavsays there are several misconceptions about the BJP and that an insider’s view needs to be shared with the world. In an email interview, the Minister and economistIla Patnaikdiscuss their book The Rise of the BJP . Excerpts: Mr. Yadav, you are a Minister serving in the government, writing a book on the party can be a fraught experience. Why the enterprise? Dr. Patnaik, you have been a student of JNU and this government has had a combative relationship with that university. How would you reconcile this writing partnership?  Bhupender Yadav: I have worked in the party at various levels for a long time, travelled extensively for organisational work, worked as a ground-level karyakarta and I now have been privileged to serve as a Union Minister. I have seen the BJP’s evolution and growth. Along the way, I had the opportunity to work closely with some of the biggest party leaders. Since the Jana Sangh days, a lot of canards and misconceptions were spread about our ideology, our world view, our leaders and their outlook. Many people who have only seen the party from outside have written about it. I, therefore, felt that an insider’s view needs to go out. It was challenging to cover the full story within the scope of a book. But it was something that had to be done — the rise of a non-dynastic party, the commitment to an ideology, the relentless work to ensure antyodaya .  Ila Patnaik: JNU taught me to be curious, to analyse and to try to understand the world. Partnering with Bhupenderji, someone from inside the BJP, to go to primary source material and to study the views of different academics, politicians of all hues and journalists for the research for this book is very much in spirit of the search for knowledge and understanding that I learnt at JNU. The book glosses over some tricky phases for the party — from the “Jinnah is secular controversy” to the fact that L.K. Advani did not make it to the Goa council of the party which anointed Prime Minister Modi as campaign committee chief. Being currently in the party perhaps makes it difficult to write critically? Bhupender Yadav: My aim in writing the book was not to provide the reader some corridor gossip. My task is to explain the BJP’s rise, explain how the BJP thrived when most other parties formed around varying ideologies disintegrated or turned into family enterprises. We, like any other party, have had differences of opinion. We, unlike other parties, encourage having a rainbow of thoughts and opinions. Our commitment to the ideology is above all else and that is why you would see senior BJP leaders work out solutions and arrive at consensus on the most tricky questions. Your description of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls of 2017 lays emphasis on how support from OBCs in the State has made a difference. With the recent exit of OBC leaders, how do you think this will affect the party’s prospects?  Bhupender Yadav: For the BJP, there is only one mantra — Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas . The leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has written a new chapter in India’s electoral politics. He has been a great unifier. The BJP is running a development-oriented government. We believe in cultural nationalism. When you work for all sections, you don’t have to appease any section. The people know it. When elections approach, many people tend to look for individual gains. Some leave when denied ticket. All communities, irrespective of caste, creed, gender, religion, will vote for Yogi Adityanath in Uttar Pradesh who is wonderfully giving shape to PM Modi’s vision for India.  It has been said the BJP’s movement from being a cadre-based outfit to a mass-based one has left behind one of its key support bases, the middle class, who find themselves out in the cold as far as government schemes etc. are concerned. Is the BJP moving on, a la Congress from a largely urban party to a rural one? Bhupender Yadav: We believe in the growth of India. Rural India cannot progress at the cost of urban India. Urban India can’t progress without rural India. The BJP is the world’s largest political party and we have members from all sections, classes, geographical regions, genders. We are working for our farmers. We remain committed to doubling farmers’ income. The government is spending on roads, ports, pipelines to generate jobs and sustain the growth momentum. In the parts of the book on liberalisation there is due credit given to P.V. Narasimha Rao but not Manmohan Singh. Why is that? Ila Patnaik: Dr. Singh is a good economist and I greatly respect him. The credit for government policies, good or bad, finally go to the political leadership that must back the policies. Prime Minister Narendra Modi termed the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) as a monument to the failure of the UPA government. How do you square that with the enhanced allocations to the scheme under this government? Ila Patnaik: The UPA government started a very large number of welfare schemes where monitoring was poor and where the scheme once started would continue forever despite failing to have an impact. Evaluation and monitoring of centrally sponsored schemes was lacking and the Planning Commission would seek more funds for schemes year after year despite no evaluation. PM Modi’s government focussed on hugely improving governance in government schemes. Direct Benefit Transfers through the infrastructure of Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and mobile numbers has reduced leakages and rent seeking by middlemen. As we discuss in the book, this improved governance helped the BJP become more popular. (For full interview, log on to bit.ly/RiseofBJP)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-encourages-having-a-rainbow-of-thoughts/article64949586.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||India makes its position clear on road to Lipulekh||Reacting to a series of reports and public statements in Nepal criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s comments on expansion of the road to Lipulekh, the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu said it has conveyed India’s “unambiguous” position to the Nepali government. “The Government of India’s position on the India-Nepal boundary is well known, consistent and unambiguous. It has been communicated to the Government of Nepal,” said the embassy spokesperson in a statement on Saturday, which urged talks in order to resolve any disputes. The latest controversy has followed Mr. Modi’s comments at a public rally in Haldwani on December 30 where he mentioned the Lipulekh construction undertaken by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO). “Manas Khand, which is the gateway to Mansarovar, was deprived of roads by those who believed in depriving you of comforts. We not only worked on the Tanakpur-Pithoragarh all-weather road but also built the road up to Lipulekh and it is being expanded further,” Mr. Modi said at the event. Since the rally, Nepali Opposition and members of the ruling Nepali Congress have protested, calling for Nepal PM Sher Bahadur Deuba to raise the issue with India. Two Nepali Congress leaders issued a statement calling for India to stop construction of the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-makes-its-position-clear-on-road-to-lipulekh/article64949600.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,||An Indian’s tale of Xian’s lockdown makes headlines in China||Dev Raturi has not stepped out of his apartment for eight days. He could not do so even if he wished to — a white tape has been stuck outside his door to seal him inside, along with his wife and two young children. As of Saturday evening, he hasn’t been told when he can leave. Mr. Raturi is one of millions of residents who have been confined to their homes in Xian, the provincial capital of northwestern Shaanxi and the city famed for the terracotta warriors. Xian’s residents were initially confined to their apartment blocks in a lockdown starting December 23, allowed only to pick up deliveries and groceries without leaving their compounds. But with COVID-19 cases crossing 2,000 in a month — the highest of anywhere in China since the start of the pandemic in Wuhan — many of the city’s 13 million residents have been made to stay at home. On Saturday, Xian reported only four cases, suggesting the lockdown is working. However, the stringent measures, the first for any city in China since the initial Wuhan lockdown for 76 days in early 2020, have invoked comparisons of the darkest chapter in the early days of Wuhan. When a Xian hospital recently turned away a pregnant woman who then suffered a miscarriage, a national outcry prompted an unusual apology from China’s Vice-Premier Sun Chunlan who said she was “ashamed”. Hospital officials were sacked. Other residents, in the first days of the lockdown, complained of food shortages. Tough times  “Of course, it has been difficult,” Mr. Raturi tells The Hindu in a video interview, showing his apartment’s sealed door. “But I know it also hasn’t been easy for the volunteers here who bring us vegetables, rice, food, oil, every day, who are doing what they can.”  Mr. Raturi’s family is in one of Xian’s worst-hit districts. Born in Uttarakhand, he moved to China 17 years ago and started working as a waiter. Inspired by martial artist Bruce Lee, Mr. Raturi trained in New Delhi but was unable to break into the film industry in Mumbai. When he was given the chance to go to China to work in a restaurant, he thought it was destiny. “That’s how Bruce Lee started — in a restaurant,” he said. So he packed his bags.  Today, he owns five restaurants in Xian and also works in film, and has gained fame for his roles in a number of Chinese television dramas and movies, having acted in more than 20. Most were bit-part roles, but the success in 2020 of the serial My Roommate is a Detective brought him wider recognition.  Over the past month, his video interviews from his home have been watched by millions of viewers in China, partly because he’s not only a foreigner but one known to many, and partly because of his upbeat spirit as he provided an on-the-ground picture of the current COVID-19 ground zero. In the first few days after the December 23 lockdown, Mr. Raturi said, there were reports of some apartment blocks struggling to get access to food. “They were not prepared for such a situation,” he said, but added that once users began complaining on social media, authorities sprung into action. “They made mistakes, but they learnt from them,” he said, pointing out that the day after social media posts complained of shortages, every family in his block was delivered a box of free vegetables, rice and oil. But for many in China, the reports of hardships in Xian and the stringency of the measures triggered a debate on the country’s “zero-COVID” strategy, that calls for mass testing and lockdowns until cases are brought to zero.  “The dysfunction in Xian,” columnist Wang Xiangwei wrote in the South China Morning Post on Saturday, “exposed the dark side of China’s top-down governing approach. The Communist Party’s leadership now demands absolute loyalty from its over 90 million party members, and they are required to carry out instructions to the letter. This has led to lethargy at all levels of the Chinese bureaucracy, in which lower-ranking officials will only do what their superiors ask for, leaving very little room for different opinions and flexibility.”  Responding to that criticism is also why the official media has given Mr. Raturi’s videos such currency, part of a recent trend of using foreigners to rebut criticism. Chinese state media recently promoted videos of foreigners travelling in Xinjiang to respond to criticism over its internment camps there. Most were Western expats in China, but among the videos shared by Chinese social media was one by a Mandarin-speaking Indian YouTuber in New Delhi who was praised for going to an outlet of retailer H&M in the Indian capital and criticising it for not using Xinjiang cotton. Mr. Raturi said he was aware of this trend but said his aim was “simple” — “to speak straightforward whatever I see, good or bad”. With Xian in the news, Mr. Raturi said he received worried phone calls from relatives in India, as he did two years ago when Wuhan locked down. “I never regretted not leaving in 2020 when every one told me to leave China,” he said, noting that for the past 18 months, his children were able to go to school and they had largely lived in normalcy. More than that, he added, “my work here is not finished”. Bridging the gap “I want fill the cultural gap because there are misunderstandings on both sides,” he said, referring to friends in India who were sending him “crazy articles” saying millions were starving to death in Xian and those in China who would send him only bad news about India. His next mission is to open this year China’s first Indian-themed boutique hotel in Xian. He is also opening a yoga space and plans to reopen his restaurants in half a dozen cities outside Xian that had been temporarily shuttered because his employees all left for India when the pandemic hit and have been unable to return because of China’s continuing travel bans. “Permanent lockdowns are not the solution,” Mr. Raturi said. “My hope is they find a better balance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/an-indians-tale-of-xians-lockdown-makes-headlines-in-china/article64949587.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||NCP may contest alone in Goa: Malik||Failing to reach seat adjustment with the Congress in Goa, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is set to go it alone in the upcoming Assembly elections. “There has been no decision with the Congress on seat sharing in Goa. Discussions have not been held yet. It is likely that we will go solo here like we did last time,” Maharashtra Minister and party chief spokesperson Nawab Malik announced on Saturday. ‘Looking for change’ NCP chief Sharad Pawar had announced last week that the party would be contesting in three of the five States that are slated to go to polls in the coming months — Uttar Pradesh, Manipur and Goa. People in Goa and Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Pawar had said, were looking for change and elections would bring that change. He had said that the party would hold talks with the Congress, Shiv Sena and Trinamool Congress for seat sharing arrangement. Mr. Malik said on Saturday that the party would be contesting in U.P. in alliance with the Samajwadi Party in one seat. He added that the party had finalised an alliance with the Congress in Manipur. “There have been no talks with the Congress yet on Goa,” he said. NCP’s lone MLA in Goa, Churchill Alemao, joined the TMC in December last year. Senior party leader Praful Patel has been given the charge of deciding the party’s strategy in Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncp-may-contest-alone-in-goa-malik/article64949594.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||Mayawati releases list of 53 candidates||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Saturday accused rival Samajwadi Party of only favouring Yadavs while in power and neglecting other OBCs. Ms. Mayawati also said that while the SP took the votes of Muslims, it neglected the community in ticket distribution and providing them representation in the government. Mr. Mayawati’s scathing attack on the SP came on her birthday, as she declared the names of 53 out 58 candidates contesting in the first phase of the Uttar Pradesh election. The list includes 14 Muslims and 10 seats reserved for Dalits. The seats are in Agra, Aligarh, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Mathura, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut and Baghpat districts where the stakes are especially high for the rival SP-RLD alliance which hopes to capitalise electorally on the farmers’ protest against the Centre.  Ms. Mayawati dismissed the SP’s claim that it was not merging socialism with Ambedkarite values. “There is no iota of truth in it the SP’s claims of being Ambedkarwadi (adherents of Ambedkar),” Ms. Mayawati said.  Meanwhile, the RLD-SP alliance released its second list of candidates with seven fresh names under the RLD symbol. The alliance has so far nominated 10 Muslims in the 36 seats for which it has declared candidates. The two parties have, however, not fielded a single Muslim in Muzaffarnagar district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mayawati-releases-list-of-53-candidates/article38276359.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||SP, ASP trade charges on failure of alliance talks||Talks for an alliance between the Samajwadi Party and the Azad Samaj Party headed by Dalit leader Chandra Shekhar Azad in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh election have apparently failed. Mr. Azad on Saturday said his outfit would not get into an alliance with the SP, accusing the SP president Akhilesh Yadav of insulting the “Bahujan Samaj.”  “Akhilesh ji is yet to understand the meaning of social justice. Social justice is not just talking about it. We are Kanshiram’s people, we talk of ‘jiski kitni sankhya bhari, uski utni hissedari’ [representation as per size in population],” Mr. Azad said here.  The Dalit leader from western U.P.’s Saharanpur, who stormed into the limelight through aggressive agitational Ambedkarite politics, said he held several meetings with Mr. Yadav but was left disappointed in the end. The SP was not willing to grant the ASP more than two seats, Mr. Yadav said.  “At the end of it, I felt that Akhilesh ji does not need Dalits. They don’t want Dalit leadership in this alliance. They only want the Dalit to vote them,” said Mr. Azad.  SP’s ally RLD was given the Rampur Maniharan seat but it was willing to give it up in favour of the ASP, said Mr. Yadav at a press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-asp-trade-charges-on-failure-of-alliance-talks/article38276346.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:57 IST,||Maharashtra may seek prescription for self-tests||The Maharashtra government is planning to make doctor prescription mandatory for buying COVID-19 self-test kits from chemists after it was observed that people despite testing positive for the virus were not reporting it to government authorities. State Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope had said a few days ago that people not reporting a positive report is becoming a major issue and that needed to be tackled. He had also raised the issue in his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi pointing out that centre needs to look in to the matter.  Sources in the Food and Drug Administration department on Saturday told The Hindu that the proposal for making doctor prescription mandatory is being discussed for which it has to be included in scheduled drugs list. On Saturday, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said that chemists will have to note down Aadhaar number of the customer seeking COVID self-test kit. “Self test kits are making it difficult to understand exact number of positive patients in the city as not all are reporting to administration,” said Ms Pednekar.  Sources within the FDA said the administration is also in the process of deciding which category of scheduled drugs is suitable for self test kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-may-seek-prescription-for-self-tests/article64949672.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||Uttarakhand police pick up Yati Narsinghanand||The Uttarakhand Police on Saturday picked up Yati Narsinghanand from his dharna site in Haridwar in connection with the case of Dharma Sansad where alleged hate speeches against Muslims were delivered. Yati Narsinghanand has been brought to a police station, Haridwar Superintendent of Police (City) Swatantra Kumar said. However, the officer said, it was technically not an arrest. Mr. Narsinghanand, the controversial priest of Dasna temple in Ghaziabad, had organised the event in Haridwar from December 17-19. He was picked up from where he was sitting on a dharna in protest against the recent arrest of another accused in the case, Jitendra Narayan Tyagi. Mr. Tyagi was formerly known as Waseem Rizvi and changed his name after converting to Hinduism. Mr. Tyagi, who headed the Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board before converting to Hinduism, was the first person to have been arrested in connection with the case a couple of days back. Further action will depend on how the investigation progresses, the official said. Both, Mr. Tyagi and Mr. Narsinghanand are among those named in the FIRs lodged in connection with the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttarakhand-police-pick-up-yati-narsinghanand/article38276638.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||Revised norms for EV charging infrastructure||The Union Power Ministry on Saturday released revised guidelines for charging infrastructure for electric vehicles to enable faster adoption by ensuring safe, reliable and affordable infrastructure. Among other things, the guidelines allow an individual or an entity to set up charging stations without the requirement of a licence provided they meet the technical, safety and performance standards. They allow EV owners to charge their vehicles at their residence or offices using their existing electricity connections. “These guidelines are exhaustive and include provisions for a) individual owners b) for public charging stations (PCS),” an official statement said. Technology agnostic It said the guidelines have been made technology agnostic by providing for not only the international charging standards available in the market but also the new Indian standards. “To address the challenge of making a charging station financially viable in the period of growth of EV, a revenue-sharing model has been put in place for land used for the same,” it said, adding that government land will be provided to a government entity on a revenue-sharing basis for the stations at a fixed rate of Rs. 1/kWh (used for charging). “The tariff for supply of electricity to public EV charging stations shall be a single part tariff and shall not exceed the “average cost of supply” till March 31, 2025. The same tariff shall be applicable for battery charging station (BCS). The tariff applicable for domestic consumption shall be applicable for domestic charging.” It said the State governments will fix the ceiling of service charges. The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) will create and maintain an online database of the public charging stations in consultation with state nodal agencies (SNAs) and create a web-portal, software or a mobile application for the database of stations. The BEE, it said, is in the process of preparing action plan for the installation of PCS for nine major cities having million plus population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-issues-revised-norms-for-evs/article64949602.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,||Hate speech will impact security: Army veterans||Three armed forces veterans have moved the Supreme Court to constitute a special investigation team to probe the hate speeches made at the Dharam Sansads held late last year in Haridwar and Delhi, saying the events, if unchecked, will even threaten internal and national security. The petitioners are Major General S.G. Vombatkere (retd.), Colonel P.K. Nair (retd.) and Major Priyadarshi Chowdhury (retd.). They argued that the spread of virulent hate on the basis of differences in faith would impact soldiers within the Armed Forces who come from diverse communities and faiths. “It is a genuine concern that the unity, cohesiveness and morale of our men and women in the Armed Forces and the police forces will be seriously affected if such blatant calls for violence against one or the other community in our diverse and plural society are not acted against,” the petition said. The petitioners highlighted that five former chiefs of the Armed Forces and several hundred other personalities from various walks of life have already written to the President and the Prime Minister voicing their concern about these speeches. A Supreme Court Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana has issued notice to the Centre, Uttarakhand and Delhi governments on petitions seeking criminal action against the speakers. The case has been listed after 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hate-speech-will-impact-security-army-veterans/article64949589.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||Prosecution to appeal against bishop’s acquittal||It held that the court had to appreciate the principle adopted by the apex court that ‘minor changes in deposition is a sign of credibility while it is the parrot like version that has to be discarded’. The court had held that the claim of the victim that she was raped on 13 occasions under duress could be relied on the basis of her solitary testimony. It had also noted that ‘there were exaggerations and embellishments in the version of the victim.’ ‘Witnesses discredited’ Similarly, all prosecution witnesses have been discredited as unbelievable on minor grounds while the circumstances in which they gave statements were not appreciated. The social background of the nun and the context which led to different expressions on her experience too have not been appreciated. “The fact that the term penetrative sexual intercourse was not used each time by the survivor cannot be looked upon as omission as the survivor has no legal knowledge. Rather it should have added to her credibility,” it was noted. Holding that the judgment failed to appreciate genuine explanations on the delay in lodging complaint and the aspect of fiduciary relationship and its repercussions on the mental condition of the survivor, the prosecution pointed out that all the court rulings presented by it in its argument note were surprisingly missing in the judgment. According to the prosecution, the judgement seemed to give a colour of consent to the act, which had not been raised even by the accused. Further, none of the small mistakes apparently found in the investigation had anything to do with the crux of the case. It further noted that the judgment was not read or signed in the court and there was undue delay in its publication, which were against guidelines. Protection for nuns Meanwhile, District Police Chief Shilpa Devaiah said steps had been taken to ensure the safety of the dissident nuns, who openly protested against the bishop at the St. Francis Mission Home, Kuravilangad. “We have done the risk assessment, which will be reviewed periodically and the security arrangement will continue as long as they require it,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prosecution-to-appeal-against-bishops-acquittal/article38276354.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,||Philippines approves deal for BrahMos missile||In the first export order for the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile system, the Philippines has approved a $374.96 mn contract for the purchase of shore-based anti-ship variant of the missile from India, while discussions are ongoing with a few other Southeast Asian counties. Secretary of National Defence of Philippines Delfin Lorenzana has signed the ‘Notice of award’ for the purchase, the contract for which is expected to be signed very soon. “As head of procuring entity (HOPE), I recently signed the Notice of Award for the Philippine Navy shore-based anti-ship missile acquisition project. Negotiated with the Government of India, it includes the delivery of three batteries, training for operators and maintainers as well as the necessary Integrated Logistics Support (ILS) package,” Mr. Lorenzana said on social media. Conceptualised as early as 2017, the Office of the President approved its inclusion in the Horizon 2 Priority Projects in 2020, he stated. The coastal defence regiment of the Philippine Marines will be the primary employer of this modern strategic defence capability of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, Mr. Lorenzana added. The Department of National Defence of Philippines, their equivalent of Ministry of Defence, too confirmed the notification and a copy of the notice of award signed by Mr. Lorenzana on December 31, 2021 was posted on the official website. “This is to inform you that the proposal of BrahMos Aerospace Private Ltd. for the shore-based anti-ship missile system acquisition project for the Philippine Navy, with a corresponding price proposal in the amount of $374,962,800 is hereby accepted,” the letter stated.  As reported by The Hindu earlier, there is interest for acquiring BrahMos missiles from several countries and negotiations are in advanced stages with Indonesia and Thailand.  Discussions with Indonesia are in a fairly advanced stage, a defence official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/philippines-approves-deal-for-brahmos-missile/article64949590.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||‘Army to keep status quo on border intact’||His comments come in the backdrop of the continuing standoff in Eastern Ladakh with the 14th round of Corps Commander talks between India and China earlier this week failing to achieve a breakthrough for the next phase of disengagement at Hot Springs. Over 50,000 troops from each side continue to be deployed in the high altitude region very close to the Line of Actual Control in extreme winters. Gen. Naravane said joint efforts at various levels have led to disengagement in many areas which in itself is a constructive step and added that on the basis of “mutual and equal security”, efforts would continue to find a solution to the current situation. January 15 is observed as Army Day to mark Field Marshall K.M. Cariappa taking over as the first Indian Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army in 1949 from General Sir FRR Bucher, the last British Commander-in-Chief. The Army Day parade this year showcased the evolution of various weapon systems held in the Army’s inventory over the decades with new and modern weapon systems and platforms displayed alongside their legacy counterparts. Centurion tanks were followed by Arjun Main Battle Tanks in the parade and Topas armoured personnel carrier was followed by the BMP-II in tow. Similarly pairs of the 75/24 Indian Field Gun and Dhanush, PMP/PMS and Sarvatra bridges and Tiger Cat and Akash Surface to Air Missiles were also on display. After reviewing the parade at Cariappa Parade Ground, Delhi Cantonment, Gen Naravane awarded 15 Sena Medals (including five posthumously) for individual acts of gallantry and 23 Chief of Army Staff Unit Citations to units for their commendable performance. New combat uniform The new combat dress was designed by the National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) in consultaion with the Army keeping in mind the 4 Cs – comfort, climate, camouflage and confidentiality and has been developed in a lighter, stronger fabric, the camouflage print is designed digitally for multi terrain functionality, an Army official said. The ergonomic features allow for long hour use and comfort and micro features are inbuilt for the use of the wearer in field conditions. “The fabric was selected out of five options curated specifically for the Army by NIFT. The selected camouflage pattern is one of 17 options specially designed for the purpose,” the official stated. The uniform has been developed by seven faculty of NIFT Delhi, ably assisted by two alumni and three students, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-to-keep-status-quo-on-border-intact/article38276350.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||BJP fields Adityanath from Gorakhpur||Around 68% of the seats have gone to OBC candidates. Names of 19 Scheduled Caste candidates including Jagpal Singh, who is being fielded from the general category seat of Saharanpur, and 10 women have been cleared. No Muslim has been given a party ticket in this list. Inclusive list The BJP was at pains to emphasise that the large number of seats given to non-upper caste candidates put it ahead of other parties in terms of representation accorded to marginalised communities.  Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who had earlier declared that he would fight from any seat decreed by the party for him said, “The policy of development is the way of the BJP. New India’s new Uttar Pradesh under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi is before all of you. I have full faith that the people will again anoint the BJP with the tilak of victory and the vikas yatra will continue.”  Some prominent candidates among those announced are former Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya from Agra (Rural) constituency, Shrikant Sharma who has been repeated from Mathura, Mriganka Singh from Kairana, Pankaj Singh (son of Minister Rajnath Singh) from Noida, Suresh Rana from Thana Bhawan and Dhirendra Singh from Jewar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-fields-adityanath-from-gorakhpur/article38276353.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:12 IST,||BJP pauses rejuvenation exercise in Uttar Pradesh||After the sudden exodus of OBC leaders from the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, the party seems to have put a pause on its rejuvenation exercise, political observers say. After five rounds of scrutiny, the party has cut the tickets of 20 sitting MLAs in the first list announced on Saturday. Only a few have been punished for non-performance and even fewer have been asked to rest in order to check the anti-incumbency and growing discontent in the region that saw the strongest impact of the farmers’ agitation. The party’s decision to retain most of the sitting MLAs from Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Baghpat and Shamli, the epicentre of protests against the farm laws, could indicate that the party doesn’t want one more section of OBC leaders to turn against it. Notably, in some districts, the party has brought in local heavyweights who had been nudged out in the past, perhaps to account for any dip in the popularity of the Modi-Yogi combination. The focus seems to be on rewarding those who have joined the party recently, while maintaining the caste equation. So, a sitting Jat MLA has been replaced by a Jat candidate and a Thakur has been picked over a Thakur. The decision to repose faith in Shrikant Sharma from Mathura, Sanjay Sharma in Anoopshahr, Rajendra Kumar Sahyogi in Iglas, Nand Kishore Gurjar in Loni and Sushil Sharma in Sahibabad, despite reports of resentment, has come as a surprise. Out of the 107 candidates announced for the first two phases of polls, the party has made the most changes in Agra and Bulandshahr districts. In Agra, five out of 10 sitting MLAs have been replaced while in Bulandshar district, four out of seven have been dropped. In Fatehabad, Bhagwan Singh Kushwaha, a two-time Bahujan Samaj Party MLA, has been picked over Jitendra Verma. Mr. Kushwaha joined the party in December. Similarly, in the Etmadpur seat, Dharampal Singh, a former BSP MLA, has replaced Mahesh Goyal. A Thakur leader, Mr. Singh joined the SP six months ago and shifted to the BJP early this week. Three-time MLA Chhotelal Verma, who after a long stint with the BSP, returned to the BJP, has been picked over Jitendra Verma for the Fatehabad seat. Ex-Governor in fray Hemlata Diwakar has made way for the party vice-president Baby Rani Maurya in the Agra Rural seat. After a stint as the Uttarakhand Governor, Ms. Maurya had recently returned to active politics and is expected to be a prominent Dalit face of the party. In Fatehpur Sikri, the BJP has brought in veteran Jat leader Chaudhary Babu Lal to replace Udaybhan Singh. The 73-year-old has been pitched to take on the Rashtriya Lok Dal challenge in the region. In Mathura, Thakur Meghshyam Singh, who recently made a switch from the RLD, has been given a ticket from Goverdhan, replacing Karinda Singh. In Aligarh’s Barauli seat, Thakur Dalveer Singh has been replaced by another Thakur strongman, Jaiveer Singh. The Kalyan Singh family’s confidant Anita Lodhi Rajput has been dropped from the Debai seat and has been replaced by another Lodhi leader, C.B. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-pauses-rejuvenation-exercise-in-uttar-pradesh/article38276760.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||West Bengal civic polls postponed||The West Bengal State Election Commission on Saturday decided to postpone elections to four municipal corporations scheduled for January 22. However, despite a rise in COVID-19 cases, the State Government allowed some relaxations to its earlier announced restrictions. Elections to Siliguri Municipal Corporation, Chandernagore Municipal Corporation, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and Asansol Municipal Corporation will now be held on February 12. A notification by the State Election Commission said the decision has been taken in “compliance with the order of the Calcutta High Court, in the matter WPA(P) No. 4 of 2022 Bimal Bhattacharya vs State of West Bengal”, and in “consideration of the prevalent COVID-19 pandemic situation”. The High Court on Friday had urged the SEC to take a decision on postponement by a short period of four to six weeks. “Hence, we dispose of the present petition with a direction to the State Election Commission to consider the galloping speed with which the COVID-19 cases are increasing and also to take into account the issue if holding of elections in such a situation will be in the public interest and if free and fair elections will be possible on the dates notified, and take a decision in respect of the postponement of date of elections of aforesaid four municipal corporations for a short period of 4 to 6 weeks,” an order by the Bench by Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava and Justice Ajoy Kumar Mukherjee said. The decision was welcomed by all political parties. BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said despite the High Court order, the State government and the WBSEC have not fully accepted it. Trinamool Congress leader and State Minister Partha Chatterjee said the State government and the WBSEC have taken the decision in view of the gravity of the situation. He added that civic polls in the State are being deferred, while the Assembly polls in five States are being held as per schedule. About 17 lakh voters across four districts will exercise their franchise to elect over 200 ward councillors. New relaxations The State government extended existing COVID-19 restrictions till January 3, but announced additional relaxations. These include allowing 200 people at marriages or 50% of seating capacity of the venue, and holding mela or fair in open air venues, strictly following COVID-19 appropriate discipline and protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-civic-polls-postponed/article64949604.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:07 IST,||Dissent within Bengal BJP out in open||The dissent brewing in the West Bengal unit of Bharatiya Janata Party came to the fore on Saturday when Union Minister and Bongaon BJP MP Santanu Thakur along with two former vice presidents of the party made public statements against the functioning of the party and demanded removal of a key party functionary. Mr. Thakur a prominent Matua leader, targeted general secretary Amitava Chakraborty and said if required he along with other leaders would launch a massive protest till he is removed from the post. The Bongaon MP was accompanied with former vice president Joy Prakash Majumdar and Ritesh Tiwari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dissent-within-bengal-bjp-out-in-open/article38276753.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article64949596.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:05 IST,||ED attaches assets of journalist||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 48.21 lakh of freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma in connection with a case under the Official Secrets Act. “The attached asset is the residential property in the name of Rajeev Sharma at Pitampura in Delhi. The ED initiated money laundering investigation on the basis of the First Information Report and the chargesheet filed by the Delhi Police against him under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Official Secrets Act,” said an official. The ED probe purportedly revealed that Mr. Sharma had “supplied confidential and sensitive information to Chinese intelligence officers, in exchange for remuneration, thereby compromising the security and national interests of the country”.The probe revealed that the remuneration to Mr. Sharma was being provided by a Mahipalpur-based shell company that was run by Chinese nationals, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-assets-of-journalist/article38276357.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:12 IST,||Delhi-bound Rajdhani hits cement pillar on track||The Mumbai-Delhi Rajdhani Express train hit a cement pillar, which some miscreants had allegedly placed on the railway track near Valsad in south Gujarat, although no passenger was injured, police officers said on Saturday. The police suspect that the incident, which took place on Friday, was an attempt to derail the train. “The August Kranti Rajdhani Express train hit the cement pillar near Valsad...it got pushed off the track. The incident did not affect the train...and no passenger was hurt. The loco pilot informed the railway station staff,” a Valsad police station officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-bound-rajdhani-hits-cement-pillar-on-track/article38276914.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not be complacent due to reports of mild COVID-19 cases’||Raising the need to strictly adopt public health practices, including test-track-treat-vaccinate and adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour to overcome the current Omicron challenge, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan urged officials not to become complacent because of initial reports of mild infections and be found wanting in preparedness. In a communication to Collectors, Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation and officials of the Health Department, he said the recent exponential spread of COVID-19 cases was attributed to the Omicron variant though cases of the Delta variant were also still being reported. “We all need to attempt and ensure that the mortality rate is kept as low as possible during this wave. For that, we all need to keep working on preventing the spread of the disease by creating sustained awareness on mask wearing, physical distancing and handwashing. Strictly follow the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and focus on places of crowding, prioritising monitoring and enforcement,” he said in the communication. There was a need to follow the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocols on who to test and who not to test, and this was applicable in clinical settings as well. The focus has to be on testing symptomatic persons in all settings, including contacts, extended contacts and all places irrespective of link to index cases, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. He said the ICMR and the Government of India did not advocate for the testing of asymptomatic contacts, testing at the time of discharge, including from home isolation and in clinical settings. At the district level, COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs) should be activated. Health teams were advised to monitor the availability of resources such as overall beds earmarked for COVID-19 patients, oxygen, beds in the intensive care units and non-oxygen beds in COVID-19 hospitals, health centres and CCCs. There should be a check on those eligible and having facilities for home isolation. Such persons should be clinically monitored with basic tests and guided on follow-up. No one should be assigned home isolation without a basic clinical assessment and also assessment of facility for home isolation, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. He also urged officials to diligently follow up and encourage eligible persons, both unvaccinated and those overdue for the second dose, to take the jab. He said it must be ensured that all other essential health services were not compromised during the COVID-19 wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-be-complacent-due-to-reports-of-mild-covid-19-cases/article64949652.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Revised guidelines for COVID test issued||The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine issued revised guidelines for COVID-19 testing on Saturday. Citing the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the directorate said in community settings, persons who are symptomatic (cough, fever, sore throat, loss of taste and/or smell, breathlessness and/or other respiratory symptoms), may be tested. Similarly, at-risk contacts of laboratory confirmed cases, persons aged over 60 and those with co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic lung and kidney disease, malignancy and obesity, individuals undertaking international travel as per country requirement and international travellers arriving at Indian airports/seaports/ports of entries may be tested, T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, said in the circular. In hospital settings, testing may be undertaken as per the discretion of treating doctors, with the considerations that no emergency procedure, including surgeries and deliveries, should be delayed for the lack of a test. Patients should not be referred to other facilities for the lack of a testing facility and all arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to testing facilities, mapped to the health facility. Asymptomatic patients undergoing surgical or non-surgical invasive procedures, including pregnant women in/near labour, hospitalised for delivery, should not be tested unless warranted or symptoms develop. Patients admitted in hospitals may not be tested more than once a week. The directorate outlined details of persons who need not be tested. They are asymptomatic individuals in community settings; contacts of confirmed cases, unless identified as high risk based on age or co-morbidities; patients who stand discharged as per home isolation guidelines; patients being discharged from a COVID-19 facility as per revised discharge policy and individuals undertaking inter-State domestic travel. Mr. Selvavinayagam added that the guidelines should be scrupulously followed and unnecessary testing of persons, other than those mentioned in the guidelines should be strictly avoided. Private hospitals should also be instructed to adhere to the instructions, he told the health officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revised-guidelines-for-covid-test-issued/article64949813.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Metro refloats tender for manufacturing new coaches||Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) has cancelled and refloated the tenders for manufacturing trains for its Phase II project. This is one more addition to the long list of tenders cancelled by the CMRL. Last year, CMRL invited bids for providing trains (78 coaches or 26 three-coach trains) to be run on the Poonamallee-Light House line, one of the three corridors of the Phase II project. Already, six tenders for building underground stations in the Phase II project were cancelled recently and floated again as the bidders submitted an inflated cost. According to the CMRL officials, the bids for the trains had to be cancelled for “administrative reasons”. Sources said this had to be done because the depot in Poonamallee — where the trains would be stationed for trials and tested — and the Poonamallee-Power House line might not be ready by then. “It will take two years to manufacture these 26 trains. If we award the contract now, the trains will arrive in 24 months but we may not have the depot ready by then. It may take about three years to finish the depot construction. This means there will be other expenses for delay in maintenance and testing. So we thought it best to cancel the tender. We have floated fresh tender and we may find a contractor in the next three or four months,” a source said. Apart from this tender, an expression of interest for procuring 42 trains through PPP mode has been cancelled as the CMRL was not satisfied with the response. Sources said a consultant might be hired for offering suggestions to execute this project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-rail-refloats-tender-for-manufacturing-new-coaches/article64949647.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Modern fish market to come up near Marina||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Saturday announced that the work on the modern fish market on the Marina Beach Loop Road will begin shortly. The announcement has been made following grant of administrative sanction for the project, which has been taken up based on the directions of the Madras High Court. The Madras High Court has asked the civic body to relocate fish vendors from the road to reduce traffic congestion. Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the fish market, to be developed under Singara Chennai 2.0 at an estimated cost of Rs. 11 crore, would have various infrastructure facilities. As many as 366 shops would be developed in the market, withspace for parking 110 cars and 60 motorcycles. Each of the vendors on Marina Beach Loop Road would be allotted a shop in the market. The shops would have a dimension of 2 metre by 1.5 metre but the market would have space for accommodating all customers. A study of footfall in the market had been done to design the structure. The market would be developed on a total area of 8,093 sq m. The parking lot would be developed in 1,543 sq m area. A 40 KLD effluent treatment plant, fly control device, fire fighting system, highmast lighting, water storage facility, rainwater harvesting and toilets would be developed in the market. Waste from the market would be transported to Kodungaiyur dumpyard two times a day. The roofing material in the reinforced cement concrete structure would be made of cyclone-resistant tensile membrane. Separate enclosure for fish cleaning would be provided in the market.A meeting with local residents had been conducted several times for the project in the past few years. Another public consultation would be conducted shortly, Mr. Bedi added.  The market would have 366 shops with space for 110 cars and 60 motorcycles Gagandeep Singh Bedi GCC Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modern-fish-market-to-come-up-near-marina/article38276690.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||GI tag sought for Kumbakonam Vetrilai , Thovalai Manikka Malai||Geographical Indications Registry in Chennai has received applications seeking GI tag for two famous products from Tamil Nadu — Kumbakonam Vetrilai and  Thovalai Manikka Malai .   The application for Kumbakonam Vetrilai was filed by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore while the application for Thovalai Manikka Malai was given by the Thovalai Manikkamaalai Kaivinai Kalaingargal Nalasangam, Kanniyakumari.  P. Sanjai Gandhi, IP Attorney and Advocate, Nodal Officer, Geographical Indication Registration of Products, Government of Tamil Nadu, who submitted both the applications, said the Kumbakonam betel leaves were heart shaped and grown in the Cauvery delta region by small and marginal farmers. It is particularly grown in Ayyampettai, Rajagiri, Pandaravadai and Swamimalai in Thanjavur district. On an average, about 60-80 lakh betel leaves were harvested annually from a one-hectare plot. A betel leaf cultivator spends Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 50,000 to grow these leaves on a one-acre land. Harvested leaves are washed, cleaned, and graded according to their size and quality. Thovalai Manikka Malai is a special type of garland that is made only in Thovalai, a small village in Kanniyakumari. The flowers used in this particular garland are positioned in a way that when folded they look like a gem. The flowers are generally arranged in five rows, but at times for other decorations, 20 rows are used. The height ranges from one foot to 24 feet and above. Chamba fibre, nochi leaves, oleander and rose flowers are the key materials used for making this garland. Thovalai is famous for its abundance of flowers and most of flowers are procured locally.   When Chinese President Xi Jinping came to Mamallapuram in 2019 and saw these garlands, Prime Minister Narendra Modi described Thovalai Manikka Malai as one of the Tamil cultural arts to him. The garland was used for decoration during a wedding ceremony at the house of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. A group of women from Thovalai went to Mumbai for the decoration work. According to details provided in the GI application, Palani Pandaram invented the technique of Manikka Mala i.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gi-tag-sought-for-kumbakonam-vetrilai-thovalai-manikka-malai/article64949865.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Self-test kits go unmonitored||The rapid surge in COVID-19 cases has a section of people turning to COVID-19 rapid antigen self-test kits (RAT). While the uptake of the self-test kits remains low, Tamil Nadu, which relies solely on RT-PCR tests, does not advocate the use of these kits and is yet to bring in a monitoring mechanism to track the results. Health officials as well as chemists pointed out that the sale of the self-test kits remained low. A few doctors said they had been seeing patients who had used the self-test kits, but the State Government recommended only RT-PCR testing for COVID-19. K.K. Selvan, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Chemists and Druggists Association, said, “Only those who are aware of such self-test kits are purchasing them online. There is not much awareness among people to get the kits from pharmacies. Now, the Central Government is asking for information of patients who purchase these self-test kits. As of now, reporting of results by users is voluntary.” An official of the Drugs Control Department said such kits came under the Medical Devices Rules and approved by the Government of India. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the State does not advocate self-test kits. “We have told people not to self-medicate as well as not to self-test. They need to get tested formally with a RT-PCR. They have to get tested under medical supervision, and the usage of self-test kits is not easy,” he said. A government doctor, who did not want to be named, said RAT seemed to be correlating well, but the State maintained a policy of keeping RT-PCR as the gold standard. Self-test kits are used more than before, said Koushik Muthu Raja M., associate professor, Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre. “They are relatively useful. A positive test means it is a true positive. Unfortunately, a negative test doesn’t mean a true negative and can be false negatives. So, in case of a negative test in a person with symptoms it’s advised to repeat the test in the next 48 hours or go for a conventional RT-PCR, which is more reliable,” he said. “As of recently, there are no strict monitoring mechanisms for these tests. But, I think the Government is now looking at protocols and policies for reporting, monitoring and following up self-test results too,” he added. As per the Indian Council of Medical Research’s advisory, users should download the home testing mobile app, which will provide a test result. They were advised to click a picture of the test strip after completing the test procedure with the same mobile phone, and data in the app would be centrally captured in a secure server connected with the ICMR COVID-19 testing portal. An official said that users have to upload their results. But to what extent this was being followed was questionable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/self-test-kits-go-unmonitored/article38276714.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Medicine kits to be distributed from today||The Greater Chennai Corporation will distribute medicine kits for all symptomatic persons who give swabs for RT-PCR testing for COVID-19 in the city from Sunday. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi on Saturday the kits would be distributed even before the results were released. The individuals would get Vitamin C tablets, zinc tablets, paracetamol, kabasura kudineer and other essential material. Doctors would offer tele-counselling on how to use the kit. At present, 46,449 people have tested positive for SARS CoV-2 in the 15 zones of the city. According to the civic body, 7,706 streets out of 39,537 streets had active cases. Teynampet zone had the highest number of streets with active cases with residents in more than 1,067 of the 2,015 streets in isolation in the zone. As many as 6,234 residents in the zone have tested positive for COVID-19. As many as 1,010 streets in the city have reported more than five active cases. The number of cases had remained the same for two days in the city. More than 35,000 patients were in home isolation in the city. As many as 318 patients were in COVID-19 care centres and 295 patients in intensive care. As many as 158 patients have been admitted in Chennai Trade Centre COVID-19 Care Centre. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian and Mr. Bedi will inspect the facility on Sunday. At present, five COVID-19 care centres had been set up. A decision to increase the number of COVID-19 care centres was likely to be taken on Sunday, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gcc-to-start-distributing-medicine-kits-from-today/article64949645.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘No reservation followed to appoint law officers in HC’||No reservation policy has been followed in the appointment of law officers in the High Court of Madras and its bench at Madurai as the post of law officer is temporary and engaged on a contractual basis, according to the information furnished by the Public Department (Law Officers) in response to a query under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. The applicant, M. Mohanraj, an advocate from Thiruvanmiyur, sought to know whether the rule of reservation was applicable to the appointment of law officers to the High Court. The applicant also sought to know how many applications were received and rejected, and whether any written test or interview was conducted for the appointment. Over 2,400 applicants Replying to the query, the Public Department said 2,485 applicants had applied for the posts of law officers in the Madras High Court and its Madurai Bench. “After scrutinising the applications, the Advocate General sent a list of eligible candidates. After going through the list, the Selection Committee made recommendations. Based on which, the law officers were appointed by the Government. No written test or interviews were held,” the reply said. S. Karuppaiah, State president of the All India Confederations of SC/ST Organisations, has sent a representation to the Chief Minister to ensure that the reservation policy was followed during the appointment of law officers. “No fair representation was given to the people of the SC/ST, BC and MBC communities in the appointment of law officers,” Mr. Karuppaiah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reservation-not-followed-in-appointing-law-officers-in-hc/article38276722.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||State records 23,989 fresh cases of COVID-19, 11 deaths||Compared to previous days, Tamil Nadu registered a marginal rise in fresh coronavirus infections, with 23,989 persons testing positive on Saturday. The number of tests dropped presumably due to the holidays but the positivity rate was up by a few points at 16.7%. With this, the State’s overall tally of COVID-19 cases so far surpassed 29 lakh. On Friday, the State had recorded 23,459 COVID-19 cases, accounting for a positivity rate of 15.3%. As many as 1,43,536 samples were tested in the State. Chennai, while clocking in another new high, registered a small rise in fresh infections. A total of 8,978 persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the city’s tally so far to 6,34,793. Chengalpattu’s daily cases rose from 2,504 to 2,854, while Coimbatore logged 1,732 cases. Tiruvallur followed with 1,478 cases. In Tiruppur, 667 persons tested positive as compared to 373 the previous day. Kanniyakumari also registered a rise in cases from 572 to 659. As many as 542 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Erode as against 355 on Friday. Kancheepuram recorded a drop in fresh infections from 802 to 697. Similarly, Madurai’s daily cases declined from 631 to 550. Salem, Thanjavur and Tiruchi recorded 400-plus cases. So far, a total of 29,15,948 persons have tested positive in Tamil Nadu. As of date, a total of 1,31,007 persons were under treatment/home isolation in the State. Chennai alone accounted for 41% of the active cases in the State. A total of 54,686 persons were under treatment/home isolation in the city. Chengalpattu followed with 14,717 active cases. There was a drop in COVID-19 deaths with 33 districts recording nil fatalities. The State recorded another 11 deaths due to COVID-19. Of this, Chennai accounted for six. A total of 10, 988 persons, including 5,091 in Chennai, were discharged, taking the total recoveries so far to 27,47,974. A total of 42,759 persons were vaccinated across the State on Saturday, taking the overall coverage of government vaccination centres to 8,81,46,669. While 708 children aged 15 to 18 were inoculated, 26,526 persons aged 18 to 44 and 11,165 persons aged 45 to 59 also took the jab. So far, 79,668 persons have received the precaution dose in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-23989-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-11-deaths/article64949654.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Senior journalist S. Dorairaj passes away in Tiruchi||Senior journalist S. Dorairaj, 70, who had worked in The Hindu and Frontline , and whose life was dedicated for the upliftment of the downtrodden, passed away at his home in Tiruchi on Saturday after a brief illness.   The son of S. Sriramulu, a Railway employee and S. Jayalakshmi, a homemaker, he did his B.Sc (Botany) from the American College, Madurai, and M.A. (Tamil) from Thiagarajar College of Arts and Science, Madurai. He worked as a journalist in various organisations, including Central News Service, Patriot, English Daily, Link Weekly, Press Trust of India (PTI), News Today (English Eveninger), The Hindu and Frontline. He joined The Hindu Group in August 1997 as a Principal Correspondent at Thoothukudi, and in October 2008, he was transferred to its sister publication Frontline , from where he retired as a Deputy Editor in August 2012. He was engaged as a consultant for two years till August 2014. He is survived by his only daughter Kannamma Dorairaj, a professor at National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, and his wife Sulochana. “I thank all the leaders, including Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, and the journalist community, for showing such love and affection for him and remembering his contribution,” Ms. Kannamma said. The last rites would be held in Tiruchi on Sunday at 10 a.m. at the Oyamari crematorium.  Wearing his trademark red helmet, full-sleeve shirt in his favourite colour red, and a shoulder bag he could be seen moving around the city in a two-wheeler. He had friends and contacts everywhere, a remarkable memory and was a stickler for time. He would share his cup of tea when a friend walked in, would be very friendly with even juniors, would speak and explain things in a very elaborate manner. He was a very methodical person and perfectionist, recalled journalists, who worked with him. ‘Leftist, humanitarian’ Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said he was deeply saddened by the demise of the journalist. He said Dorairaj, who was driven by a Leftist ideology and humanitarian approach, had dedicated his services for the rights and upliftment of the vulnerable and downtrodden. Having served as the office-bearer of several journalists’ associations he was known as a crusader against oppression, Mr. Stalin added. Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan condoled the death of the senior journalist. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri, said the death of journalist ‘Patriot’ Dorairaj’s came as a personal loss to him. He would never allow caste, communal considerations come in the way of his work, he recalled. PMK founder S. Ramadoss said Dorairaj was very particular that he begin the party and was one of those who had published news about the party right from its inception. TMC leader G.K. Vasan said that Durairaj had led a very simple life and that he behaved in a very loving and respectful manner with everyone that he interacted with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-journalist-s-dorairaj-passes-away-in-tiruchi/article64949655.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||GI tag sought for Kumbakonam Vetrilai, Thovalai Manikka Malai||Geographical Indications Registry in Chennai has received applications seeking GI tag for two famous products from Tamil Nadu — Kumbakonam Vetrilai and Thovalai Manikka Malai.  While the application for Kumbakonam Vetrilai was filed by Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, that for Thovalai Manikka Malai was given by Thovalai Manikka Malai Kaivinai Kalaignargal Nalasangam, Kanniyakumari.  P. Sanjai Gandhi, IP Attorney and Advocate, Nodal Officer, Geographical Indication Registration of Products, Government of Tamil Nadu, who submitted both the applications, said Kumbakonam betel leaves were heart shaped and grown in the Cauvery delta region by small and marginal farmers. It was particularly grown in Ayyampettai, Rajagiri, Pandaravadai and Swamimalai in Thanjavur district. On an average, about 60-80 lakh betel leaves were harvested annually from a one-hectare plot. A betel leaf cultivator spent Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 50,000 to grow these leaves on a one-acre land. Harvested leaves were washed, cleaned, and graded according to their size and quality. They were traditionally packed in bamboo baskets but now there were several options such as plantain leaves and cloth bags. Special type garland Thovalai Manikka Malai was a special type of garland that was made only in Thovalai, a small village in Kanniyakumari. The flowers used in this particular garland were positioned in a way that when folded they looked like a gem. The flowers were generally arranged in five rows, but at times for other decorations, 20 rows were used. The height ranged from one foot to 24 feet and above, he said.  Chamba fibre, nochi leaves, oleander and rose flowers are the key materials used for making this garland. Thovalai is famous for its abundance of flowers and most of the flowers are procured locally. When Chinese President Xi Jinping came to Mamallapuram in 2019 and saw these garlands, Prime Minister Narendra Modi described Thovalai Manikka Malai as one of the Tamil cultural arts to him. The garland was used for decoration during a wedding ceremony at the house of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. A group of women from Thovalai went to Mumbai for the decoration work. According to details provided in the GI application, Palani Pandaram invented the technique of Manikka Malai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gi-tag-sought-for-kumbakonam-vetrilai-thovalai-manikka-malai/article38277043.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK did not plan to set up medical colleges in State: OPS||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam questioned Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s observation that the 2006-11 DMK regime had plans to set up medical colleges in the backward districts of the State. In a statement issued on Friday, he asserted that the then Government had not done any planning for the medical colleges, despite sharing power then at the Centre with the Congress. Only three colleges were opened in Villupuram, Thiruvarur and Dharmapuri. “If the DMK leader [M. Karunanidhi who was the Chief Minister then] had wanted, there would have been medical colleges in all the districts but that did not happen,” the AIADMK leader said, adding that it was “ridiculous” on the part of Mr. Stalin to say that with the opening of 11 medical colleges recently, Karunanidhi’s “dream” had been realised, as he was not inclined to acknowledge the role of the the previous AIADMK government in getting the colleges established. Mr. Panneerselvam said that the DMK had been a part of the Central Government for 17 years and had “remained silent” over many matters, including State autonomy, declining share of Central taxes and setting up a medical college in every district. In a joint statement issued on Saturday, the party coordinator and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami called upon their party members to strive for the early establishment of a “golden rule” as envisioned by M.G. Ramachandran and J. Jayalalithaa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-did-not-plan-to-set-up-medical-colleges-in-state-ops/article64949658.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Changes sought in traffic rule at Sholinganallur||The Federation of OMR Resident Associations (FOMRRA) has sought certain modifications in the recently introduced traffic changes at Sholinganallur junction claiming that the residents were put to hardship. The federation represents over 150 apartment associations (over 40,000 homes) on OMR. Harsha Koda, its co-founder, said, “The recent changes to allow right turn from East Coast Road (towards Thoraipakkam) and Medavakkam towards Navalur are welcome. Other changes like the need to take a U-turn at Medavakkam toll gate to go to ECR (while coming from Navalur) and the removal of the U-turn at Infosys/Aavin and Taj Vivanta are not in the interest of the communities that live here.” The re-introduction of the right turn will ensure that people would stop driving on the wrong side. “That move is appreciated. However, the removal of the U-turn at the Infosys/Aavin and Taj Vivanta junction directly affects over 4,000 households in the area. The removal of the right turn when coming from Navalur towards ECR will put undue pressure on the narrow Medavakkam link road and cause traffic jams,” he said. Immediately responding to the request of the Federation, the Commissioner of Police, Tambaram, M. Ravi tweeted, “It is on experimental basis, objective is to assist the commuters for quick travel, your concern is taken in to consideration... We believe in community involvement for the success.” He asked the federation office-bearers to meet the Deputy Commissioner, Traffic, and suggest modification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/changes-sought-in-traffic-rule-at-sholinganallur/article38276700.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Five persons arrested, 160 kg ganja seized||Five persons, including a woman, were arrested for allegedly smuggling ganja from Andhra Pradesh and selling it under Royapuram police station limits in the city. The police said a Sub-Inspector attached to Royapuram police station received information on Thursday that the accused were standing near Old NRT Bridge. A police team reached the spot. On seeing the police, the gang tried to flee. The team swiftly nabbed all the five accused. Two of the arrested persons — C. Ramana, 33, and Y. Sathiyavathi, 32, — were from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, while the other three were local residents who joined them at Royapuram railway station. On searching their bags, the police found the contraband in small parcels. They were taken to the Royapuram police station for an inquiry. A case was registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The police said during the interrogation, Ramana and Sathiyavathi said they reached Sullurpet by an express train from Visakhapatnam and took an EMU train from Sullurpet to Gummidipoondi. They further took a local train to Royapuram to sell ganja to their regular buyers in the city. The names of the other three accused were given as K. Moovendan, 29, of Thirunindra Nagar, Puzhal; V. Surya, 29, of Pallavan Nagar, New Washermenpet, and M. Subramani, 42, of Tondiarpet. In all, 160 kg of ganja was seized from them, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-persons-arrested-160-kg-ganja-seized/article38276694.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sembakkam lake surroundings spared from floods||Some areas in the southern suburbs were spared of waterlogging during the recent heavy rain, thanks to the ongoing restoration work at Sembakkam lake. Spread over 100 acres, the lake faced several challenges, including encroachments and sewage pollution. It did not have a defined supply channel and the surrounding localities were waterlogged whenever the lake filled up. However, areas such as Chitlapakkam and Sri Sarvamangala Nagar were not waterlogged during the recent rain because of the ongoing eco-restoration work. The project is being implemented jointly by the Nature Conservancy India, the Care Earth Trust and IIT-Madras with permission from the Water Resources Department (WRD). While the flood regulator constructed by the NGOs helped in regulating the discharge of surplus water, the channel built by the WRD diverted water from upstream localities, such as Selaiyur, Rajakilpakkam and Chitlapakkam to Sembakkam lake. Moreover, the storage capacity of the waterbody has increased by 36% because of the deepening of the lake and strengthening of the embankment. Efforts are on to prevent flow of sewage into the lake and also to install a wastewater treatment system. Nisha Priya Mani, project manager-cities, Nature Conservancy India, said nearly 6-7 million litres of sewage is estimated to be flowing into the lake daily. Treatment system Work would be taken up to treat sewage with constructed wetlands with phragmites species that would act as a biofilter and absorb pollutants in the wastewater flowing into the lake. The low-cost technology would use sedimentation basins and aeration system to reduce pollutants, improve water quality and restore lake habitat. M. Ravi, secretary, Sri Sarvamangala Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, said the eco-restoration work and culverts prevented waterlogging in the area. “We have suggested removal of encroachments behind Thiru.Vi.Ka. Nagar and Vinobaji Nagar. The lake boundary must be demarcated and fenced. Provision of sewer connections must be expedited in Pallavaram,” he said. Residents wanted a water channel to divert water from Pachamalai Hills into Sembakkam lake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lake-restoration-spares-neighbourhood-of-floods/article64949639.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||MIOT opens eye care facility at Seychelles||MIOT Hospitals opened an eye care facility in Seychelles on Friday. Seychelles President Wavel Ramkalawan inaugurated the MIOT International Total Eye Care. Indian High Commissioner for Seychelles General Dalbir Singh Suhag was present. A press release said the new facility would provide end-to-end care for all eye-care related needs. Created in collaboration with Visus Optical Seychelles, it was the first such facility set up by an Indian hospital in Seychelles, the release said. The idea to open the new facility in Seychelles came up after a discussion between Mr. Ramkalawan and Prithvi Mohandas, managing director of MIOT Hospitals, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/miot-opens-eye-care-facility-at-seychelles/article38276695.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM releases book by an eight-year-old||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday released a book, The Adventures of Shing and Shang in Mystery Island , written by an eight-year-old Magizhini Ilanchezhian.  In a letter of appreciation, which has been printed in the book, the Chief Minister said that every child should have a comprehensive access to quality education, healthcare and should also predominantly enjoy fearless and free expression of their thoughts. State Policy He mentioned in the letter that his government released the Tamil Nadu State Policy for Children 2021 committed to enrich the younger generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-releases-book-by-an-eight-year-old/article38276702.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:51 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 150 sacked employees demand reinstatement||Over 150 contract employees of the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB), who were recently terminated without any notice, have appealed to the State Government to reinstate them. Expressing disappointment about the sudden termination in the middle of the pandemic, some of them who had worked at the Board for nearly 20 years, said that it would not be possible for them to find another job. Those terminated were part of a group of 260 contract employees in the roles of junior assistants, typists and office assistants. Their experience at the Board ranged from less than two years to 20 years. While the Board was engaging these contract employees directly, a few years ago it outsourced the contract to Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd (ELCOT), which in turn outsourced it to a private company. “Many of us have do not know have any connection with ELCOT or the private company. However, on paper, we are technically the employees of the private company,” said one of the terminated employees. A woman employee who had worked for nearly 20 years in various divisions of the Board said that the termination was unexpected. “We were working till January 5. The next day, we were asked not to sign the attendance register. Later that day, we were shown an order asking the section heads not to engage any of the contract employees,” she said. With her husband working in a private company for a modest salary, she said it would be difficult to run her family. ‘ELCOT’s decision’ A senior official from TNUHDB said that it was not the decision of the Board but that of ELCOT to withdraw its scheme of providing manpower to different government departments on a contract basis. He said that the Board has nevertheless retained nearly 50% of the contract employees on a temporary basis based on their performance. He said that measures were also being taken to fill the vacant posts through Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sacked-employees-demand-reinstatement/article38276699.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Law student arrested for slapping policeman||A 21-year-old law student was arrested by the police on charge of slapping a constable who questioned him for riding a bike without wearing a mask. A team of police attached to the Kodungaiyur station was checking vehicles at M.R. Nagar on Friday and intercepted a biker who was not wearing a mask. On stopping his bike, Uthirakumar, a police constable advised the biker to wear a mask. The youth told the police that they could not control many anti-social activities but were asking him to wear a mask. The police constable asked him to pay the fine and the youth, who refused to pay the fine, picked a quarrel. He allegedly slapped the constable and the police team immediately took him to the station. The youth, who was identified as Abdul Rahim, was arrested on charge of preventing the police personnel from discharging their duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/law-student-arrested-for-slapping-policeman/article38276698.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested for assaulting youth||Four persons were arrested on Saturday for allegedly assaulting a youth in Rajamangalam police station limits. The police said the victim, M. Surya, 19, of MGR Nagar, Kolathur, and one of the accused R. Hariharan, 21, of Varalakshmi Nagar had previous enmity. On Friday night, while Surya was standing near his uncle Marikannan's house, Hariharan and three others assaulted him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-for-assaulting-youth/article38276691.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pongal sales in Tasmac cross Rs. 500 crore||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) sold liquor worth Rs. 520.13 crore during Pongal, an increase of 24.67% when compared to last year’s sales. On January 13, the total collection was Rs. 203.05 crore, and on the day of Pongal, it was Rs. 317.08 crore. Last year, during the same period, Tasmac saw its sales touch Rs. 417.18 crore. The data showed that Madurai region saw the maximum sales at Rs. 111.47 crore followed by Tiruchi at Rs. 107.10 crore. The Salem area registered Rs. 104.54 crore while the Coimbatore belt posted Rs. 98.61 crore. The Chennai region stood at the bottom with Rs. 98.41 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pongal-sales-in-tasmac-cross-rs-500-crore/article38276719.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seven-year-old fitted with insulin pump||A seven-year-old boy recently diagnosed with Type-1 Diabetes has been fitted with an advanced artificial insulin pump by the doctors at Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre here. The pump, which is of the size of a smart phone and connected to the body via a thin tube, can automatically monitor insulin levels every five minutes and adjust as needed. V. Mohan, chairman and consultant diabetologist, Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, said the device addressed the problem of managing blood sugar level in children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-year-old-fitted-with-insulin-pump/article38276701.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered in Kundrathur||A 33-year-old man, an employee of the Heavy Vehicles Factory in Avadi, was stabbed to death when he intervened in a domestic spat in Kundrathur police station limits. The victim was identified as Kumaran, 33, of Kundrathur, who went to the support of his relative, Meena, 29. Padmaguru, 38, of Sampamdham Nagar, was married to Sindhu, 30. But he was in a relationship with Meena. Sindhu went to the former’s house and warned her. Meena allegedly retaliated and allegedly abused her. Angered over this, Meena accompanied by her relatives, Vishva and Kumaran, went to Padmaguru’s house and quarrelled with his wife. Padmaguru, following a scuffle, stabbed Kumaran and injured Vishva. Neighbours came to their rescue and rushed the injured to a private hospital. Kumaran was declared dead before reaching the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered-in-kundrathur/article38276692.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: parks, major walkways in Corpn. limits closed to public||All the parks and major walkways within the limits of the Coimbatore Corporation were closed to visitors until further notice from Saturday as a measure to avoid crowding of people and prevent the spread of COVID-19. Popular places such as VOC Park, VOC Grounds, Gandhipark, walkways and recreational areas at Race Course, Valankulam and Ukkadam Big Tank are among the places that were closed to the public. Workers from the Coimbatore Corporation placed notices at these places informing the public about the restrictions. The notices said that the places were closed as a measure to control the spread of COVID-19. Personnel from Coimbatore City Police made announcements at places, including Race Course and VOC Park. The police appealed to the public not to venture out unnecessarily and wear maskwhen they come to public places. Physical distancing has to be followed at public places, they said. The police warned of action against those who fail to comply with safety norms. On Friday, parks and walkways had witnessed heavy footfall of people due to the Pongal holiday. The authorities were unable to control the movement of people at places like Race Course, Valankulam and Ukkadam Big Tank. Anticipating the same scenario on Saturday and Sunday, the civic body decided to close parks and walkways until further notice,saidsources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-parks-major-walkways-in-corpn-limits-closed-to-public/article64949859.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||DPR to be prepared for widening Coimbatore bypass||The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has called for consultants to prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the widening of the Coimbatore bypass. The consultant will prepare a DPR to establish the technical, economical and financial viability of widening of the road for 26.15 km, from Neelambur junction to Madukkarai, into a four-lane stretch. It is currently a two-lane road. Those interested should submit the bid by next month. The Union government had widened the road from Chengapalli to Walayar, except the 26 km Coimbatore bypass, and widening this stretch has been a demand of the district. Widening of the Chengapalli-Coimbatore-Walayar road for 54.83 km was taken up in 2010 at a cost of Rs. 850 crore. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said several detailed project reports are being taken up for road widening projects. But, the actual work does not take off in many cases. Widening of the Coimbatore bypass is a requirement and hence, the project should be taken up. This is a bottleneck stretch and has to be widened, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dpr-to-be-prepared-for-widening-coimbatore-bypass/article64949861.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Elephant Pongal celebrated at camps||Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) celebrated ‘elephant Pongal’ at Kozhikamuthi and Varagaliyar elephant camps, near Top Slip, in the presence of Forest Department staff, residents from tribal settlements and tourists on Saturday. The celebrations at Kozhikamuthi camp, where 24 camp elephants are sheltered, started with puja and preparation of Pongal. Camp elephants Abhinaya and Sanjay bowed a Vinayaka idol. Residents from tribal settlements, who also work at the elephant camps, prepared Pongal. ‘Sweet pongal, sugarcane, coconut, jaggery and fruits were given to the elephants that were lined up with decorations and garlands. A tug-of-war was organised for the elephant camp staff for which two teams were formed with kumkis Kaleem and Ramu as their leaders. The team led by Kaleem won the competition. At Varakaliyar elephant camp, the staff celebrated Pongal with three captive elephants. In view of COVID-19, ATR administration allowed visitors to the Kozhikamuthi camp with certain restrictions. Visitors were allowed to Top Slip after checking their temperature and complete vaccination certificate at the Forest Department checkpost. ATR Field Director S. Ramasubramanian, Deputy Field Director (Pollachi division) M.G. Ganesan, Coimbatore District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar and forest range officers from ATR were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-pongal-celebrated-at-camps/article64949643.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district witnesses huge increase in caseload||The daily COVID-19 caseload witnessed a further increase in Coimbatore district with 1,732 persons testing positive for the disease on Saturday. On Friday, the district reported 1,564 new cases and the test positivity rate stood at 16.7 %. The Health Department said that 582 persons recovered from COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday and it had 7,480 active cases. A 95-year-old man from the district died of the disease on Wednesday, taking the toll to 2,529. Tiruppur district reported 667 new cases, registering an increase from Friday’s 373 cases. A total of 206 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 2,479 active cases on Saturday. The toll increased to 1,030 after a 64-year-old man died of COVID-19 on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-witnesses-further-increase-in-daily-caseload/article64949640.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNERC intervention sought on tariff for retirement communities||Residents of a few retirement communities in Coimbatore were in a shock recently as the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) issued notices asking the residents to pay commercial charges for electricity. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, petitioned the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) Thursday against the notice. Mr. Kathirmathiyon said the licensee, in the notice issued to a retirement community, claims that it is issuing the notice as per TNERC Tariff order dated August 11, 2017. The Tangedco issued the notice to the management of the community asking the senior citizens to pay commercial tariff for their domestic usage of electricity, he said. The consumers were further ordered to change the tariff from domestic to commercial within a given date.They were also threatened that if they fail to do so, all those domestic connections would be automatically changed to Tariff V (Commercial) and the tariff change charges would also be recovered from them. “It is atrocious.The threatening action against senior citizen by the Licensee is strongly condemnable,” he said. The retirement communities in Coimbatore are existing for several years and if the change in tariff is according to the 2017 order, the officials had not effected the changes since 2017. In fact, many new connections were given in such communities by Chief Engineer / Superintending Engineers under domestic tariff after 2017 too. Mr. Kathirmathiyon, who is also a state advisory member of the TNERC, said the occupants of retirement communities in Coimbatore are all senior citizens and many of them are unable to take care of their basic, daily needs too. Hence, these are made available to the residents as a service. “The usage of power by the occupant of a premises is the criteria for determining the tariff...After following the tariff order of 2017 all these years, the consumers are targeted now,” he said. The Tangedco should have referred the matter to the TNERC and acted based on the guidelines of the Commission. The TNERC should direct the licensee to not threaten consumers of these communities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnerc-intervention-sought-on-tariff-for-retirement-communities/article38276723.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man found murdered||A 65-year-old man was found murdered near Annur in the district on Saturday. The police said that P. Nataraj, a resident of Urumandagoundenpudur, near Annur, was found murdered in a farmland in the locality . According to the police, a herder found Nataraj dead around 7 a.m. and informed the latter’s son Chiranjeevi. The Annur police were informed. The body was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for postmortem. Investigation by the police revealed that Nataraj had been taking care of 600 goats belonging to a farmer namely Rajendran of Appanaickenpatti for the past few months for monthly salary. Chiranjeevi told the police that Nataraj had gone along with his friend N. Gurusamy (50) of Urumandagoundanpudur around 3 p.m. on Friday and did not return. Chiranjeevi came to know later in the evening that Gurusamy and his father had consumed liquor from a Tasmac outlet in the locality. Gurusamy told him that Nataraj had headed to his house after the drinking session. The police found that Gurusamy was absconding from Saturday morning. Later, they took him into custody for questioning. Preliminary investigation found that Gurusamy assaulted Nataraj with a stone, allegedly after the latter passed some remarks about the former’s wife. The police were conducting further probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-murdered-near-annur/article38276734.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two held for threatening policeman||The Ukkadam police on Friday arrested two persons on charges of threatening a policeman with a knife and preventing him from discharging his duty. The arrested have been identified as N. Murugaboopathi (33) of J.J. Nagar in north Coimbatore and R. Rajeshkumar (35) of CMC Colony in south Ukkadam. The police said that Devakumar, head constable attached to the Ukkadam police station, found the two men consuming alcohol in an autorickshaw. When he asked them to vacate the place, they threatened him, They were produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-threatening-policeman/article38276727.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Helpline launched||The City Police and Gajaananda Trust have jointly launched ahelplineand free counselling for women and children who become victims of various crimes. City PoliceCommissioner Pradip Kumar launched the service ‘Valam’ counselling centre for women and children’, a release said. Those requiring counselling can contact the centre at 96558-00008 directly or reach through Coimbatore city police control room at 94981-81213, 0422-2300970 or WhatsApp number 81900-00100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helpline-launched/article38276733.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Palliative care service for differently abled||The city-based Swarga Foundation started palliative care services for persons with disabilities recently. Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara launched the project ‘Suraksha-Care Homedelivered’ in the presence of Swarnalatha J., managing trustee of Swarga Foundation. A release from Swarga Foundation said that a team of doctor, nurse, psychologist and physiotherapist would visit patients at their residences and provide services such as physiotherapy, catheter change, Ryle’s (food) tube change, bedsore and hygiene management. They will also address the psycho-social needs of the patients, provide counselling to families members. All the services would be provided free of cost,the release said. Patients can call 73971-65333 to register for the service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palliative-care-service-for-differently-abled/article38276726.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||Artificial waterfall at Sirumalai to attract tourists, says Collector||Sirumalai, which is a tourist attraction for those visiting Dindigul district, is all set to have an artificial waterfall soon, said District Collector S Visakan here on Saturday. Apart from Kodaikanal and the temple town of Palani, Sirumalai is one of the most preferred destinations for nature lovers and for those interested in taking short trips from the southern districts. There are also a few home-stay facilities available in the hills. Almost for seven months in a year, beginning from October to January a rain-fed stream flows from the hills. Later during February and March or till mid-April, the flow is irregular depending on the rains but it helps to keep the water table recharged. In a bid to preserve the water, the District Rural Development Agency officials proposed to construct a check dam at Pazhayur. Under the MGNREGA, the work was taken up and subsequently, the check dam was completed. Now, after a couple of inspections, the officials embarked on an idea to convert it into a tourist spot and decided to carry out certain alterations. Due to an advantageous natural gradient, the water falls from the check dam. As this could be converted into a tourist attraction, the idea was executed after a few more visits by Collector Visakan and Additional Collector (Development) Dinesh Kumar. “In fact, there are plans to even make the waterfall more attractive and user friendly for the differently-abled persons and senior citizens, a first of its kind”, the officials at the site said and hoped that the 12-feet high artifical waterfall would give a real-time experience for those who love taking bath in natural falls. Apart from the MGNREGA, local panchayat funds were also used to complete the project at Rs. 33 lakh. The attraction would soon be thrown open for the public, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/artificial-waterfall-at-sirumalai-to-attract-tourists-collector/article64949667.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man, daughter killed||In a tragic incident, a man, who was riding his two-wheeler along with his son and daughter, collided with a speeding car at Chitrevu near Pattiveeranpatti in Dindigul district on Friday. Police said that Murugan (48) was riding his bike along with his son Pugazh and daughter Sowmya on the pillion. He, was proceeding on the Batlagundu-Sembatti Road, when the car hit the bike at Salaipudur. In the collision, all the three were thrown off the vehicle and Murugan died on the spot. His daughter Sowmya, who was brought to the Batlagundu GH, was declared dead, while Pugazh was referred to GRH in Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-daughter-killed/article38277035.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:51 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man, daughter killed in road accident||In a tragic incident, a man, who was riding his two-wheeler along with his son and daughter, collided with a speeding car at Chitrevu near Pattiveeranpatti in Dindigul district on Friday. Police said that Murugan (48) was riding his bike along with his son Pugazh and daughter Sowmya on the pillion. He, was proceeding on the Batlagundu-Sembatti Road, when the car hit the bike at Salaipudur. In the collision, all the three were thrown off the vehicle and Murugan, who suffered head injury, died on the spot. His daughter Sowmya, who was brought to the Batlagundu Government Hospital, was declared dead., while Pugazh was referred to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. The police said that car driver Ramki (37) also suffered multiple injuries and has been admitted in the GH for treatment. Further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-daughter-killed-in-road-accident/article38276787.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Markets in Erode witness less crowd ahead of total lockdown||Vegetable markets that were usually busy ahead of the total lockdown on Sunday did not do much business here on Saturday. On Saturday, business at the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit market at V.O.C. Park Ground was low compared to the business on January 8. Traders said that due to Pongal and Mattu Pongal celebrations, most of the consumers purchased vegetables on January 13 and hence the crowd was less. Traders said that due to an increase in vegetable arrivals, the price had dropped by 20% to 30% and they expect more fall in prices in the coming days. Since most of the commercial establishments declared holidays for Pongal, very few establishments were opened on Saturday. Most of the hotels, restaurants, bakeries and tea shops were closed for three days from January 14 to 16 as people depend on the few eateries that were opened in the city. Vehicle movement on the arterial roads was also low when compared to normal days. A traffic policeman said that due to COVID-19, temples and tourist spots were closed on weekends and hence people stayed indoors. Meanwhile, around 1,000 police personnel were deployed across the district to ensure compliance with the total lockdown on Sunday. Only essential services will be allowed during the lockdown while takeaway services will be allowed in hotels and restaurants. Vehicle checks will be intensified across the district and people have been advised to move out of their homes only for medical emergencies and for travelling on trains and buses with valid tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/markets-in-erode-witness-less-crowd-ahead-of-total-lockdown/article64949845.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water release in LBP canal extended till January 25||The Water Resources Department (WRD) has passed an order for extending the water release in the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal by 10 days from January 15 to 25. Usually, water is released from the Bhavanisagar dam into the LBP main canal to benefit 1.03 lakh acres in the districts of Erode, Tiruppur and Karur from August 15 to December 12 every year for 120 days. In the current season, water was released on August 15, 2021, in the LBP main canal with even number sluice gates, and odd number sluice gates in the Chennasamudram canal ayacut areas to benefit 1,03,500 acres in Gobichettipalayam, Bhavani, Perundurai, Erode, Modakkurichi and Kodumudi Taluks in Erode district and Kangayam Taluk in Tiruppur district and Aravakurichi Taluk in Karur district. On August 20, breach occurred in the main canal inundating houses and farm lands at Malaipalayam village in Perundurai Union after which discharge was stopped. Work to attend the breach was carried out and water was released in the canal. Based on the request of various farmers’ associations, water release, which was initially scheduled to be stopped on December 13, 2021, was extended by one more month till January 15. Keel Bhavani Murai Neer Pasana Vivasaigal Kootamaippu has urged the government to extend the water release. Hence, based on the request, an order was issued extending the water release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-release-in-lbp-canal-extended-till-january-25/article38276807.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||Price of rayon yarn to be fixed twice a month||The long-pending demand of power loom associations to regulate the price of rayon yarn has finally been fulfilled, as rayon yarn manufacturers agreed to fix the price twice a month against the current system of frequent and erratic hikes. A meeting was held at Texvalley at Chithode here recently which was presided over by Pallipalayam Mill Owners Association president Palanisamy and Palladam Textile Manufacturers Association president Murugesan. Members of Tamil Nadu Federation of Power Loom Association led by its coordinator P. Kandavel and power loom owners from Erode, Palladam, Somanur and Avinashi took part. Mill owners agreed in the meeting to fix the price of rayon yarn on the first and 16thof every month and also to form a committee to monitor the price of yarn. Also, the panel was empowered to hold meetings with the mill owners on discussing the issue of fixing yarn price once in a month and also to fix the price of yarn based on the price of fibre in the coming months.  Mr. Kandavel told The Hindu that the price of yarn stood at Rs. 220 a kg during Deepavali last year and rose to Rs. 280 a kg in 10 days. Though the price of fibre went up by Rs. 2 a kg a month, the price of yarn increased frequently in a month and we were unable to execute the orders resulting in huge losses, he added. “We were demanding fixing of yarn price once a month so that orders can be executed promptly without losses”, he added. Fibre is supplied by a private company to 40 mills in Pallipalayam in Namakkal district who in turn supply rayon yarn to two lakh power loom units in the State. “These mills meet 90% of our total yarn requirements in the State and our ldemand was finally fulfilled”, he added.   We were demanding fixing of yarn price once a month so that orders can be executed promptly without losses P. Kandavel Coordinator, Tamil Nadu Federation of Power Loom Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/price-of-rayon-yarn-to-be-fixed-twice-a-month/article38276805.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers killed in elephant attack||A 54-year-old farmer was reportedly killed in a wild elephant attack at Germalam on Saturday. Police identified the deceased as Masaniyan of J.R.S. Puram in Germalam. On Saturday, a wild elephant strayed into his land and he tried to chase it away along with his two sons. Since the elephant entered the forest, the three were returning to their land. But, the elephant returned and attacked Masaniyan. He died on the spot. Gurunathan (75) of Peekiripalayam in Sathyamangalam died after being attacked by a wild elephant on Thursday night. The incident happened when he was guarding his crops. He was taken to the Government Hospital at Sathyamangalam where doctors declared him as dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-killed-in-elephant-attack/article38276799.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 542 newCOVID-19 cases||Erode district on Saturday reported 542 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,10,329. While 139 persons were discharged, 1,970 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 427 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 1,05,236. While 133 persons were discharged, 2,215 persons continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 240 cases taking the tally to 55,872. While 46 persons were discharged, 1,029 persons continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri district reported 297 cases taking the tally to 45,848. While 92 persons were discharged, 1,480 persons continue to be under treatment. Dharmapuri district reported 168 cases taking the tally to 29,833. While 36 persons were discharged, 658 persons continue to be under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-542-newcovid-19-cases/article38276798.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Perundurai Thingalur sub-station ( 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.- January 20) Thingalur, Grey Nagar, Kallakulam, Vettaiyankinaru, Pappampalayam, Mandiripalayam, Nallampatti, Suppaiyanpalayam, Thandacoundanpalayam, Mettur, Sukkakaranpalayam, Seenapuram West areas only, Dasampudur, Chellapampalayam, Veerachipalayam, Veeranampalayam, Karandipalayam, Thalayampalayam, Ponmudi, Naduvalasu, Ayicoundanpalayam, Kullampalayam, Netta Chellapalayam, Keezheri Palayam, Pattakaranpalayam, Nesavar Colony, Madathupalayam, Komaiyan Valasu, Velankadu, Manoorkadu and Mamutti Thoppu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article38276804.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three held for rooster fight near Karur||Vangal police have registered a case against five persons for participating in a rooster fight conducted without permission. Acting on inputs that a group of persons had participated in a rooster fight in a farm at Chinnakalipalayam, the police rushed to the spot. Participants flee On noticing their arrival, the organisers and the participants began fleeing from the spot along with the roosters. But the police managed to get hold of M. Deepanraj, 26, of Kattalai Agraharam, R. Santhanam, 40, and S. Sathishkumar, 30, of Nerur and seized two dead cocks. Two escape A. Naveen, 25, of Nerur and S. Sakthivel of Chinnakalipalayam managed to escape from the spot. The cocks reportedly died due to injuries suffered in the game. The authorities had denied permission to organise rooster fights this year following a recent order issued by the Madras High Court banning the events until January 25. Rooster fights are usually organised for three days during Pongal holidays at Poolamvalasu near Aravakurichi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-rooster-fight/article38276777.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:51 IST,TAMIL NADU||Long weekend lockdown leads to crash in prices of flowers||The prices of jasmine, button rose and other flower varieties have crashed in the span of a fortnight at the Maatuthavani Wholesale Flower Market. After the State government announced closure of temples for three consecutive days in a week - Friday, Saturday and Sunday, - retail vendors near shrines in the city have stopped buying flowers during the long weekends. With the demand dwindling, wholesale merchants have stopped buying from farmers who have raised jasmine and other flowers. Shahjahan, a flower merchant, said that the third wave of COVID-19 pandemic had dealt a severe blow to the farmers and merchants, January being an auspicious month and marriage season as well. He said that these adverse situations had brought down the price of jasmine to Rs. 1,000 a kg. It was selling for Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 4,000 per kg during Deepavali and Christimas/New Year eve, respectively. If the situation worsens, the prices may come down further. In such a scenario, there would be no option but to down the shutters, he said. The price of mullai and pichi sold at Rs. 700 and Rs. 800 per kg, respectively. The prices of flowers had roughly come down by 40% in the past week, said Kamatchi, another wholesale merchant. Plans gone awry Farmers and jasmine growers from Avaniapuram said that just when they were getting ready to do some brisk business during the marriage season, the third wave had spoiled all their plans. With a huge number of Ayyappa devotees from far and near visiting Madurai en route to Sabarimalai at this time of the year, closure of shrines had dealt a big blow to all businesses in general. At least, as in other commercial establishments, devotees should have been permitted into shrines after they produced their vaccination certificates. When experts had opined that lockdown was not the solution for the present times, the temples should have remained open, a cross-section of the stakeholders said. ‘No self-discipline’ A police official in the Mattuthavani region said that there was an absolute lack of self-discipline at the flower market, where all COVID SOP norms were flouted. Traders and customers were not wearing masks and people not maintaining social distancing. So, the government could very well close the markets, as in the case of places of worship, he said.  Third wave woes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/long-weekend-lockdown-leads-to-crash-in-prices-of-flowers/article64949818.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:51 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kuruvikaran Salai high-level bridge ready for inauguration||The work on construction of a high-level bridge across the Vaigai in lieu of Kuruvikaran Salai causeway has been completed and is set for inauguration, a Corporation official said here on Saturday. The bridge with 10 spans is 200 metres long and 17.50 metres wide. There is a 2.25-metre-wide pedestrian pathway on either side of the bridge which has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 23.17 crore. The causeway outlived its utility and a demolition order was issued in 2019. Work on the new bridge started on May 11, 2020. Though it was scheduled to have been completed by last November, due to various reasons the work got dragged for two more months, the official said. Once formally thrown open, the bridge would help in free flow of traffic and decongesting roads on either side of the river, the official said. Ever since the bridge work started, those travelling between Kamarajar Salai and KK Nagar had to take a circuitous route by using the PTR bridge near Teppakulam and go through Anna Nagar. On and off, two-wheelers and light commercial vehicles used a makeshift causeway behind Aravind Eye Hospital. A DMK MLA said that as per an earlier plan, Chief Minister M. K. Stalin was to have inaugurated the bridge during his visit to Madurai on January 12, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was to have arrived at Virudhunagar for inaugurating the 11 Government Medical Colleges in the State. As these programmes got cancelled due to the third wave of COVID-19 pandemic, the Chief Minister may shortly inaugurate the bridge through virtual mode, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-level-bridge-across-vaigai-in-madurai-ready-for-inauguration/article64949819.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:51 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man reunited with family after 21 years||Udavum Karangal, a Chennai based NGO, successfully reunited a man from Sivaganga district with his family. The man left home at the age of 25 and failed to return. After 21 long years the family was reunited on Pongal day. On December 5, 2021, the members of Udavum Karangal found K. Pandian from Ilayangudi, Sivaganga district, on the streets near a bus stand in Chennai, in an unstable condition. They found that he had been injured following an accident.A member of the NGO D. Jacob saw the man and rescued him. He was brought to the home run by the NGO and was provided fresh clothes and medical treatment.Initially, Pandian could not recollect anything about his family. After he started responding to the treatment, he told the NGO members that he belonged to Ilayangudi in Sivaganga district, said Srinivasa Rao, another member of the NGO. The NGO managed to track a tea shop owner in Ilayangudi, who knew a relative of the man. But, the relative was not interested in taking him. Later, a provision store owner in Ilayangudi was contacted for help.Through the provision store owner, a person who was closely associated with the family was contacted and it was ascertained that Pandian’s parents were alive. He has two brothers and one sister. They were immediately informed about Pandian. They rushed to Chennai to meet Pandian. Founder of Udavum Karangal S. Vidyaakar said that the family members had given up their search and their joy knew no bounds when they heard that he was alive. They told the NGO members that Pandian had been suffering from psychological issues. He had a habit of running away from home since his teenage years. The NGO members provided Pandian with a wheelchair and a walker. The injury to the leg would take a few more days to heal, they said. The reunited family then left for Sivaganga together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-reunited-with-family-after-21-years/article38276788.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||People flout COVID-19 guidelines at Palamedu jallikattu||The Palamedu jallikattu held on Saturday was largely incident free, but at least 36 people were injured at the event. However, there was poor compliance with COVID-19 norms. The event was flagged off at 7.40 a.m. by Ministers P. Moorthy and Palanivel Thiaga Rajan in the presence of Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan was also present. Most spectators were seen without masks, and there was no physical distancing, despite the officials asking them to adhere to the COVID-19 precautionary protocols. Palamedu residents watched the event from crowded terraces and parapets of their residents. As many as 704 bulls and 300 tamers participated in the event’s seven rounds. The participants were allowed to compete only after testing negative for COVID-19. The bulls were also examined to determine if they were fit to compete. The event concluded around 5.30 p.m. Adequate police personnel were deployed to ensure safety. At least 10 ambulances, three bike ambulances were and fire tenders were deployed. Teams from the Red Cross and Animal Husbandry Department were present. Deaths and injuries A 27-year-old bull owner was killed at the jallikattu held at Periya Suriyur in Tiruchi on Saturday. The victim, identified as Meenakshisundaram from Srirangam, was gored to death by his bull. So far, nine people have been injured at the event. At the Avaniapuram jallikattu held on Friday, one spectator, identified as D. Balamurugan,19, was gored to death and at least 80 participants were injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-flout-covid-19-guidelines-at-palamedu-jallikattu/article64949657.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:51 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 137.45 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 343 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.62 ft. (71 ft.) with nilinflow and a discharge of 719 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,786 mcft. Rainfall Thekkadi recorded 1.2 mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article64949815.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||SSI ends life||A Special Sub-Inspector of Police allegedly committed suicide at his home on Friday night. Police said SSI Yesudoss, 51, of Akkarai near Suchindram was working as a Special Sub-Inspector of Police in Kottar Police Station. After an altercation broke out between him and his wife on Friday night, Yesudoss went to sleep in his room. He did not open the door the next morning and the neighbours broke the door and found that Yesudoss had ended his life. After the Suchindram police were alerted, the body was sent to Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam for post-mortem. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssi-ends-life/article38276789.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TPR touches 51.75% in U.T.; 2 more die in Mahe||For the first time, the Union Territory has witnessed an alarming rise in the Test Positivity Rate, an all-time high of 51.75% with over half the persons screened for the COVID-19 virus during the last 24 hours, ending Saturday 10 a.m, testing positive. Of the 2,344 screened in the four regions, 1,213 were positive. 1,886 overall toll The Union Territory recorded two deaths, both of which were reported in the enclave of Mahe. An 88 year-old-person died under home care and a 66-year-old person at the Government Medical College, Calicut in Kerala. The overall toll has touched 1,886. The only solace, according to a health official, was that only a negligible number of positve persons, needed hospital care so far. The active cases stood at 6,785 in the Union Territory. Of the total, 6,662 are under home isolation and the remaining 123 are in hospitals. As on Friday, 9,05,903 persons received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine and 5,880,20 got both. After the Centre launched the booster dose programme on January 1,01,954 have received the precautionary dose, data released by the Health Department said. Ex-CM tests positive Former Chief Minister of Puducherry V. Narayanasamy on Saturday tested positive for COVID-19. In a Twitter message, he said he was isolated at home. He appealed to those who have come in close contact with him, to get isolated and tested for the virus. He had received the booster dose on January 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tpr-touches-5175-in-ut-2-more-die-in-mahe/article64949636.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||Varsity offers additional chance to complete degree||The Pondicherry University has decided to give an additional chance to students for completing their degree courses under the Distance Education Programme. Taking into account the demand from students, Vice-Chancellor Gurmeet Singh has decided to give an additional chance to MBA, M.Com, MA (English, Sociology and Hindi) students, who have exhausted the maximum period prescribed for completion of their degree, the University said in a release. Students who did their MBA courses from academic year 2005-06 to 2016, and M.Com and MA students of academic year 2014-15 to 2016, have been given the opportunity. Students, who want to avail the chance to appear for the examinations are directed to re-register themselves immediately with the Director, Directorate of Distance Education, Pondicherry University. The last date for re-registration has been extended to January 25, the release said. For more details log on to https://dde.pondiuni.edu.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/varsity-offers-additional-chance-to-complete-degree/article64949771.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP getting paid back in the same coin’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is now getting paid back in the same coin in Uttar Pradesh and Goa for the defections that it had engineered in other political parties in several States, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said in a virtual statement on Friday. “The BJP has engineered defections in several parties to topple the Opposition governments. In February last year, the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister made Ministers and legislators resign from the Congress government in Puducherry Central, by threatening them with law enforcement agencies. “They were made to contest on BJP ticket. They did the same machinations in other States. Now, they are paid back in the same coin in U.P. and Goa. Several of their Ministers have quit and joined other parties,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. The Prime Minister and the Home Minister had been using Central agencies and ‘money power’ to split political parties and wean leaders away from their parties to the BJP side. The BJP has started “reaping the fruits,” of its wrongdoings in several States, including the Union Territory, he added. “It is also a lesson to political leaders who do not stick to a particular ideology and are only after power,” the senior Congress leader said. Flaying the All India N. R. Congress-led National Democratic Alliance in the Union Territory for the negligence shown in handling the COVID-19 situation, Mr. Narayanasamy said the Union Territory has got one of the most highest Test Positivity Rates (TPR). The government did not heed the advice of enforcing restrictions on New Year celebrations when the number of cases gradually started increasing, he said. The hospitals in the Union Territory are also not in a situation to handle the surge in patients due to lack of preparedness, Mr. Narayanasamy added.  The PM and the Home Minister had been using Central agencies and ‘money power’ to split parties and wean leaders away from their parties to the BJP side V. Narayanasamy Former CM. Puducherry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-getting-paid-back-in-the-same-coin/article38276998.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mattu Pongal celebrated with traditonal fervour in Salem and Erode districts||Mattu Pongal was celebrated with traditional fervour across the district here on Saturday. Farmers thank their cattle for helping them in agricultural fields by celebrating the day in rural areas. Cows were washed and their horns were painted in vibrant colours while many decorated the cows with bells and garlanded them.. Also, they offer prayers to the cow and milch animals that provide livelihood for farmers. Later, the cows were fed with sweet rice and taken in procession in villages. People of Pagalpatti village in Omalur Taluk said that they continue to worship their cattle on the occasion as it supports them in farm lands and also provides regular income by way of giving milk. Farmers said that COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown in the last two years affected them much, but they never failed to celebrate the festival as it is meant for farmers. In Erode district, Mattu Pongal was celebrated widely in the district with farmers performing special puja for their cows and feeding them with sweet pongal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mattu-pongal-celebrated-with-traditonal-fervour-in-salem-and-erode-districts/article64949844.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three-year-old twins drown in pond||A pair of three- year-old twin brothers reportedly drowned in a farm pond at Karumandurai here on Friday. The victims have been identified as Tulasi Raman and Tulasi Dharan. The incident happened when the parents of the childern went to collect wooden logs and leaving the twins near a pond. When they returned, they found the children missing and raised an alarm. Villagers searched for the children in the pond and retrieved their bodies. Karumandurai police was informed who sent the bodies to the Government Hospital in Attur. A case was registered and an inquiry is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-year-old-twins-drown-in-pond/article38276806.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||After wall collapse, she uses saris for privacy||Using her saris and old dhotis as a wall for her dwelling, 50-year-old Palaniammal of Mammarangapatti in Sivaganga district is eagerly looking for assistance from the government to build a house. During the November 2021 rain, a portion of the mud wall of her dwelling collapsed. Palaniammal, a widow, is a casual worker, and lives with her son.  When The Hindu spoke to the woman after an activist from the locality explained her plight, she said that after the mud wall collapsed, the revenue authorities visited and gave her Rs. 2,000 as a temporary relief.  Later, an official approached her and asked her to return the Rs. 2,000 since the government would allot her a dwelling soon. “My plight is so pathetic that I have to use my old saris as a temporary wall and these officials are demanding me to return the money,” she claimed. “Because of the pandemic, there is no job. I have no money. There is some free rice left at home which I got from the ration shop last month,” she said. When contacted, Sivaganga Collector P. Madhusudan Reddy said he would certainly look into her grievance. Very soon, a house would be given to her, he said and added that she would not be asked to return the money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-wall-collapse-she-is-forced-to-use-saris-for-privacy/article64949668.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman SI assaulted by gang||A woman Sub-Inspector of Police was assaulted by a group of youth when she asked them to move their bikes, which they had parked haphazardly across the road. Police said Sub-Inspector Vimala, 30, attached to Surandai police station, was returning home on her two-wheeler in plainclothes after visiting her younger sister at Nettoor near Alangulam on Friday. When she was about to cross the Mariamman Temple, seven youth were chatting near the temple after parking their vehicles across the narrow road. Ms. Vimala asked them to move their vehicles but they continued to chat unmindful of her. After she shouted at them, they moved their bikes but assaulted the woman police officer and escaped. After she was admitted to a nearby hospital for treatment, Ms. Vimala filed a complaint with the Alangulam police, who are on the lookout for the culprits including history-sheeters Mariappan and Murugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-si-assaulted/article38276793.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||Brick kiln worker beaten to death||A brick kiln worker was beaten to death by his brother-in-law near Kadayam on Friday. Police said P. Murugan, 32, of Kaanaavur near Kadayam had married A. Muthulakshmi of the same village. Following frequent quarrel between the couple, Muthulakshmi was living in her mother’s house for the past few days. Upset over this, Muthulakshmi’s elder brother A. Nagarajan, 29, went to Murugan’s house last Thursday and asked his brother-in-law to start living with his sister. When an altercation broke out between Murugan and Nagarajan, Murugan’s mother Parvathi allegedly attacked Nagarajan with a club. Even before Nagarajan could react, Murugan allegedly attacked him with a stone in which the former suffered grievous head injury. On getting information about the incident, the Kadayam police took Nagarajan to the Tenkasi Government Hospital, from where the victim was referred to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, where he died on Friday. After arresting Parvathi, the Kadayam police are on the lookout for Murugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brick-kiln-worker-beaten-to-death/article38276782.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Maatu’ Pongal celebrated||Special anointment and decoration of the granite Nandhi idol at Brahadeeswarar temple, popularly known as Thanjavur Big Temple, marked the Mattu Pongal celebration on Saturday.   Around two tonnes of vegetables and sweets were used to decorate the huge idol at the temple complex and Ghopuja was also performed in the temple without devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maatu-pongal-celebrated/article64949694.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||NRCB transfers technology for making micronutrient mixture||The National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB), Tiruchi, has licensed and transferred technology for manufacture of ‘Banana Sakthi,’ a micro nutrient mixture for banana crop, to a women farmers producers group in Kanniyakumari district under Tamil Nadu State Rural Livelihood Mission (TNSRLM). Banana is raised on about one lakh hectares in Tamil Nadu and the State produces about four million tonnes of banana every year. However, micronutrient deficiency is a common problem in banana cultivation and has a huge impact on yield and quality. ICAR-NRCB had focused its research on micronutrient requirements and formulated a micronutrient mixture ‘Banana Sakthi’. The mixture is being widely used by farmers of the State and it has gained popularity among the banana farming community, S. Uma, Director, ICAR-NRCB, said. ‘Banana Sakthi,’ corrects micronutrient deficiency and increases the ‘use efficiency’ of primary and secondary macronutrients in banana crop, thereby increasing productivity by 15% to 20% and enhancing quality, said K. J. Jeyabaskaran, Principal Scientist and inventor of the technology. By using ‘Banana Sakthi’, farmers could hope to get an additional profit of Rs. 1 lakh per hectare. Application of the mixture also improves the shelf life and reduces the skin splitting of the fruit, he said. J. Poorani, Principal Scientist, appreciated the team for transferring the technology and distributed certificates at a meeting held recently to mark the transfer of technology. P. Suresh Kumar, Principal Scientist, other staff of NRCB and beneficiaries of the women farmers producers group were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nrcb-transfers-technology-to-farmers-producers-group/article38276773.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Model sanitation project struggles without upkeep||A 16-year-old community-based sanitation project that was once seen as a model programme to reuse domestic waste water for crop irrigation is now in need of urgent maintenance work. Launched on June 23, 2006 by Tiruchi Corporation in East Devadhanam, the project was initially meant to discourage open defecation on a small patch of land adjoining a disused community toilet that lacked underground drainage. With separate facilities for men and women, the refurbished toilet complex envisaged the treatment and reuse of at least six cubic meters of water from the daily flow of nine cubic metres, through Decentralised Wastewater Treatment System (DEWATS) technology. NGO ExNoRa International, Chennai, was the implementing partner, with backing by German agency Bremen Overseas Research and Development Agency (BORDA). The DEWATS facility was constructed at a cost of Rs. 8 lakh, and TCC became the first urban local body in Tamil Nadu to have this installation. At present, 60 women members of a self-help group led by homemakers J. Nagavalli and Malarmani take care of the complex, including the farm that grows banana, pumpkin, gourd, ladies finger and spinach. Even though the farm’s yield is abundant, the biogas plant that was supposed to be the flagship feature of the project has been dysfunctional for several years now.  “The water from the toilets drains into 21 collection tanks, and is then cleaned through the filtration system here before we route it into the irrigation channels of the garden. We are managing somehow with the water that flows out after filtration. But as you can see, the pipes and plasterwork have started chipping away, and the fixtures need to be overhauled,” Ms. Nagavalli told The Hindu .  A metal lid corroded by untreated borewell water has fallen into its own tank, while the filtration tank filled is with black sludge. “The toilets are maintained by the Corporation; we clean them whenever the regular conservancy staff do not come,” said Ms. Nagavalli. The toilets (costing Rs. 2 per visit) are used by around 200 local residents from 4 a.m. to 11 p.m. daily, and the money collected is used for buying cleaning supplies and basic electrical repairs, she added. Responding to a query, a senior Corporation official said the East Devadhanam toilet complex maintenance issue was under review. “We hope to attend to the matter soon,” the official added. “Major operational maintenance has to be taken up by the authorities regarding the community-based sanitation project in East Devadhanam, but perhaps it has been delayed by the focus on pandemic prevention measures,” said V. Ganapathy, who was the District Advisor of ExNoRa at the time of the project’s inception.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/model-sanitation-project-struggles-without-upkeep/article64949693.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ineffective containment efforts irk Tiruchi residents||Ineffective measures in containment zone in the city have caused resentment among a section of residents in the wake of the rise in COVID-19 cases. When the pandemic spread in April-May 2020, authorities took several steps to contain its spread by establishing containment zones. If a person was diagnosed with the virus, a seven-km radius from the residence of the affected person was declared a containment zone and was in force for 14 days. None, except for genuine reasons, was allowed to go out of the containment zones, or into the prohibited areas. Depending upon the evolving scenario, the rules were changed and relaxed. The micro-containment zone system was introduced when the delta variant of COVID-19 spread in 2021. If three persons in a residential locality or street tested positive, the Corporation declared the area as prohibited. Also, a number of measures such as door-to-door verification of fever cases, check-ups, intensive fever camps and clean-up operation were taken to check the spread of the virus. The city witnesses a rapid increase in the number of COVID-19 cases once again. The number of cases, which was in the range of 10 to 30 till recently, went to 444 on Thursday alone. The authorities predict that it could even surpass the 2,000 mark in a week or two. Sources say fresh cases are being reported in all four zones in the city. The health department of the Corporation has set up a few micro-level containment zones here and there, but some residents feel that they are highly ineffective. It does not have information on warning the neighbours or outsiders about the prevalence of COVID-19 cases. Moreover, they allege that they hardly notice the arrival of health or sanitary workers to check the fever cases and to take preventive steps. Though several clusters of fresh cases have emerged in the city, only a few containment zones have been established, allege the residents. “It seems that the micro-level containment zones exist only on paper. More than 1,500 persons were diagnosed with COVID-19 in the last one week alone in the city. But, the containment zones are not in commensurate with the number of active cases,” says N. Jamaludeen, a civic activist. Moreover, there is hardly any system to monitor the movement of the patients, who are in home isolation and treatment. They casually go out to hotels, restaurants, medical shops and other places. “We notice many patients who tested positive for the virus buying medicines on their own. Barring a few, most of them do not wear masks. They mingle with other persons, thereby increasing the chances of rapid spread. It is a matter of great concern,” says an employee of a medical shop in Thillai Nagar.  Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, when contacted, told The Hindu that health officials had been instructed to declare a street as containment zone if three or more cases were detected. Persons who tested positive were being tracked over telephone.  Six employees of the Corporation had been engaged to collect information on positive cases so as to monitor their health and treatment. Many preferred home treatment and they were being monitored on a daily basis, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ineffective-containment-efforts-irk-tiruchi-residents/article64949695.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Revamp of farmers’ markets to begin soon||Work on establishing a new Uzhavar Sandhai at Manachanallur in the district and renovation of the existing ones at K.K. Nagar and Manapparai is set to begin soon.   According to sources in the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, the tender for the establishment of 10 new uzhavar sandhai s and renovatoin of 100 existing ones in the State have been awarded and the works are expected to begin within the next few days.   The new uzhavar sandhai at Manachanallur in the district will be established at an estimated cost of Rs. 60 lakh. It will come up in the Regulated Market complex in the town. To start with, it will have 17 shops.   S. Natarajan, Director, Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, recently inspected the regulated market and the site for the new uzhavar sandhai .   Earlier, he inspected the uzhavar sandhai s at K.K. Nagar and Anna Nagar in Tiruchi. He instructed the officials to ensure that the renovation works at the K.K. Nagar uzhavar sandhai , sanctioned at a cost of Rs. 35 lakh, was completed quickly.   The department plans to develop the uzhavar sandhai at K.K. Nagar as a model one in the State. The renovation envisages improvements to basic amenities including toilets. As the uzhavar sandhai turns slushy during rain, paver block pavements will be laid. The damaged compound wall will be rebuilt to prevent flow of water into the premises, which is located in a low-lying area.  Mr. Natarajan, who also inspected the Primary Processing Centre for banana at Thottiyam, instructed officials to take steps to ensure that farmers utilised the facility accredited by Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revamp-of-farmers-markets-to-begin-soon/article64949849.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:54 IST,TAMIL NADU||1 killed, 50 injured at Periya Suriyur jallikattu||A 27-year-old bull owner was gored to death at the jallikattu held at Periya Suriyur in Tiruchi district on Saturday morning. Nearly 50 people, including bull tamers and spectators, were injured in the event.  Ten of the injured were admitted to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital.  According to the organisers, the deceased bull owner, identified as Meenakshisundaram from Srirangam, was guiding his bull to the entrance of the vaadivasal , when the animal went out of control and gored him to death. He was rushed to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, but was declared ‘brought dead’.   Speaking to The Hindu , K. Vanitha, Dean, Tiruchi GH, said the victim was gored in the thigh and bled excessively. He was brought dead to the hospital.  Several bull tamers were among the injured. Chinnathambi, a 24-year-old tamer, sustained injuries in his abdomen. Two other men sustained spinal and abdominal injuries and were being treated at the hospital. The event began at 8 a.m. on Saturday at Suriyur, outside of Tiruchi city, and ended by 4 p.m. It was inaugurated by School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi. Collector S. Sivarasu administered the oath of fair play to the participants. According to the organisers, 486 bulls and 300 bull tamers participated. Bull tamers and owners were asked to produce a COVID-19 negative certificate and also proof of double vaccination. A 35-member medical team along with ambulances were deployed, while 300 police personnel were involved to maintain law and order. Yogesh from Pudukottai was adjudged the best bull tamer and presented with a two-wheeler. The owner of the ‘best bull’ was also given a two-wheeler. Sponsors, including the School Education Minister and former Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, showered the participants with gifts.  Bull tamers and owners were asked to produce a COVID-19 negative certificate and also proof of double vaccination Organisers  Periya Suriyur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-dead-50-injured-at-periya-suriyur-jallikattu/article64949692.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||1,344 new cases in delta||The number of fresh cases of COVID- 19 reported in the central districts was 1,344 on Saturday. No deaths were reported in the region, according to a bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Tiruchi and Thanjavur continued to report more than 70% of the cases reported in the region, with the two districts recording 443 fresh cases each on Saturday. The other seven districts in the region reported less than 100 cases each. Seventy-six persons tested positive in Karur, 73 in Tiruvarur, 72 in Ariyalur and 71 in Pudukottai. In Perambalur, where less than five cases were being reported less than a few weeks ago, 68 cases were reported. In Mayiladuthurai, 51 patients tested COVID-19 positive, and it was 47 in Nagapattinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1344-new-cases-in-delta/article38276764.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Adopt Assembly resolution on Thirukkural ’||The Federation of Tamil Organisations of Tiruchi District has urged the State government to adopt a resolution in the Assembly to press the Centre to declare Thirukkural a national book.  A resolution to this effect was adopted by the federation during the Thiruvalluvar Thirunal celebration here on Saturday.  The federation members garlanded the poet’s statue and organised a Thirukkural Muttrothal at Tiruchi Tamil Sangam. The event also saw them adopt a series of resolutions putting forth various demands to propagate Thirukkural and Thiruvalluvar’s ideals.   One of the resolutions demanded that the Tamil Nadu Public Serice Commission make Thirukkural a subject in all its recruitment examinations. While appreciating the government for its implementation of special schemes to promote Tamil language and Tamils’ welfare, the federation, in another resolution, urged the government to institute district-level awards to recognise scholars engaged in propagating Thirukkura l’s ideals.   0The federation called for steps to establish a Thirukkural Kottam, on the lines of Valluvar Kottam in Chennai, in Tiruchi with a Thirukkural Chair and library. The Salai Road in Tiruchi should be named after Thiruvalluvar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adopt-assembly-resolution-to-get-thirukkural-declared-national-book/article38276797.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bull owner gored to death||A 27-year-old bull owner was gored to death at the jallikattu held at Periya Suriyur in Tiruchi district on Saturday morning. According to the organisers, the man, identified as Meenakshisundaram from Srirangam, was guiding his bull to the entrance of the vaadivasal to be released, when the animal went out of control and gored him to death. The man was rushed to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (GH), but was declared brought dead  Speaking to The Hindu , K. Vanitha, Dean, Tiruchi GH, said the victim had been gored in the thigh. and had bled excessively.  Nine injured He was brought dead to the hospital, she said. So far, nine people have been injured at the Periya Suriyur Jallikattu, many of whom are bull tamers. The event began at 8 a.m. on Saturday at Suriyur, outside of Tiruchi city. It was inaugurated by School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi. District Collector S. Sivarasu administered a an oath of fair play to the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bull-owner-gored-to-death/article38276794.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers rattled by underweight potash bags||Even as farmers are battling urea shortage despite availability of sufficient water in dams and irrigation tanks, they have been forced to face another threat – that of underweight potash bags. After being unloaded at VOC Port, Thoothukudi, potash that reaches the harbour in bulk in ships, would be packed in 50 kg bags after being taken to nearby godowns in lorries. Instead of packing 50 kg potash in every bag, the contract labourers pack lesser quantity that causes a loss of 1 kg to 1.250 kg potash for buyers, poor farmers alleged. “A bag of potash (50 kg) is being sold at Rs. 1,700 and hence 1 kg of potash costs Rs. 34. If 30,000 tonnes of potash is received and packed in six lakh bags in this fashion to cause loss to the farmers, the brain behind this scam gets a minimum of Rs. 2 crore-worth potash to be sold in the black market. Even after wastage, the black marketer will get an unfair profit of one crore rupees even as the farmers are being cheated,” charged a farmer Shaik Mohideen of Vadakarai in Tenkasi. When a dealer in Tirunelveli district grew suspicious over the weight of each bag even as the potash bags were being unloaded in his shop recently, he weighed the bags randomly and found shortage in more than 90% of the bags. The representative of the supplying company immediately compensated the loss to the dealer after it was brought to his notice. As this strategy of profiteering was brought to light in 2012, officials raided godown and shops of a few dealers and cracked whip against the contractors who had been entrusted with the job of packing the fertilizer after the permissible error exceeded the limit of 500 gram per bag. As per the Packaged Commodities rules, the statistical average of the sample (32 bags) should be equal to or not less than the declared quantity and also no bag should show error in deficiency more than Maximum Permissible Error (Mpe). Thirty-two bags of Potash fertilizer, which were imported and packed by Indian Potash Limited (IPL), were checked for the declared net content of 50 kg. Agriculture Department officials said the contractors were responsible for this. “While the contractors’ men ensure the right weight of 50 kg whenever the Agriculture Department officials visit the godowns, they take anywhere between 1 kg to 1.250 kg per bag to supply underweight fertilizer bags to the sellers,” they said. Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthil Raj assured that he would shortly conduct surprise checks at the packing points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/underweight-potash-bags-has-farmers-rattled/article64949663.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 130.45 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 374.28 cusecs and 837.25 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 117 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 64 cusecs and 260 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article64949662.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for murder on Pongal day||The Tiruppur north police have arrested three persons on charges of murdering an autorickshaw driver in the city on Friday. Siddique (27), Manoj (25) and Nannu Prasad (25), all hailing from Tiruppur, were arrested on the charge of murdering C. Saravanakumar (27), who hailed from Thenur near Samayanallur in Madurai district. The police said that Saravanakumar had been residing at Thoppu Thottam in Tiruppur. He was found murdered near Mettupalayam bus stop in the afternoon with wounds on neck and head. The Tiruppur north police registered a case based on a complaint lodged by Saravanakumar’s father Chandran. The team led by Tiruppur north inspector D. Kandasamy apprehended Saravanakumar’s friends Siddique, Manoj and Nannu Prasad from Natham in Dindigul late on Friday. They confessed to the police of having murdered Saravanakumar under the influence of alcohol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-murder-on-pongal-day/article38276739.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Illegal dumping ground cleared in Ooty||The Udhagamandalam Municipality organised a cleaning drive recently at a site which was being used by a section of local residents as an illegal dumping ground for both compostable and non-compostable waste. The dumping ground, located in Rose Mount in Udhagamandalam town, was being used by a section of residents to dump domestic waste. The open dumping of waste was both a health hazard, and also attracted rats and wild boar into the residential areas, alleged the residents in complaints to the municipality and to the office of the District Collector. Following the complaints, a team of sanitary workers from the municipality as well as a supervisor visited the area recently and carried out a thorough clean-up of the area. The sanitation staff also spoke to local residents and advised them to segregate the waste and hand it over to the workers collecting household garbage every day. The staff charted out the days of the week and the time that the vehicles visit the locality, so that people could hand over their household waste on the scheduled days. They also warned residents that if the improper disposal of waste continued, then action would be taken against the households responsible and fine imposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/udhagamandalam-municipality-clears-illegal-dumping-ground/article64949648.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Locked homes on watch in Vellore, nearby districts||With an extension in Pongal holidays for nearly a week, police in Vellore, Ranipet, Tiruvannamalai and Tirupattur have intensified their surveillance on locked houses in the districts, with special patrol teams, making at least five trips to these houses during night hours every day. Going a step further, the Tiruvannamalai police have pasted stickers with helpline numbers – 9988576666; 04175-220220)– in over 20,000 houses, covering major towns in the district, including Arani, Chengam, Cheyyar, Polur, Vandavasi and Tiruvannamalai town since Thursday, to encourage residents for alerting their nearest police station about their out of station travel. These stickers were pasted on the main doors of these houses to enable residents to notice them when they leave for holidays.  “Most of the time, travellers forget to alert local policemen about their travel as they are busy packing at the last minute. So, we decided to paste stickers at the entrance door of their houses,” Tiruvannamalai SP A. Pavan Kumar Reddy, told The Hindu .  As per norms, residents, who will be travelling out of station, have to voluntarily inform the local police station about their travel, including the duration, place of visit, name, address and phone numbers of the house owner or tenant, details of watchman (if any) and landmarks to their houses. This information will be given to the respective policemen on beat to conduct regular checks on such houses within his limits. A daily report from the beat policemen is then recorded at the police station. Similar security arrangements are in place at Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts, with Vellore police having four helpline numbers – 9498181231; 0416-2256802; 0416-2256966; 0416-2255999 –at the SP’s office. Besides, the policeman on beat also provides numbers of local police stations and DSP offices to residents within his limits. Ranipet and Tirupattur police have also similar arrangements, mainly local police station numbers. Police said despite such an effort, only a few residents, mostly government officials and judges, alert the local police station about their travel. 20-25 burglaries On the other hand, on an average, 20-25 burglaries occur in each of these districts every month, especially during winter season, as burglars take advantage of residents resting inside their houses due to the cold weather as opposed to summer, where they sleep on the terrace mostly, making it easy to notice thieves. Police said most of these petty crimes occur in isolated areas and lonely houses on the highways. Police also said that mounting newspapers and milk packets in front of houses also gives hints to the burglars that no one is at home. Hence, it is safe to hold one’s mail and newspapers until they return. Further, it is better to avoid keeping valuables at home, and lock them up, preferably in a bank locker, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/locked-homes-on-watch-in-vellore-nearby-districts/article64949633.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 304 fresh COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 53,700 with 304 fresh cases reported on January 15. With a total of 50,429 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 2,122. The district’s toll is 1149. In Ranipet district, 283 fresh cases were reported, while Tirupattur district logged 163 fresh infections and Tiruvannamalai 315.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-304-fresh-covid-19-cases/article38277044.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||All on board to keep children safe||In November, the parents of a Class XII student in Coimbatore found her dead at home. With the help of her suicide note and other evidence, the parents registered a complaint with the police alleging that she had been sexually assaulted multiple times by a teacher at the school where she was studying. Protests soon followed demanding the teacher’s arrest and the incident left the city shocked by what had allegedly happened on the campus of a well-known school. This case had an unfortunate ending, but was only one among several such cases involving allegations of sexual harassment of and misconduct against children that had emerged last year, both on and off campuses. Hardly a week later, a Class XII student in Karur was found dead at her home and in a suicide note she alleged that she had been sexually harassed and was scared of saying anything more about the persons involved. A third such incident followed in December when notes left behind by a 17-year-old girl who died by suicide at Mangadu at her home alleged that she was sexually harassed by a teacher and a relative. Additionally, the pandemic which took children willy nilly into the online world has also had a profound impact on children in terms of exposure to online content. This has further added to the need for robust mechanisms encompassing various aspects of child protection at a time when children are among the most vulnerable. State policy To mark Children’s Day in November, the Tamil Nadu government unveiled the State Policy for Children 2021. The policy stated that the government would “endeavour to ensure that every child is protected from all forms of violence, abuse and exploitation, shall have access to quality healthcare & education, will be able to freely express his/her views on any issue concerning him/her and to ensure the principle of leave no one behind”. While a policy which encompasses four priority areas — health, education, protection and participation — was welcomed as a step in the right direction, all eyes are now on how this will be taken forward by the government. Rome was not built in a day, nor will the safety of children be ensured with a mere policy; sustained and comprehensive interventions are required, activists say. Sexual abuse and schools Schools in particular are a point of focus, given the number of changes that the pandemic has brought about in the way education systems work. Despite the prolonged closure of campuses over the last two years, several institutions were rocked by allegations of sexual misconduct and harassment last year after students took to online platforms to air their grievances. What followed was a flurry of activity — child rights bodies took up several complaints, the police encouraged survivors to come forward, and the Tamil Nadu School Education Department called for the constitution of Student Safeguarding Advisory Committees (SSACs) on all campuses, among other measures. However, with schools once again closing for primary and middle class students, there is a need for a continuous review and monitoring of what these institutions have implemented so far. Given the vastness of sexual violence related to educational institutions, Vidya Reddy, co-founder of Tulir-Centre for Prevention and Healing of Child Sexual Abuse, said a special officer should be appointed to ensure adherence to the order issued by the School Education Department, which sets forth guidelines for the safety and protection of students from sexual violence and protocols for online classes. “It is high time that we came up with a comprehensive and institutionalised way of preventing and addressing sexual violence against children, instead of being reactionary and fragmented. The focus is also largely on children, and adults are missing from the narrative about prevention. We need to reorient adults to be able to identify behaviours in other adults which are worrying and seem like violation of boundaries, and call them out,” she adds. Aspects related to child-on-child abuse, excluding teenage romances which is an indication of healthy development, remains unacknowledged too, Ms. Vidya said. The child policy has, however, made no mention of the POCSO Act and has instead called for the formation of an internal complaints committee under the POSH Act at all schools, which activists have questioned. For long, the need for schools to compulsorily have a child protection policy in place has been put forth. The Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch, a collective working for child protection, has further recommended that child protection policies be extended not just to schools but any place that children have access to — crèches, sports classes and tuition centres — as well as programmes run by NGOs. Digital divide Reducing dropouts, encouraging inclusivity for students with disabilities through infrastructure and other interventions, fostering safe spaces, ensuring access to digital tools and quality education for all children, especially during situations like a pandemic, are some of the issues that the State policy addresses. Following the second wave of the pandemic, the School Education Department identified nearly 5 lakh students as potential dropouts, and was trying to trace over 1 lakh students who were yet to return to schools. “Issues like students dropping out of schools which have been exacerbated by the pandemic is especially why any policy should take a bottom-up approach. Most policies now look at the top of the pyramid; we need to come to the base and look at the quality of education and the socio-economic gaps which, in turn, lead to an increase in the incidence of child labour and criminal behaviour,” said Girija Kumarababu, child rights consultant and former secretary, Indian Council for Child Welfare (ICCW). She emphasised the need to focus on the quality of education, improve the access for students above Class VIII to ensure that they stay on at schools and address the widening digital divide owing to the pandemic. The Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) Survey, 2021, indicated that access to smartphones for online classes was still a prevalent issue in Tamil Nadu. Only 26.8% of children said they had access to a device at all times. Make their voices heard Among the key aspects of the policy is the move to include children themselves in the democratic process through the creation of Bala Sabhas, which is similar to those in Kerala. “The State plan of action needs to go into details of their participation and encourage children to regularly share their grievances at gram sabha meetings. From transport facilities to lack of infrastructure and child safety, there are several issues that can be put forth by them,” said R. Vidyasagar, child rights activist. Stating that the policy was extremely important at a time like now when children were reeling under the impact of the pandemic, he said the participation of urban children in democratic processes had to be included in the plan, something that the policy had ignored. The Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment has taken steps to prepare a State plan based on the policy. Two rounds of consultations have been held by the Directorate of Social Defence, which comes under the Department; the feedback received from the stakeholders will be considered when proposals are prepared to take the policy forward, said Principal Secretary Shambu Kallolikar. Keeping with the policy’s specifications of strengthening inter-departmental convergence, Mr. Kallolikar said the recently launched Tamil Nadu State Child Protection Academy was aimed at doing this. “Capacity-building workshops for various Departments, including the State Judicial Academy, district child protection officers and members of the Child Welfare Committee, have already been held, and we will constantly work with the aim to bring integration among inter-departmental activities with a focus on child protection,” he explained. As proposals get ready and an action plan is put forth, child rights activists have stressed the need to revisit child protection schemes and committees already in place and carry out a comprehensive review covering awareness and its impact. “Forming a committee alone to put any policy into action will not work. Most social policies tend to ignore the needs of the local constituencies or understand issues with regard to last-mile populations before a plan is framed. Effectively mapping this and matching it with programmes in the plan at every step is what will take the policy to children,” said Mr. Vidyasagar.  ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling the State’s helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-2460050 )   A special officer should be appointed to ensure adherence to the guidelines for the protection of students from sexual violence and protocols for online classes Vidya Reddy co-founder, Tulir   Issues like students dropping out of schools which have been exacerbated by the pandemic is especially why any policy should take a bottom-up approach Girija Kumarababu child rights consultant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-on-board-to-keep-children-safe/article64949649.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bane of delays and acquittals||Long before Tamil Nadu rolled out its child-friendly policy in school, in an attempt to ensure the safety of children and help them continue education in difficult circumstances, activists have stressed that the implementation of the POCSO Act was dependent on the prosecution of cases. They point to the high rate of acquittal in cases booked under the Act to raise concerns over the implementation of the Act. The experience of many victims and their families tends to be nightmarish, given the delays and multiple investigation attempts, depositions and finally, a possible acquittal. A clear trend of acquittal across the districts can be observed from the question under the Right to Information Act on the status of cases between November 14, 2012 and October 31, 2019. In districts like Ramanathapuram, over half of the cases have been acquitted. In fact, recent media reports suggested that the acquittals in the central zone were being scrutinised. There is an appraisal review committee, comprising senior police officers and prosecutors, but the process will have to be initiated by the investigating officer. Based on the police’s own assessment, the following are the listed as the reasons: Delay in investigation, delay in the process of filing charge sheet, delay in the prosecution signing off on the charge sheet (because of gaps in investigation), besides the delay caused by the backlog in courts. Shoddy investigation is a key factor in the majority of cases — for delay, and consequently, acquittals, says Vidya Reddy of Tulir. In the RTI response, it is clear from the districts that did provide data that very few appeals were actually happening across the districts, she explains. Orientation, along with constant updates, is recommended for the police and various levels of the judiciary. In one instance, a constable was under the impression that the all women police could not investigate a case of child pornography, only the law and order police could do that, she says. There seems to be a great deal of reluctance in some districts to allow registration of cases to touch the magic number of 100, since it is mandated that when 100 cases are registered, a special POCSO Act court should be constituted, experts say. But most districts have several hundreds of cases pending, points out Ms. Reddy, making the case for two special courts where there are more than 400 cases. Other innovative solutions must also be shared; for instance, in Tiruvannamalai, Salem and Madurai, all cases pertaining to 16-18 years were shifted to the Mahila court in order to reduce pendency of cases, she explains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bane-of-delays-and-acquittals/article38276687.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rationalising distribution of welfare schemes based on data||The official said that a close scrutiny of the data on jewellery loan borrowers revealed that there were a number of persons who had taken the loans under different names despite belonging to same families or had availed themselves of the loans even in different districts. Such borrowers were declared ineligible, given the main condition of the waiver scheme of covering each family which had pledged the jewellery of up to five sovereigns. Sharing data In September, the Information Technology Department asked all government departments to share their data with the Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency (TNeGA), whose role would be to process the data and issue mandatory directions on standards for data to the departments. Observing that the project can yield enhanced revenue to the exchequer, the official points out that a preliminary look at data from different departments, agencies and service providers brings to the fore the fact that for the purpose of utilising 100 free units bi-monthly, multiple domestic connections had been taken in one address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rationalising-distribution-of-welfare-schemes-based-on-data/article38276709.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festive occasion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festive-occasion/article64949857.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fire ritual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-ritual/article64949660.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||Schools in Belagavi to reopen on Monday||Officers maintained that schools will reopen in Belagavi district on January 17, despite parents’ fears of a spread of infections among children. Following reports of over 270 students testing positive for COVID-19 in the last two weeks, some parents took to social media to request the State Government to postpone the reopening of schools. However, officers say there is no cause for panic. “The State Government’s order is very clear about the closure of schools. There will not be a single order for the whole district or taluk. We will allow only those schools to remain closed, where more than 10% of the students have tested positive,” M.G. Hiremath, Deputy Commissioner, told journalists in Belagavi on Saturday. The Kittur Rani Channamma residential school for girls in Kittur, the KLE college in Nippani, Banajawad residential college in Athani, and the government high school in Yankanchi village near Athani will remain closed till further orders. In these institutions, more than 10% of the residents have tested positive. All other schools will reopen. Basavaraj Nalatwad, Deputy Director of Public Instruction, said that officers will create awareness about COVID-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-in-belagavi-to-reopen-on-monday/article38276818.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||Alleged tractor battery thieves beaten up||A crowd beat up two youth accusing them of stealing vehicle battery before handing them over to the police in Bavan Saundatti village near Raibag in Belagavi district on Saturday morning. Ashok Gokavi, 21, and Sudhakar Champu, 20, were caught by some shopkeepers in the wee hours of January 15 while they were allegedly trying to steal batteries of tractors parked on the roadside. They tied them to a lamp post and beat them for over half-an-hour before Raibag police arrived. Youths rescued The crowd accused the youth of being responsible for several thefts of tractor batteries. The police rescued the youths from the wrath of the villagers and took them to the police station. On investigation Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi said the investigation will cover all aspects of the incident, including the alleged assault on the youth. Two cases have been registered, one of theft against the youths and another of causing hurt, against unidentified persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alleged-tractor-battery-thieves-beaten-up/article38276822.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||Changes in train schedule||South Western Railway will cancel some trains owing to maintenance and other work on some lines. Train No. 06595 Bengaluru Cantonment - Dharmavaram MEMU Special from Bengaluru cantonment will be cancelled on January 17, 18, 20 and 21. Train No. 06596 Dharmavaram - Bengaluru Cantonment MEMU Special from Dharmavaram will be cancelled on January 17, 18, 20 and 21. Some trains will be diverted on the above dates. They include: Train No. 16613 Rajkot - Coimbatore Express, commencing its journey from Rajkot on January 16 will be diverted to run via Guntakal, Renigunta, Jolarpettai and Tirupattur and skipping stoppages at Gooty, Anantapur, Dharmavaram, Hindupur, Yelahanka, Krishnarajapuram and Bangarapet, Train No. 19567 Tuticorin - Okha Express, commencing its journey from Tuticorin on January 16 will be diverted to run via Salem, Jolarpettai, Renigunta & Guntakal and skipping stoppages at Bangarapet, Krishnarajapuram, Yelahanka, Hindupur, Dharmavaram, and Anantapur, Train No. 12252 Korba – Yesvantpur Superfast Express, commencing its journey from Korba on January 16 & 20 will be diverted to run via Dhone, Pendekallu, Guntakal, Renigunta, Jolarpettai and Yeshwanthpur and skipping stoppages at Anantapur, Dharmavaram and Yelahanka, Train No. 12976 Jaipur – Mysuru Superfast Express, commencing its journey from Jaipur on January 19 will be diverted to run via Guntakal, Ballari, Rayadurg, Chikjajur, Tumakuru, and KSR Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/changes-in-train-schedule/article38276814.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||Chief Secretary visits IIT, Dharwad||P. Ravi Kumar, Chief Secretary, visited the Indian Institute of Technology Dharwad recently. He inaugurated the high performance computing facility. He visited the space data science lab and the sophisticated central instrumentation facility (SCIF), and interacted with the faculty members. The official also visited the upcoming permanent campus of IIT Dharwad. Nagesh Iyer, Dean (IPS), briefed him about the construction at the site. Mr. Ravi Kumar gave instructions to the officials concerned to provide necessary support to the institute. P. Seshu, Director, IIT, Dharwad, explained about the programmes and activities at the institute. Nitesh Patil, Deputy Commissioner, was present, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-secretary-visits-iit-dharwad/article38276815.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||Students fall sick after dinner||Around 50 students of the Indira Gandhi residential school in Arabagatti village in Davangere district were admitted to a hospital after suspected food poisoning. The students complained of stomach ache and uneasiness after dinner on January 14. All recovering The children were admitted to the taluk hospital in Honnali on January 15. They are all recovering, police said. M.P. Renukacharya, MLA, visited the hospital. He told journalists in Honnali that the Deputy Director of Public Instruction would conduct an enquiry into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-fall-sick-after-dinner/article38276827.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru’s warm January: Last decade tops list||If your winter wear has been left in the cold since January began, it hasn’t been the first such instance. As new studies and analyses are increasingly providing evidence of winters getting warmer, India Meteorological Department (IMD) data too shows that Bengaluru has been witnessing a hotter January. The hottest days in the month have all been in the last decade. As on Saturday, when Sankranti was celebrated, the maximum temperature in the city was 30.2° Celsius — 3° degrees above normal. The minimum temperature was 17.4° Celsius, 2° above normal. The all-time record for the hottest January day was 33.4° Celsius on January 31, 2020, according to the IMD’s extreme weather events data. The 10 hottest days were all between 2012 and 2021, curiously in ascending order — the hottest day has been seeing a rise each year. The last recorded hottest January day was on January 22, 2021 — 31.1° Celsius. Fifth warmest year As per the climatological table for the city from 1981 to 2010, the daily maximum temperature for January is 27.9° Celsius, and the minimum, 15.8° Celsius. The recently released ‘Statement on Climate of India during 2021’ by the IMD’s Climate Research and Services had said that the annual mean land surface air temperature averaged over India during 2021 was 0.44° Celsius above the long period average (LPA) based on 1981-2010 period, making 2021 the fifth warmest year since nationwide records commenced in 1901. “However, this is lower than the highest warming observed over India during 2016 when it was 0.71° Celsius above the LPA. The winter (January to February) and post-monsoon (October to December) seasons with all-India mean temperature anomalies(Actual-LPA Temperature) of +0.78° Celsius and +0.42° Celsius, respectively, mainly contributed to this warming,” the report stated. In another study, the Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy has said that over the next three decades, Karnataka is projected to experience warmer weather and an increase in heavy rainfall events. The study showed that in the last three decades (1991–2019), there has been an increase in the summer maximum temperature by 0.18° Celsius to 0.61° Celsius and the winter minimum temperature by 0.3° Celsius to 0.65° Celsius in different districts of Karnataka. “Climate change projections using an ensemble of models for the next 30 years (2021–2050) under moderate emissions and high emissions scenarios indicate a much warmer and wetter future for Karnataka. An increase in summer maximum temperature by 0.5° Celsius to 1.5° Celsius with a majority of the districts projected to warm by 1° Celsius to 1.5° Celsius, particularly under the high emissions scenario,” the study had stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hottest-days-in-jan-in-city-have-all-been-in-last-decade/article64949752.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||State ranks 2nd in online consultations||Karnataka stands second in the country in providing online medical consultations through the central government-run e-Sanjeevani portal, according to data. From over 24 lakh users in October, the number of people seeking online consultations has increased to 35 lakh. According to data, the State has recorded 35,19,546 online consultations till Friday (January 14). The service, launched a few weeks before the pandemic hit the country, is an initiative of National Teleconsultation Service under the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Aimed at providing healthcare advice to people in their homes through an app-based platform, the service has recorded 2.2 crore online consultations across the country so far since its launch in December 2019. According to data, Andhra Pradesh has received the highest response with 88.63 lakh consultations. While Tamil Nadu has recorded 17.68 lakh tele-consultations, West Bengal has recorded 16.36 lakh and Uttar Pradesh 15.74 lakh online consultations. Kerala, Assam and Uttarakhand have recorded the least with 3.11 lakh, 3.36 lakh and 3.75 lakh online consultations respectively. Belagavi tops Data from the State Health Department as of January 14 shows Belagavi registered the highest number of consultations at 2.21 lakh followed by Ballari and Chikkamagaluru at 2.16 lakh and 2.09 lakh respectively. Bengaluru Urban district, including BBMP areas, has recorded 1.27 lakh consultations.  State Health Commissioner D. Randeep told The Hindu that the service provides free video-based clinical consultations between a patient and a doctor, especially a specialist for both COVID and non-COVID ailments. “Follow-up care such as queries pertaining to non-communicable diseases can be availed without visiting hospitals through this service. Instead of going to local quacks or buy medicine over the counter at medical stores, people can get an official doctor prescription free of cost here,” he explained.  All one needs to do to avail the service is to download the e-Sanjeevani app on a smartphone and register. To consult a doctor, patients must provide name, gender, age, address, mobile number, email ID, health records and details of dependents. The process includes registration, token generation, queue management and audio-video consultation with a doctor. Another way of accessing the service is through the hub and spoke model, where staff in health and wellness centres connect with specialists in district hospitals and government medical colleges. This is a doctor-to-doctor consultation where specialists’ advice is sought to treat patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-ranks-2nd-in-online-consultations/article38276670.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Dhaba fire: Wife of one of the owners held||In a major twist in the dhaba arson case where an employee died in the blaze last month, the Soladevanahalli police have arrested the wife of one of the owners for allegedly orchestrating the fire to get back at her husband. According to the police, the woman, identified as Sheetal, a software engineer, hired a history-sheeter to set fire to U-Turn dhaba at Soladevanahalli. Major burns The incident took place on December 23, 2021. The dhaba manager sustained major burns and succumbed the next day. Three people, including the history-sheeter she hired, Manu Kumar, were arrested a few days later. “She paid KumarRs. 20,000 for the job to get back at her husband who left her six months after they got married,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Vinayak Patil, who is supervising the investigation. Sheetal works as a software trainer at a private firm and married Arpith, one of the three partners of U-Turn Dhaba. They met each other on an online matrimonial website and tied the knot soon after. “However, their relationship soured, and within months, Sheetal moved out of their house and started living with her parents. She anticipated that Arpith would ask her to return, but he was busy running the dhaba,” said a police officer. He added that she wanted to get back at her husband and teach him a lesson. “It was an act of revenge, and she contacted Kumar through her brother Nischal.” As per the plan, Kumar enlisted two of his associates, Hemanth and Manjunath, for the job. On the night of December 23, the duo, armed with a can of petrol, arrived at the dhaba. They poured petrol around it, and set it on fire. The manager, Manoj, who was having dinner inside went to investigate and confronted the duo. “Fearing that they would be caught, the accused men threw petrol on Manoj, and set him on fire before fleeing the spot.” The other staff at the dhaba managed to rescue Manoj and took him to Victoria Hospital. But his burns were severe, and he succumbed the next day. Tracked down The police tracked down Hemanth and Manjunath based on the vehicle they used and arrested Kumar as well. They allegedly confessed to the crime and told the police about Sheetal’s involvement. “Kumar and his associates are habitual offenders with multiple criminal cases pending against them. All four have been arrested for murder and efforts are on to track down Sheetal’s brother,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dhaba-fire-wife-of-one-of-the-owners-held/article38276665.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Medha Patkar opposes Mekedatu project; says it will harm environment||Social activist Medha Patkar has expressed concern that the proposed Mekedatu balancing reservoir project could seriously affect bio-diversity as well as river Cauvery. Ms. Patkar, who was in Bengaluru to take part in a programme organised by the Karnataka Nela Jala Parisara Rakshana Samithi on Friday, told a press conference that the Government should shelve the Mekedatu project in the interest of environment as well as stakeholders like the Adivasis (tribals). She argued that along with environmental impact assessment, social impact assessment too was required to know how the proposed project would adversely impact tribals who are dependent on rivers and forest for their livelihood. She appealed to Karnataka not to view the project from the prism of itsinter-State dispute between the neighbouring Tamil Nadu alone. There were bigger issues involved such as sustainability, she observed, while pointing out that bigger dams all over the worldhave been a cause of concern for environment, sustainability and bio-diversity. She said all the big dam projects were leading to destruction of environment as well as rivers rather than helping people. She alleged that such big reservoir projects were always in favour of politicians, investors and contractors rather than common people and environment. International financial institutions would be keen to extend financial support to such mega projects as part of the conspiracy to establish control over natural resources of the countries and to set the stage ready for changing the policies in their favour, she alleged. ‘Rejuvenate tanks’ Pointing out that the Karnataka Government was planning to bring water from Mekedatu to Bengaluru city, she wondered why the Government was not thinking of other environment-friendly possibilities like rejuvenation of tanks and rainwater harvesting. Speaking on the occasion, Kannada cine actor Chetan alleged that Mekedatu project was nothing but a war by all the three major political parties in the State against environment. He also maintained that the project was in favour of contractors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medha-patkar-opposes-mekedatu-project-says-it-will-harm-environment/article64949776.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||White-topping of Commercial Street over||After months of undergoing a makeover followed by white-topping, work on Commercial Street is finally completed, much to the relief of traders and shopkeepers. The authorities will take a call on when to allow motorists to use the newly laid stretch on Monday. P. Rajendra Cholan, managing director of Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. (BSCL), which undertook the project, told The Hindu that a decision would be taken after consultations with traders and other stakeholders.  Corrective measure The BSCL had taken up the relaying of the road, one of the more popular shopping destinations in the city, at cost of Rs. 5.5 crore in May 2020. In July 2021, the road was officially inaugurated but the BSCL was called out for “shoddy work” after the colourful tiles and cobblestones started wearing out within days. As a corrective measure, the authorities decided to white-top the road. “Along with Commercial Street, the reconstruction of the surrounding road such as Dispensary Road has been completed. We will get feedback from all the stakeholders prior to allowing the motorists to use the road,” Mr. Cholan said. ‘A relief’ Sanjay Motwani, president of Bengaluru Commercial Association, said, “The completion of the roadworks is a relief for shopkeepers as well as customers. Inconvenience is inevitable when construction work happens. We had seen a drop in footfall, which was also because of the pandemic. Now that the road is ready, both customers and the shopkeepers would benefit.” Mr. Motwani said 480 shops run business on either side of Commercial Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/white-topping-of-commercial-street-over/article64949872.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Bommai government will reply to issues raised by Patkar: DKS||After activist Medha Patkar described the proposal to build a balancing reservoir at Mekedatu as a “disastrous” project that will wreak havoc on the Cauvery, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said the Congress will fight for implementation of the project for the benefit of the people and farmers and not for his personal interest. Mr. Shivakumar said the Bommai Government would answer all questions raised by Ms. Patkar.“I have respect for her. She has her own thinking and philosophy. The government will respond to her. Why should I reply to her? We respect the sentiments of the people,” Mr. Shivakumar said. Compensation Referring to the loss of properties to make way for the proposed Mekedatu project in his Kanakapura constituency, Mr. Shivakumar said compensation to farmers had been increased four times by enacting a law during the Congress regime in 2013. For removing apprehensions among the farmers and environment, the Centre has included clauses related to environmental clearances to the project, the Congress leader said. He the final notification on the Cauvery Water Dispute Tribunal Award was issued in 2013 during the Congress regime in the State. The Congress Government prepared the DPR and the project received momentum after he became the Water Resources Minister in the coalition Government. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who handled the water resources portfolio, knew details about the project. The Congress would commence its protest if the BJP Government continued to neglect the project, Mr. Shviakumar warned. On HDK’s remark Asked about former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s remark that workers from Tamil Nadu tied Congress flags to various poles during the padayatra, the KPCC chief said there was nothing wrong in doing such work. The State had provided education and jobs to the people of Tamil Nadu in Bengaluru. The padayatra has been temporarily suspended in view of the public health and safety of the people, Mr. Shivakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-government-will-reply-to-issues-raised-by-patkar-dks/article64949778.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Fire breaks out in mall at Arekere Gate||A storage area of a mall at Arekere Gate on Bannerghatta Road was gutted when a fire broke out in the wee hours of Saturday. Around 3 a.m., police personnel, who were on patrol duty, spotted the blaze in the ground floor of South India Shopping Mall, and alerted the control room. Seven fire tenders with a team of 30 Fire and Emergency Services personnel arrived at the spot within five minutes of receiving the alert. According to officials, it took six hours to put out the blaze. “Two fire tenders reached the spot first. Evaluating the situation, five more tenders were pressed into service. The fire was contained in time before it damaged the remaining portion of the building,” said S. Kiran Kumar, District Fire Officer, Hulimavu fire station. Goods and furniture worth several lakhs were destroyed. “Fortunately, no casualties were reported. Barring two security guards who escaped, the mall was empty as the management had shut down operations due to the weekend curfew,” said a fire officer. Police and fire officials suspect that a short-circuit triggered the blaze. “An expert team inspected the mall, and we are waiting for the report to ascertain the exact cause of the fire,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-breaks-out-in-mall-at-arekere-gate/article38276666.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Centre and State Govt. will work for people of Karnataka, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday assured the people of Karnataka that the Union and the State Governments will keep working for their empowerment. Greeting people of the state on the occasion of Makar Sankranti, he acknowledged Karnataka as a State which makes unprecedented contributions to national progress. “Makar Sankranti wishes to my sisters and brothers of Karnataka, a State which makes unprecedented contributions to national progress. The Centre and State Government will keep working for the empowerment of the people of the State,” Mr. Modi tweeted. The Prime Minister was responding to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s tweet, thanking him for approving synchronisation of 18,78,671 houseless families and 6,61,535 site-less households for poor rural people of the State under the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana – Gramin. CM’s tweet “Respected Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji, my Makar Sankranti greetings to you. Thank you for approval of synchronization of 18,78,671 houseless and 6,61,535 siteless households for poor rural people of Karnataka in Awaas+ under PMAY-G, which were long pending,” Mr. Bommai said in a tweet. “This is a Makar Sankranti gift from your good self to Karnataka. I thank you once again on behalf of Karnataka,” he said.  Makar Sankranti wishes to my sisters and brothers of Karnataka, a State which makes unprecedented contributions to national progress. The Centre and State Government will keep working for the empowerment of the people of the State.Narendra ModiPrime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-and-state-govt-will-work-for-people-of-karnataka-says-modi/article38276676.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||Medha Patkar expresses solidarity with protesting ITI workers in Bengaluru||Social and environmental activist Medha Patkar met workers of Indian Telephone Industries Ltd. (ITI) who have been staging a protest in Bengaluru against the management for over a month. “The National Alliance of People’s Movements fully supports the struggle of ITI workers and will launch agitations in various parts of the country to express solidarity,” she said at a programme on Saturday. Employees, who have been demanding pending payments and statutory rights, allege that they were not aware they had been hired on contract. When they formed a union to demand their rights in December 2021, they were reportedly barred from entering the premises. Ms. Patkar pointed out that though ITI is a public sector undertaking which is required to fill the public treasury, it is being done by stealing from and exploiting contract workers. Unionising is a fundamental and statutory right traceable to the Trade Union Act, 1926, but now in an inhumane manner, managements are victimising union workers, she said. Com. Hemanth, unit president of KGLU (ITI) unit, expressed sorrow over the treatment of workers by the management. The workers have been sitting outside the gates for 45 days with no acknowledgement from the management. Many had been employed with ITI for up to 35 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medha-patkar-expresses-solidarity-with-protesting-iti-workers-in-bengaluru/article38276825.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Booked for ‘violating’ norms||The Basavanagudi police have registered an FIR against members of Sri Guru Raghavendra Bank Shareholders‘ and Depositors‘ Welfare Forum for allegedly staging a protest in front of the bank by violating COVID-19 guidelines.  Earlier in the week, the members staged a protest outside the bank on Subbrama Chetty Road near Nettakallappa Circle against the local MLA and the MP for allegedly failing to draw the attention of the Government to their plight. According to the police, they violated the guidelines issued by the Government in the wake of the third wave of the pandemic. Based on a complaint filed by Harish M., head constable, the police booked the members under various sections of the Disaster Management Act and also under Sections 149 (unlawful assembly), 188 (disobedience of order promulgated by public servant), and 269 (negligence act to spread infection or disease dangerous to life ) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/booked-for-violating-norms/article38276667.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Two bike lifters arrested||The Banaswadi police on Saturday arrested two habitual offenders for allegedly stealing motorcycles. They recovered 10 bikes worth Rs. 8 lakh from the accused, Syed Imran, 25, and Syed Azam, 33. “They would steal bikes parked in front of houses by breaking the handlock, use them to practise motorcycle stunts, and sell them at throwaway prices,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-bike-lifters-arrested/article38276663.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||32,793 new COVID cases||Karnataka on Saturday recorded another big single-day spike with 32,793 new cases of COVID-19, up from 28,723 reported on Friday. With this, the State’s tally rose to 31,86,040. Of the new cases, Bengaluru Urban alone reported 22,284. With seven deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,418. This is apart from the death of 29 patients owing to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 4,273 people were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 29,77,743. The State now has 1,69,850 active cases. While the positivity rate for the day touched 15%, the case fatality rate touched 0.02%. As many as 2,18,479 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/32793-new-covid-cases/article38276671.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||State’s tableaux at R-Day parade||The State’s tableaux on the theme ‘Karnataka, the cradle of traditional handicrafts’ has been chosen for participating in this year’s Republic Day parade in New Delhi. Announcing this on Twitter, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said: “This is the 13th consecutive time that our tableaux got selected.” Out of the 12 States whose tableaux have been selected to participate in the Republic Day parade, Karnataka is the only one from South India, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/states-tableaux-at-r-day-parade/article38276662.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||J. Alexander passes away||Former Chief Secretary J. Alexander, who also served as Minister, died of a heart attack in Bengaluru on Friday. He was 83. Mr. Alexander was a Karnataka cadre IAS officer who served in various capacities in the State. After retirement, he joined politics and contested successfully in the 1999 Assembly elections from Bharatinagar constituency in Bengaluru. Later, he was included in the S.M. Krishna Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/j-alexander-passes-away/article38276677.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Renukacharya eyes ministerial berth||BJP MLA and Chief Minister’s political secretary M.P. Renukacharya on Saturday indicated that he was eying a ministerial berth. Making it clear that he was not all that enthused by his present post, Mr. Renucharya told reporters that the State should adopt the Gujarat model of ministerial reshuffle in which youngsters and new faces were given an opportunity. He observed that some seniors were repeatedly being given ministerial opportunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/renukacharya-eyes-ministerial-berth/article38276680.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown on Jan. 17||There will be no power supply on Monday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. for carrying out works related to conversion of overhead lines into UG/AB cable. The areas to be affected are: Heggannahalli, Sunkadakate, Annapoorneshwari Layout, Pattanagere, Upadhyaya and Upakar Layouts, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown-on-jan-17/article38276656.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Hassan sees 1,030 fresh cases||For the first time in many months, the number of fresh cases of COVID-19 in a day crossed 1,000 in Hassan on Saturday. As many as 1,030 people tested positive, increasing the total active cases to 3,051. With this, the total number of cases reported in the district increased to 1,15,680. Of them, 1,11,245 have recovered and 1,384 have died. As many as 141 people were discharged from the hospital on the day. There were none in the intensive care unit. Of the fresh cases, Hassan taluk recorded the highest of 607, followed by Arkalgud which reported 106 and Channarayapatna with 102 cases. Arsikere reported 65 cases, Belur 43, Holenarsipur 42, Alur 37, Sakleshpur 27 and one more from outside the district, said a release issued by the District Health Officer K.M. Sathish Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-hassan-sees-1030-fresh-cases/article38276970.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||Woman jumps into canal with two daughters||A resident of Yadehalli in Bhadravati taluk in Shivamogga district plunged into the Bhadra canal along with her two daughters. The bodies of Veena, 32, and her seven-year-old daughter have been retrieved. Authorities are searching for her one-year-old baby. Veena had left her house at Arahatolalu on January 13 evening after informing her husband that she was going to her native place in Holalkere to celebrate Sankranti. Based on a complaint filed by her husband, Holehonnur police have registered a case. The complainant blamed Santhosh and his wife Asha, residents of Arahatolalu village near Holehonnur, for the suicide. The couple had allegedly borrowed Rs. 8 lakh from Veena. When Veena asked for return of the money, the couple allegedly refused but spread rumours suggesting that she had an illicit relationship. Hurt over the development, Veena ended her life by plunging into the Bhadra canal near Hanchina Siddapura. The Holehonnur police arrested Santhosh, 35, on Saturday.  ( Those in distress and having suicidal thoughts can call up the State’s helpline 104 for counselling )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-jumps-into-canal-with-two-daughters/article38276978.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||Four held in Shivamogga for selling ganja||Shivamogga police arrested four persons from a farm near Anupinakatte Road on January 14 on the charge of selling ganja, and recovered 1.4 kg of ganja from them. The arrested are Tappanna alias Mohammed Tabarak, 21, of Tunga Nagar, Krishna, 24 of Gejjenahalli, both from Shivamogga, Rudresh, 35, and Ramesh, 25, of Channagiri in Davangere district. Police seized Rs. 4,200 in cash, five mobile phones and two bikes from them. The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-held-in-shivamogga-for-selling-ganja/article38276968.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||Ballari introduces tougher measures as cases rise||As Ballari district saw a jump in daily new cases of COVID-19, the district administration resorted to tougher measures in a bid to contain the spread of the virus on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner and Chairperson of District Disaster Management Authority Pavan Kumar Malapati issued an order for closure of schools, residential schools, hostels, and universities across Ballari taluk with immediate effect. The order will be in force till January 23. The officer however suggested continuing the classes through online mode. Mr. Malapati also issued another order extending the closure of Classes I to VIII around the Jindal steel plant, including those in Toranagal, BTPS, Kuditini, Vaddu, Sultanpur, Taranagar, Kurekuppa, and Jindal Township that showed the trend of cluster formation, till January 23. In another measure, the officer imposed the night curfew between 8 p.m. and 6 a.m. across the district. He also ordered the closure of all the places of worship for public. He, however, made it clear that only the designated priests are allowed to continue the rituals and pujas in the places of worships. The swimming pools, gyms, and cinemas will also be closed. The restriction would come into force from Sunday and remain in force till January 31. The officer banned protests, dharnas, public programmes, and other events that would tend to attract crowds with immediate effect. The ban will remain in force till January 31. The restriction is also imposed on marriages. As per the order, prior permission from jurisdictional tahsildar is mandatory for holding wedding ceremonies and the total number of participants cannot exceed 50. Mr. Malapati has also directed the officers concerned to ensure the strict implementation of COVID-19 guidelines and take stringent measures under Sections from 51 to 60 of National Disaster Management Act 2005, Section 188 of Indian Penal Code and Sections 4, 5 and 10 of Karnataka Epidemic Act 2020. On the other hand, the police also took tough measures to implement the weekend curfew. As per the information provided by Superintendent of Police Saidulu Adavath, 292 vehicles were seized and around Rs. 1,22,900 as fine was collected by 6 p.m. on Saturday. The Ballari-Vijayanagara district jointly reported 410 new cases on Saturday (Ballari – 250 and Vijayanagara – 160). The twin districts had reported 185 cases on Thursday and 400 cases on Friday. As per the information provided by the district administration, the positivity rate in the twin district jumped from 0.14% on December 31 to 10% on Friday after a gradual growth. Ballari city crossed the 13% positivity rate as of Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ballari-introduces-tougher-measures-as-cases-rise/article64949786.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||CPI(M) slams RSS for ‘ganvesh’ directive||Taking exception to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) asking journalists to be in ‘ganvesh’ (RSS uniform) to cover its recent event in Kalaburagi, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) termed the action as “fascist” that went against the spirit of the Constitution. “RSS has held its three-day conclave in Kalaburagi where leading activists from the region participated. As reported in certain media, its organisers have asked the mediapersons to be in ganvesh to get entry and cover the event on the final day. Imposing their uniform on journalists is nothing but a fascist act,” K. Neela, district secretary of the party, said. The right-wing organisation organised its leaders’ conclave for three days from Tuesday to Friday, in which its chief Mohan Bhagwat attended. On the last day, organisers did not allow the journalists to cover the event by stating that they were not in RSS uniform. Addressing a media conference in her party office here on Saturday, she also criticised Mr. Bhagwat for his “attempt” to divide Indians along communal lines in the name of Hindu unity. “Mr. Bhagwat has said that 100 crore of the 135 crore people in India are Hindus and asked his cadres to unite them for building a Hindu Rashtra. His words clearly made the division between 100 crore Hindus and 35 crore non-Hindus. He attempted to isolate the non-Hindus and deepen enmity between Hindus and non-Hindus. India is a secular country known for pluralism and harmony. We condemn the RSS effort to disturb the peace in India,” Ms. Neela said. Even in the 100 crore Hindus, as Mr. Bhagwat claimed, she added there are Dalits, Backward Classes, and tribals who are facing serious socio-economic problems and Mr. Bhagwat preferred to be silent on them when he called upon Hindu unity. “The country is reeling under a public health crisis owing to COVID-19. People are suffering serious problems such as untouchablity, poverty, unemployment, migration, ill-health and loss of livelihoods. Mr. Bhagwat did not utter a single word about these problems,” she said. M.B. Sajjan, another party leader and trade unionist, criticised the Union Government’s “intensified efforts for asset monetisation” and termed it as another move to facilitate the corporate plunder. “When the socialist wave was sweeping the world after the World War II, socialist thoughts influenced the policy makers across the globe. The establishment of public sector units in a large scale in India after the Independence was a result of such influence. As the capitalist classes gained control over the States, the reverse trend began in the name of liberalisation, globalisation and privatisation. In India, Congress introduced these policies in early 1990s and started selling valuable public sector units to private companies at throwaway prices and now BJP intensified it. Both Congress and BJP are one and the same as for as economic policies are concerned,” Mr. Sajjan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cpim-slams-rss-for-ganvesh-directive/article38276813.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||KSSOCA decides to fill vacancies||Karnataka State Seed and Organic Certification Agency (KSSOCA) has decided to fill all posts lying vacant for the last 10 years, according to agency chairperson Vijugowda S. Patil. Addressing a media conference here on Wednesday, he said that vacant posts are being managed by temporary staff. “I will discuss the matter with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and convince him of the need to fill vacant posts. I hope that he will agree with my suggestion,” he said. Expressing content over the progress that his agency has made despite the public health crisis caused by COVID-19, Mr. Patil said that the agency has built institutes at Bagalkot, Gadag, Vijayapura, Haveri and Kalaburagi. “We are planning to build new institutes in Belagavi, Davangere, Mysuru, Ballari and Almel in Vijayapura district in the days to come. We are also planning to establish a genetic purity testing centre in Almel at a cost of Rs. 1.5 crore,” he said. To a question, he said that the agency will take action against companies that supplied spurious seeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kssoca-decides-to-fill-vacancies/article64949783.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||Man arrested, 21 motorcycles recovered||The Ballari Police arrested a man on the charge of lifting motorcycles in various districts of the State and also neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and recovered 21 motorcycles valued at Rs. 16 lakh from his possession. The accused, Mulla Yusuf, is a native of Hanuwal village in Andhra Pradesh. During interrogation, Yusuf revealed that he was involved in motorcycle thefts inBallari, Bengaluru, Raichur districts, and also in Adoni, Alur and Kosagi in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-21-motorcycles-recovered/article38276826.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Maintenance of Maveli Express rakes gets 3 ISO certifications||Maintenance of the rakes of Maveli Express, one of the overnight train services operated by Southern Railway between Thiruvananthapuram Central and Mangaluru Central stations, has received three ISO certifications. The certifications are for Quality Management System, Environmental Management System, and Occupational Health and Safety Management System for meeting the prescribed standards of excellence in the respective areas. They are valid till 2024, with annual reviews. The up and down Maveli Expresses are being operated with four rakes. These rakes are maintained by the Coaching Depot, Mangaluru Central. As part of ISO Certification, the Coaching Depot has formed model rakes and taken up the modification works to improve the facilities. The rakes were fitted with visible destination boards. The covering of the electrical system inside the coaches has been replaced with acrylic sheets and buffing of stainless steel fittings was completed, the Palakkad Division of the Southern Railway said in a release. All the coaches in the Maveli rakes are fitted with energy saving LED lights and BLDC fans. The availability of mobile charging points has been ensured for the convenience of the passengers. The braille signage for the seats and berths are the other additional features provided in the coaches. The coaches are bio-toilet fitted with proper ventilation and an exhaust system in all the toilets. To ensure the quality of maintenance, the standard procedure is being followed by adopting mechanized cleaning of coaches. Special attention is being given to the cleaning of seats and berths. Fire extinguishers are provided in coaches with anti-theft mechanisms for emergency situations. Fluorescent stickers identifying emergency windows is yet another safety measure. As part of the quality management certification the records connected with the maintenance of Maveli Express rake at the coaching depot have been standardised, complying with ISO standards. Work instructions are prepared and displayed inside the depot for all maintenance activities, to ensure uniformity in procedures during maintenance. To ensure smooth functioning of the system, training was given to staff. Initiatives are taken to collect the waste from the source and to dispose of the same in the proper manner. Dust bins are also provided in all the coaches. Occupational Health and Safety Management Staff involved in maintenance activities have been provided with new personal protective equipment, in accordance with international standards, under the certification programme. To improve safety standards, workplace and fire safety training have also been imparted to the staff. Maveli Express was introduced as a weekly train on November 16, 2001, from Mangaluru Central. As the train gained popularity among the passengers, its service became tri-weekly within a short span of time. The service of this train became daily, since 2007, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maintenance-of-maveli-express-rakes-gets-3-iso-certifications/article64949806.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 recovery rate over 20% in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi||With Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts recording COVID-19 recovery rate of 27.3% and 20.74%, respectively, the two districts are among six districts in the State which have recovery rate of more than 20%, according to analysis made by State War Room of COVID-19 cases. In the week ending on January 13, Dakshina Kannada had 3,315 cases, 856 recoveries and two deaths. The active cases were at 2,990. In the same period, Udupi district had 2,232 cases, 463 recoveries and no deaths. The active cases was at 2,335. The other districts that have recovery rate of more than 20% are Kodagu (31.82 %), Vijayapura (28.96%), Mandya (27.88%), and Dharwad (25.03%), according to the analysis made till Thursday. In the first two weeks of January, Dakshina Kannada district had 2,468 cases in the urban areas and 723 in the rural, while 1,291 and 1,002 cases were reported in urban and rural areas respectively in Udupi. Similarly 675 and 166 persons in Dakshina Kannada district and 370 and 90 persons in Udupi district recovered from urban and rural areas respectively. The test positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada on January 13 was at 6.29%, while that of Udupi was at 8.41%. The average TPR in a week in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi was 4.29% and 5.05 % respectively, which was less than the state average of 9.68%. The case fatality rate during the week was at 0.06 % for Dakshina Kannada. The State War Room has also noted about good testing rate in the two districts. In the 10 days before January 13, Dakshina Kannada had 49,225 tests per million, while Udupi had 50,501 tests per million. This is more than the state average of 24,578 tests per million. On January 13, Dakshina Kannada did 11,601 tests while 6,587 tests were done in Udupi district. In vaccination, more than 100 % of the population in the two districts have taken the first dose, while 80.2% and 86% have taken second dose in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts respectively as on January 13, the State Covid war room noted. Dakshina Kannada required to improve its contact tracing. The average primary contact and secondary contacts traced per patient in seven days is at 4.2. On January 13, primary contacts and secondary contacts traced per patient is 0.47 and 0.33 respectively in the district. A total of 4477 personnel are involved in contract tracing in the district. Dakshina Kannada District COVID Nodal Officer H. Ashok said the problem has been due to non-entry of all contacts in the contact tracing app. “Instructions have been given to the personnel accordingly” he said. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said lesser primary contacts and secondary contacts are also because good number of students who have tested positive have not been found with primary or secondary contacts. Udupi district fares better where an average of 18.8 primary and secondary contacts per patient has been traced in a week. On January 13, primary and secondary contacts per patient is 1.11 and 3.5 respectively. A total of 2,003 personnel have been used for this purpose in Udupi district, the State War Room stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-recovery-rate-over-20-in-dakshina-kannada-and-udupi/article38276951.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:57 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Seek Centre’s nod to procure local paddy from districts’||With no local varieties of paddy available now for purchase for distributing boiled rice under the public distribution system, Minister for Social and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary has instructed the Department of Food and Civil Supplies to seek the permission of the Union government to purchase such varieties from other districts. The Union Government last month permitted distribution of boiled rice under the the PDS in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, by procuring local paddy varieties like Kaje, Jaya, Jyothi, Panchamukhi, Sayadri, Uma grown in the twin districts by paying minimum support price under the Market Intervention Scheme (MIS). Earlier on November 23, 2021, the Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shobha Karandlaje wrote to Union Minister for Food and Public Distributions Piyush Goyal that local paddy varieties of coastal belt should be procured under ‘Decentralised Procurement and Consumption Scheme’ and their rice should be distributed to the beneficiaries of Priority Household and Antyodaya Annya Yojana of the coastal districts including Uttara Kannada. Local people have been demanding distribution of boiled rice under the PDS for long. Mr. Poojary who held a video conference with the senior officials of the State Department of Food and Civil Supplies in Udupi on Friday, said that a majority of local farmers have now sold the local varieties of paddy to private parties. Hence there is a need to purchase such varieties from other districts in the State.The Social Welfare Minister said that the same varieties can be procured from Shivamogga, Mandya, and Mysuru districts with the permission from the Union government. Mr. Poojary said that all arrangements should be made to procure the local paddy varieties from local farmers, stock them and process them as boiled rice in the coming days. The officials should also have proper data relating to supply and demand. If the local paddy varieties are purchased for distribution under the PDS more farmers who have left their land fallow can come forward to resume paddy cultivation on such lands, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seek-centres-nod-to-procure-local-paddy-from-districts/article64949807.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:57 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Guest teachers fear losing jobs after Govt. announcement’||Guest teachers are not happy with the State Government hiking honorarium being paid to them at the government colleges. Addressing presspersons in Udupi on Saturday, president of Udupi District Guest Teachers’ Welfare Committee Shahida said that by extending work hours from eight to 15 in a week, half of the guest teachers in the State are apprehensive that they will lose their jobs now. “This recommendation of the committee constituted for the purpose is unacceptable,” she said. Ms. Shahida said that the government first colleges in the State had 14,500 guest teachers. The announcement by the Government on Friday will take away the jobs of half of them. Nearly 7,250 guest teachers are now worried about their jobs. “There is a hidden agenda of the Government depicting its announcement as a festival bonanza. But in reality, many teachers will lose their jobs,” she said. President of Kundapur Taluk Guest Teachers Welfare Committee Manikanta said that the Government has set three years for guest teachers to clear their required examination to be eligible for considering as ‘lecturers with UGC prescribed eligibility’. But the Government should also award grace marks to guest teachers appearing for the examination as many teachers have many of years of experience in the field, he said. Mr. Manikanta said that the announcement did not stop them from boycotting the classes. Guest teachers have not cancelled their strike and will continue to boycott classes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guest-teachers-fear-losing-jobs-after-govt-announcement/article38276939.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Two arrested on extortion charge||The Puttur Rural police on Friday arrested two persons with criminal antecedents for allegedly extorting a businessman. The police gave the names of the arrested as Kalandar Sharief alias Shafi of Goltamajalu village and Hasanabba of Manjanady village. The police said a few days ago, the businessman received calls demanding Rs. 3.5 lakh for the release of a person lodged in the prison. The callers asked him to arrange the amount in two days and said if he failed to do they would harm him and his family members. The callers also warned him against reporting it to police. Following a complaint by the businessman, a team on Friday arrested the two persons while they were reportedly going away with the Rs. 50,000 given by the businessman. The police are searching for other persons allegedly involved in the offence. The police seized the car used by the arrested persons. Kalandar, the police said, was accused in several criminal cases registered in Bantwal Town police station. Hasanabba was accused in a dacoity case each registered in Kankanady and Ullal police stations respectively. He was also accused in some criminal cases registered in Konaje police station, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-on-extortion-charge/article38276954.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:57 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 1,399 positive cases in DK and Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 792 new COVID-19 cases, including 25 from two clusters, on Saturday. With discharge of 335 patients, the active cases were at 3447. The test positivity rate (TPR) is at 7.16%. Of the 25 new cases, 14 were from hostel of a paramedical college in Mangaluru where a total of 76 samples were tested. Of the 14, 11 are aged more than 18 while the remaining three are aged 17. As many as 11 persons from three houses in Shirady of Puttur taluk have also tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 43 samples were tested. All the 11 were aged more than 18. With 4,556 persons vaccinated on Saturday, the total number of persons jabbed in Dakshina Kannada district reached 31.09 lakh of which 17.17 lakh have taken the first dose, 13.77 have taken the second and 14462 persons have taken precautionary dose. In Udupi district, 607 new cases were reported and 63 were discharged on Saturday. The overall TPR is at 10.02%. The active cases were at 2879. With 398 new patients from 3105 tests the TPR of Udupi taluk is at 12.82%. There are 117 patients from Kundapur (TPR 7.87%) and 90 patients from Karkala taluk (TPR 6.22%). As many as 564 patients are in home quarantine, 28 in COVID Care Centres, eight in designated COVID-19 health hospital and seven patients in designated covid hospital. With 2,458 persons jabbed, the overall vaccinated persons in Udupi district reached 18.94 lakh of which 10.24 lakh received the first dose, 8.6 lakh received the second and 9,866 persons received precautionary dose. The Udupi district administration has so far paid Rs. 1 lakh in 196 cases and Rs. 50,000 in 444 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-1399-positive-cases-in-dk-and-udupi/article38276935.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Offender, associates arrested||The city police on Friday arrested Akashbhavan Sharan, a person allegedly involved in 22 criminal cases, including cases of murder and extortion, and his four alleged associates in a case of robbery reported in Surathkal police station limits in December last year. Apart from Sharan, who was out on bail two months ago, the police arrested Anil Kumar Saliyan, 40, Sainal D’Souza, 22, Prasad, 39, and Chetan Kottari, 35. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters on Friday that on the night of December 8, 2021, a person was waylaid at Chelyar Nandini bridge and robbed of his mobile phone, a two-wheeler and Rs. 3,000. Investigation revealed the involvement of Sharan, who was released two months ago, in the case. Sharan and his associates were questioned and it was revealed that Sharan had reportedly used the phone to threaten a rival gang member. The police also seized a car and three mobile phones from the arrested persons. Among the 22 criminal cases that Sharan has been involved in, include six cases of murder. This includes that of underworld operative Chota Shakeel’s alleged aide Madoor Yousuf alias Madoor Isubu in 2015. Sharan, an alleged aid of Vikki Shetty, was also involved in the murder of actor-turned-realtor Surendra Bantwal in 2020. Sharan is accused in two cases of sexual assault, two attempt to murder cases, a case of dacoity, two attempt to dacoity cases, and a case under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. He has been booked under Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers, Drug Offenders, Gamblers, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders and Slum Grabbers Act, 1985 (commonly known as Goonda Act) in February 2017 and put in judicial custody. He was released 10 months later. Mr. Kumar said the city police was considering invoking Goonda Act against Sharan once again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/offender-associates-arrested/article38276950.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Barbers seek relaxation from weekend curfew||Barbers in Udupi have opposed the weekend curfew imposed by the Government terming it as an unscientific move. President of Udupi District Savitha Samaja, Vishwanath Bhandary, in a memorandum to Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao on Friday said that barbers did business on weekends. Weekend curfew has taken away the business of barbers, he said. Mr. Bhandary urged the Deputy Commissioner to exempt salons and parlors from the weekend curfew. Barbers are yet to recover from the loses they suffered during the past two lockdowns, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/barbers-seek-relaxation-from-weekend-curfew/article64949810.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Briefly||MESCOM will conduct a meeting of its consumers at its Baikampady sub-division on January 20 from 11 a.m. to noon. Consumers from Kavoor and Baikampady sub-divisions can attend. It will be on the virtual mode or through phone. The link is https://meet.google.com /eaa-mkkv-bax. Phone 2408756.   There will be no power supply to Bunder Police Station, Azezuddin Road, Ansari Road, Kandatpalli, KCCI Road areas in the city on January 17 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Power supply to New Filed Street, Car Street, Mahammayi Temple Road, Puttu Prabhu Lane, Gayathri Temple Road will be stopped on January 18 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.   Karnataka Nursing and Paramedical Sciences Education (Regulation) Authority will conduct the annual first and second year GNM courses’ examinations for four days from January 17. The examinations in Udupi district will be conducted at Manipal School of Nursing in Manipal and at Ashrith School of Nursing in Kota.   The women’s team of Alva’s College, Moodbidri emerged as champions in the Mangalore University level inter-collegiate kho kho tournament at Government First Grade College in Puttur recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article38276938.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||KSRTC orders merger of rural, urban divisions in Mysuru||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has ordered the merger of the Mysuru Urban and Mysuru Rural divisions as part of restructuring of its operations in the district. A decision to this effect was taken recently and the excess staff of the merged units will be redeployed in other divisions of the state road transport corporation where there is a scarcity of manpower. Divisional Controller Srinivas confirmed the developments and said that the decision was taken by the head office and will help in streamlining of the operations and redeployment of excessive manpower besides leading to savings. However, it will have no bearing on the existing services being provided by the rural and the urban divisions. Mr. Srinivas said there were nearly 2,000 employees in the two divisions and the merger exercise will not only lead to savings but better utilisation of manpower. The decision was takenby the KSRTC Central office in Bengaluru in its meeting last month and the orders have been issued, he added. Consequently, the Bannimantap and the rural units will be wound up. A decision has also been taken to augment the non-ticketing and non-fare revenue component by letting out the existing properties of the KSRTC rural division. The order states that following the merger, the divisional workshop and the offices too will be shut down and the existing office and other space will be let out for commercial use and rentals to augment the revenue through non-transportation mode. Sources said though the merger and amalgamation of different units or divisions of the KSRTC was in the pipeline since years, it gained traction owing to the pandemic-induced losses. The merger exercise is expected to save cost-overheads besides streamlining services. The operations of the existing fleet of buses are also expected to be optimised. Put together the Mysuru rural and Mysuru urban divisions have about 1,200 buses in their fleet. However, a section of the employees said that instead of merging the divisions – whose operations were clearly delineated as urban and rural – the authorities should take steps to unify the KSRTC in to a single organisation. The Government had hived off the KSRTC into four state transport corporations two decades ago resulting in creation of additional posts and increase in overhead costs. The employees say this has resulted in recurring expenditure leading to accumulating loss of the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-orders-merger-of-rural-urban-divisions-in-mysuru/article64949758.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||They braved the freezing cold of a Himalayan winter||For B.N. Rashmi of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute, it was a birthday to remember. Ensconced at a height ofover 12,500 feet and far away from her immediate family members, she was with a group of trekkers braving the freezing cold of the Himalayan winter. She was part of a group of trekkers from the city who successfully completed a winter trek to Brahmatal in the Kumaon Himalayas in Uttarakhand, recently. The expedition group comprised people from diverse backgrounds of whom there were six women and nine men. Brahmatal is located at an altitude of nearly 12,500 feet and the team braved the freezing cold and heavy snowfall that enveloped the region during the course of their 8-day trek held from December 23, 2021, to January 1, 2022. Apart from trekkers from Mysuru, the team included members from Ballari and Bengaluru and the expedition was flagged off on December 21 by G. Hemantha Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, University of Mysore. Enroute, the expedition team passed through Lohajung base camp, Bekaltal, Brahmatal summit camp, highpoint before reaching their destination which was Brahmatal from where Mt. Trishul and Mt. Nanda Ghunti were visible, said D.S.D. Solanki of Tiger Adventure Foundatio,n who led the expedition. Midway through the trek and at the summit camp, the temperature plummeted to minus 10°C and the snow fall was heavy almost bordering on a blizzard which made some of the expedition members wary of pursuing the trek further. But Mr. Solanki, who has led expedition to the Himalayas for almost three decades, goaded the team members to persist and it paid off. He said winter expedition to the Himalayas pose a different set of challenges including inclement weather and one has to brace for any uncertainty including suspension of the expedition midway. The frozen lakes tend to be enticing to walk but one had to be cautious of the lurking danger as there could be crevices or the lake bed could cave-in which could be disastrous. The expedition entailed sleeping in tents in the outdoors at night – as all is the case with most trekking expeditions. But the situation was compounded by the freezing winter of the Himalayas though it added to the sense of adventure of the team members. Despite the bone-chilling temperature and severity of the weather, the expedition was completed leaving the team members with wonderful memories and an experience of a life time having braved the freezing cold of a Himalayan winter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/they-braved-the-freezing-cold-of-a-himalayan-winter/article64949756.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:36 IST,KARNATAKA||District authorities urged to divert sewage to save lake||Environmentalists of Mysuru have expressed concern over sewage entering a lake in a layout developed by Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) and sought immediate measures to save the water body. A group of concerned citizens paid a visit to Thipparayana Kerre at Sardar Vallabhai Patel Nagar to apprise themselves of the condition of the water body and noticed the sewage flow. Bhamy V. Shenoy, founding working president of Mysore Grahakara Parishat, has written to the Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham to convene a meeting of the District Lake Protection Committee so as to initiate measures to save the lake. “This is one of the few beautiful lakes of our city and its surrounding park supports both migratory birds and local species. When the layout was developed, according to the contractual terms, private developers and MUDA are expected to provide for the proper handling of sewage either by having nearby STPs or by connecting to UGD,” said Mr. Shenoy. He said sewage flowing into a water body is detrimental to the ecosystem and expressed dismay that though highly qualified professionals reside in the layout very few have displayed interest to get involved to save the waterbody. He said it is equally depressing that only a handful of residents have complained to the MUDA and though its chairman visited the spot no steps have been taken so far to help save the lake. The activists have also sought the intervention of Chamundeshwari MLA G.T. Deve Gowda and though he has promised to help, there are concerns over the delay in initiating measures to stop the flow of sewage. The Deputy Commissioner was urged to convene a meeting of the District Lake Protection Committee at the earliest and Mr. Shenoy has threatened to approach the National Greens Tribunal or will file a PIL in case the matter was not taken up on a priority basis b y the district administration. “Please save us the trouble of approaching the NGT or filing a PIL and convene a meeting of the District Lake Protection Committee to force MUDA to save the lake,” said Mr. Shenoy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/district-authorities-urged-to-divert-sewage-to-save-lake/article64949763.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||SWR cuts down on fuel bills with HOG technology||The South Western Railway has saved over Rs. 70 crore in fuel bills during 2021 by shifting to power cars with Head-on-Generation (HOG) technology. A release said this is a new environmental-friendly initiative of the Indian Railway being adopted since November 2019 under SWR. A release said as on date 40 trains run on power cars with HOG technology on its network. While the savings for December 2021 was Rs. 6.93 crore, the savings for the entire year was Rs. 7,0.12 crore, the release added. For adoption of HOG technology, the trains should have LHB coaches and HOG technology caters the power needs of coaches such as air-conditioning and lighting.Earlier two power cars known as end-on generators (EOG) housing Diesel Generators were attached to the trains to generate power for providing air conditioning and extending lighting in coaches. In HOG system, the power supply to electrical equipment’s in LHB coaches is supplied from HOG compatible electrical loco by tapping Over Head Power lines, therebyresulting in huge reduction in consumption of HSD (High Speed Diesel), the release added. Besides saving in HSD, the noisedue to operation of DG sets is totally eliminated in HOG system and given the fast pace of electrification across SWR, more trains will be run with HOG system in future, saidthe authorities. In place of power coaches additional coaches can be attached to trains andadditional berths will be available for passengers, thus easing the rush, according to .Sanjeev Kishore, general manager, South Western Railway. Some trains Some of the trains converted to the HOG technology are Bengaluru-Chennai Shatabdi Express, Bengaluru-Chennai-Lalbagh Express, Bengaluru-Hazrat Nizamuddin Rajdhani Express, Bengaluru-New Delhi Karnataka Express, Bengaluru-Chennai Mail, and Yeshwantpur-Lucknow Express.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-cuts-down-on-fuel-bills-with-hog-technology/article38276969.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||Ex-servicemen file PIL in apex court againsthate speech||A group of ex-servicemen have filed a PIL in the Supreme Court seeking a new Special Investigation Team to investigate the hate speeches delivered during a religious convention at Haridwar and Delhi in December. Maj.Gen Sudhir G. Vombatkere (retd), a resident of Mysuru and who is the first petitioner, said that the PIL was filed on Saturday and the other petitioners are Col.P.K. Nair (retd) and Major Priyadarshi Chowdhury (retd). Vombatkere, who fought in the 1965 war against Pakistan in the Sialkot sector, said in the petition that they were compelled to approach the Supreme Court because the inflammatory, seditious and divisive speeches made violate not only the criminal law of the land but also strike at the core of Article 19 of the Constitution. The petitioners said such incidents, if unchecked, will adversely affect the cohesion of the Indian Armed Forces and endanger national security. The petition cited portions from the hate speeches in which the speakers at the convention had called upon the police and the army to take up arms against the minorities, and said this is particularly disturbing to the petitioners who have each served the country’s armed forces for decades. ‘’It is believed that such unchecked cries inciting violence against specific communities can have a serious impact on the morale and integration of the soldiers in the armed forces who come from diverse communities and religions’’, said the petitioners. The petition prayed that the court invoke its extraordinary jurisdiction to constitute a new SIT to function under its supervision on the grounds that the existing SIT comprised low ranking members of the local police which operate under the aegis of the State Government. ‘’In a matter of such public importance and impact it is necessary that an SIT is constituted consisting of independent and high ranking officials’’, said the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ex-servicemen-file-pil-in-apex-court-againsthate-speech/article38276967.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:36 IST,KARNATAKA||Army to seek disability pension for cadets||Efforts of Mysuru-based VeKare Ex Servicemen’s Trust (VKET) to secure disability pension and other facilities under Ex Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) to gentlemen cadet officers invalidated during military training appears to have made progress with the Indian Army taking up the case with the Ministry of Defence (MoD). VKET president Mandetira Nanaiah Subramani has received a letter dated January 4, 2022, from the Adjutant General’s branch, IHQ of Ministry of Defence (Army), stating that a case has been taken up with the MoD following his mail on gentlemen officer cadets, who are ‘left in the lurch’ after being invalidated and sent home due to injuries suffered during ‘hazardous and tough’ military training at the National Defence Academy (NDA), Indian Military Academy (IMA) and Officers’ Training Academy (OTA). ‘Shabby treatment’ VKET had taken serious exception to the ‘shabby’ treatment meted out to the hapless gentlemen cadets who are invalidated and sent home with an ex-gratia award, but denied disability pension and other benefits under ECHS. The letter said ECHS membership mandates fulfilling of the twin criteria of being an ex-servicemen and pensioner from Controller of Defence Accounts (CDA). Pointing out that the grant of ex-gratia to ex-cadets does not fall under the definition of pension, the letter said that the ECHS facility cannot be extended to gentlemen officer cadets since officer cadets are not ex-servicemen and are only in receipt of ex-gratia disability award and not defence pension from CDA. “…a case has been taken up with MoD to grant disability pension to the cadets being boarded out due to disability during training which is attributable to / aggravated by military training. In case the above proposal is concurred, then the disabled cadets could be granted disability pension, and hence could be elected to ESM status and ECHS facilities,” said the letter from the army. Earlier, in a letter to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh dated December 1, 2021, Mr. Subramani said the gentlemen officer cadets should be granted minimum pension on par with ex-recruits (who do not belong to the rank of officers) after they are invalidated due to injuries suffered during training. He pointed out that ex-recruits were also not covered under the definition of ex-servicemen and, hence, not eligible for medical care under ECHS and CSD canteen facilities until their organisation took up cudgels on their behalf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/army-to-seek-disability-pension-for-cadets/article38276964.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru reports 729 new COVID-19 cases||There is no respite from the surge in COVID-19 cases in Msuru district which reported 729 cases on Saturday. While Mysuru city registered 567 cases there were 44 in Mysuru taluk. T. Narsipur and K.R. Nagar recorded 29 cases each while there were 20 cases in Hunsur, 19 cases in Nanjangud, sevenin H.D. Kote, six cases each in Saligrama and Periyapatna and two in Sarguru. This is in continuation of the rise in cases since the last few days and there were as many as 803 cases on Friday. In all, there are 3,967 active cases in the district of which 3,095 are in the city alone followed by 232 cases in Mysuru taluk while T. Narsipur has 219 active cases as on Saturday. The district administration conducted 8,710 tests on Saturday of which 729 turned out to be positive and the positivity rate was pegged at 8.37%. The cumulative cases in the district since the outbreak of the pandemic is 1,84,952 and the cumulative discharge is 1,78,551. There was one death on Saturday and the cumulative death toll in the district is 2,434. Among the new cases reported on Saturday there were five cases in which those tested positive were five years and below; nine cases were in the age group of six years and 10 years; while there were 71 cases in the age group of 11 and 17 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-reports-729-new-covid-19-cases/article64949757.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:37 IST,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for highway dacoity in Mysuru||The Bilikere police in Mysuru have arrested two persons involved in an alleged highway dacoity reported from Bilikere on January 6. Police said the complainant, who was driving a truck loaded with iron from a factory in Tumakuru, was proceeding to Kerala via Kunigal, Maddur and Mysuru, when a gang of five persons in a car waylaid the truck near Bilikere around 10.45 p.m. on January 6. The five persons in the car assaulted the truck driver, snatched Rs. 10,000 in cash and a mobile phone from him. The assailants were speaking in Kannada, the victim said in the complaint. The police swung into action and arrested two of the accused and seized the car used for the crime. The police also recovered Rs. 2,000 cash from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-highway-dacoity-in-mysuru/article38276977.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||Weekend curfew successful in Yadgir||The weekend curfew in Yadgir on Saturday was successful. Except for those selling essential commodities, other shops were closed. There was no restriction on the sale of fruits, vegetables, grocery items, milk, newspapers, and bakery items. However, the market and main roads wore a deserted look. The police had put up barricades on the main roads and diverted traffic. The administration has taken initiatives after the State Government passed the order on weekend curfew to prevent spread of COVID-19 and its variant virus in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-curfew-successful-in-yadgir/article38276821.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||In a heap||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-a-heap/article64949781.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Sankranti snapshots||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sankranti-snapshots/article64949878.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:58 IST,KARNATAKA||People’s power||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/peoples-power/article64949803.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. bars people with mild illnesses from visiting hospitals||“Over 500 experts are supporting the system,” said Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Saturday. “We have a process to regularly monitor the health of those under home isolation. Several people seek hospitalisation due to panic, even if they are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. If proper counselling is provided through phone, we can reduce unnecessary burden on our health infrastructure,” he said. Speaking after inaugurating a virtual training programme in home isolation care for the medical, dental and AYUSH students, the Minister said Karnataka has effectively leveraged technology in its battle against the pandemic. The training programme was held in association with Project StepOne. “So far about 2.5 lakh healthcare and frontline staff have been trained through online platforms. This is a model for the entire country,” the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-bars-people-with-mild-illnesses-from-visiting-hospitals/article38276683.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Turning a sea of menace into money||The Alappuzha municipality has joined hands with Haritha Keralam Mission to mint money out of a menace. The civic body recently turned to water hyacinth, regarded as the most troublesome aquatic plant, to fetch money and bring about a positive change in the lives of people living on the banks of its vast network of canals. It has entered into an agreement with a Madurai-based private firm to supply dried hyacinth stems. Products The company makes plates, bags, handicrafts among other products using stems. “Alappuzha is the first municipality in the State to utilise water hyacinth for industrial use. The company will buy dried stems at Rs. Rs. 15 per kg. The municipality will hand over the amount received from the sale to those engaged in harvesting hyacinth and drying of stems. The project will see families earn their livelihood while helping to keep the weed problem under control,” says Soumya Raj, chairperson, Alappuzha municipality. Rapid proliferation Alappuzha, known for its labyrinthine web of canals, lakes and lagoons, has been witnessing a rapid proliferation of the floating plant, which is taking a toll on the water transport system, tourism, fishing and so on. In the initial phase, hyacinth plants on the AS Canal from Mattanchery bridge to Kommady bridge are being harvested using the local workforce. The workers were given training in harvesting the plants and drying stalks. “Apart from selling stems, leaves and roots of hyacinth will be mixed with cow dung to produce organic fertiliser,” Ms. Raj adds. Advantage The biggest advantage of the project, according to Haritha Keralam Mission, is that it involves zero investment. “Over the years, crores have been spent by the government to keep the invasive species under control, but to no avail. We launched the project in Alappuzha on a pilot basis and will soon be extended to 12 grama panchayats in the waterlogged Kuttanad region where the weed problem is much more rampant,” says K.S. Rajesh, district coordinator, Haritha Keralam Mission. He added the firm, which procures dried hyacinth stalks from Alappuzha municipality, is making various products and exporting them. G. Nagendra Prabhu, principal investigator, Centre for Research on Aquatic Resources, Sanatana Dharma College, Alappuzha, says the novel initiative has got a lot of potential. Value-added products "Water hyacinth is the world's fastest-growing weed and can be used as a resource for making many value-added products. It has got a lot of potential for providing alternative livelihood programmes for people who are living in the vicinity of the aquatic ecosystems," Mr. Prabhu says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/turning-menace-into-money/article64949709.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||PDS will be modernised: Anil||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil has said the public distribution system in the State will be modernised in a time-bound manner. Speaking after attending various programmes in the district Mr. Anil said that the Supplyco would set up modern godowns in each taluks and ration shops would be modernised in the State as a part of strengthening the public distribution system. Such distribution systems were the need of the hour to ensure the supply of quality products in exact quantity, the Minister said. When the Food Security Act was executed in the State, the dearth of modern godowns was the major challenge. This issue would be resolved in a time-bound manner, Mr. Anil said, adding the construction of such godowns across the State would be materialised in five years. “However, the quality of products is now being ensured in a joint inspection with the officials of the Food Corporation of India while the products is to be supplied from the FCI Godown,” Mr. Anil said, adding that the Supplyco and the FCI had made a memorandum of understanding for the purpose. More articles Apart from the regular supply of groceries, articles of daily use would also be distributed thorough the 1,000 selected ration shops in rural areas of the State in a subsided price by the end of April, the Minister said. More mobile ration shops would be launched for the tribal people in remote settlements, the Minister added. The government would procure the whole rice produced by the farmers in the State through Supplyco and the government was planning to pay the amount to them in 24 hours, Mr. Anil said. Mr. Anil inaugurated the harvest festival of the Thariyodu service cooperative bank, a file adalath related to rations shops, and a taluk-level Public Distribution System godown of the Supplyco at Kolagappara in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pds-will-be-modernised-anil/article38276885.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Call to expedite steps to conserve Edakkal caves||Notable epigraphist M.R. Raghava Varier has urged the State government to expedite steps to conserve the petroglyphs on the Edakkal caves and Thovari hills in the Wayanad district scientifically. While presenting a paper on ‘An introduction to Edakkal Rock Art’ at a three-day workshop on ‘Preserving Edakkal’, being organised by the State department of Archaeology at Sulthan Bathery,Dr. Varier said that the rock art of Edakkal was an invaluable world heritage with its engravings, and the style and techniques of depiction. Areas of concern As urbanisation and construction activities in the vicinity of the site were posing a serious threat to the neolithic site, it should be addressed properly, he said. “Rock art in the form of painting like those in Bhimbetka in Madhya Pradesh are in plenty but Edakkal engravings are unique in that they are engraved on the surface of the rock, probably with some pointed implement. Thematically too, Edakkal is different,” Dr. Varier, who is also the chairman of the nine-member expert committee, said. The prehistoric rock art were mostly representations of hunting scenes. The figures of Edakal were of a magico-ritualistic character, Dr. Varier said, adding that many a newly found petroglyph had close resemblance with the Harappan signs and figures. At Thovari hill The rock engravings at the Thovari hill are similar to the Edakal art in the style of drawing but at the same time, they are different from them in the subject matter. Straight-lines are the elements of production and the styles of engraving in both the sites but the Thovari art differs in that the lines were narrower and shallower when compared to the Edakkal figures, he said. This was probably indicative of the technological differences in tools. The expert team visited the Edakkal caves and Ponmudi Kota on the Ambukuthy hills, the Megalithic site at Ayiramkolly and rock art site, and Govinda Moola near Ambalavayal, on Saturday as a part of the workshop. The three-day workshop will conclude on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-expedite-steps-to-conserve-edakkal-caves/article64949700.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||‘Steps to secure World Heritage Site status’||The Directorate of Archaeology department is still trying to secure UNESCO’s World Heritage Site status for the petroglyphs on the walls of the Edakkal caves on the Ambukuthy hills in Wayanad, Minister for Museums, Archaeology and Archives Ahammad Devarkovil has said. Speaking after inaugurating a three-day workshop organised by the Directorate of Archaeology on conservation, preservation, and management of Edakkal petroglyphs and the first meeting of the expert committee constituted by the government to conduct a detailed study on the archaeological site and suggest measures for its conservation at Sulthan Bathery on Friday, Mr. Devarkovil said the archaeological site was one of the very few sites in the State eligible for getting the status. According to the norms set by the UNESCO, if any archeological site fulfilled one of the 10 criteria set by it, the site would get the world heritage status, Mr. Devarkovil said. As the Edakkal caves had fulfilled more than one criteria set by the UNESCO, there was no doubt that the site would secure the heritage status, the Minister said. The threats being faced by the site such as urbanisation around the megalithic site, soil erosion on the petroglyphs, and granite mining around the site, should be discussed and banned, Mr. Devarkovil said. Panel of experts The committee consisting of experts in archaeology, history, geology, rock mechanics, and conservation would conduct a detailed study on the present state of the archaeological site and suggest measures for its conservation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-secure-world-heritage-site-status/article38276882.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:34 IST,KERALA||KCZMA meet holds key to canal regeneration project||Monday’s meeting of the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority (KCZMA) will be decisive in kick-starting work on the Rs. 1,528-crore Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System (IURWTS) project that envisages the regeneration of six once-navigable canals which are now heavily encroached upon and filled with dirt. The crucial approval from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change hinges on the Authority expressing satisfaction at clearances that Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has got for the project. Soon after, it is expected to recommend the project to the Ministry, the final authority to give the approval. The project has already suffered a delay of over a year, apparently due to pressure from celebrities and other influential persons, sources said. The canals totalling 35 km that KMRL had shortlisted for developing include Edappally canal (11.23 km), Chilavannoor canal (11.15 km), Thevara-Perandoor canal (9.88 km), Thevara canal (1.41 km), Market canal (0.66 km), and Konthuruthy canal (0.67 km). Among them, KMRL has prioritised Edappally and Market canals. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) will fund the project under which the canals will be cleaned, deepened and restored to their original width. A senior KCZMA official said the project was under the Authority’s active consideration. Monday’s meeting will take a call on the matter. “KMRL submitted a revised detailed project report (DPR), after a few of our members raised concerns about a couple of components. The decision will be posted on the public domain following the meeting,” he said. The revised DPR, which was endorsed by Anna University, was submitted to the KCZMA on December 17, 2021. Without CRZ clearance/approval, the project cannot be implemented, KMRL sources said. As per technical studies, Edappally canal can be made fully navigable, whereas the Market canal will be restored to its past glory when traders ferried cargo in boats to the Ernakulam market. The canals will thus have robust embankments, flanked by well-lit walkways. For this, the metro agency conducted technical surveys, including Lidar survey, Bathymetric survey, water-quality studies, and geotechnical studies. “We had also obtained all statutory clearances, including from the Pollution Control Board and the State Wetlands Authority, which were endorsed by the Kochi Corporation Council. They had been forwarded to the KCZMA in February 2021. Since the KCZMA raised apprehensions related to the proposed canal lock gates for flood mitigation, KMRL dropped the idea of putting lock gates. This will be implemented only after multi-agency and multi-departmental studies. The approval of the Ministry of Environment and Forests holds the key to invite tenders,” the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kczma-meet-holds-key-to-canal-regeneration-project/article64949829.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:34 IST,KERALA||Daily cases likely to shoot up by Feb.: Health dept.||Ernakulam is yet to report a COVID-19 cluster as on Saturday, even as the Health Department has estimated that the daily number of cases may be around 10,000 by the first week of February going by the latest wave. The daily count was 3,193 on Friday. It was 2,381 and 2,214 on Thursday and Wednesday respectively. The Health authorities said the current surge was definitely showing signs of a third wave, and that utmost care needed to be taken by all to check the spread of the disease. Going by the rapid rise in daily cases, the number of cases is expected to reach around 10,000 a day by the first week of February, according to official estimates. On whether the Omicron variant is responsible for the spike, Dr. Sajith John, District Programme Manager, National Health Mission, said it could be ascertained only through genome sequencing reports, which are key to identifying the Omicron variant. “There is a delay in getting genome sequencing reports. It is now taking at least seven to eight days,” he added. Meanwhile, the Health department has reiterated its strategy of admitting only those with co-morbidities to hospitals, to ensure that there is no shortage of beds in case of an emergency. Dr. John said people with mild symptoms are advised home isolation. “The hospitalisation rate has not gone up compared to the second wave. The symptoms of those undergoing home isolation are disappearing in two days,” he said. Those in need of hospitalisation are being admitted to the Government Medical College, Kalamassery, and the COVID-19 centres at Ambalamugal and the Government Taluk Hospital at Aluva. Private hospitals have agreed to earmark around 700 beds. Sources said there was no shortage of drugs in Ernakulam. “There is no shortage of drugs for monoclonal antibody therapy. But care has been taken to use it only after proper evaluation,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-cases-likely-to-shoot-up-by-feb-health-dept/article64949833.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:45 IST,KERALA||Rumours rife over an accused||The Crime Branch (CB) team probring the ‘conspiracy’ hatched by actor Dileep for endangering the officers probing the assault case against an actor, is yet to identify the sixth accused in the case even as a section of the media is agog with speculations about his identity. Things reached a feverish pitch when an industrialist even met the media denying links to the case following rumours that the unidentified person was a Kottayam-based industrialist. Director Balachandrakumar, based on whose revelations the CB had registered the case against Dileep and five others, denied having identified the sixth accused. “Rumours that I have identified the person are baseless. Having given a statement before the magistrate I am not allowed to speak about the specifics of the case,” he said. Regarded as ‘VIP’ Since the case was registered, the sixth accused had been largely regarded as ‘VIP.’ It was rumoured that Dileep had got hold of the visuals of the actor’s assault through him. The case was registered on Balachandrakumar’s revelations that a conspiracy was hatched to endanger police officers. The director had handed over an audio clip of the said conspiracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rumours-rife-over-an-accused/article38276907.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:48 IST,KERALA||Conman’s victims reluctant to come forward, say police||The North Police probing a conman accused of cheating the north Indian business community in the city, collectively to the tune of around Rs. 1.57 crore, have hit a roadblock in identifying more potential victims. A police team had arrested Sameer Ismail Saha from Dadar in Maharashtra earlier this week. The arrest came in the wake of as many as 10 complaints registered against him. He is accused of cheating by feigning as a big shot engaged in import and export of fruits and vegetables. Complaints Since then, the police have not received further complaints. “Even as we are pursuing leads on our own, the victims are reluctant to come forward, probably because of humiliation on admitting that they were taken for a ride,” said Prashanth Clint, Station House Officer, Ernakulam North. A North Police team is still in Maharashtra to track down a woman and Sameer’s bodyguard who are suspected to be accomplices of the accused. The woman who was living with the accused, claiming to be his wife, was later found not to be his wife, while the bodyguard was engaged to impress his potential victims of his clout. The police are also trying to track their antecedents. “We are trying to collect details about the antecedents of the accused. Though we have sent particulars to Maharashtra and Gujarat police, we are yet to receive any response,” said Mr. Clint. Among the 10 petitioners, one is from Kerala, while the rest are members of the north Indian business community. Sameer allegedly cheated the person from Kerala to the tune of Rs. 6 lakh by promising to do aesthetic interiors at his house. “All the rest are north Indian business persons who were cheated anywhere between Rs. 2 lakh and Rs. 60 lakh in the name of clearing imported fruit consignments at the port. He pulled off the scam in around eight months,” said Mr. Clint. The accused allegedly used a fake identity by the name Danish Ali for pulling off the con. Cafe He used to run a cafe serving north Indian dishes in the city to befriend his potential victims. He also allegedly used video from the Maradu market and passed it off as his warehouse. “The man who shot the video used to be his henchman but probably had no clue that it was being used for the con,” the officer added.  Sameer Ismail Saha from Maharashtra is accused of cheating by feigning as a big shot engaged in import and export of fruits and vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conmans-victims-reluctant-to-come-forward-say-police/article38277032.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Oncology park work on track||Work on the oncology park of the Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals (KSDP) is making progress, with the company acquiring over six acres close to its premises at Kalavur near Alappuzha. It has appointed consultants for designing the plant and manufacturing facilities. The park, where medicines will be manufactured exclusively for cancer patients, will be set up at an estimated cost of Rs. 150 crore. It will be backed by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. The project is part of the company’s goal to provide quality medicines at affordable cost, mostly through the government medical care system, said K. Harikumar, managing director in-charge of the company.He added that the KSDP had undergone upgradation of its facilities and had a National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL)-accredited pharmaceutical laboratory. KSDP was established in 1974 to manufacture and supply essential and life-saving medicines for patients at government hospitals. It also has Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP)-compliant plants. To raise portfolio One of the objectives of the company is to make Kerala self-sufficient in quality medicines, said Mr. Harikumar. The company expects to raise the number of its products from the present 56 to 100 on its own. It has entered into an agreement with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to develop 15 more products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksdp-oncology-park-work-making-progress/article38276886.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:34 IST,KERALA||Traffic diversion at Vyttila from today||Traffic movement through the eastern (Thripunithura) side of Vyttila Junction will be reorganised for a week beginning January 16 on an experimental basis, in a bid to streamline movement of vehicles at the bottlenecked junction, according to the traffic police. The regulations that have been planned include prohibiting right-turn of vehicles from the Palarivattom side towards SA Road from the junction. These vehicles must thus cross the flyover and take a U-turn in front of Decathlon (before Thykoodam bridge), return to Vyttila and turn left towards SA Road. Vehicles from Ponnurunni/railway bridge underpass too will not be permitted to turn right towards SA Road. Another option for motorists is to proceed to the city through Subhash Bose Road. Vehicles from Kaniyampuzha Road ought to use the road through the Vyttila Hub to proceed to the Alappuzha side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-diversion-at-vyttila-from-today/article38276898.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:34 IST,KERALA||Students clean up Fort Kochi beach||Over 100 students participated in a cleanliness drive on the Fort Kochi beach on Saturday. The joint initiative by Cochin Heritage Zone Conservation Society, Ernakulam DTPC, SH College, Thevara, and the Kochi Corporation that began on October 2 has seen an average of 80 students participate in beach clean-up every Saturday. The drive was led by SH College student development officer Ebin Ambily. The aim is to increase community participation in making Fort Kochi a model heritage tourism locale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-clean-up-fort-kochi-beach/article38276894.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:34 IST,KERALA||Teenager dies of burn injuries||A teenage girl died of burn injuries at Eloor on Saturday evening. The deceased was identified as Ramya, 18, of Eloor. The police suspect it to be a case of suicide. She was found with severe burn injuries at her home following what is suspected to be a case of self-immolation when her mother was away selling lottery tickets for a living. The mother found her with burn injuries when she returned home. Though she was rushed to hospital, she could not be saved. The body will be subjected to autopsy on Sunday. The police have registered a case for unnatural death. Helpline: 0484-2540530 Man found dead A 38-year-old man was found dead in a water-filled paddy field at Njarackal on Saturday morning. The deceased was identified as Rajesh Njarackal. He had reportedly gone angling at the paddy field near his house around 6 a.m. The body was found by local residents nearly three hours later. The police registered a case of unnatural death based on the statement of a local body member who reported the incident. It is suspected that the man had drowned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teenager-dies-of-burn-injuries/article38276897.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:34 IST,KERALA||Overcrowding continues despite surge in cases||Overcrowding at shopping malls and religious places remains a cause for concern amid the spike in COVID-19 cases in Ernakulam. The Health department has warned the public against non-compliance with the safety protocol. A random assessment by the authorities found that most of those visiting public places did not comply with the safety protocol of regular hand sanitisation, proper wearing of mask, and physical distancing. With a majority of the target population having received the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, there is a wrong perception that they may not get infected, said senior officials of the district health wing. Suggesting immediate measures to enhance awareness among the public, the authorities said nearly 79 persons had been infected with the Omicron variant in the district as on Saturday. Forty-six among them had come from ‘high-risk’ nations, while 31 arrived from ‘low-risk’ countries. An official communication from the Health department said the disease had not turned serious among those who had taken both doses of the vaccine. About 87.04% of those who died of the disease had not taken the vaccine. Of the total confirmed deaths in the district, 9.1% had taken only the first dose, while 3.86% received both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/overcrowding-continues-despite-surge-in-cases/article38276890.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:34 IST,KERALA||2,637 fresh cases in Ernakulam||Ernakulam district reported 2,637 cases on Saturday. The test positivity rate is 33.06%. The number of those who got infected through contact was 2,607. The source of infection in 22 cases has not been confirmed. Six health workers also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2637-fresh-cases-in-ernakulam/article38276887.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Allegations of water diversion against Kitex||P. V. Srinijan, MLA, has said Kitex Garments at Kizhakkambalam is diverting water from the Periyar Valley Canal for its use. An inspection of the course of the canal, in the presence of Irrigation Department officials from Perumbavoor on Saturday, had revealed the diversion of water, against which the local people had voiced their protest. He said he had visited the site on complaints from the local people to see if the allegations of water diversion was true and found water was being diverted. However, a communication from Kitex Garments alleged the MLA, along with his supporters, had unleashed violence and beat up the company's cameraman. The communication alleged that the MLA had arrived with his supporters to obstruct of the construction of quarters for the company workers. The communication also claimed that the company cameraman had been hospitalised after the attack on him. The MLA, however, said he had to find out if water was being diverted from the irrigation canal and there was no logical need for a cameraman to follow the team. He also denied allegations of violence. Sabu M. Jacob, managing director, Kitex Garments, was sited as alleging that there was an attempt to create a violent atmosphere like what had happened on the Christmas night when two groups of workers attacked each other. He said a police complaint had been filed against the MLA and the group in connection with the development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/allegations-of-water-diversion-against-kitex/article38276880.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||Fast continues against synodal move on Mass||Protest by groups of lay people and priests of the Archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly under the Syro-Malabar Church continued on Saturday, with two lay persons and a priest continuing their fast in front of the Cardinal’s house in the city. No communication A spokesperson for lay people’s group Almaya Munnettam said the synod of bishops of the Syro-Malabar Church, which ended on Saturday, had not given any indication of making any communication, and two lay persons — Prakash C. John and N.O. Thomas — who were initially fasting in front of the headquarters of the Syro-Malabar Church at Kakkanad here, had shifted the location of their protest to the Cardinal’s house. Arrested Father Tom Mullanchira continued his fast in front of the Cardinal’s house on Friday after the police arrested and shifted Father Babu Kalathil to a private hospital in the city. Groups of lay people and priests have said there would be no compromise on Mass celebration. The synod has decided that Mass should be celebrated with the priest facing the congregation for the first half and face away from the people for the rest of the ceremonies. Demand However, there has been a strident demand from the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese that the Mass be celebrated with the priest facing the congregation for the entire duration of the ceremonies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fast-continues-against-synodal-decision-on-mass-celebration/article38276893.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:45 IST,KERALA||TPR at 22, curbs imposed in Kollam||With the number of new COVID-19 cases in Kollam touching 831 on Saturday, the district administration has imposed a string of extra restrictions. The current test positivity rate (TPR) in the district is 22.4 and the Health department has revised guidelines to curb the spread. COVID-19 related information will be made available by the District Medical Officer (DMO) to all departments engaged in containment measures including Police, Local Self-Government and Revenue. All ceremonies and public events must be registered on COVID-19 Jagratha portal and Police chiefs and local body secretaries have been instructed to ensure this. While the DMO will be in charge of imposing restriction in COVID-19 clusters, work from home option will be provided for all pregnant women working in government offices. If clusters form in educational institutions, the authorities should close them for 15 days. Meetings, events and ceremonies should be conducted online in all government, quasi-government, co-operative, public sector and self-governing institutions. Since the average test positivity is more than 20, only 50 persons can attend social, political, religious and community events, festivals, weddings and funerals. Public events will not be allowed if the test positivity rate exceeds 30. Seating in bars, clubs, hotels, restaurants, and theatres should be limited to 50 percent to ensure adequate ventilation. All shops have been asked to promote online booking and sales while crowds are not allowed in the malls. While the Health Department has arranged provisions for isolation and emergency facilities, directions have been issued not to delay emergency surgeries, including childbirth. Test is not mandatory if there are no symptoms and patients should not be screened more than once a week. Asymptomatic persons, those who do not belong to the high-risk contact list, inter-State travellers, those in home quarantine and those who have recovered from COVID-19 are not required to take the test. Meanwhile, testing is mandatory for persons who develop cough, fever, sore throat, loss of taste/smell and shortness of breath along with contact cases with diabetes, hypertension, liver and kidney issues and those travelling to/from other countries. Alappuzha The district logged 765 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was recorded at 22.69%. Of the fresh cases, 754 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of seven others remains unidentified. Four persons who came from abroad also tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, 208 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district, tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 3,260. After a period of relative lull, the district started witnessing a rise in cases two weeks ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-at-22-curbs-imposed-in-kollam/article64949826.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Nod for Kollam railway station development||Southern Railway has approved the plan to upgrade Kollam Railway Station to global standards, N.K Premachandran, MP, has said. The project will be implemented by the Railway Construction Organisation using funds from the Railways. While proceedings to set up a Railway Training Institute at Kollam are being studied, the authorities are also considering a proposal for the construction of pit lines. A joint meeting of Railway authorities and Roads and Bridges Development Corporation Kerala officials will be convened in the presence of the MP to assess the progress of ROBs and underpasses, said a note issued by Mr.Premachandran.Though steps were taken to restore services before COVID-19 and season ticket facility in a phased manner, the process has been put on hold in the wake of rising cases. According to the General Manger, the facilities required for NSG 5 station are being installed at Paravur and the work will be completed shortly. At Eravipuram Work on the foot overbridge and high level platform at Eravipuram railway station will begin as soon as funds are available. The GM has also informed that proceedings are under way for the construction of a foot overbridge at Kilikolloor station and the Rs. 1.1 crore platform extension work is progressing at Mayyanad railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-kollam-railway-station-development/article38276926.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Guest instructor interview||Government Industrial Training Institute (ITI) For Women, Manayilkulangara, will conduct the interview for the post of guest instructor in Agro Processing trade on January 17 at 11 a.m. Qualification required is degree in Food Technology and one year work experience/diploma and 2 years work experience/NTC or NAC in Agro Processing trade and three years work experience. For more details, contact 0474 2792714, a pressnote added..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guest-instructor-interview/article38276924.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Free training in entrepreneurship by KITCO||Ministry of Science & Technology and KITCO will jointly organise a free entrepreneurship development training program in Information Technology and Electronics, a pressnote issued here today said. The six-week training programme starts on January 18 and the applicants must have a degree or diploma in science or engineering. Those coming in the age group of 21 to 45 years can apply and the applications should be submitted before January 18. For more details call 9847463688, 9447509643, 0484412900.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-training-in-entrepreneurship-by-kitco/article38276925.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||A.V. Russel elected CPI(M) district secretary in Kottayam||A district conference of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) that came to a close at Kottayam on Saturday re- elected A.V. Russel as the party district secretary.The meeting also elected a 38-member district committee including four women and a ten-member district secretariat.The fresh faces in the District Committee also included K.R.Ajay, District president of the DYFI Kottayam district and Vazhoor Area secretary V.G. Lal.Mr. Russel, 60, replaced V.N .Vasavan to become the CPI(M) district secretary in March last year following the latter’s election to the State legislature. He had started his public life as the DYFI Block Secretary and went on to become a Central Committee member of the Youth organisation.Having served as the Changanassery Area secretary of the CPI(M) for 12 years, he has been a member of the [party district committee for 24 years. As many as 189 party delegates including 39 district committee members had attended the district conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/av-russel-elected-cpim-district-secretary-in-kottayam/article38276922.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:30 IST,KERALA||Many building owners yet to follow fire safety norms||Even after the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) decided to carry out a fire safety audit as part of steps to prevent frequent fire outbreaks in the district, many owners of godowns, shopping centres and multistorey buildings, who were earlier held for violation of various safety norms, are yet to fall in line with the instructions issued. The laxity was noticed mainly on the part of some private godown owners, and this has prompted the fire officials to report the matter to the District Collector for action. The main concern is the narrow ways leading to big storehouses with huge stock of inflammable goods. Many commercial buildings still have blocked fire exits and firefighting equipment that are without proper annual maintenance. In some recent inspections, fire hydrants were found damaged. Similar is the condition of portable extinguishers in many locations. Though a comprehensive fire audit by the police on S.M. Street identified risky elements, a scientific assessment is yet to be carried out in other vulnerable areas of the district. The proposed fire audit by the DDMA is expected to bring to light an overall picture of the alleged neglect on the part of building owners in other parts of the district. According to Fire and Rescue Service department sources, some private hospitals, educational institutions and industrial units are also suspected to be violating fire safety norms. A senior fire official said the next step as part of the enforcement of rules would be the suspension of building permits of violators apart from invoking other applicable sections under the Disaster Management Act. He said the local bodies concerned would be asked to tag such buildings as unfit. Temporary measures The official also pointed out that some building owners met the criteria on a temporary basis to escape action by the inspection teams. “Such persons never renew the annual maintenance contract of their firefighting equipment to save money. In effect, they are fooling themselves, without cooperating with measures to avert tragedies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-building-owners-yet-to-follow-fire-safety-norms/article38276876.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||NIT-C, IIM-K among COVID clusters in Kozhikode||Ten COVID-19 clusters, including major ones at the National Institute of Technology (NIT-C), the Indian Institute of Management (IIM-K), and a private institution at Kattippara, have been reported in Kozhikode district till Saturday. Meanwhile, 12 persons were reported to have the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 here, of whom eight got it through contact. According to senior Health Department officials, over 100 persons have been found to be infected at these three institutions, which are shut now. Seventy persons contracted the infection at IIM-K, an official said. The students at the IIM and the NIT have been quarantined at the hostels. Meanwhile, one of the infected persons at the IIM is reported to have the Omicron variant. One of the hostels on the NIT campus has been converted into a first-line treatment centre, where infected persons from other places in the district will be admitted. It is learnt that students at the NIT have been told to vacate their hostels by January 21 in the wake of the surge in cases. Final-year and third-year undergraduate students were having offline classes and the plan was to have it for second-year students from January 18. In view of the current situation, only postgraduate and PhD students may have offline classes. Vacate students The move to vacate students from other parts of the country is likely to create a problem for them. Entry and exit have been completely restricted at the IIM-K. Special testing camps are being held at both the institutions at present. As many as 1,648 people tested positive for the virus on Saturday. As many as 6,113 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 27.74%. The number of active cases rose to 9,337. Ninety-seven people are in government hospitals and 197 in private hospitals. A total of 7,337 are in home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nit-iim-among-covid-clusters-in-kozhikode/article38276877.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:48 IST,KERALA||‘S.K. Pottekkatt’s works focused on marginalised’||The focus on marginalised sections of people in the works of S.K. Pottekkatt is missing in the new generation works in Malayalam literature, Culture Minister Saji Cherian has said.  Opening ‘Athiranippadam@50’, the golden jubilee celebrations of Pottekkatt’s novel Oru Deshathinte Katha, in Kozhikode on Saturday, the Minister said the department would do everything to address the tense social situation in the State and encourage secular and cultural values among the public.  Cultural map Kerala Sahitya Akademi chairman and writer Vaisakhan presided over the event, organised by the Akademi in association with the S.K. Pottekkatt Cultural Centre in Kozhikode.  Mayor Beena Philip, who was the chief guest, pointed that Oru Deshathinte Katha was a cultural mapping of a land over a period of time, whereas Oru Theruvinte Katha , another work of Pottekkatt, was a collage.  Ms. Phillip said that his travels were what made Pottekkatt the luminary that he was. The Minister said the infrastructural needs of the cultural centre would be met by the department while the Mayor said a facelift for the centre was part of the Corporation’s plan for the year. Ports Minister Ahammad Devarkovil and writers Kalpetta Narayanan and Khadeeja Mumtaz spoke. Seminars scheduled as part of the celebrations were cancelled due to the pandemic-related restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pottekkatts-works-focused-on-marginalised/article64949711.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Woman, son found dead in pool at Nadapuram||A 36-year-old woman and her seven-year-old son were found dead in a pond near their house at Purameri in Nadapuram on Friday. The deceased were identified as Roopa Sujith and Adidev. The Nadapuram police said they were yet to ascertain the cause of death and were waiting for the post-mortem report. A police officer said the family members of the deceased had ruled out chances of the woman taking the extreme step. The possibility of drowning will also be examined by the investigating team. Police sources said there was a chance of drowning when the woman tried to save the child. At the time of the incident, the woman’s youngest child was at home, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-son-found-dead/article38276879.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:48 IST,KERALA||Thieves on the prowl in private buses in Kozhikode||Private buses in the district are emerging as the soft target of thieves in the absence of any effective safety mechanism to keep an eye on suspicious persons. Surveillance cameras are yet to be installed in buses by a majority of operators who cite technical difficulties. Apart from the loss of money and gold ornaments, many of the victims are now in a situation to run pillar to post for the re-issue of stolen documents like licence, PAN card, and ATM card. Services to rural areas of Kozhikode are reportedly emerging as the favourite routes of suspected gangs. Though migrant women are usually suspected or held for stealing valuables based on circumstantial evidence, the absence of any strong incriminating evidence affects follow-up investigations. The usual practice of taking the buses involved in such incidents to the nearest police stations is also claimed to be a futile exercise. For some of the bus operators, the process of the police to recover the CCTV hard disc from the bus to proceed with the investigation is a harrowing experience. Many of them fear that it will drag them to unwanted legal complications. According to them, the delay in getting back the seized hard disc after recovering the footage is a headache. “What we do now is to just alert the passengers about the recurring incidents of thefts. Though we keep an eye on passengers during their entry and exit, it may not work as expected always,” says a private bus worker from Balussery. According to him, there were many incidents in which the accused were caught red-handed. Meanwhile, a victim in one of the recent chain theft cases during a bus journey says the accused persons are reportedly getting legal aid on the spot to secure bail or settle the case with the complainant. She says she has got Rs. 80,000 for compensating the loss of a stolen gold chain through such a mediation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thieves-on-the-prowl-in-private-buses-in-district/article38276878.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:45 IST,KERALA||Aided schools oppose move to return to online mode||A group of aided primary school managers has urged the State government to revoke the decision to return to online mode of teaching for classes 1 to 9 after January 21 in the wake of a spike in COVID-19 cases. Functionaries of the Kerala Aided (Primary) School Managers Association (KASMA) said on Saturday that there had been no surge in cases after the schools reopened on November 1. There had been no reports of COVID clusters in schools. The managers said they incurred huge expenses ahead of school reopening. Furniture and other equipment were repaired and the buildings refurbished at an exorbitant cost. A huge amount was spent on taxes and insurance premium for school vehicles. P.S. Sasikumar, president of the association, said at least Rs. 55,000 had been spent by each management. If the schools are closed, the managers would incur loss because they would have to repeat the process ahead of reopening for the next academic year. They said that if a large number of cases were reported from a school in an area, only that institution should be closed down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aided-schools-oppose-move-to-return-to-online-mode/article38276901.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||Prohibition on gatherings as cases surge||Faced with a worrying COVID-19 situation, the district administration on Saturday prohibited public functions and social gatherings until further notice. The move came on the day when the district recorded 4,694 fresh COVID-19 cases at a test positivity rate (TPR) of 36.1%. In the order issued by District Collector Navjot Khosa in her capacity as chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority, marriages and funerals alone shall be permitted with a strict upper limit of 50 persons. “Any public functions or social gathering even if it involves less than 50 persons shall be immediately cancelled or postponed by the organisers. District Police Chief (City and Rural) shall ensure complete compliance of this direction (sic),” the order stated. All government, quasi-government, cooperative, public sector, self-governing institutions will be required to hold meetings in the online mode alone. Norms at malls The order also mandated that shopping malls, large shops and store owners prevented crowding within their premises. The presence inside shops should be restricted to a minimum, i.e., one person per 25 sq.ft. The police have been directed to ensure that the norms are complied with. In the wake of COVID-19 clusters emerging in educational institutions, the district authorities have directed principals and headmasters to close the institutions for a period of 15 days and to report such instances to the medical officer of the nearest government health institution. Caseload The active caseload in Thiruvananthapuram grew to 21,519, even as 486 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. The source of infection was unknown in 33 out of the 4,694 fresh cases. Fifty five health-care workers are among those diagnosed with the disease. The death toll currently stood at 6,580 in Thiruvananthapuram district that has a case fatality ratio of 1.24, the joint highest along with Kannur in the State. The district administration declared new micro-containment zones in Ajantha Pulli Lane (APRA) in Chacka ward, T.K. Divakaran Road in Muttada ward and Amritha Nagar Street in Pappanamcode ward, all of which came under the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits. Operation timings The City police will enforce tight restrictions in these areas. City Police Commissioner G. Sparjan Kumar said all commercial establishments except medical stores and those selling food products can function from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Maveli stores, Supplyco and ration outlets can operate only till 5 p.m. Hotels and restaurants can function from 7 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. through home delivery alone. E-commerce delivery will be permitted between 7 a.m. and 2 p.m. in containment zones. Vehicular movement from outside such zones will be restricted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prohibition-on-gatherings-as-cases-surge/article64949732.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:45 IST,KERALA||Norms for offline class to be revised||Guidelines issued ahead of school reopening will be revised so that detailed arrangements can be made to continue in-person learning for students from classes 10 to 12 in the State, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. A meeting of General Education Department officials will be held on Monday to take a final decision on the guidelines. He was addressing mediapersons on Saturday in the wake of a decision to shift to online classes for students from classes 1 to 9 for a period of two weeks from January 21. Nearly 35 lakh students study in classes 1 to 9. Physical classes will continue for students from classes 10 to 12. Applicable to all schools The Minister clarified that the switchover to remote learning was applicable to all schools in the State, including unaided and CBSE institutions. Explaining the reasons for the decision, Mr. Sivankutty said though no significant infection caused by Omicron had been reported among school students, keeping in mind that it was highly contagious, precautions needed to be taken. There were some schools with a strength of few thousands, and even if only restricted numbers reached school on a day, they could still become infected. With a rise in cases, parents were apprehensive, and the government could not take risks with children’s health. Telecast of classes The Minister said the telecast of online classes through KITE Victers channel would be improved. Though these were being telecast after school hours, the schedule for classes 1 to 9 would be reorganised so that classes could be telecast during school hours. Digital classes for SSLC for this academic year would be completed by the first week of February, and that for Plus Two by February-end. Mr. Sivankutty said the government wanted to vaccinate children in 15-17 age group at the earliest. As per figures on Friday, nearly 50% of them had been vaccinated. Steps would be taken to administer them vaccines in schools. Vaccination figures A web portal would be launched by KITE next week for uploading vaccination figures. Teachers could log in and enter the numbers for vaccinated and unvaccinated students every day. There would be no change in the dates announced for SSLC and Plus Two examinations, he said. Admission procedures for Plus One would be completed by January 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norms-for-offline-class-to-be-revised/article38276904.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Bookings under way for Agasthyarkoodam trek||The annual Agasthyarkoodam trekking season will be held from January 18 to February 26 this year. The online registration for the trek got under way on Saturday. The number of online bookings per day has been restricted to 75 persons. A maximum of 25 offline bookings, including cancellations, if any, in online registration, will also be permitted.  The ticket rate has been increased to Rs. 1,580 per head, out of which Rs. 250 will go towards the ecosystem management fund. As many as five people can be included in a single ticket. Only those aged above 14 years can apply. The bookings can be made through the website www.forest.kerala.gov.in or www.serviceonline.gov.in/trekking .  The Forest department has mandated life insurance or accident insurance coverage for participants this year onwards. The trekkers will have to submit details regarding such policies while registering. RT-PCR tests While the trek will be facilitated under stringent COVID-19 norms, participants will be required to produce negative certificates of RT-PCR tests undertaken not more than 72 hours prior to the journey. Proof of having taken both COVID-19 vaccine doses can also be submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bookings-under-way-for-agasthyarkoodam-trek/article38276881.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||Probe ordered into suicides||Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Women and Child Development Veena George has ordered an inquiry into a spate of child suicides reported in Vithura in recent times. Ms. George has instructed the Principal Secretary, Women and Child Development, to submit a report in this regard. The areas of Peringamala and Vithura have witnessed nearly five suicides of tribal teenage girls during the last four months. There have also been at least two suicide attempts made during the period, sources said. An 18-year-old student of the Government College, Nedumangad, allegedly committed suicide in her house at Vithura on January 10. A youth, Akash Nath of Anappara, who was reportedly involved in an affair with the victim, was arrested by the Vithura police for allegedly abetting the suicide. Involvement of gangs There have been allegations of gangs involved in drug and liquor peddling preying on youngsters in the region. The police suspected the possibility of several girls being subjected to sexual harassment by such groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-ordered-into-suicides/article38277027.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:45 IST,KERALA||Case graph goes up as 17,755 test positive||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph continued to rise exponentially, logging 17,755 new cases, when 65,937 samples were tested in 24 hours. The surge in cases has now forced the government to re-emphasise restrictions on public gatherings and crowd management in places such as malls. Public health experts feel that given the high transmissibility of Omicron, the current daily case count will be a gross underestimation because the virus is unstoppable once it begins circulating in the community. 166% rise in active cases What is now worrisome is that hospitalisations have begun to climb, renewing fears that the sheer number of infections – albeit mild – will take a toll on the health system. During January 8 to 14, the average active cases were 49,136, of which an average of around 1% only were admitted in oxygen beds and 1% were in ICU. New cases increased by 166% (43,410 cases), while active cases increased by 124% in comparison to the previous week. Hospitalisations increased by 22% and ICU occupancy by 7%. The State’s active case pool is swelling. If the State had just 19,021 active cases on January 2, it has since then been rising and as on Saturday, the active case pool has 90,649 cases. In the past four days alone, the active case pool has added over 36,219 cases. A total of 3,819 people recovered on Saturday. The State added 106 deaths to the official list. Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of 4,694 new cases, Ernakulam 2,637, Thrissur 1,731, Kozhikode 1,648, Kottayam 1,194, Pathanamthitta 863, Kannur 845, Palakkad 835, Kollam 831, Alappuzha 765, Malappuram 708, Idukki 417, Kasaragod 317, and Wayanad 250.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-graph-goes-up-as-17755-test-positive/article38276902.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:45 IST,KERALA||Opposition terms DPR an eyewash||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Saturday said the SilverLine DPR published by the government was an eyewash, terming it an attempt to pull the hood over the public eye. The government had uploaded the 3,777-page report on the website of the Kerala Legislative Assembly. A breach of privilege notice by Anwar Sadat, MLA, appeared to have prompted the move, he said. Questions unanswered Mr. Satheesan said the report did not answer several pertinent questions. It was a copy of the SilverLine consultancy report cobbled together by a foreign firm. He said the government would have to hollow out the Western Ghats to find enough granite to raise the 292-km-long embankment for the semi-high-speed railway. It would lead to massive ecological degradation. Stone shortage had hobbled the Vizhinjam port construction. The 530-km-long railway line would subsume large tracts of paddies, forests, environmentally fragile wetlands, sacred groves and mangroves. Moreover, SilverLine would tear the State asunder, and the barrier would impede natural drainage and exacerbate floods and mudslides. The State’s economy was precarious. The socially, economically, and environmentally untenable project would foist an irredeemable debt on the public exchequer. Moreover, the scheme entailed the displacement of thousands of families and the destruction of hundreds of buildings. SilverLine would also bring in a development freeze within a two-km radius of the railway. He said the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train plied on an average of 36,000 passengers. Kerala government said K-Rail would ferry 80,000 daily. Mr. Satheesan asked the government to explain the calculus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opposition-terms-dpr-an-eyewash/article38276906.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:45 IST,KERALA||‘Concerned citizens’ pen open letter to CM against SilverLine||A group of concerned citizens and development professionals have written an open letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, flagging concerns over the SilverLine project and its socio-economic and environmental impact. According to the letter, the State’s fragile public finance, increasing ecological vulnerability and the pandemic situation called for shifting the development priorities away from massive construction projects. Expressing dismay that the Government of Kerala had come out with the debt-funded, foreign technology-based, independent rail system in a unilateral manner, without political consensus and public debate, it called for a White Paper on the transportation system in Kerala covering the road, rail, air, inland water and coastal water modes. It also stressed the need to explore all the options in enhancing the existing railway system in Kerala. 37 signatories The letter signed by 37 personalities including M.K. Prasad, M.P. Parameswaran, M.A. Oommen, K.P. Kannan, R.V.G. Menon, K. Satchidanandan, and V. Ramankutty urged the government to discuss the State’s transportation problems and remedies in the Assembly. It sought to know why urgent issues of survival in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic were being sidelined by a misplaced emphasis on a massive rail project. “We would like to remind the decision-makers that the denial of the people’s Right to Know is the denial of the spirit of democratic governance. This would be fraught with serious consequences for future governance,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concerned-citizens-pen-open-letter-to-cm-against-silverline/article38276908.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||Corpn. aiming Rs. 100 cr. in tax collection||The Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation is aiming at hitting an unprecedented annual tax collection of Rs. 100 crore this year. This is quite a mammoth task, considering the fact that annual tax collections in recent years have hovered around Rs. 70 crore. The civic body has set itself a high target this year in light of a major jump in tax collection in recent months after starting the process of cleaning up its online tax collection data and publishing the list of defaulters, and the measures it has taken in recent weeks to track down establishments that have remained out of the tax records. While the tax collection in October hit a high of Rs. 6 crore, the record was even better in December when it touched Rs. 7.7 crore. Till now, the total tax collection this year has reached an amount of Rs. 58 crore. As around 30-40% of tax remittances are made in the last quarter annually, the civic body officials are confident of bettering the previous records. New tax avenues One of the steps taken by the Corporation to intensify tax collection was to identify buildings and mobile towers that have escaped assessment. Though there are more than 400 mobile towers in the city, only less than half of them have been included in the tax registers. The Corporation officials have now identified such towers that have not been considered for tax demand notice earlier. There has been a lack of follow-up from the side of the local body in cases in which notices were issued and courts have issued stay orders. The Corporation is now attempting follow-up action in all such pending cases too. Service charges Service charges are also pending to the local body for many of the buildings occupied by institutions of the Union government. The Corporation is aiming at collecting at least a part of these too before the end of this financial year. The Corporation has also now begun publishing the list of those with tax dues on the 10th of every month. The first such list was published this month on the official website. Frequent publication of lists are also expected to lead to an increase in tax collection.  The officials have identified mobile towers that were not considered for tax demand notice earlier||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-aiming-rs-100-cr-in-tax-collection/article38277025.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Formulate rules on cyclists’ safety: panel||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed that detailed rules be formulated for safety of cyclists in accordance with Section 138 (1A) of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, or steps be taken to amend the Kerala Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989. A single bench of commission member K. Nazeer issued the direction to the Transport Secretary and the Transport Commissioner. It was acting on a petition from child rights activist Sunanda seeking the commission’s intervention in preventing accidents involving children on bicycles. For some time now, a number of reports were appearing in the media of children on bicycles being killed in accidents, she said. As per Section 138 (1A) of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, the State government may, in the interest of road safety, make rules for the purposes of regulating the activities and access of non-mechanically propelled vehicles and pedestrians to public places and national highways. The commission said that in case of delay in making rules, detailed orders containing guidelines for safety of cyclists, including children, should be issued by the Transport Secretary, Home Secretary, State Police Chief, and the Transport Commissioner. The rules or orders issued should include the following guidelines: those riding bicycles at night should affix reflectors to the bicycles and ensure that it has the middle light. Helmets and reflective jackets should be worn mandatorily. Speeding should be regulated. The fitness of the bicycle should be ensured. The commission directed that a portion of national highways or other roads should be demarcated for bicycle travel and steps be taken to establish cycle tracks. Steps should be taken to create awareness among students of safety measures to be adopted while cycling and for providing them proper training. Traffic police personnel should be posted on duty around schools and on nearby roads, particularly during peak morning and evening hours. As per a Kerala Road Safety Authority report to the commission, 1,146 cyclists were involved in road traffic accidents in 2018. Of them, 86 died. In 2019, 1,103 cyclists were involved in accidents, with 101 deaths and 803 suffering grievous injuries. In 2020, 812 cyclists were involved in accidents, and the number of deaths was 88. Alappuzha, Ernakulam, and Thrissur contributed the bulk of the accidents involving cyclists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/formulate-rules-on-cyclists-safety-child-rights-panel/article38276871.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:45 IST,KERALA||Three held for murder of elderly woman||The Vizhinjam police have arrested three persons, including a mother and her son, for allegedly murdering an elderly woman late Friday. The police identified the accused as Rafeeqa Beevi (48) of Vizhinjam Township, her son Shafeeque (25) and their friend Al Ameen (26) of Pattambi, Palakkad. They were arrested in connection with the murder of Santhakumari (71) of Kalunkunada in Mulloor. The alleged murder is suspected to have taken place during the late hours of Friday in a house leased by the trio at Mulloor. Santhakumari, who resided alone, was their neighbour. According to the police, the trio had been asked to vacate the house by its owner following an altercation that had taken place between Rafeeqa and Al Ameen a week ago. The incident had led to considerable damage in the house. They had planned to vacate and hand over the house on Friday. Santhakumari, who was compelled to purchase a set of utensils from the neighbours, had gone to the house to make the payment for the same. She is suspected to have been strangulated by the gang in the house. They also allegedly bludgeoned her using a hammer before fleeing after stealing her ornaments. Alarm raised The incident came to light soon after the house owner’s son entered the house after finding the door key left outside. He raised an alarm upon noticing blood dripping from the attic. Soon, the police rushed to the scene and launched an enquiry. While they had initially suspected Rafeeqa to be the deceased, they soon realised it was the neighbour who was killed. Within an hour, the City police traced the whereabouts of the gang to Kazhakuttam using their mobile phone details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-for-murder-of-elderly-woman/article38277031.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Sexual assault: case filed against Thiruvananthapuram airport official||The police on Saturday registered a case against a senior official of the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport on charges of sexually assaulting a female colleague. The Thumba police registered a case under IPC Section 376 dealing with rape on a complaint filed by the woman, said Thumba Inspector R. Sivakumar. The Adani Group, which runs the airport, said it has suspended the official, who has been identified by the police as G. Madusoodana Rao, Chief Airport Officer (CAO), from service. According to the complaint, the incident took place on January 4. The accused allegedly lured the victim, a contract staffer, to his flat in the city on the pretext of introducing her to his family, the police said. The investigation is in progress and no arrest has been made so far, they added. Mr. Rao had assumed charge as CAO after the Adani Group took over airport operations in October last year. Zero tolerance ''We have received a complaint of sexual harassment by a Thiruvananthapuram airport employee. We have zero tolerance for such behaviour. The safety and well-being of every staffer is our top priority and we have taken this complaint very seriously. The employee (accused) has been immediately suspended from service. We are thoroughly assessing the facts and will fully assist investigations,'' a spokesperson of the Thiruvananthapuram International airport said in a statement.  The accused allegedly lured the victim, a contract staffer, to his flat in the city||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sexual-assault-case-against-airport-official/article38276875.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Ban on religious gatherings||The State government on Saturday clarified that the ban on gatherings in districts would apply to religious places of worship if the TPR (test positivity rate) touched 30. Earlier, the government had promulgated an order fixing a maximum of 50 persons at marriages, funerals and social gatherings in districts, which report a TPR of 20 and above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-will-apply-to-places-of-worship/article38277021.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:48 IST,KERALA||Style of functioning of depts. comes under fire||The style of functioning of a number of government departments has reportedly come under fire at the CPI(M) district conference, which is under way at Parassala. Delegates attending the conference have reportedly levelled criticism at the police and Industries departments and the Departments of Health and Local Self-Government. Offices under the Health department have become inaccessible to the public, delegates alleged. Meanwhile, two of the delegates, including I. B. Satheesh, MLA, tested positive for COVID-19. New committee The three-day district conference, which opened on Friday, will come close to a close on Sunday. The new district committee also will be elected on the final day. The CPI(M) district conference passed a resolution on Saturday urging the Central government to provide assistance to the NRI welfare measures undertaken by the State government. While Kerala has formulated several schemes for their welfare, the Centre had done little for the welfare of this group, which is now facing a crisis, it said. The resolution slammed the Centre for failing to announce a relief package for NRIs. It also urged the Centre to reinstate the Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs at the earliest. In another resolution, the CPI(M) district conference called upon the people to remain alert against the anti-farmer policies pushed by the BJP-led Central government. Forced to withdraw the three controversial farm laws, the Centre is now trying to gift control of the farm sector to the corporates through other means, the resolution said. It cited the SBI-Adani Capital tie-up for co-lending to farmers as a prime example in this direction. Such a collaboration is also being pursued on the one hand when, on the other, attempts are being made to destroy the primary cooperative societies that are being helpful to the farmers, it alleged. Tributes to farmers The district conference also paid glowing tributes to the farmers who led a marathon struggle against the farm laws and forced their withdrawal. The district conference also passed a resolution seeking wide support for the two-day countrywide strike called by trade unions on February 23 and 24 against the “anti-people, anti-worker policies” of the Central government. The country is currently passing through a phase where flawed central policies have upset the lives of the ordinary people, a resolution said.  Delegates allege that offices under the Health department have become inaccessible to the public||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/functioning-of-departments-under-lens-at-cpim-meet/article38277029.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:48 IST,KERALA||‘Disha’ higher studies expo from Monday||The Career Guidance and Adolescent Counselling (CGAC) Cell under the General Education Department will organise a seven-day higher studies expo ‘Disha’ virtually from Monday. The expo is aimed at guiding students into areas they have an interest and aptitude for. Disha has been organised every year since 2018 with participation from nearly 50 premier institutions across sectors in the country. Senior faculty from these institutions speak in detail about the courses, application process, fee and scholarship avenues, and placement opportunities so that students are able to make the right choices about their higher education. This year too, experts from premier institutions and various sectors will lead classes as part of Disha. It will be held virtually in the wake of the COVID-19 situation. Students can attend sessions related to the areas they are interested in. It is expected to benefit nearly 4.5 lakh students. The sessions will be held every day from 7 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. till January 24. Each session will be attended by an expert in an area who will interact with the students. Magician Gopinath Muthukad will lead a session on ‘Differently abled – challenges and opportunities,’ while Murali Thummarukudi, chief of Disaster Risk Reduction, United Nations, will speak on ‘Studies abroad and opportunities.’ Deepak John Mathew, head of Design Department, IIT, Hyderabad, will speak on premier institutions in the country. Regis V. Jose, Vice President, Standard Chartered Bank, will speak on job opportunities in Commerce and Management. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty will inaugurate the expo. Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. will preside. To attend the expo, use the Zoom ID: 86355698662 and passcode: DISHA. The event will also be streamed live on the YouTube channel CGAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/disha-higher-studies-expo-from-monday/article38276872.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:45 IST,KERALA||MP: reinstate fellowships||V. Sivadasan, MP, has demanded that the University Grants Commission (UGC) reinstate its research fellowships. In letters to Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and the UGC chairman, Dr. Sivadasan raised concerns about the suspension of research fellowships after citing lack of funds. The fellowships that have been terminated include Emeritus Fellowship, Dr. S. Radhakrishnan Post Doctoral Fellowship in Humanities and Social Sciences, Post Doctoral Fellowship to Women Candidates, Post Doctoral Fellowship to SC-ST Candidates and the National Fellowship for Scheduled Caste students. He feared that the move could affect the prospects of research for women, Dalits and tribal students. The approach to Humanities is highly reprehensible, he said. Accusing the Narendra Modi government of implementing a motto of ‘Defund, Delegitimise, Disinvest’ in higher education, Dr. Sivadasan lamented the inadequate allocation of public expenditure for research in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-reinstate-fellowships/article38277028.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:45 IST,KERALA||Suspension of police officer in tourist row revoked||The City police have revoked the suspension of the police officer who faced disciplinary action for allegedly misbehaving with a Swede in Kovalam on the New Year’s eve. T.C. Shaji, the suspended grade sub-inspector attached to the Kovalam police station, has been brought back to service. With just a few months left for retirement, the officer will resume his duties at the Poonthura police station where he has been transferred. Mr. Shaji had been placed under suspension, pending inquiry, after the foreigner, Stephen Asberg, emptied two liquor bottles on being asked to produce their bills. The action of the police who had been stationed at the Kovalam junction had evoked much criticism, with Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas calling for strict action against tendencies that could adversely affect the State’s tourism prospects. Soon after the officer’s suspension, the Kerala Police Officers Association petitioned the Chief Minister and the State Police Chief against the move. Mr. Shaji too justified his actions and maintained that he complied with the instructions he had received. According to sources, the departmental enquiry that was under way on the roles of the other members of the police team will continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suspension-of-police-officer-in-tourist-row-revoked/article38277030.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||Vaccine given to 51% of eligible teens||The State has administered COVID-19 vaccine to 51% of the children in the 15-18 years age group. A total of 7,66,741 children in the State have been administered the first dose of Covaxin. The State achieved this in just 12 days, the Health department said on Saturday. Meanwhile, precaution dose has been administered to 1,67,813 persons so far. This includes 96,946 healthcare workers, 26,360 front-line workers and 44,507 elderly above the age of 60 years. Also, 82.27% of those above 18 years in the State have been fully vaccinated, while 99.68 % has been given at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-given-to-51-of-eligible-teens/article38277024.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||TPR crosses 20% in Thrissur||Preventive measures will be intensified in Thrissur as the test positivity rate (TPR) crosses 20%. The district administration and the Health department have called an emergency meeting of panchayat presidents in the district. The Rapid Response Teams, which were active in the first and second waves of the pandemic, will be strengthened. The meeting will also discuss the preventive measures to be taken at the local level. The vaccination process will be intensified. More facilities for in-patients will be set up in hospitals. Currently, many hospitals have stopped in-patient treatment for the COVID patients. Hospitals, including private hospitals, may be asked to keep a certain percent of beds for COVID patients. Ventilator and ICU facilities will also keep ready in case of emergency. Information about people coming from outside the State will be collected at the local level. Such information will be handed over to health workers and the police.It will be monitored whether they maintain quarantine guidelines. However, no critical cases have been reported so far in the district. Special care will be given to areas where infection was severe in the first and second waves. Online shopping facilities will be encouraged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-crosses-20-in-thrissur/article64949706.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:34 IST,KERALA||A tradition revived||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-tradition-revived/article64949831.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||Boosting immunity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boosting-immunity/article64949733.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:45 IST,KERALA||A formidable task||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-formidable-task/article64949723.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:45 IST,KERALA||48 more Omicron cases||Kerala has detected 48 more Omicron cases from amongst the COVID-19-positive samples subjected to genomic sequencing. With this, 528 Omicron cases have been detected. Majority of samples, 457, were from international travellers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/48-more-omicron-cases/article38276905.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Treat for the palate||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/treat-for-the-palate/article64949705.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No political gathering, rally in Karnataka: HC||The High Court of Karnataka directed the State Government to ensure that no rally, dharna, demonstration or political gathering is allowed in any district across Karnataka in view of the ban on such events imposed in the guidelines issued on January 4 due to a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases. The court directed the government to execute the mandate of the guidelines issued on January 4, till they are in operation, for preventing the spread of COVID-19. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the directions on January 14 while disposing of PIL petitions, which had questioned political rallies and gatherings, particularly the padayatra by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) on the Mekedatu project despite prohibition on holding such events. Earlier, Additional Advocate General R. Subramanya told the bench that the government had on January 12 issued a separate order banning KPCC’s padayatra and had instructed deputy commissioners and superintendents of police of all districts to ensure that the padayatra is not allowed, and no individual or vehicle is allowed to be used for the padayatra in any part of Karnataka. The order was issued after the bench on January 12 questioned whether the State Government was ‘helpless and totally incompetent’ to stop the padayatra, which began on January 9 despite the January 4 guidelines prohibiting such an event. Senior Advocate Uday Holla, appearing for the KPCC, clarified that the padayatra has been temporarily suspended taking note of the observations made by the bench during the hearing on January 12, and the prevailing situation of Covid-19 pandemic. He, however, pointed out that other political parties are carrying out rallies in different parts of Karnataka. Taking note of the Government Order issued on January 12 and the submission made on behalf of KPCC that it has suspended the padayatra, tiled ‘Namma Neeru Namma Hakku’ (our water, our right), the bench disposed of the petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-political-gathering-rally-in-karnataka-hc/article64949576.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 jailed for filing litigations against Wipro founder||The High Court of Karnataka has convicted two representatives of a Chennai-based “non-existent” company in a contempt of court case, and sentenced them to simple imprisonment for two months for repeatedly filing frivolous litigation against Wipro Group of companies founder Azim H. Premji and his companies by suppressing facts from the court. The High Court directed its Registrar (Judicial) to prepare warrant of commitment and detention of convicts — R. Subramanian and P. Sadanand of Chennai-based India Awake for Transparency (IAT) Pvt. Ltd. — for them to undergo the punishment imposed. Also, the High Court restrained the duo from initiating any legal proceedings against Mr. Premji and his group of companies before any court, tribunal, authority or forum in future. A Division Bench comprising Justice B. Veerappa and Justice K.S. Hemalekha passed the order on January 14 while allowing a criminal contempt of court petition filed by Hasham Investment and Trading Company (HI&TC) Pvt. Ltd., the Wipro Limited, and Mr. Premji. “Subramanian, being the authorised signatory and an advocate of a non-existent company (IAT), has played dual role by filing a number of frivolous writ petitions, writ appeals, criminal petitions, and original side appeals against Mr. Premji and others by suppressing the facts amounting to abuse of process of law and continued the proceedings in spite of dismissal of all the petitions filed,” the Bench said. Pointing out that Subramanian, despite warnings, penalty and prohibition imposed on them by the High Court earlier, had filed several cases and continued the proceedings, the Bench said that “His conduct is nothing but daring ride on the court and mockery of the judicial process that is not only affecting the interest of public at large but also interfering with the administration of justice by misusing the forum of various courts, wasting precious public judicial time.” The Bench said that Subramanian misrepresented before the court stating that IAT is a ‘not-for-profit’ company licensed under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013. And he had continued the litigation by falsely projecting the company as a ‘not-for-profit company’ without inserting the words ‘Private Limited’ as required under the law after the RoC, acting under Section 8(6) of the Companies Act, revoked the licence granted earlier to IAT to drop the words Private Limited. “It is undisputed fact that the accused persons filed repeated petitions appeals, etc., in the name of non-existing company, IAT, without using the words Private Limited. It is nothing but a brazen suppression of identity and impersonation done only with a view to mislead this court,” the Bench observed.  The Bench also noted that 42 distinct proceedings were initiated by IAT through Subramanian and Sadanand after Mr. Premji’s HI&TC initiated criminal proceedings against Subhiksha Trading Services Ltd., of which Subramanian is the Managing Director, for dishonour of cheques in 2009. A metropolitan magistrate court in Bengaluru in its December 31, 2021 judgment had convicted and sentenced Subramanian and another person to two years’ imprisonment in the cheque dishonour case asking them to pay Rs. 62.63 crore to HI&TC, the Bench said. “All these indisputable facts on record make it abundantly clear that Subramanian is the alter ego of IAT, which is only a corporate facade used by him and that all the legal proceedings filed in the name of IAT are at his behest and instance, and are financed and controlled by him as he is the ‘directing mind’ of IAT, which is a mere shell company having no income and negligible expenditure,” the Bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-jailed-for-filing-litigations-against-wipro-founder/article38276410.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor sees 1,000 cases for second day||The graph of daily COVID-19 cases has crossed the 1,000-mark in Chittoor district for the second consecutive day on Saturday. The active caseload in the district has jumped to 4,991, the highest in the State, with 1,039 new cases on Saturday. Daily tests increased The district medical and health authorities have enhanced the tests conducted daily from 5,000 last week to close to 10,000 at present, and the number might further go up as per the trends in infections. No casualties A big relief to the COVID task force officials is that despite the climbing graph of cases, Chittoor district has not recorded any casualties in recent days. But the laidback attitude of the people on COVID etiquettes and the high public movement during the festival in the district, particularly in the border areas with Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, have left officials worrying about a further spike in cases. The Jallikattu version of Chittoor district, known as Pasuvula Panduga, was organised in a big way in Kuppam and Chandragiri mandals with a huge participation of people. The district also saw arrival of thousands of devotees from other States for the Vaikunta Ekadasi festival. A senior medical officer seeking to be anonymous deplored that the COVID guidelines were ignored in the public transport system and pilgrimage centers. Though strict instruction was in place for the commercial establishments not to allow the customers without facemasks, it remained unheeded. “The same situation prevailed in April last year, and the seriousness was felt only in May when casualties started mounting. A big feeler is making rounds in the public that the current wave is not fatal. It is playing a negative role in preventing the public from following COVID-appropriate behavior,” the officer said. Meanwhile, the authorities of the Endowments department administering Sri Varasiddhi Vinayakaswamy Devasthanam at Kanipakam near Chittoor have announced the closure of the “Annadanam” (free meal scheme) indefinitely due to a spike in the coronavirus infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-logs-over-1000-cases-for-second-day/article64949584.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:03 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four of a family injured after bike falls into gorge||Four members of a family were seriously injured when the motorcycle they were travelling on fell into a gorge while negotiating a steep curve on the Boyakonta hillock temple road at Chowdepalle mandal, 70 km from here, on Friday. According to information, Ramana Reddy, 45, a resident of Tirupati, along with his wife Saroja, children Harika and Santosh Reddy, had darshan of Goddess Boyakonda Gangamma atop the hillock and was coming down the ghat road when the vehicle went out of control and dived into a gorge. Other devotees who watched the accident alerted the temple officials and the local police. The injured were rushed to the District Hospital at Madanapalle and later shifted to SVRR Hospital at Tirupati. The Chowdepalle police who registered a case said the injured were out of danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-of-a-family-injured-after-bike-falls-into-gorge/article38276435.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 killed as bikes collide||Three persons were killed when two motorcycles collided at 5th Mile Point near Chintaparthi of Valmikipuram mandal, 90 km from here, on Friday night. According to the Madanapalle rural police, Ismail and Sadiq, both aged 21, natives of Chintaparthi village were returning home from Madanapalle . At the 5th Mile Point, their motorcycle collided with another bike on which Srinivasulu (40) was riding. All the three died in the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-killed-as-bikes-collide/article38277053.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR statue vandalised in Chittoor dist.||Tension prevailed for a while at Sri Rangaraja Puram mandal headquarters, 40 km from here, on Saturday after some unidentified persons vandalised the statue of the former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. According to information, the statue was found damaged with its hand and face slashed with a sharp-edged object. The incident, which came to light in the morning, soon spread all over G.D. Nellore Assembly Constituency, which is represented by Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy. A large number of YSRCP activists rushed to the mandal headquarters and staged a protest by blocking the Chittoor-Puttur highway. Speaking to the media, Mr. Narayanaswamy and APSRTC vice-chairman M.C. Vijayananda Reddy condemned the incident and urged the police to take immediate steps to arrest the culprits. Deputy SP (Puttur) T.D. Yashwant and senior police officials from the Karveti Nagaram circle rushed to the spot and controlled the mob frenzy. Additional forces were deployed in sensitive areas. The Deputy SP said after preliminary probe, some suspects were identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-statue-vandalised-in-chittoor-dist/article38276411.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight persons held in Macherla murder case||The Guntur Rural Police have arrested eight persons allegedly involved in the murder of Veldurthy mandal TDP leader Thota Chandrayya, 45, who was killed on Thursday morning in Gundlapadu vilage of Veldurthy mandal.. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Vishal Gunni said that old rivalries could be reason behind the murder. Four of the accused are from the same family. The SP said four special teams had been formed to nab all the accused involved the murder. The accused have been identified as Chinta Siva Ramaiah, Chinta Yalamanda Kotiah, Sani Raghuramaiah, Sani Rama Koteswara Rao, Chinta Srinivasa Rao, Thota Anjaneyulu, Thota Sivanarayana, and Chinta Adinarayana. Extra Forces were mobilised to Gundlapadu village to keep a watch over the sensitive village to ensure no untoward incident took place. Mr Chandraiah, who was on his way to his village on a motorcycle, was allegedly waylaid by a gang and killed on Januray 13. The deceased reportedly had an old rivalry with the accused. TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu rushed to the village and took part in the final rites. He accused the YSRCP leaders of murdering political opponents. “The investigation so far revealed that the deceased Chandraiah had personal disputes with the main accused Chinta Sivaramaiah, owing to the construction of a cement road. Chintha Sivaramaiah was reportedly informed by a few of his relatives that Chandriah was plotting to kill and eliminate him. Anticipating an attack by Chandraiah and his followers, Chinta Sivaramaiah and his followers allegedly killed the victim,” said Mr. Vishal Gunni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-held-in-macherla-murder-case/article38276433.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kitchen garden comes handy for midday meals||A government school near Siddipet has become self-sufficient in meeting the grocery requirement and at the same time supply nutrient vegetables to students as part of the mid-day meal programme. The students of Mandal Parishad Upper Primary School at Nancharpally village in Siddipet (urban) were trained to cultivate vegetables with organic manure in the vegetable garden spread over three guntas on the school premises. The same vegetables serve the 166 children of the school for their lunch at a time when the pandemic has adversely impacted the mid-day meal system in schools. Some of the midday meal suppliers in the district have reprotedly reduced the vegetable ratio due to various reasons, including higher costs and non-availability. This had forced the five teachers of the institution to look for other alternatives. They thought of using the available place on the school premises. With the help of panchayat officials they cleaned the premises and started growing vegetables. The village panchayat has been supplying the organic manure needed for the school. A committee with 12 students as members was formed to supervise the cultivation of vegetables. The students arrive in the morning one hour before commencement of school and spend another hour in the evening after school hours. They water the plants, remove weeds and bushes growing here and there and pluck the vegetables. Now the vegetables grown in the school are sufficient enough to meet the requirements of mid-day meal in the school. During their vacant time teachers are paying additional interest to the kitchen garden.  The vegetables being grown on the school premises include brinjal, bitter gourd, ridge gourd, pumpkin, broad beans, fenugreek leaves, tomato and coriander. “Some of our students had developed malnutrition related problems and we thought of addressing the issue. Initially we were more involved in developing it. But later, students themselves started showning interest on growing vegetables and they are now sparing their time in the morning and evening for this purpose. Some of the white marks, indication of malnutrition, developed in some students have also vanished after we started supplying fresh vegetables,” school headmaster B. Padmavathi told The Hindu .  Taking note of some villagers plucking vegetables from the garden and damaging part of it, the village panchyat has announced that a penalty of Rs. 10,000 will be imposed on those who enter the kitchen garden and pluck the vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kitchen-garden-comes-handy-for-midday-meals/article64949577.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||140 private bus operators booked in Telangana||Various wings and units of the Transport Department cracked the whip against several alleged violations by private travels ferrying home bound passengers by buses for Sankranti this season. As on Saturday evening, officials said, as many as 140 cases were booked. Over the past week, lakhs of passengers aboard tens of thousands of vehicles travelled to several locations within Telangana, and from this State to Andhra Pradesh and other neighbouring States such as Karnataka and Maharashtra. To keep a tab on violations, checkpoints were put in place, and several teams of officers were deployed at important junctions and crossroads on the outskirts of the city, as well as other strategic locations.  Speaking to The Hindu , Transport Commissioner M R M Rao said, “These violations are that of the M V Act, and rules. Till yesterday (Friday), 104 cases were booked. I have been getting information constantly from different units. Today, 140 cases were booked. Further action will be taken accordingly.”  Mr Rao added that cases have also been booked on private operators who had on board in vehicles a larger number of passengers than rules permit. Cases were booked for carrying commercial goods in vehicles, travelling without keeping fire extinguishers in these vehicles and over either a lack of permits and similar violations. The officers also seized vehicles. “We have seized 10 vehicles,” Mr Rao said. Meanwhile, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation’s Ranga Reddy Zone pressed into service special buses from January 7. These buses began their respective trips from Uppal Crossroads, Aramghar, L B Nagar, CBS, Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station, Jubilee Bus Station, BHEL and KPHB. A cumulative 1,184 buses from JBS, 654 from Uppal Crossroads, 467 from MGBS, and 318 from L B Nagar were pressed into service. A total of 4,318 buses were pressed into service till Saturday. The Sankranti rush at bus and railway stations began over a week ago with these places chock-a-block with travellers. According to officials, this year, a large number of students were seen travelling to their hometowns on account of the holidays which the Telangana government had declared. Officials added that the TSRTC’s buses had seen good response and a full occupancy ratio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/140-private-bus-operators-booked/article38276851.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||KTR invites Tesla to Telangana||Industries Minister K. T. Rama Rao has invited the world’s leading electric carmaker Tesla to set up its unit in Telangana in India with the assurance that the State has the most promising and investor-friendly industrial policy in the country. The tweet made by the Minister has attracted the attention of a cross-section of the social media regulars with most of them hailing the move. “Hey Elon, I am the Industry & Commerce Minister of Telangana State in India. Will be happy to partner Tesla in working through the challenges to set shop in India/Telangana. Our State is a champion in sustainability initiatives & a top notch business destination in India,” tweeted Mr. Rama Rao in reply to a tweet by Tesla CEO Elon Musk. Minister KTR’s tweet was in response to Tesla CEO Elon Musk’s earlier tweet which read “still working through a lot of challenges with the government”. Within no time, prominent persons from different sections of society backed his tweet and supported the idea. While the tweet received many responses on the social media platform, ‘Elon Musk’ and ‘Tesla’ went on to top positions in the Twitter trends in India. Responding to KTR’s tweet actor Genelia Deshmukh said: “Love this car so so much Elon Musk. Feels like hope is around the corner”. “Elon Musk, Come to Hyderabad - India! It will be epic to have you. The Government here in Telangana is terrific too”, tweeted actor Vijay Devarakonda. Actor Nikhil Siddhartha tweeted: “What a person. Lets Get Tesla to Telangana anna”. Welcoming Tesla to the State, Tollywood director Meher Ramesh tweeted: “Elon Musk sir you have best land & infrastructure in Telangana of course best Minister & Administration KTR”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ktr-invites-tesla-to-telangana/article64949574.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SilverLine details in public domain||Even as K-Rail officials have been maintaining that the complete detailed project report (DPR) of the 530-km SilverLine will be published only after the Rs. 63,941-crore project got all sanctions (citing industry norm), its executive summary and other pertinent details have made it to the public domain. The DPR in its present form has been officially published, it is learnt. Not final “It is not yet the final DPR, since the Railway Board, Union Finance Ministry, NITI Aayog, and even the Union Cabinet might suggest changes, following which it will be revisited,” official sources said. The DPR being available in the public domain comes against the backdrop of Anwar Sadath, MLA, recently moving a privilege motion seeking publishing of the full DPR. The DPR spread over 3,773 pages in six volumes and compiled by Systra, the general consultant for the semi-high-speed rail project mooted to link Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod, contains comprehensive details of the project, including the potential for having aggregator stations at 27 potential towns en route. It speaks of geotechnical investigation done by drilling 127 boreholes, approximately every five km and at other important locations. The per train capacity from 2026 to 2053 has been mentioned as 675 passengers per nine-coach train, which can go up to 1,125 passengers for 15-coach trains envisaged from 2042. It speaks of elevated stations at Kochuveli, Ernakulam, and Thrissur, an underground one at Kozhikode and at-ground stations at all the other seven places, including at the Kochi airport. It speaks of garnering the following revenue from ticket sale - Rs. 2,276 crore in 2025-26, Rs. 4,504 crore in 2032-33, Rs. 10,361 crore in 2042-43, Rs. 21,827 crore in 2052-53, Rs. 42,476 crore in 2062-63, and Rs. 81,139 crore in 2072-73. The DPR speaks of constructing embankments of the rail with geo-mesh and geo-grid reinforcements to reduce the width of land and increase stability. Renewable sources Banking substantially on green energy, it says 100% power will be sourced from renewable sources such as solar, inhouse production, purchase of renewable power from third party, and from the Kerala State Electricity Board to make a green and sustainable transport system. It cites the need for an operation and maintenance organisation to ensure optimal upkeep of all SilverLine assets. The maintenance of major systems may be in-house, and that of minor systems may be outsourced. Maintenance will be done on a preventive and proactive maintenance principle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/silverline-details-in-public-domain/article64949573.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two women injured as crude bombs go off||Two women were injured when crude bombs allegedly placed in their cotton fields went off on Saturday afternoon at Pathikonda. Hayada Bee and Bi Bee aged 55 and 45, embarked on plucking/harvesting cotton in their agricultural land and reportedly found some lemon-sized yellow objects and mistook it for some people planting them at that place after some occult practices and threw them away. While handling those crude bombs, the bomb went off in the hands of one of the women, and the other person suffered minor injuries. Both of them were rushed to Kurnool General Hospital and were being treated there. The Pathikonda police said the crude bombs were placed by some persons to keep pigs away from a small hillock nearby and the agriculture fields, but they did not inform the owners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-women-injured-as-crude-bombs-go-off/article38276989.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. will install Pennycuick’s statue in U.K., says Stalin||The Tamil Nadu government will install a statue of Col. Pennycuick in Camberley, United Kingdom, the birthplace of the British Army Engineer, who was instrumental in constructing the Mullaperiyar reservoir, said Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday. Marking the birth anniversary of the late architect of the reservoir, Mr. Stalin said that the government would take steps to install the statue at the city’s central park, after obtaining necessary permission from the U.K. government. A press release further said that the people of Tamil Nadu, particularly, those in Theni, Dindigul, Madurai, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts, would always remember and cherish Col. Pennycuick, as the visionary’s grit and determination to build the dam in 1895 had resulted in farmers carrying out cultivation on over 2 lakh acres of land. Apart from this, the reservoir has also been a prime source of drinking water in the region. Memorial built As a mark of respect, late Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had unveiled Col. Pennycuick’s statue on the Public Works Department campus in Tallakulam, Madurai on January 15, 2000.  Subsequently, the T.N. government built a memorial at Gudalur, Lower Camp in Theni district, and also installed a life-size statue of Pennycuick. A large number of the people in Theni celebrated Pongal on January 15 coinciding with the birth anniversary of Col. Pennycuick by making pongal [dish] in front of the memorial and by garlanding the statue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-will-install-pennycuicks-statue-in-uk-says-stalin/article38276397.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festival celebrated with caution amid COVID surge||As COVID cases are on the rise across South Coastal Andhra Pradesh, the festival of Makara Sankranti was celebrated with caution. People took part in the ‘Teluguvari Sankranti feast’ organised by the AP Students and Youth JAC led by its State president Rayapatti Jagadeesh at Sri Chaitanya school in Lawyerpeta and brought back to the dining table the traditional dishes made with minor millets. A float festival was organised by the Chennakesava swamy Devasthanam at the Rangarayuducheruvu brimming with water. 'Paruveta' was organised as idols of gods and goddesses from different temples were brought to Gaddalagunta in processions on the occasion. Actor-turned-politician Balakrishna joined members of the Daggubati and Nandamuri families in the festival celebrations at the residence of former Union Minister Daggubati Purandeswari at Karamchedu village in Prakasam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festival-celebrated-with-caution-amid-covid-surge/article64949634.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Artisans seek permanent venues for exhibitions in North Andhra||In the absence of permanent venues and the government support, exhibitions established in temporary places are unable to help artisans to get income for their livelihood. The persons, who coordinate arrangement of craft bazaars and exhibitions, are being forced to pay huge rents for vacant places. Electricity tariff under commercial category is another major burden on them. With the drop in sales in ongoing Craft Bazaar due to Covid-19 and its variant Omicron, exhibition organisers are unable to meet recurring expenditure. The artisans, who collectively pay rent and electricity charges, through organisers have been urging the government to provide space in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram municipal grounds and sports complexes, and concession in electricity charges.  The Visakha Artisans Development Society, which organised Craft Bazaar in Srikakulam, said that the government support would help artisans meet their both ends and help in protecting their arts and skills. The society president Mohammad Nasim and secretary Mohammad Saleem said that their issues were brought to the notice of the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy when he had taken up padayatra as an Opposition leader. “We spent nearly Rs. 2 lakh to provide proper shape to the vacant land apart from paying Rs. 1 lakh rent to the owner. The expenditure would come down when the government providesspace in its own grounds at nominal charges. More number of artisans would participate in such exhibitions when they are assured of decent income,” said Mr. Nasim while speaking to The Hindu .  Mr. Saleem alleged that commercial organisations which work with profit motive were able to get government lands easily to establish their exhibitions. “We are planning to meet the Chief Minister and Minister for Tourism Muttmsetti Srinivasa Rao for the promotion of craft bazaars in North Andhra region as part of the tourism development. It helps consumers to get all products at one place with reasonable prices and help artisans to get income with brisk business activity,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/artisans-seek-permanent-venues-for-exhibitions-in-north-andhra/article64949770.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:03 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four killed, 10 injured as lorry overturns||Four labourers hailing from Bihar were killed and 10 others suffered injuries when a lorry loaded with fish overturned on the outskirts of Tadepalligudem in West Godavari district on Friday. The vehicle was proceeding with about 14 workers from Visakhapatnam to Narayanapuram village in Tadepalligudem Rural police station limits when the accident occurred.. The deceased were identified as Md. Abidulla, Md. Rafi, Md. Jaleel and SaddamHussain, all natives of Loragachi in Bihar. “The vehicle driver was in an inebriated condition. The driver lost control of the vehicle and it rammed roadside bushes, before overturning,” said Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma. 3 killed in accident Three persons were killed when two motorcycles collided at 5th Mile Point near Chintaparthi of Valmikipuram mandal on Friday night. According to the Madanapalle rural police, Ismail and Sadiq, both aged 21, natives of Chintaparthi village were returning home from Madanapalle after attending a function. At the 5th Mile Point, their motorcycle collided with another bike on which Srinivasulu (40) was riding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-killed-10-injured-as-lorry-overturns/article38276434.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong., BJP slam CPI(M) over ‘pro-China’ remarks||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have sought to put the Communist Party of India (Marxist) on the defensive by accusing it of being loyal to China. Two back-to-back speeches by Polit Bureau member S. Ramachandran Pillai and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to party delegates at recent district conferences seemed to have provoked them. At the CPI(M)’s district conference in Kottayam, Mr. Pillai highlighted China as an example of socialist success. He said China had eradicated poverty and achieved prosperity. It had made giant strides in technology, medicine, environmental protection, public health, and education. It was a global counterweight to the imperialistic designs of the United States. He said some elements stoked anti-Chinese sentiment in India to target the CPI(M). Pinarayi’s rider Later, at the CPI(M)’s district conference in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday, Mr. Vijayan appeared to insert a rider to Mr. Pillai’s statement. He said the 20th CPI(M) party congress in Kozhikode in 2015 had faulted China for not standing up to imperialistic designs. The party’s position on China had not changed since. Mr. Vijayan said China’s achievements notwithstanding, issues such as inequitable distribution of wealth and entrenched corruption plagued the country. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the CPI(M) should clarify whether it was beholden to China or the people of India. “If it rains in China, CPI(M) leaders in Kerala will unfold their umbrellas.” Mr. Satheesan termed China an expansionist power inimical to India. BJP leader K. Surendran said the CPI(M) was China’s proxy in India. China’s interests lay at the heart of the CPI(M). The CPI(M) had not uttered a word on China’s threatening troop movements on India's eastern flank, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-bjp-slam-cpim-over-pro-china-remarks/article38276404.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah Naidu coming tomorrow||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu will arrive here on a two-day visit beginning January 17. According to an official release, Mr. Naidu will arrive in an IAF plane at Gannavaram airport at 10.05 a.m. on January 17. He will go to Swarna Bharat Trust (SBT) at Atkur and stay there for the night. The Vice-President will have an interaction with students doing various vocational courses, and faculty at SBT from 11 a.m. on January 18. The Vice-President will go to Visakhapatnam in a special flight of IAF at 9.05 a.m. on January 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiah-naidu-coming-tomorrow/article38276990.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cockfights held in State despite ban||Despite a ban on the blood sport, cockfights were organised under floodlights in specially set up arenas at many villages in the State as part of the Sankranti celebrations. Ignoring the police warnings and the efforts to wean them away from the banned activity, thousands of punters from various countries and the neighbouring States participated in the cockfights in the districts of West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Nellore, and in the Rajamahendravaram Urban areas. People thronged the cockfight arenas in large numbers at Bhimavaram, Palakollu, Narsapuram, Kalla, Jangareddygudem, Kovvur, Gudivada, Kalidindi, Akiveedu, Challapalli, Dindi, Razole, Jaggannapeta, Kankipadu, Manikonda, Rajanagaram, and Gokavaram. In some villages, traffic movement was severely affected. The villagers brought the fowls from different States and neighbouring districts and bet on them. The organisers also arranged snacks, biryani, soft drinks, fast foods and roadside eateries at the arenas. At some places, gambling and other games were also arranged, it was learnt. NRIs, software professionals, students, businessmen, realtors and farmers were said to have participated in the banned sport. In some villages, women too enjoyed the game. Long queues were seen at the ATM centres located in these areas. “Sankranti is a big draw in the villages. We visit our home town and catch-up with our family and friends during the period. Cockfights are a part of the celebrations. We enjoyed the game,” said Ch. Snigdha, a software engineer, of Bhimavaram in West Godavari district. “Apart from performing puja to the bullock carts and oxen, we offer prayers to the rain god. We also prepare traditional dishes and offer them to our ancestors. We also enjoy the cockfights along with our friends and families,” said K. Nageswara Rao, a farmer from Poranki village, on Saturday. Crores of rupees changed hands at the arenas, as the punters invested huge amounts on rooster fights. “Cockfights will continue on ‘Kanuma’ day too,” the organisers said. ‘Highest bet’ “The highest bet was Rs. 10 lakh on the game that concluded in 12 minutes. The winner will get the amount as well as the dead fowl,” said S. Krishna, a punter from Chinchinada village, near Palakol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/despite-ban-cockfights-organised-in-ap/article64949571.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In a new high, State sees 4,955 COVID cases in a day||The State reported 4,955 fresh cases of COVID-19 in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. It was the highest single-day tally in the past 205 days. Only one death in was reported from West Godavari in the past day. The daily test positivity rate has been increasing at an alarming rate in the State. Of the 35,673 samples tested in the past day, 13.89% turned positive, and on Friday, the test positivity rate was 11.37%. During the past 10 days, the daily test positivity rate increased from 1.64% to 13.89%, while the daily tally increased from around 500 to 5,000. Tally crosses 21 lakh On Friday too, 4,528 cases were reported. As a result, the active cases tally increased to 22,870. The cumulative tally crossed 21 lakh and reached 21,01,710. The death toll reached 14,0509. The recovery rate came down to 98.22%, and the recovery rate and total recoveries stand at 98.22% and 20,64,331 respectively. Meanwhile, during the first 15 days of January, a total of 24,565 cases close to the total cases (26,281) reported in October, November and December of 2021 were reported. During the 15 days, only 14 deaths were reported, while during the three months prior to it 319 deaths occurred. For the first time in several months, two districts reported more than a thousand infections each. Visakhapatnam reported 1,103 and Chittoor reported 1,039 cases. They were followed by Nellore (397), Kadapa (377), Guntur (326), Kurnool (323), East Godavari (303), Srikakulam (243), Anantapur (212), Krishna (203), Prakasam (190), Vizianagaram (184) and West Godavari (55). Chittoor and Visakhapatnam districts together have over 41% of the state's active cases. The overall district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,96,837), Chittoor (2,53,978), Guntur (1,81,250), West Godavari (1,80,643), Visakhapatnam (1,63,877), Anantapur (1,59,726), Nellore (1,48,902), Prakasam (1,39,528), Srikakulam (1,25,220), Kurnool (1,25,189), Krishna (1,22,390), Kadapa (1,16,987) and Vizianagaram district (84,288).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-a-new-high-state-sees-4955-covid-cases-in-a-day/article64949569.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Endless wait for employment for deceasedRTCemployees’ kin||The kin of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) employees who died while in service between 2016 and 2019 and were promised jobs on compassionate grounds under the Bread-winner Scheme (BWS) wait endlessly for their appointment orders. There are 725 dependents of the deceasedRTCemployees who have applied for jobs. “We were called for interviews in 2019 and our original certificates that were taken for verification are still with theRTCauthorities, but we have not received our appointment letters in the last five years,” says K.Annamaiah, who is seeking a job in theRTCwhere his father worked as ashramik(helper) and died in 2016.DasarathRamaiah’sfather died instantly at a depot when an apprentice reversed a bus without noticing him and ran the vehicle over him. Mr.Ramaiahstaged a protest at the site and he was promised by the authorities that one of his family members would be given a job within four days. The assurance has not been fulfilled yet. Nagamani’shusband suffered a major heart stroke while he was behind the wheel navigating his vehicle through the ghat road inTirupatiin 2018. Even in pain, he managed to park the vehicle to safety before dying. “I did not look for another job since I was promised a job in theRTC,” she says. “In the hope of getting a job in theRTC, we desisted from joining any other work and now, the management says that only the kin of the employees who died ofCOVID-19during 2020-21 would be appointed on compassionate grounds,” laments Mr.Annamaiah.A.Harshavardhan, whose father A.VenkataRao, died in 2016 while serving theRTC, is aB.Techgraduate but has kept himself idle as rules mandate that the ‘dependents’ seeking jobs should not be employed anywhere. He has also kept his marriage on hold to get his appointment order first.The applicants have been running from pillar to post to apprise the authorities of their mounting financial woes because of the inordinate delay in their appointments. Govt. nod awaited “We have forwarded the proposal to the government and an approval is awaited,” says the corporation’s Executive Director (Administration) A.KoteswaraRao.But sources in theRTCattribute the delay to many reasons. Most applicants fit into the role of conductors and there are no vacant posts in this category. “In fact, we have an excess number of conductors as there have been no retirements in the last couple of years due to increase in the retirement age,” says an official.Appointments on compassionate grounds are made out of ‘grace’ and it is not the ‘right’ of the employee,” says another source, adding that the government was willing to apply the rule only to the employees who died in the last two yearsi.e. after the employees were merged with the government in a newly-created wing called Public Transport Department (PTD). The 725 employees, whose kin are seeking jobs now, were in the corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/endless-wait-for-employment-for-deceasedrtcemployees-kin/article38276985.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work to strengthen corpn., APSRTC MD tells employees||A.P. State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, in an open letter addressed to the employees, has explained them the measures taken by the government to put the cash-strapped organisation back on the rails and his own efforts to understand the issues confronted by the employees ever since he assumed charge on June 1 last year. He had, in the course of his attempt to study the existing issues, realised that discipline and dedication were hallmarks of the employees. He listed a few milestones such as the government decision to increase the retirement age of the corporation employees in September 2019 and merger of the RTC employees in the government on January 1, 2020. He said, despite serious monetary setback during the COVD-induced lockdown period, the government made sure that the corporation employees received their monthly salaries in time. The merger had paved the way for extending medical benefits to the Public Transport Department employees on a par with other government employees, he pointed out. Compassionate appointments He also reminded that the government had given its nod for appointing the kin of RTC employees who had succumbed to the virus on compassionate grounds. Conducting online classes in collaboration with the Centre for Human Security Society to help the employees’ children shape up their career and revival of the employee promotions that had been stalled after the State’s bifurcation were some of the other measures that benefited the employees, he said. Mr. Rao said the employees should reciprocate the government’s attempts to ensure their welfare by working sincerely for strengthening the organisation. Pointing to the high level of competition in the transport sector, Mr. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao urged the APSRTC workforce to set an example for other States in serving the public with utmost care and commitment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-to-strengthen-corpn-apsrtc-md-tells-employees/article64949565.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:03 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu decries arrest of farmer||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday condemned the alleged foisting of a false case on Narendra, a farmer from Savalyapuram in Guntur district, and his imprisonment. Mr. Naidu demanded that Mr. Narendra be released immediately without causing further anguish to his family. In a statement, Mr. Naidu said Mr. Narendra’s insistence that the government should pay remunerative prices for the crops appeared to be his mistake. Instead of positively responding to his plea, the government humiliated him. Mr. Naidu said the case was booked against Mr. Narendra allegedly at the behest of the Vinukonda MLA. He demanded that Vinukonda Rural Circle Inspector Ashok Kumar be suspended for illegally arresting the farmer, and compensation paid to Mr. Narendra’s family for causing them agony. He also said the government should tender an unconditional apology to the farmer’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-decries-arrest-of-farmer/article38277050.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:03 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP decries stopping of water supply to airport||Condemning the stoppage of water supply by the Tirupati Municipal Corporation to the Tirupati airport and residential quarters allegedly in retaliation to denial of entry for YSRCP leaders into the airport during Minister B. Satyanarayana’s visit, Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) State president Somu Veerraju tweeted on Saturday that the “atrocities of the ruling party will no longer be tolerated.” He said no one responsible for the incident would be allowed to go scot-free. Inquiry sought BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao had already written a letter to Union Minister of Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia seeking an inquiry into the incident and action against those responsible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-decries-stopping-of-water-supply-to-airport/article38277051.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Splendour, gaiety mark Sankranti in district||Sankranti was celebrated in all its splendor in Visakhapatnam district as well as in the city. Rangoli competitions, colourful kites flying events and a few other community gatherings marked the festival in Anakapalle, Chodavaram, Sabbavaram, Yelamanchali, Payakaraopeta, Parawada, Atchutapuram and a few other areas. A large number of women took part in the events. Farmers offered the harvested crops to the deity and cooked delicious foods. Children were seen being involved in flying kites on their terraces since the morning. Political leaders and representatives took part in the inaugural programmes in many areas. Bullock-cart competition was organised in a grand manner at Munagapaka village. Around 40 competitors from various villages in Anakapalle and Chodavaram mandals attended the programme. “For us, Sankranti is more like remembering ancestors. We wear new garments, cook different varieties of delicacies and offer to the ancestors and seek their blessings,” said K Praveen, a resident of Anakapalle. A number of people thronged Beach Road to fly kites in the city. Special stalls were arranged selling kites. People prepared various types of delicacies and celebrated the festival. Meanwhile a number of colonies, hostels and roads were seen empty with people already left for their villages to celebrate the festival. Being a long weekend, all the tourist places were flocked by a large number of visitors in the urban as well as Agency areas. Vanjangi hill, the major tourist attraction in Paderu mandal, was packed with tourists from in and around the district. Earlier, people celebrated Bhogi festival by lighting ‘Bhogi fire’ in many colonies, right from 3 a.m. in the district on Friday. People from all ages actively took part in it. Social media was flooded with pictures as youth took selfies before the ‘Bhogi fire’. While a few temples organised ‘Godadevi Kalyanam’ and special prayers, a few conducted cultural programmes for the devotees on both the days. Many households celebrated ‘Bhogi Pallu’ inviting their near and dear on the occasion. On Friday, the district administration organised ‘Bhogi festival’ at VMRDA Children’s Arena. Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy and a few others celebrated the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gaiety-marks-sankranti/article64949580.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five arrested in murder case of rowdy-sheeter||The Pendurthi police arrested five persons, including a woman, for allegedly being involved in the murder case of rowdy-sheeter R. Veerababu (40), here. The arrested were identified as P Srinivasa Rao (52), his wife P Vasantha, S. Teja (29), N. Rajesh (26) and B. Prasad (40), all hailing from the city. According to the police, P Srinivasa Rao, a resident of Gopalapatnam, works as an autorickshaw driver. He was allegedly involved in smuggling and trade of ganja in the recent times. Veerababu reportedly used to threaten Srinivasa Rao and extort money from him under the threat of informing his smuggling activities to the police. On January 10, a heated argument reportedly took place between Veerababu and Srinivasa Rao on the issue. Veerababu reportedly abused the wife of Srinivasa Rao during the altercation. On the spur of the moment, Srinivasa Rao, along with Teja, Rajesh and Prasad, allegedly attacked Veerababu. But the rowdy-sheeter managed to flee from the spot and reportedly threatened them that he would kill everyone. Srinivasa Rao, Teja, Prasad and Rajesh allegedly decided to kill Veerababu fearing that he might attack them any day. On the same night, the four reportedly assaulted him with a cricket bat and threw him into Meghadrigedda reservoir. In the investigation, police ascertained that Srinivasa Rao’s wife Vasantha was also involved in the crime. The body was found in the reservoir on January 11. All the five persons were arrested at various places on Wednesday and Thursday and were sent in remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-held-in-rowdy-sheeter-murder-case/article38277009.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister tests positive for COVID-19||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao had tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday (January 14). He is under home isolation at his residence at Seethammadhara in the city and is under medication. In a release, the Minister appealed to the people who had come in contact with him in the past couple of days to get themselves tested for the virus. He also urged people not to come to his house for any work, and asked them to contact him over phone. He had tested positive for the virus in September 2020 too. It was learnt that he had completed his two doses of vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article38276988.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:06 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man from Odisha arrested in dacoity case||The district police arrested a 31-year-old Odisha-based man for allegedly being involved in a dacoity on the ghat road at Darakonda, under G.K Veedhi Police Station limits, on Friday night. Five more persons who were involved in the case along with him are yet to be nabbed. The arrested was identified as Pradeep Sardar of Malkangiri District, Odisha. The police have recovered four tola gold ornaments from him. According to Circle Inspector of G.K Veedhi Police Station, G. Ashok Kumar, under the supervision of Superintendent of Police, B Krishna Rao, the G.K Veedhi Police, Sileru Police and Central Crime Station (CCS) have formed three teams and arrested Pradeep Sardar. He said that last year, the gang members had intercepted a few persons on the ghat road and escaped with the property. He said that manhunt has been launched to nab other members of the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-arrested-in-dacoity-case/article38277010.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:03 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive mood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-mood/article64949631.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:27 IST,TELANGANA||COVID caseload in past 15 days exceeds four-month tally||Yet another year began with concerns over COVID-19 cases and in the first 15 days itself, the viral caseload has exceeded the total number of infections logged in the past four months. Between September and December last year, 23,844 cases were recorded. And from January 1 to 15, the total number of infections logged is 25,264. Apart from the cases, the number of daily tests, COVID patients in ICUs and active cases have also increased. Deaths, however, continue to be low. While 154 COVID patients died in the past four months, 25 people died between January 1 and 15. A marginal increase in cases was observed from the last week of November. The daily caseload crossed 200 in December. The new infections started to shoot up from the beginning of the year. On January 7, the daily infections crossed 2,000 for the first time in many months. ICU admissions The number of COVID patients in ICU and oxygen beds occupied was around 400-450 in December, which remained in the same range till January 11. A gradual increase in the occupancy of both categories of beds was observed thereafter. On January 15, the occupancy of ICU beds and oxygen beds stood at 522 and 845, respectively. There are a total of 11,923 ICU beds and 22,020 oxygen beds in the government and private hospitals across Telangana. The active cases have spiked from around 4,000 to 22,017. The positive cases are either under treatment or in isolation. The daily tests have increased from around 30,000-45,000 to 70,000-90,000 barring on Sundays and public holidays. Doctors in government hospitals say the cases will surge in the coming days as there was a lot of movement of people during Sankranti. Going by the current rate of hospitalisation, they are hoping that bed occupancy will be low. Out-patient numbers would be high, which is already happening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-caseload-in-past-15-days-exceeds-four-month-tally/article64949840.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:41 IST,TELANGANA||Roads wear a deserted look||Hyderabad wore a deserted look on Saturday as people left for their hometowns to celebrate Makar Sankranti. The week was punctuated with a series of holidays, coupled with the most important festival of the calendar. Otherwise, normally busy streets like Ameerpet, Punjagutta, Koti, Bowenpally, Malakpet, Uppal, Kukatpally, Miyapur, and Kondapur, crisscrossing with a wide variety of vehicles honking and bonking , was conspicuous by its absence. The traffic police in three urban commissionerates -- Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda -- who exert much on the roads, were relaxed a lot as vehicles moved sparsely. Similarly, owing to increasing COVID-19 cases, and the festival recess, the traffic cops have scaled down chasing drunk drivers through their special enforcement drives. “Normally the three days during Sankranthi see very little traffic as people go to their native places, but our job becomes more tough as they start flooding the roads early next week,” a traffic cop said. The officer also feared accidents involving over-speeding might see a spike due to deserted roads. Meanwhile, air and sound pollution in the city has also seen a marginal dip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/roads-wear-a-deserted-look/article64949744.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:42 IST,TELANGANA||Revanth spends more time at party HQs||The new year has brought some refreshing change in the Telangana Congress with its chief A. Revanth Reddy spending more time at the party headquarters to meet the cadre and also the leaders who have been questioning his inaccessibility ever since he was appointed. Apparently, AICC in-charge for Telangana Manickam Tagore has taken the feedback from the cadre and the leaders to Mr. Reddy about his inaccessibility at the party headquarters to senior leaders as well as those coming from districts. Good sign Mr. Reddy is now a regular visitor to the Gandhi Bhavan and his visits have increased in the last two weeks to attend meetings and stay back for interaction with the cadre. This is a good sign irrespective of the reasons behind his much-needed visits to the party headquarters, say the Congress leaders. In the first two months after his appointment, the party office was refurbished giving it a corporate look from the old-style Congress party offices that resembled the government offices. Making it Vaastu compliant, several rooms were expanded and the TPCC president’s room itself was also shifted. Construction work “Construction work was one of the reasons why Mr. Revanth Reddy rarely spent time at the Gandhi Bhavan,” a close follower of Mr. Reddy defended. Now, he wants to spare more time for the cadre who come from remote areas with lots of enthusiasm. “Earlier, they used to drop in at his residence but now they are being encouraged to come to Gandhi Bhavan.” But senior leaders have also had issues with Mr. Reddy on unavailability over the mobile as well. This issue was raised in the first Political Affairs Committee (PAC) meeting where all senior leaders are either members or invitees. “It is difficult to reach him over the phone and that is a big impediment in building relations with the leaders working in the districts,” a senior leader agreed “However, that problem is now more or less settled with his personal assistants informing the chief of important calls.” Welcoming the change, a senior leader quipped, “It is important for the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee chief to keep the senior leaders in good humour even if he has a good following among the party cadre.” “In a party like Congress, just mass following is not enough to enhance his image but also talk to the senior leaders on constant basis.” Revanth Reddy, who has been facing some tough times with seniors, who are unhappy over his elevation to the top position in a short span of time, is also trying to bridge the gap. Despite several complaints to the party high command, he has not spoken a word against them in public. “He had won over some seniors but has to make smarter moves to bring the remaining into his loop,” a senior leader suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-spends-more-time-at-party-hqs/article64949737.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:41 IST,TELANGANA||More patients in ICUs, but COVID not to blame||There is a silver lining to the gradual increase in the number of COVID patients landing up in hospital intensive care units (ICUs). Of the 125 COVID patients in Gandhi Hospital ICU, none were admitted because of severity of symptoms. Hospital superintendent M. Raja Rao, who went through case sheets of all the 125 patients, said they are suffering from other health ailments. Prior to detection of the infection and admission at the government hospital, the patients were admitted to ICU of other healthcare facilities, including corporate hospitals, with other serious ailments related to heart, brain, liver, etc. They were on oxygen or Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) support. “The patients were shifted from other hospital ICUs to our ICUs after testing positive there. None of the 125 patients, however, have severe COVID,” said Dr Raja Rao. With 619 ICU beds, the government hospital is perhaps the only health facility in the country with such numbers. It served as an important centre for COVID treatment during the first and second waves of the pandemic. Anticipating a rise in COVID admissions, more beds in other wards are being earmarked for the patients. Dr Raja Rao said it is being done only as a precautionary measure. Other doctors said COVID patients on oxygen support and with co-morbidities are admitted to Gandhi Hospital. Currently, patients with the infection who need only oxygen support are sent to the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) or other health facilities. While COVID cases surge, doctors say hospital admissions solely due to COVID severity are few. Their hope is that the hospitalisation rate will continue to remain low.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-patients-in-icus-but-coronavirus-not-to-blame/article64949748.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:41 IST,TELANGANA||Rising coronavirus cases no deterrent to festivities||Celebration of Sankranti, the festival of the sun and harvest, marked the ebullient spirit of city residents who remain unaffected by the rising cases of coronavirus infection here. Colourful rangolis embellished with marigold flowers, sugarcane pieces and cow dung balls (gobbemmas) adorned the roads and pathways in front of homes, apartment complexes, and business establishments, which witnessed traditional bonfires on the occasion of Bhogi the previous day. Households were cleared of wooden and other scrap which were used for lighting the bonfires, in a symbolic gesture of a new beginning. Mango leaves were tied to the home facades, in anticipation of good fortune. Devotees paid a customary visit to temples. Traditional delicacies such as ‘Chakkera Pongal’, ’Ariselu’ and ‘Sakkinalu’ were prepared. Sweet shops made brisk business on the day, with the Sankranti specials flying off the shelves. Children and youth had a gala time on the holiday, painting the sky-scape with colourful kites. On the flip side, the snapped and abandoned kites were stuck in electrical lines, resulting in frequent power outages across the city, while the threads (manjas) on roads hampered the passage of vehicles and pedestrians. Though absent in most parts, professional mendicants such as ‘Haridasu’ and ‘Gangireddula Dasari’ with decked-up bulls were visible in city fringes, seeking alms. Toddlers and children were blessed by being showered with the season’s berries (Regu fruit) to ward off the evil eye. As per tradition, a few women organised ’Bommala Koluvu’ (arrangement of toys) gatherings at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rising-virus-cases-no-deterrent-to-festivities/article64949747.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:41 IST,TELANGANA||Last rites of ‘severed head’ victim performed||Mortal remains of 30-year-old Jahender Naik, whose decapitated body was found in Rangareddy district, three days after the severed head was found placed at an idol’s feet last week in Nalgonda district, were buried at Shunya Pahad village in Suryapet district on Friday. Nalgonda police had found the decapitated body under a heap of bricks at an old, under-construction building at Turkayamjal, about 50 kilometres away from the temple’s idol at Gollapally, on Thursday. Family members, who were alerted by pictures of the severed head on social media, earlier had claimed the identity by producing old photographs and other documents. Subsequent to the tracing on Thursday, police had shifted the mortal remains to Osmania General Hospital, Hyderabad, where autopsy was conducted and the remains were handed over to the family members. Large attendance Sources informed that the victim’s father Shankar Naik, agricultural cooperative society director of Shunyapahad, led the final rites that saw a large attendance of the tribal village on Friday evening. Ashok Naik, the victim’s uncle, said Jahender, the eldest of the three siblings, was healthy till Class X and later suffered mental illnesses. He refused to return to the village for various reasons, and the last time the family members saw Jahender was near a bakery at Turkayamjal around Dasara last year. While several theories and speculations over the unusual crime have already surfaced, police are yet to find and disclose the mystery motive and the suspects in the act. The investigation is still under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/last-rites-of-severed-head-victim-performed/article38276856.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:27 IST,TELANGANA||Kites of myriad hues, designs dot the city skyscape||Sankranti was celebrated with gaiety and religious fervour in Hyderabad on Saturday. If the mornings saw families in colourful attire making a beeline to the temples, the afternoon witnessed a different kind of celebration. Eyes were turned to the skies as families took to kite-flying on terraces and spotting cut kites flying in the air. Some open-air spaces like Necklace Road, NTR Stadium, Begum Bazar, Dhoolpet, Parade Ground, Musi river bed, Golconda Fort, Feelkhana and hillocks that dot the city were turned into battlegrounds with the results flying in the air. For a change, the shopkeepers at Koka ki Tatti, Gulzar Houz and Dhoolpet had broad grins on their faces. “On Friday, it rained in many parts of the city and I was worried. Today, it is cloudy but there is no chance of rain. The buyers are coming from many parts of the city,” said a shopkeeper who had set up a lone stall near Purana Pul, as the day began. Manja injury The ban on synthetic glass thread known as ‘Chinese Manja’ remained only on paper as the charak or chakri was easily available. Ironically, the shops displayed notices put up by the Forest department about the dangers of Chinese manja. The dangers of Chinese manja became evident after Kukatpally resident Charith Juluri was injured by the glass thread while returning home at 11 a.m. “I was driving slowly. If my vehicle speed was higher God alone knows what might have happened. I will take up the issue with police once I recover,” said Mr. Juluri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kites-of-myriad-hues-designs-dot-the-city-skyscape/article64949839.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:41 IST,TELANGANA||A passable festive entertainer||The fun part of Bangarraju , the sequel to Soggade Chinni Nayana (2016), lies in what happens when senior Bangarraju’s (Nagarjuna Akkineni) soul enters the body of his grandson Bangarraju (Naga Chaitanya). This is when the junior who has inherited his grandfather’s traits of being a charmer, gets an extra swag and a tad worldly-wise, and does everything with ease - taking on opponents in action sequences or diplomatically settling family frictions.  The father-son duo is good to watch in these portions. A usually restrained Chaitanya steps out of his comfort zone and has fun playing a flamboyant character. Bangarraju feels like a throwback to the 1980s and 1990s with its plot of a family revenge drama accentuated by supernatural elements. Senior Bangarraju and his wife Satyabhama (Ramya Krishna), with the consent of Lord Yama, literally move between heaven and earth to help their grandson who is lonely and lost in a large joint family.  Nagarjuna and Ramya Krishna bring in their vintage charm to the story and these are cakewalk characters for them.  While Soggade Chinni Nayana packed in a lot of fun with Bangarraju teaching his nerdy son Ram (Nagarjuna in a dual role) a thing of two about being a charming husband and saving him from a foe, this story traces younger Bangarraju’s journey through strained familial ties, deceit and revenge.   But Bangarraju doesn’t have the easy, effortless fun of Soggade… And in its bid to keep things fairly happy and entertaining, the story never scratches beneath the surface to explore either the brewing familial discontent or the supernatural element.  All threads of a family drama, romance and a supernatural element could have made for an engaging masala potboiler. But the narrative meanders aimlessly between one too many songs. (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-passable-festive-entertainer/article64949745.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:41 IST,TELANGANA||Sankranti slump in testing, new cases fall below 2,000||The State’s daily COVID-19 caseload dropped below 2,000 on Saturday as fewer tests were conducted on account of Sankranti, a holiday. In the past few days, while 70,000 to 90,000 samples were being tested in a day, the number dropped to 53,073 on Saturday and 1,963 people were detected with coronavirus. The results of 7,696 samples were awaited. The new infections included 1,075 from Greater Hyderabad region, 168 from Rangareddy, and 150 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. The cumulative caseload now stands at 7,07,162. Two more COVID patients died on the day, taking the death toll to 4,054. Of the total cases, 22,017 were active as of Saturday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sankranti-slump-in-testing-cases-under-2k/article38276844.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:42 IST,TELANGANA||Health check-up for ESI members||Annual health check-up and smart ID cards to all members of contributory scheme of Employees State Insurance Corporation are proposed from April, as part of steps to enhance the health security of workers. The check-ups were proposed to create the health profile of all the 21 lakh members and their families, aggregating to nearly 80 lakh people. The health check-ups will be conducted every year in a bid to forewarn them about their health status. Only those who were unwell were hitherto offered the service of check-ups and allowed to take treatment. Check-ups to create a health profile of members and preserving the data electronically will be made mandatory in all ESI hospitals from this year, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/annual-health-check-up-for-all-esi-members/article38276861.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:28 IST,TELANGANA||Governor prays for all-round prosperity||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday celebrated Sankranti with her family at the Raj Bhavan here. In keeping with tradition, she prepared pongal, a symbol of prosperity and abundance, and offered prayers for the wellbeing of the people of Telangana as well as the country.  The Governor, her husband P. Soundarajan, and other members of her family, offered pongal to the sun, signifying thanksgiving for the harvest. She expressed gratitude to the farmers for the harvest. Later in the day, she offered gaupuja at the Raj Bhavan’s goshala, and also offered prayers at the temple there.  Speaking to the media, the Governor underscored the importance of following COVID-appropriate behaviour, encouraged taking the vaccine, and lauded the efforts of the State government for its intense vaccination drives. Thanking PM  She thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for making available the precautionary dose. “I thank the honourable Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji for making available the precaution dose, which is not even possible in many developed countries. The vaccine for children aged between 15 and 18 years is also a major initiative to protect them,” she said.  The Governor expressed confidence that soon the nasal spray-based vaccine would be rolled out in the country. She hoped that it would greatly improve the vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-prays-for-all-round-prosperity/article64949838.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:28 IST,TELANGANA||Manthan talk today||The first Manthan talk of 2022 is by Public Policy Academy. MS Sriram will discuss NGO challenges in the context of an increasing need for them to exist alongside a narrowing of sources of funding. It will examine the changing role of the State, philanthropic (domestic and foreign) and corporate funding. The event is being held on Jan.16 at 10:30 a.m. More details can be had on: https://vid.manthanindia.com/klg||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/manthan-talk-today/article38276858.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:42 IST,TELANGANA||Cong. condemns arrest of teachers at Pragati Bhavan||Telangana Congress president Revanth Reddy has strongly condemned the arrest of teachers protesting at Pragati Bhavan demanding the abolition of GO 317 based on which new zonal cadres were decided. In a statement here on Saturday, he said it was unfortunate that even on a festival day, teachers had to leave their homes and come to Pragati Bhavan to protest against the GO. Instead of taking their objections into consideration and giving them assurance, the government decided to arrest them, he said. Mr. Reddy recalled the role of teachers in the Telangana agitation and said their sacrifices in the combined State were now not only ignored but injustice was being done to them in Telangana for which they vehemently fought. The TPCC president assured that the Congress would continue to support their cause till GO 317 was withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-condemns-arrest-of-teachers-at-pragati-bhavan/article38276859.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:42 IST,TELANGANA||Gudatipally oustees want double bedroom houses||For the oustees of Gudatipally and hamlet villages that would get submerged under Gouravelli reservoir in Siddipet district, the amount paid by the government in 2016 for construction of houses was only Rs. 50,000 and that too when the government itself accepted that it required Rs. 5.04 lakh for construction of a double bedroom house. On the other hand, the government offered Rs. 5.04 lakh to oustees of other projects who preferred to construct their own 2-BHK houses on the site allotted. In the Gazatte notification issued on July 6, 2016, by the administration of the then erstwhile Karimnagar district, as many as 937 project displaced families were identified under Gouravelli reservoir as per data collected in 2010. They were paid a total amount of Rs. 7.22 lakh each as R&R package. This includes components like cattle shed Rs. 15,000, transportation charges Rs. 5,000, house construction Rs. 50,000, sanitation Rs. 3,000 totalling at Rs. 1.69 lakh and house site Rs. 5.53 lakh. This information was provided by officials to G. Raja Reddy, one of the oustees, under RTI Act. As a lumpsum amount, they had received Rs. 8 lakh each. “The process for land acquisition was started in 2009-10 with a primary notification and in March 2010, Rs. 2.1 lakh per acre was paid. Measurements of houses was taken up in 2011 and for about 300 houses, the compensations were paid in 2015. For another 300 houses the payments were cleared between October 2015 and March 2016,” said the oustees admitting about payment of R&R. “About 80 percent of the oustees had reinvested the compensation and R&R amount on land outside the project site. We have an intention to relocate to our village near our fields. After redesign and increasing the capacity of Gouravelli to 8.2 tmcft, the land where we invested our package amount was acquired by the government. We have not received package for those land. Hence, we are demanding the government to allot 2-BHK houses. Though MLA V. Satheesh Kumar has been promising houses under his quota, we want a commitment from the government in writing as it is a continuous process and we can grill the next government if the previous government failed to fulfil it,” Baddam Raji Reddy, Sarpanch of Gudatipally, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gudatipally-oustees-want-double-bedroom-houses/article38276860.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:28 IST,TELANGANA||Do not waste drinking water: Harish||Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao urged people not to waste drinking water. The Minister visited two wards in Siddipet district headquarters on Saturday and interacted with people. He was serious over people wasting drinking water and dumping of garbage in drains. “We are struggling a lot to provide drinking water to you. It is being brought from Mid Manair in Karimnagar district. You are allowing this water to go down the drain. This is not right. Similarly, do not dump garbage in drains,” said Mr. Harish Rao while visiting 13th ward in the town. The Minister was also unhappy on not seeing any green cover from Prashanth Nagar to Beedi Colony. He wondered as to why officials have not focused on the issue. He wanted the corporator to get saplings planted in the area. Meanwhile, Mr. Rao also directed the officials to speed up bus stand works. He said that there should be about 20 platforms and modern toilets should made available to passengers. Earlier in the day, the Minister participated in the inauguration of two show rooms in the town. MLC Farooq Hussain and others have participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/do-not-waste-drinking-water-harish/article38276857.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:42 IST,TELANGANA||No Praja Vaani in Siddipet||Collector M. Hanumantha Rao announced on Saturday that Praja Vaani in Siddipet district will stand cancelled till further orders. In a release here, the Collector said that as COVID cases were increasing in the State, it was decided to cancel the programme. It will resume only after the situation becomes normal, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-praja-vaani-in-siddipet/article38276862.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:42 IST,TELANGANA||Sanjay condemns arrest of teachers||State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar has condemned the arrest of teachers protesting at Pragati Bhavan. In a press release here on Saturday, Mr. Sanjay said that teachers have been protesting at Pragati Bhavan peacefully demanding amendments to GO 317 and arresting them was against democratic norms. He demanded that the arrested teachers must be released immediately. “The government must make corrections to the GO as demanded by the employees. It has become a hurdle for local employees. BJP will stand by them till amendments were made to the GO and intensify the agitation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sanjay-condemns-arrest-of-teachers/article64949734.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:41 IST,TELANGANA||Homage paid to soldiers on Army Day||Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan, Commandant Military College of EME and Colonel Commandant, Corps of EME paid tributes to the soldiers, veterans and their families on the 74th Army Day on Saturday. He participated in the ceremony held at the Army Parade Grounds in Secunderabad, and laid wreath at Veerula Sainik Smarak. Army Day is celebrated annually on January 15 in commemoration of Field Marshal Kodandera M Cariappa taking over from General Sir Francis Butcher as Indian Army’s first Commander-in-Chief. “Army Day serves as an inspiration to all of us to continue working towards upholding the highest traditions of the Indian Army and build upon the glorious history,” Commandant Narayanan said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homage-paid-to-soldiers-on-army-day/article64949743.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:42 IST,TELANGANA||Telangana punters bet high on cockfights in Andhra||Several mango orchards on the Andhra Pradesh side of the inter-State border hosted cockfights, with many punters from the old undivided Khammam district betting huge sums of money running into lakhs in the “high-stakes, multi-crore gambling” on Sankranti. Sources said several high-profile punters from both Khammam and Bhadradri-Kothagudem district and elsewhere in the State participated in cockfighting by pitching their trained roosters in the ring at various venues on the other side of the border in AP’s West Godavari, East Godavari and Krishna districts on Saturday. The cockfights were held at multiple locations, mostly in mango and oil palm plantations in the border districts of the neighbouring State, with a significant chunk of punters hailing from the erstwhile composite Khammam district. No COVID norms At several venues, COVID precautions were thrown to wind as revellers flocked to the venues in hordes. Organisers of the cockfights raked in the moolah by encashing the craze among punters for betting on rooster fights during Sankranti festivities.  The venues at Kamaiahpalem and Jeelugumilli in West Godavari witnessed heavy rush of revellers with the organisers erecting tents and encouraging the punters to bid large sums of money running into several lakhs, said a reveller from Aswaraopeta. Kallur Assistant Commissioner of Police Venkatesh told The Hindu that vigil has been mounted at border check points in Sattupalli, Vemsoor, and V M Banjara mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-punters-bet-high-on-cockfights-in-andhra/article38276866.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:42 IST,TELANGANA||SCCL focuses on greater asset utilisation||To accelerate coal production so as to achieve the set annual coal production target of 68 million tonnes of coal in the current fiscal, the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) initiated a slew of steps to optimally use heavy machinery in opencast projects. At a high-level review meeting held recently, SCCL Chairman and Managing Director N. Sridhar issued a set of instructions to the officials concerned to enhance utilisation of heavy machinery in open cast mines by putting them to use for at least 18 hours a day. At present, this heavy machinery/equipment are being used for only 13 to 14 hours a day in the SCCL’s OCPs. In order to maximise their usage, the SCCL management has instructed the general managers of the coal mining areas to use the heavy machinery to their full potential for meeting the coal output targets and growing demand for coal through greater asset utilisation. This forms the crux of the key focus laid by the company management on better usage of existing assets such as Side Dump Loaders (SDL), Load Header Dumpers (LHD), shovels and other high capacity machinery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/coal-company-focuses-on-greater-asset-utilisation/article64949736.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:08 IST,||Current COVID wave has peaked in Delhi: Minister||The current wave of COVID-19 has peaked in the city and cases are expected to fall now, Health Minister Satyendra Jain said on Saturday.“In Delhi, the[COVID wave] peak has been reached... For the past five to six days, hospital admissions have been stagnant. This is an indicator that cases are decreasing in the city,” the Minister said. Delhi on Saturday reported 20,718 new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours but the test positivity rate (TPR) was recorded at 30.64%, which is the highest in more than seven months. A total of 67,624 tests were conducted over 24 hours, down from 79,578 on Friday, according to the health bulletin released by the Delhi government. On Thursday, 28,867 fresh cases were reported in the city, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic. Friday saw 24,383 cases and TPR of 30.64% (same as Saturday) over 24 hours.Of the total 15,478 hospital beds, 83.66% were vacant on Saturday. Opposition smells ploy Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri accused the Delhi government of “conducting fewer tests” to show that the number of COVID patients in the Capital was decreasing, a claim denied by the Delhi government. Mr. Bidhuri referred to the number of tests over the last six days as “evidence”, stating that when 22,751 new patients were reported on January 9, more than 96,000 tests were done; but on January 14, when 24,383 patients were identified, the tests were reduced to 79,000. “The infection rate on January 9 was 23% while on January 14 it was more than 30%. This means that if the tests were not reduced on January 14 and there were one lakh tests, the number of patients would have gone above 30,000,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “The government is pretending to control COVID on papers by reducing the number of tests. Pharmacists are selling thousands of kits daily and obviously thousands of patients are turning COVID-positive, but they are not in government records,” he also said. Responding to the allegations, Mr. Jain, said, “We have not reduced testing and we are following the Central government guidelines. We are testing everyone who is coming to take the test.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/current-covid-wave-has-peaked-in-delhi-minister/article38276754.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:08 IST,||Delhiites flout COVID norms amid case surge, officials worried||Despite the city administration introducing stricter curbs over the last nine days, the flouting of norms has continued unabated across the Capital. The only benefit achieved from the new restrictions — weekend curfews, shutdown of private offices and bars and temporary suspension of dine-in services at restaurants — is preventing large public gatherings, while citizens remain resistant to wea-ring masks and maintaining social distancing in public. As many as 45,863 fines, worth over Rs. 9 crore, were issued over the nine-day period from January 6 to 14, compared to 25,202 during January 1 to 5. Mask-related violations accounted for almost 97% of the total fines issued for non-adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour. In fact, during January 6 to 14, of the 212 people fined every hour for not following the restrictions, 205 were prosecuted for not wearing masks or not wearing them properly. Between January 1 and 5, 210 people were fined every hour; of them 202 had been prosecuted for mask-related violations. The weekend curfew was imposed beginning January 7 but the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) imposed restrictions on private offices, eateries and watering holes a few days later. Fines issued for not following social distancing increased from 584 to 964 and from 217 to 401 for spitting in public. While the number of people prosecuted for drinking and consuming tobacco in public reduced by half from 50 from 25, fines for large public gatherings and congregations plummeted to zero from 85. “Citizens must understand that wearing masks is important not only for their own health but for the sake and safety of their parents who are of advanced ages and bound to have comorbidities,” a senior government official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhiites-flout-covid-norms-amid-case-surge-officials-worried/article38276756.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 04:08 IST,||Delhi govt. notifies ‘Aggregators’ Policy’ on electric vehicles||The Delhi government on Saturday said it had become the first State government in the country to notify an “Aggregators’ Policy” to mandate electric vehicle (EV) fleets for ride aggregators and delivery services. The measure is aimed at the adoption of EVs in a bid to combat air pollution in Delhi Ride aggregators and delivery services will have to mandatorily adopt EVs in their newly on-boarded fleets. At least 10% of their new two-wheelers and 5% of four-wheelers in the next three months must be electric. This would be scaled up to 50% of all new two-wheelers and 25% of new four-wheelers by March 2023, the government said. NCR-wide attempt The Delhi government will also make a representation to the Commission for Air Quality Management to direct other states in the NCR area to adopt the policy as well. Drafted in accordance with the Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy 2020 regulations, the aggregator policy proposes incentives to ensure that the transition to EV in the ride-hailing industry happens in a time-bound manner. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said the policy will provide a necessary push to the aggregator industry to become environment friendly. “Delhi government under the leadership of Arvind Kejriwal has been a pioneer in taking measures to combat air pollution. This new policy would be first of its kind and will provide the necessary push to the aggregator industry to become environment-friendly,” Mr. Rai said. According to the government, the essence of the proposed policy is to ensure that the entire spectrum of vehicles used by aggregators and delivery service providers are brought into the fold of a sustainable, clean and electric mobility given the impact of large-scale adoption of clean vehicles and the “serious concern” over the air quality of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-notifies-aggregators-policy-on-electric-vehicles/article38276759.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:14 IST,||Assets worth Rs. 410 cr. attached for bank fraud||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 410 crore in connection with a case involving the promoters of Omkar Group, who had allegedly taken loans from Yes Bank to construct buildings under the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) scheme in Mumbai’s Wadala and diverted the funds. The attached properties include flats worth Rs. 330 crore in a Worli building of the group and a land parcel in Viram (Pune) worth Rs. 80 crore of a company belonging to Sachin Joshi of the Viiking Group, the ED said. About a year ago, the agency had arrested two promoters of the Omkar Group, Babulal Varma and Kamal Kishore Gupta, for alleged diversion of the loans. Omkar Realtors and Developers Private Limited and its directors bought a firm named Surana Developers Wadala, which had rights from the SRA for the re-development of Anand Nagar SRA Cooperative Housing Society. They are alleged to have not paid back the dues. The accused also mortgaged the future floor surface index and took huge credit facilities. While funds were diverted in the guise of services and investments, the work on the SRA buildings was not undertaken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/assets-worth-rs-410-crore-attached-for-bank-fraud/article38276761.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:14 IST,||NCM seeks report on girl found injured in Alwar||The National Commission for Minorities has taken suo motu cognisance of the case of a mentally challenged girl who was found bleeding and in a distressed state in Alwar, and sought a report from the Rajasthan government by January 24.  The girl was found lying on a bridge in Alwar on Tuesday night. According to doctors, her rectum was displaced and she underwent a two-and-a-half-hour surgery. NCM chief Iqbal Singh Lalpura has taken cognisance of media reports on the ‘sexual assault’ of the girl reportedly belonging to the minority community, the commission said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ncm-seeks-report-on-girl-found-injured-in-alwar/article38276959.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:14 IST,||No more curbs as of now, says Ajit Pawar||Expressing concern over the rise in COVID-19 cases in Pune and the rest of Maharashtra, Deputy CM Ajit Pawar on Saturday said as of now no new restrictions will be brought in but a decision will be taken next week depending upon the scenario. Mr. Pawar was speaking to reporters after attending a COVID-19 review meeting here. The meeting was attended by officials of the Pune district administration, Pune Municipal Corporation, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and the Zilla Parishad representatives. The Maharashtra government had recently imposed new restrictions on the movement of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-more-curbs-as-of-now-says-ajit-pawar/article38276958.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:49 IST,||China, Iran start implementing sweeping strategic agreement||China said on Saturday it would begin implementing a strategic agreement with Iran, strengthening economic and political cooperation between the two countries as Beijing blasted Washington’s sanctions on Tehran. China and Iran signed the agreement last year after years of talks, with the wide-ranging partnership set to span areas including energy, security, infrastructure and communications. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Iranian counterpart Hossein Amir-Abdollahian announced the start of the partnership’s implementation at a meeting in east China’s Wuxi on Friday, Beijing’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement.  Few details of the secretive deal have been published, but the New York Times reported in 2020 that it would secure a regular supply of oil for China, citing a draft of the agreement leaked to the paper.  China is Iran’s leading trade partner and was one of the biggest buyers of the country’s oil before then-U.S. president Donald Trump reimposed sweeping unilateral sanctions in 2018. China has officially stopped importing oil from Iran, but analysts say Iranian crude is continuing to enter the country disguised as imports from other countries. Mr. Wang told his Iranian counterpart Friday that China would continue to “oppose illegal unilateral sanctions against Iran,” the Foreign Ministry said. Vienna talks under way Beijing has long sought to boost ties with Tehran, with Chinese president Xi Jinping describing Iran as “China’s major partner in the Middle East” on a rare visit to the country in 2016. Mr. Wang and Mr. Amir-Abdollahian’s meeting comes as talks continue in Vienna over a potential deal to halt Tehran’s development of nuclear weapons. A 2015 deal — agreed by Iran, the U.S., China, Russia, Britain, France and Germany — offered Tehran sanctions relief in exchange for curbs on its nuclear programme. But the U.S. withdrew from the agreement in 2018, reimposing biting sanctions and prompting Tehran to begin rolling back on its commitments. Talk to salvage the nuclear deal began in late November, after being suspended when Iran elected a new ultraconservative government in June. Mr. Wang told his Iranian counterpart on Friday that China believes the United States is to blame for the current state of the deal, the foreign ministry said in its statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-iran-start-implementing-sweeping-strategic-agreement/article64949888.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:49 IST,||‘Russian invasion of Ukraine likely’||U.S. intelligence officials have determined a Russian effort is under way to create a pretext for its troops to further invade Ukraine, and Moscow has already prepositioned operatives to conduct “a false-flag operation” in eastern Ukraine, according to the White House. White House press secretary Jen Psaki said on Friday the intelligence findings show Russia is also laying the groundwork through a social media disinformation campaign that frames Ukraine as an aggressor that has been preparing an imminent attack against Russian-backed forces in eastern Ukraine. Ms. Psaki charged that Russia has already dispatched operatives trained in urban warfare who could use explosives to carry out acts of sabotage against Russia’s own proxy forces — blaming the acts on Ukraine — if Russian President Vladimir Putin decides he wants to move forward with an invasion. “We are concerned that the Russian government is preparing for an invasion in Ukraine that may result in widespread human rights violations and war crimes should diplomacy fail to meet their objectives,” Ms. Psaki said. Pentagon spokesman John Kirby described the intelligence as “very credible.” A U.S. official, who was not authorised to comment on the intelligence and spoke on condition of anonymity, said much of it was gleaned from intercepted communications and observations of the movements of people. The U.S. intelligence findings, which were declassified and shared with U.S. allies before being made public, estimate that a military invasion could begin between mid-January and mid-February. Ukraine is also monitoring the potential use of disinformation by Russia. The new U.S. intelligence was unveiled after a series of talks between Russia and the U.S. and its Western allies this week in Europe aimed at heading off the escalating crisis made little progress. White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan on Thursday Russia is laying the groundwork to invade under false pretenses should Mr. Putin decide to go that route. He said the Russians have been planning “sabotage activities and information operations” that accuse Ukraine of prepping for its own imminent attack against Russian forces in eastern Ukraine. Crimean parallels He said this is similar to what the Kremlin did in the lead-up to Russia’s 2014 annexation of Crimea. Meanwhile the Russians, while maintaining they don’t plan to invade Ukraine, are demanding that the U.S. and NATO provide written guarantees that the alliance will not expand eastward. Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov warned on Friday that Moscow wouldn’t wait indefinitely for the Western response, saying he expects the U.S. and NATO to provide a written answer next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russian-invasion-of-ukraine-likely/article64949883.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:49 IST,||British man put on trial for trying to kill Pakistani blogger||A British man accused of attempting to carry out a contract killing of a prominent Pakistani blogger spent days watching his home and bought a chef’s knife, a court was told on Friday. Muhammed Gohir Khan, 31, is standing trial for conspiracy to murder the liberal activist Ahmad Waqass Goraya, who lives in self-imposed exile in the Netherlands. Khan, from east London, was arrested and charged in June last year after visiting Rotterdam, where Mr. Goraya lives. He has pleaded not guilty. According to the prosecutor Alison Morgan, Khan twice travelled to the Netherlands under strict pandemic measures last year, after being offered up to £100,000 to act as a hitman. The supermarket worker, who was deeply in debt, messaged his wife: “I’m going for us, so we have something... I love you a lot.” Mr. Goraya was away at the time and, unable to locate the blogger, Khan returned to the U.K. on June 23, the prosecutor said. Ms. Morgan has told the court that Khan was hired by “others who appeared to be based in Pakistan”. Khan corresponded via encrypted messaging apps with intermediaries promising him riches on earth and in “Jannah” or paradise, it was alleged. Ms. Morgan said the blogger “made fun of the Pakistani military” and “went so far on occasions as to call Pakistan a terrorist state”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-man-on-trial-for-bid-to-kill-pakistani-blogger/article38276340.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:49 IST,||U.S. plans autonomy in rare earth supplies||Two U.S. senators have proposed a law aiming to end China’s alleged “chokehold” on rare-earth metal supplies, a statement by the lawmakers said Friday. The law — proposed by Democrat Mark Kelly and Republican Tom Cotton — would aim to ensure the United States can guarantee its supplies of rare-earth minerals. “The Chinese Communist Party has a chokehold on global rare-earth element supplies, which are used in everything from batteries to fighter jets,” Mr. Cotton said in the statement. 80% of the United States’ rare-earth imports in 2019 were from China, according to the United States Geological Survey (USGS). The Bill aims to “protect America from the threat of rare-earth element supply disruptions, encourage domestic production of those elements, and reduce our reliance on China”, the statement said. Strategic reserve The law would require the departments of the Interior and Defense to create a “strategic reserve” of rare earth minerals by 2025. That reserve would be tasked with responding to the needs of the army, the tech sector and other essential infrastructure “for one year in the event of a supply disruption”. It also aims to ensure greater transparency on the origins of the components, restricts the use of rare-earth minerals from China in “sophisticated” defense equipment, and urges the Commerce Department to investigate Beijing’s “unfair trade practices”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-plans-autonomy-in-rare-earth-supplies/article38276341.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:49 IST,||U.S. coast on tsunami alert after Pacific volcano||An undersea volcano erupted in spectacular fashion near the Pacific nation of Tonga on Saturday, sending large tsunami waves crashing across the shore and people rushing to higher ground. A tsunami advisory was in effect for Hawaii, Alaska and the U.S. Pacific coast. There were no immediate reports of injuries or the extent of the damage as communications with the small island nation remained cut off hours after the eruption of the volcano. In Hawaii, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center reported waves slamming ashore from half a meter (a foot) in Nawiliwili, Kauai, to 80 centimeters (2.7 feet) in Hanalei. Situation in Tonga On Tonga, video posted to social media showed large waves washing ashore in coastal areas, swirling around homes and buildings. New Zealand's military said it was monitoring the situation and remained on standby, ready to assist if asked. Satellite images showed a huge eruption, a plume of ash, steam and gas rising like a mushroom above the blue Pacific waters. In Hawaii, Alaska and along the U.S. Pacific coast, residents were asked to move away from the coastline to higher ground and pay attention to specific instructions from their local emergency management officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/volcano-erupts-in-pacific-ocean-sending-off-tsunami-warning/article64949884.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:54 IST,||India-China trade crossed $125 bn in 2021||India’s trade with China in 2021 crossed $125 billion, with imports from China nearing a record $100 billion, underlining continued demand for a range of Chinese goods, particularly machinery. In the past 12 months, the value of goods imported by India from China exceeded the total bilateral trade in 2019, data from China’s General Administration of Customs (GAC) released on Friday showed. Trade fell from $92.8 billion in 2019 to $87.6 billion in 2020 on account of the pandemic. Trade has boomed in 2021 thanks to a recovery in demand as well as rising imports of new categories of goods such as medical supplies. Bilateral trade reached $125.6 billion in 2021, with India’s imports from China accounting for $97.5 billion. Imports were higher by 30% from 2019 while India’s exports to China, amounting to $28.1 billion, were up by as much as 56% from two years earlier. The trade deficit last year reached $69.4 billion, up by 22% from the pre-pandemic figure in 2019. While a break-up of imports and exports wasn’t immediately available, India’s biggest exports to China in recent years were iron ore, cotton, and other raw material-based commodities, which have seen a recovery in demand in China last year, while India has imported large quantities of electrical and mechanical machinery, active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), auto components, and over the past two years, a range of medical supplies from oxygen concentrators to PPEs. The 43% year-on-year growth in bilateral trade with India was among the highest that China recorded with its major trading partners. Trade figures with China’s top three trading partners showed growth of 28.1% with ASEAN (to $878.2 billion), 27.5% with the European Union (to $828.1 billion), and 28.7% with the United States, (to $755.6 billion). ‘Disruption risk remains’ GAC spokesperson Li Kuiwen said China’s medical exports had more than doubled in 2021 while laptops and home appliances were up 13% with growing global demand for “stay at home” appliances. Despite China’s robust trading performance and the recovery in 2021, with imports and exports rising 30%, officials warned of the threat of disruptions to global supply chains as the world continues to deal with the impact of the more transmissible Omicron variant in the new year.  India imported large quantities of electrical and mechanical machinery, APIs, auto components||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-china-trade-crossed-125-bn-in-2021/article38276440.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:55 IST,||‘Mapping apps enable our digital infrastructure’||India-headquartered geospatial technology and solutions provider RMSI Pvt. Ltd. — which is developing digital maps for Apple Inc. after working on projects for Google and TomTom — is designing mapping solutions for machines to understand one another and make sense of space. CEO and joint MDAnup Jindalsaid a good map could make or break a business. Excerpts: How relevant are maps today? All of this shared-economy [companies] like Swiggy, Zomato, Uber, Ola, would not have been possible if there were no digital maps and if the maps were not supported by a digital platform that facilitates dynamic routing, the information interchange around the map interface. In future, maps will be at the heart of any digital infrastructure. We see how critical the map is [for government agencies], how they manage their property taxes, their rural payments, subsidies and how they deliver services to their citizens. Maps are also critical for large utilities, like gas or electric, to manage their entire operations. So, the map has become the enabler of the digital infrastructure, which creates new business models. The second [opportunity] is maps for machines. As we opt for more autonomy and robotics, machines have to understand and make sense of space, where they are, where they have to go. So maps will also evolve in the sense that [they] have to be coded in numbers, so machines can understand them. Why do you need to constantly upgrade maps? How can a good map help improve the bottom line? The map is now another virtual nervous system. The digital nervous system has to have that kind of responsiveness and reach. If an e-commerce firm just has a map and the delivery partner delivers somewhere, and you’re not capturing the location, then you’ve missed an opportunity to update the address and the location in the map in one instance. Today the map is a form of living digital content which is constantly being updated by all participants. In the Apple photos application, one way to search is to look for the location. On the map, you click and see the photos at that location, then you go in deeper and find more photos for that location. So the map has evolved from just an ancillary app. And because of the map, new business models are becoming possible. How do you engage with global majors? We had developed maps for Tele Atlas, which later became part of TomTom [a personal navigation device]. We helped Google with their [open web-based platform] map development in India. Most recently, we started Apple Maps development in India, which is one of the largest map development programmes in the world. Now, we are providing Apple Maps all services related to map development, maintenance, and working with them in the roll-out. In the last few months, we started our onsite operations in the U.S. for Apple Maps. In California and Seattle, we have now about 150 people. We are also working with Facebook and Amazon. What is the size of your global presence? We are forecasting to grow 30% this year [globally]. Next year, we are projecting even higher growth. We have more than 5,000 people in the company. Last year, our onsite presence in the U.S. increased. In the U.K. last year, we added 50 more people, and then in India, we recruited about 1,500 during the pandemic. What is lacking in India’s neighbourhood maps? We are working on making maps available for localities thought to be unmappable. The next big opportunity in India is going to be in highly dense urban regions, where there is no map.  Our growth forecast globally for this year is 30%. We are projecting even higher growth for next year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mapping-apps-enable-our-digital-infrastructure/article64949678.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:55 IST,||Tech sector got COVID ‘windfall’ of $100 bn: HFS||The global IT and Business Process Management industry might have already seen a COVID windfall of $100 billion and Indian tech providers may have captured more than 50% of it, as per London-based HFS Research.  “The pandemic has no doubt accelerated tech adoption. We can attribute about $100 billion in additional IT/BPM expenditure by industries as a result of COVID. Over half of it may be going to Indian heritage providers,” Phil Fersht, CEO, HFS Research, told The Hindu, According to Nasscom, the industry was growing at 6-7% pre-Covid. This year, growth is estimated to double, even as post-pandemic business acceleration and quantum revenue growth are already visible. “We will add an additional $8 billion-$10 billion this year,” said Sangeeta Gupta, senior VP and chief strategy officer, Nasscom. “Some $10 billion extra revenues over what we were doing pre-Covid, is a lot of business in FY22.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tech-sector-got-covid-windfall-of-100-bn-hfs/article64949679.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:54 IST,||HDFC Bank net rises 18% on non-interest income||The country’s largest private sector lender HDFC Bank on Saturday reported an 18.1% rise in its standalone net profit to Rs. 10,342.2 crore for the quarter ended December, helped by healthy non-interest income and a fall in provisioning for bad loans. Total income rose to Rs. 40,651.60 crore in the October-December quarter of FY22, as against Rs. 37,522.92 crore a year earlier, HDFC Bank said in a filing. Its non-interest income constituted almost 31% of net revenue at Rs. 8,183.6 crore, rising about 10% from a year earlier. Net interest income (interest earned minus interest expended) climbed 13% to Rs. 18,443.50 crore. Advances grew 16.5%, driven through relationship management, digital offerings and a breadth of products, the bank said. Total deposits grew 13.8% to Rs. 1,445,918 crore as of December. Total advances rose 16.5% to Rs. 1,260,863 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-bank-net-rises-18-on-non-interest-income/article64949691.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:54 IST,||Maruti Suzuki raises vehicle prices again||Maruti Suzuki on Saturday announced its fourth price increase during the current fiscal across models, to mitigate the impact of the increase in input costs. “The weighted average price increase in ex-showroom prices (Delhi) across models is 1.7%. The new prices are effective from today i.e. 15th January, 2022,” it said in a filing. Last month, Maruti had said over the past year, vehicle costs had continued to be adversely impacted due to rising input costs, and it had become imperative to pass on some of the additional costs to customers via a price increase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-suzuki-raises-vehicle-prices-again/article38276441.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:04 IST,||The Final Frontier remains a distant dream||You need more than temper tantrums and theatrics to win a Test series. The fielding has to complement the bowling. Execution is the key. The opportunity for India appeared and disappeared in a flash. And with the dropped catch India blew the chance for a historic series triumph. Defining moment Jasprit Bumrah got a delivery to straighten at a well-set Keegan Petersen, on 59, the batsman edged and Cheteshwar Pujara grassed a regulation offering at first slip. Bumrah was aghast, Pujara buried his head in the ground, and Virat Kohli looked away. By the time, Petersen dragged a Shardul Thakur delivery outside off onto his stumps, he had progressed to 82 and the Proteas had victory within striking distance. And when Temba Bavuma put away R. Ashwin to the mid-wicket fence, it was all over on day four of the third Freedom Test. South Africa had, with this seven-wicket victory on Friday, come from behind to win the Freedom Test series 2-1. India will never have a better opportunity to win a Test series in South Africa. This was a transitional and eminently beatable Proteas side. In the end, a resolute Rassie van der Dussen (41 not out) and a strokeful Bavuma (32 not out) guided the Proteas home. In the morning, India was desperate to strike early. However, the visitors were bereft of luck as deliveries kept eluding the edge. Gradually, Petersen found his range. The dapper batsman punched Umesh Yadav through cover. And then he flicked and cover-drove Bumrah. A fighter The lanky van der Dussen, a well-schooled batsman, is a fighter. Even as the Indians were looking to make inroads he held his end up. While he defended capably, van der Dussen also cover-drove Shami gloriously. And he flicked Bumrah with conviction when the seamer missed his line. Growing in confidence, van der Dussen wristed Umesh to the mid-wicket fence. A checked cover-drive off Umesh was a top shot. When he swept Ashwin to the fence, he did so with assurance. In good touch Bavuma is in good touch and he square-drove Bumrah to the fence to whittle down the target. And he followed this with a blistering cover-drive. The short Bavuma rose on his knees and punched Umesh to the point fence. When Ashwin flighted, he was whipped to the square-leg fence. It was South Africa all the way on the biggest day of the series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-final-frontier-remains-a-distant-dream/article38276320.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:04 IST,||Sindhu shocked; Lakshya moves into maiden final||Supanida Katethong is a little-known Thai girl looking to make a mark in badminton. Coming from a nation that has seven players ranked in the world’s top-50 in women’s badminton — India has just two — left-handed Supanida chose the semifinal stage of the $400,000 India Open here on Saturday to showcase her prowess by knocking out P.V. Sindhu. With a stunning display of temperament in the deciding game, Supanida signed off for a 21-14, 13-21, 21-10 victory in 59 minutes to set up an all-Thailand final with Busanan Ongbamrungphan. Busanan saved five game-points in the opening game against India No. 3 Aakarshi Kashyap before posting a 26-24, 21-9 victory. For the home fans, the exit of Sindhu took away much joy from the semifinal wins of men’s third seed Lakshya Sen and men’s doubles second seed Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty. For Lakshya, it will be his maiden final of the India Open, a BWF World Tour event. Earlier, Lakshya battled hard to down a far lower-ranked Ng Tze Yong. The Malaysian, ranked 60 as compared to Lakshya’s 17, took the first game and led 11-9 at the mid-game interval of the second. Thereafter, Lakshya found his game and won 19-21, 21-16, 21-12.  The results:   Semifinals (Indians unless stated): Men: Loh Kean Yew (Sgp) w/o. Brian Yang (Can); Lakshya Sen bt Ng Tze Yong (Mas) 19-21, 21-16, 21-12; (Doubles): Mohammad Ahsan & Hendra Setiawan (Ina) bt Ong Yew Sin & Teo Ee Yi (Mas) 21-15, 21-18; Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Chirag Shetty bt Fabien Delrue & William Villeger (Fra) 21-10, 21-18.   Women: Supanda Katethong (Tha) bt P. V. Sindhu 21-14, 13-21, 21-10; Busanan Ongbamrungphan (Tha) bt Aakarshi Kashyap 26-24, 21-9; (Doubles): Benyapa Aimsaard & Nuntakarn Aimsaard (Tha) bt Haritha Harinarayanan & Ashna Roy 21-12, 21-9; Anastasiia Akchurina & Olga Morozova (Rus) received a walkover from Ekaterina Malkova & Anastasiia Shapovalova (Rus).   Mixed doubles: Chen Tang Jie & Peck Yen Wei (Mas) bt Tan Kian Meng & Lai Pei Jing (Mas) 21-19, 21-23, 21-14; Hee Yong Kai Terry & Tan Wei Han (Sgp) w/o. Rodion Alimov & Alina Devletova (Rus) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-shocked-lakshya-moves-into-maiden-final/article64949622.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:46 IST,||‘Still have a few more years left’||“I still have a few more years of tennis left in me at the top level,” said six-time Grand Slam winner Sania Mirza. The 35-year-old Sania, who will be making a record-breaking 53rd Grand Slam appearance for an Indian woman when she competes in the doubles at the 2022 Australian Open, felt tennis is a physically demanding sport.  “After becoming a mother, it is more challenging. I put on more weight and therefore need to work even harder,” she said in a chat with The Hindu .  It will be her 15th Australian Open appearance — she made her debut in 2005, won the mixed doubles title with Mahesh Bhupathi in 2009 and the women’s doubles title partnering Martina Hingis in 2016. Sania has the rare distinction of being runner-up in mixed doubles on three more occasions with Bhupathi, Horia Tecau and Ivan Dodig. She will be partnering Nadiia Kichenok in women’s doubles and American of Indian origin, Rajeev Ram, in mixed doubles. “It remains to be seen if Sania and Ram will make the cut for the mixed event or not,” said Imran Mirza, father-cum-coach, who is accompanying Sania to Melbourne. “It was a pretty good run-up to the Australian Open for Sania having entered the women’s doubles semifinals with Kichenok in the Adelaide International 2022 before losing to Ashleigh Barty and Storm Sanders,” he said.    It will be Sania’s 15th Australian Open appearance. She made her debut in 2005, won the mixed doubles title with Mahesh Bhupathi in 2009 and the women’s doubles title partnering Martina Hingis in 2016||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/still-have-a-few-more-years-left-in-me/article64949715.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:55 IST,||Prema Racing signs up Daruvala||India racer Jehan Daruvala’s Formula 1 aspirations received a massive shot in the arm, with Italy’s three-time F2 champion Prema Racing signing him up for the 2022 FIA Formula 2 championship. The 23-year-old from Mumbai will also remain a part of the Red Bull Junior Team for the third successive year. Thrilled “I am thrilled to join hands with Prema once again,” Jehan said on Friday. “Charles (Leclerc) and Mick (Schumacher) clinched F2 titles for Prema Racing and went on to race in F1 the very next year. “I hope to follow in their footsteps,” he added. Jehan will also have a broader role with Red Bull this year. He will not only drive the team’s Formula 1 simulator at its base in Milton Keynes but will also undergo regular evaluations at the team’s fitness facilities in Austria, just like Max Verstappen and Sergio Perez. During his earlier stint with Prema Racing in 2019, Jehan had finished third in the Formula 3 championship, after a season-long title battle with his teammates. The series this year will feature 14 rounds and 28 races starting on March 18, 2022 in Bahrain with the season-finale set for November 20, 2022, in Abu Dhabi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prema-racing-signs-up-daruvala/article64949684.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:04 IST,||Djokovic goes back into detention||Novak Djokovic was back in immigration detention on Saturday after his legal challenge to avoid being deported from Australia for being unvaccinated for COVID-19 was moved to a higher court. A Federal Court hearing has been scheduled for Sunday, a day before the men’s No. 1-ranked tennis player and nine-time Australian Open champion was due to begin his title defence at the first Grand Slam tournament of the year. Djokovic and his lawyers had a morning meeting with immigration officials and, by mid-afternoon, Australian media reported the tennis star was taken back into detention. Television footage showed the 34-year-old Serb wearing a face mask as he sat in a vehicle near an immigration detention hotel. He spent four nights confined to a hotel near downtown Melbourne before being released last Monday when he won a court challenge on procedural grounds against his first visa cancellation. Immigration Minister Alex Hawke on Friday blocked the visa, which was originally revoked when he landed at a Melbourne airport on January 5. Lawyers for Djokovic filed documents in court that revealed Hawke had stated that the tennis star “is perceived by some as a talisman of a community of anti-vaccination sentiment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-goes-back-into-detention/article64949623.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:04 IST,||We failed to apply enough pressure: Kohli||Virat Kohli was unwilling to shed more light on the DRS controversy that rocked play on the third day. South Africa captain Dean Elgar said the angry Indians lost focus for a while after the incident and this helped his team whittle down the target. “I have no comment to make. We understood what happened on the field and the people on the outside don’t know the exact details of what’s going on on the field,” he said. “For me to justify what we did on the field and say we got carried away... if we had got charged up and picked up three wickets it would have been the moment that changed the game. The reality of the situation is we did not apply enough pressure on them for longer periods of time throughout the Test.” He was disappointed by the lack of contribution from the lower middle-order and the tail — “everyone knows they have not stepped up,” he said. “The batting has let us down in the last two games when we needed to address that.” On the future of Cheteshwar Pujara and Ajinkya Rahane, Kohli said, “We have backed Cheteshwar and Ajinkya for the kind of players they are, what they have done in Tests. You saw their partnership in the second Test. “These are the performances, we recognise as a team. What the selectors have in mind, I don’t know.” He admitted that the series setback was painful. “Obviously we are disappointed. Especially when we had a chance to beat South Africa in South Africa. We are a driven team.” Asked about Rishabh Pant’s hundred, Kohli said, “High quality knock, given the attack and conditions. We understand what he can offer. He has to learn from mistakes. As a ’keeper and batter, he is a special talent.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-failed-to-apply-pressure-kohli/article38276326.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:04 IST,||Dhull takes India to 232||Skipper Yash Dhull helped India recover from a poor start and post 232 against South Africa in its Under-19 World Cup opener here on Saturday. Dhull’s solid 82 off 100 balls with 11 fours was the highlight of India’s fighting total. Left-arm pacer Aphiwe Mnyanda rocked the Indian top-order by trapping in-form opener Harnoor Singh (1) and his partner Angriksh Raghuvanshi (5). Dhull and Shaik Rasheed (31) added 71 before the latter fell. The captain then added 44 with Nishant Sidhu (27). Kaushal Tambe (35), too, chipped in. Australia eased past West Indies by six wickets and Sri Lanka defeated Scotland by 30 runs on the opening day.  The scores:   Saturday: India 232 in 46.5 overs (Shaik Rasheed 31, Yash Dhull 82, Kaushal Tambe 35, Matthew Boast 3/40) vs South Africa.   Friday: West Indies 169 in 40.1 overs (Rivaldo Clarke 37, Ackeem Auguste 57, Tom Whitney 3/20, Nivethan Radhakrishnan 3/48, Cooper Connolly 3/17) lost to Australia 170/4 in 44.5 overs (Teague Wyllie 86 n.o., Nivethan Radhakrishnan 31).    Sri Lanka 218 in 45.2 overs (Sakuna Liyanage 85, Raveen de Silva 30, Sean Fischer-Keogh 3/56) bt Scotland 178 in 48.4 overs (Jack Jarvis 55, Dunith Wellalage 5/27).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhull-takes-india-to-232/article38276334.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:55 IST,||Karatsev beats Murray for Sydney title||World No. 20 Aslan Karatsev powered past Andy Murray 6-3, 6-3 in one hour and 31 minutes in the Sydney Classic final on Saturday. World No. 9 Paula Badosa of Spain took the women’s title beating Barbora Krejcikova 6-3, 4-6, 7-6(4). In Adelaide, American Madison Keys brushed aside compatriot Alison Riske 6-1, 6-2 to claim the Adelaide International women’s title. The men’s title went to local lad Thanasi Kokkinakis, who claimed a first ATP title downing fellow big-server Arthur Rinderknech 6-7(6), 7-6(5), 6-3.  The results: Sydney International: Men: Aslan Karatsev bt Andy Murray 6-3, 6-3. Women: Paula Badosa bt Barbora Krejcikova 6-3, 4-6, 7-6(4).   Adelaide International: Men: Thanasi Kokkinakis bt Arthur Rinderknech 6-7(6), 7-6(5), 6-3. Women: Madison Keys bt Alison Riske 6-1, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karatsev-beats-murray-for-sydney-title/article64949681.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:00 IST,||Unbeaten Miracle for the Indian Oaks||Trainer Pesi Shroff’s wonder filly Miracle, who has won in all her seven starts so far, should continue the winning streak in the Villoo C. Poonawalla Indian Oaks (Gr. 1), the Classic attraction of Sunday’s (Jan. 16) races here. There will be no false rails. MARCHETTA PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 12.45 p.m.: 1. Demetrius (4) T.S. Jodha 62, 2. Fernando (9) Sahrukh Khan 62, 3. On Va Danser (2) Kaviraj 62, 4. Vikramaditya (7) Antony Raj S 62, 5. Connaught (10) P. Shinde 61.5, 6. Sunlord (5) Kirtish 61, 7. Special Situation (3) A. Prakash 60.5, 8. Tail Event (8) A. Gaikwad 60.5, 9. Hellbent (1) Parmar 59.5, 10. Mascara (11) Yash Narredu 57.5 and 11. Star Sincerity (6) Peter 57.  1. DEMETRIUS, 2. SUNLORD, 3. ON VA DANSER HOMI MODY TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward, 1.15: 1. Victorious Sermon (4) Zervan 59.5, 2. Grand Accord (2) Srinath 58, 3. Caprisca (1) Antony Raj S 53.5, 4. Truly Epic (5) C.S. Jodha 52 and 5. Giant Star (3) Neeraj 49.5.  1. GIANT STAR, 2. VICTORIOUS SERMON THUMBELINA PLATE (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 1.45: 1. Hawk Of The Wind (1) Zervan 56, 2. Hooves Of Thunder (4) Yash Narredu 56, 3. Liam (7) T.S. Jodha 56, 4. Supernatural (6) P.S. Chouhan 56, 5. Tyrone Black (3) Sandesh 56, 6. Chat (2) Trevor 54.5 and 7. Milli (5) C.S. Jodha 54.5.  1. SUPERNATURAL, 2. CHAT, 3. HAWK OF THE WIND UTTAM SINGH TROPHY (2,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 2.15: 1. Botero (6) Trevor 59.5, 2. Sky Storm (2) Antony Raj S 56, 3. Kamaria (5) C.S. Jodha 54, 4. Sentinel (3) Bhawani 53, 5. Leto (1) Kaviraj 50.5 and 6. Brazos (4) Parmar 50.  1. BOTERO, 2. KAMARIA RAMNIWAS RAMNARAIN RUIA GOLD CUP (Gr. 3) (2,000m) (Terms), 4-y-o only, 2.45: 1. Aries (4) Bhawani 57, 2. Chieftain (1) T.S. Jodha 57, 3. Chopin (2) Neeraj 57, 4. Darwin (3) Srinath 57, 5. The Awakening (6) Yash Narredu 57 and 6. Zarak (5) Dashrath 57.  1. ARIES, 2. THE AWAKENING P.D. AVASIA TROPHY (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 3.15: 1. Majestic Warrior (5) Aniket 61, 2. Petronia (3) Trevor 60, 3. Bakhtawar (2) Neeraj 59, 4. Exotique (7) P.S. Chouhan 57, 5. Minx (8) Kirtish 55, 6. Divine Hunt (1) T.S. Jodha 54, 7. Steppenwolf (9) Shelar 51, 8. Multistarrer (6) Kaviraj 50.5 and 9. Superleggera (4) Zeeshan 49.  1. PETRONIA, 2. MINX, 3. EXOTIQUE VILLO C. POONAWALLA INDIAN OAKS (Gr.1) (2,400m) (Terms), Indian Fillies, 4-y-o only, 3.45: 1. Aah Bella (2) Sandesh 57, 2. Animous (1) Neeraj 57, 3. Hela (3) Bhawani 57, 4. Miracle (4) P.S. Chouhan 57 and 5. Song Song Blue (5) T.S. Jodha 57.  1. MIRACLE, 2. AAH BELLA TRICUMDAS DWARKADAS TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 4.15: 1. Dragoness (5) Parmar 61, 2. Nothing To Worry (6) Akshay 59, 3. Remus (8) Antony Raj S 58.5, 4. Gusty Girl (10) P. Vinod 58, 5. World Is One (9) Aniket 56, 6. Juiced (13) Sandesh 55, 7. Lagertha (7) Peter 55, 8. Reciprocity (14) S. Amit 54, 9. Turmeric Tower (2) T.S. Jodha 54, 10. Rhythm Of Nature (4) Ayyar 52.5, 11. Lambretta (11) Bhawani 52, 12. Emerald (3) Kaviraj 51.5, 13. Spirit Bay (12) Zeeshan 51 and 14. Historic (1) N. Nadeem 50.  1. DRAGONESS, 2. REMUS, 3. JUICED MARCHETTA PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 4.45: 1. Charming Star (10) Dashrath 61.5, 2. Seminole (1) Kaviraj 61, 3. Cherished (9) Kirtish 60.5, 4. Angels Trumpet (4) C.S. Jodha 60, 5. Camden Town (2) Antony Raj S 60, 6. Full Of Grace (8) Zervan 60, 7. Touch Of Faith (3) Parmar 59.5, 8. Magical Rays (7) N. Nadeem 59, 9. Silent Knight (11) A. Prakash 58.5, 10. Polaris (6) Bhawani 53.5 and 11. Sir Ramon (5) Zeeshan 53.  1. SEMINOLE, 2. CHERISHED, 3. CHARMING STAR  Day’s Best: BOTERO Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6. (ii) 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9. Treble: (i) 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 6, 7 & 8. (iii) 7, 8 & 9. Tanala: All races. Super Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unbeaten-miracle-for-the-indian-oaks/article38276956.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:04 IST,||Kohli steps down as Test captain||The signs were there. Virat Kohli was becoming extremely frustrated with captaincy. The manner in which he kicked the air and blew up after Dean Elgar won a review on day three of the decider here indicated he was running out of patience. If he had a vision then behaving badly on the field of play was not a part of it.  A day after India lost the series 2-1 to South Africa, Kohli resigned as the Test captain, in a long tweet, here on Saturday.  The Delhi batsman, who took over captaincy in a rather dramatic fashion when M.S. Dhoni shocked everyone by stepping down as skipper after the Melbourne Test against Australia in 2014, formed a lasting relationship with coach Ravi Shastri. High and low His greatest achievement as captain was in leading India to its first ever Test series triumph in Australia. Passionate about Tests, the failure to beat South Africa in a Test series on this tour would go down among his greatest disappointments. During his stint as captain, Kohli did not see eye-to-eye with Anil Kumble, which led to the legend being forced out as coach. Kohli also did not lead India to a title triumph in any ICC competition. Being removed as the ODI captain hurt Kohli. And his public disagreement with the BCCI did not help matters either. The writing was on the wall. Rohit Sharma will be a natural successor to Kohli. Kohli said in his tweet, “It has been 7 years of hard work, toil and relentless perseverance everyday to take the team in the right direction. I’ve done the job with absolute honesty and left nothing out there. Everything has to come to a halt at some stage and for me as Test captain of India, it is now. There have been many ups and also some downs along the journey: but never had there been a lack of effort or a lack of belief.” He added, “I have always believed in giving my 120 percent in everything I do, and if I can’t do that, I know it is not the right thing to do. I have absolute clarity in my heart and I cannot be dishonest to the team.” Thanks Shastri & Co. He thanked “Ravi Bhai and the support group who were the engine behind this vehicle that moved up in Test Cricket consistently. You all have played a massive role in bringing this vision to life. Lastly, a big thank you to M.S. Dhoni who believed in me as captain and found me to be an able individual who could take Indian cricket forward.” Kohli thanked his teammates and the BCCI. The Board responded by acknowledging Kohli’s efforts as captain. One era ends and another will begin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-steps-down-as-test-captain/article64949620.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:55 IST,||Historian triumphs||Mrs. Aishwarya J’s Historian (Santosh G up) won the A.M.K.M.K. Karuppan Chettiar Memorial Cup, the main event of the Pongal day’s races held here on Friday (Jan. 14). R. Karthik trains the winner. 1. ADOLF HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45: FLYING SAFE (Dhanu Singh) 1, Raisina (Santosh G) 2, Sweet Fragrance (Yash Narredu) 3 and Easy Rider (S. Joseph) 4. 1/2, 3/4 and 1/2. 1m, 29.45s. Owner: M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing. Trainer: D.K. Futnani.  2. ADOLF HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45: LADY MIMI (Yash Narredu) 1, Ganton (Shane Gray) 2, Hallucinate (C. Umesh) 3 and Wise Don (B. Dharshan) 4. 6-3/4, hd and 1/2. 1m, 28.61s. Owner: Mr. Bhupinder Singh S.S. Trainer: D. Narredu.  3. BISHOP HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: PAPPARAZI (Gaurav Singh) 1, Katahdin (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Illustrious Ruler (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Red Hot Jet (Vishal Bunde) 4. Not run: Winraise. 2-1/2, 4-1/4, and 1-1/2. 1m, 14.11s. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: D.K. Futnani  4. TAMILNADU RACE HORSE OWNERS ASSOCIATION TROPHY (Div. I) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65: RIPPLING WATERS (Shyam Kumar) 1, Demerara (S. Shareef) 2, That’s My Class (C. Brisson) 3 and Excellent Phoenix (Yash Narredu) 4. Snk, 3/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 14.01s. Owner: M.A.M.Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: R. Foley.  5. A.M.K.M.K. KARUPPAN CHETTIAR MEMORIAL CUP (1,600m), rated 60 to 85: HISTORIAN (Santosh G) 1, Gallantry (Yash Narredu) 2, Spicy Star (N. Jodha) 3 and Eagle Prince (Nakhat Singh) 4. 7-1/2, 3/4 and 1. 1m, 39.20s. Owner: Mrs. Aishwarya J. Trainer: R. Karthik.  6. TAMIL NADU RACE HORSE OWNERS ASSOCIATION TROPHY (Div. II) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65: SUPER GIRL (Yash Narredu) 1, Sasakwa (C. Umesh) 2, Star Ranking (M.S. Deora) 3 and Pacific (Ashhad Asbar) 4. 7-1/2, 1 and 4-1/4. 1m, 13.03s. Owner: Mr. Champaklal Zaveri. Trainer: P. Krishna.  7. BISHOP HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: BEEJAY (C.S. Jodha) 1, Striking Distance (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Sea Script (Nikhl Naidu) 3 and Wild Frank (C. Umesh) 4. 1, 3-3/4 and lnk. 1m, 14.08s. Owners: Mr. Akhtar Adamji Peerbhoy, Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar Peerbhoy, Adhiraj Singh Jodha, M/s. Jai Govind Agri Farms & Ajay Kumar Arora. Trainer: A. Jodha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/historian-triumphs/article38276455.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:46 IST,||In-form Blasters meets a struggling Mumbai||The last time Mumbai City took on Kerala Blasters, one team was on a four-game winning streak, the other had almost forgotten how to win. A lot has changed in a month. Mumbai is no longer the unbeatable defending champion. It, in fact, hasn’t won even once in its last five games and has slid to fourth place in the ISL table, from the pole position where it was when it played Blasters last month. On a roll The men from Kochi had won that match 3-0. They haven’t looked back since. They are leading the table now, and are unbeaten for 10 games. The question is if they could make it 11 on Sunday, when it takes on Mumbai at the Tilak Maidan Stadium, Vasco. They must be confident they could: such has been the quality of their football from that match against Mumbai onwards. For Mumbai, the return leg is an opportunity to avenge that defeat and to get its act together. But it will need to up its game against a side that has looked the most complete side. Mumbai’s coach Des Buckingham said he enjoyed watching Blasters play. “Adrian Luna always impresses me.” The Uruguayan midfielder is a constant threat to any defence, with his passes and kicks from set-pieces. Blasters coach Ivan (Vukomanovic) said his team would have to remain focused. “The moment you think you are the best and start being arrogant, you are finished, you’re history,” Vukomanovic said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/in-form-blasters-meets-a-struggling-mumbai/article38276916.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:54 IST,||One Wish tipped to take the honours||The 5-y-old mare One Wish from trainer S.K. Sunderji’s yard may score in the R.M. Reddy Memorial Cup, the chief event of Sunday’s (Jan. 16) races here. TWIN STAR PLATE (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 2.00: 1. Fatuma (8) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Horse O’ War (5) B. Nikhil 60, 3. Soul Empress (3) Mukesh Kumar 60, 4. Silver Set (7) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 5. Asturias (11) Santosh Raj 59, 6. Elmira (10) Nikhil Naidu 58, 7. Challenger (4) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 8. New Role (2) R.S. Jodha 56.5, 9. Starwalker (9) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 10. N R I Gift (6) Rafique Sk. 54.5 and 11. It’s My Life (1) G. Naresh 54.  1. SILVER SET, 2. ELMIRA, 3. FATUMA MULUGU PLATE(Div. I) (1,600m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.30: 1. Linewiler (2) Santosh Raj 60, 2. Curcumin (6) R. Ajinkya 59, 3. Rhythm Selection (4) Md. Ismail 58.5, 4. Sun Dancer (10) Akshay Kumar 58, 5. Advance Guard (5) Nakhat Singh 56, 6. Grand Finale (1) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 7. N R I Heights (7) Afroz Khan 54.5, 8. Lightning Power (8) Ajeeth Kumar 54, 9. Queen Blossom (9) Ashad Asbar 52.5, 10. Destine To Be (11) Gaurav Singh 51.5, 11. Royal Girl (3) B. Nikhil 51 and 12. Solo Winner (12) Abhay Singh 50.  1. SUN DANCER, 2. LINEWILER, 3. CURCUMIN A.S. KRISHNA MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 3.00: 1. Arthur (6) Ashad Asbar 56, 2. Jack Daniel (3) Nakhat Singh 56, 3. Bellagio (2) Nikhil Naidu 54.5, 4. Bellaque (9) S.S. Tanwar 54.5, 5. Lady Di (1) R. Ajinkya 54.5, 6. Mysterious Angel (5) Mukesh Kumar 54.5, 7. Pleroma (8) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 8. Shaden (7) Md. Ismail 54.5 and 9. Virangna (4) Kiran Naidu 54.5.  1. PLEROMA, 2. BELLAGIO, 3. LADY DI R.M. REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 3.30: 1. British Empress (5) B. Nikhil 61, 2. One Wish (1) R. Ajinkya 59, 3. Soloist (6) Akshay Kumar 59, 4. Akido (8) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 5. Full Volume (9) Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 6. Intense Approach (2) Ajeeth Kumar 55, 7. Sporting Smile (10) P. Gaddam 54.5, 8. Siyavash (4) Gaurav Singh 54, 9. Cheltenham (11) Afroz Khan 53.5, 10. By The Bay (3) S.S. Tanwar 53 and 11. Pinatubo (7) Rupal Singh 50.  1. ONE WISH, 2. SOLOIST, 3. INTENSE APPROACH SHRAVAN KUMAR MEMORIAL CUP (1,100m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 4.00: 1. Chuckit (14) A.A. Vikrant 60, 2. Menilly (2) Santosh Raj 60, 3. Strategist (11) Mukesh Kumar 59.5, 4. Beauty On Parade (6) Akshay Kumar 57, 5. Angel Tesoro (8) Gaurav Singh 55, 6. Ashwa Mahika (4) Kuldeep Singh 54, 7. Blissful (3) Nakhat Singh 54, 8. Amyra (5) Afroz Khan 53.5, 9. City Of Bliss (7) Abhay Singh 53.5, 10. Different (13) Md. Ismail 53.5, 11. Rising Queen (10) Ashad Asbar 53, 12. Unsung Hero (12) Rafique Sk. 53, 13. Gusty Note (1) B.R. Kumar 52 and 14. Jean Lafette (9) S.S. Tanwar 52.  1. MENILLY, 2. BEAUTY ON PARADE, 3. BLISSFUL MULUGU PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.30: 1. Star Babe (10) Abhay Singh 60, 2. Nightmare (5) Santosh Raj 58.5, 3. Royal Grace (11) Nikhil Naidu 58, 4. Hidden Hope (9) R. Ajinkya 56.5, 5. Dillon (6) B. Nikhil 55.5, 6. Ice Berry (7) Gaurav Singh 54.5, 7. Lightning Fairy (1) Akshay Kumar 53.5, 8. Blickfang (3) Rafique Sk. 53, 9. Dunkirk (2) Nakhat Singh 52.5, 10. Prime Gardenia (4) Ajeeth Kumar 52.5 and 11. Sorry Darling (8) Afroz Khan 51.  1. LIGHTNING FAIRY, 2. STAR BABE, 3. PRIME GARDENIA  Day’s Best: ONE WISH Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6. Mini Jackpot : 3, 4, 5 & 6. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 4, 5 & 6. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/one-wish-tipped-to-take-the-honours/article38276442.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:10 IST,||Manas claims his maiden ITF junior title||Manas Dhamne won his maiden ITF junior title as he beat Aayush Bhat 7-5, 6-1 in the final of the grade-2 event at the CLTA Stadium on Sunday. The 14-year-old Manas, who had earned the distinction of being the only Indian to win the prestigious European under-16 title in Germany during his 10-month stint with renowned coach Riccardo Piatti in Italy, did not drop a set in eight matches, including three in the qualifying event. “Manas played four ITF tournaments in Italy, Croatia and San Marino on clay. Since he could play only 10 tournaments in a year, he was without match practice for more than three months before the previous tournament in Chandigarh’’, explained Manoj Dhamne, father of Manas. In the girls’ section, Lanlana Tararudee of Thailand pipped Vlada Mincheva of Russia 7-6(8), 4-6, 7-6(8) in a thriller. There was some cheer for the Indian camp earlier, when Aayush Bhat and Rushil Khosla won the doubles title.  The results:   Boys (final): Manas Dhamne bt Aayush Bhat 7-5, 6-1; Semifinals: Aayush Bhat bt Bushan Haobam 6-4, 6-2; Manas Dhamne bt Lucas Phanthala (Fra) 7-5, 6-1.   Doubles (final): Aayush Bhat & Rushil Khosla bt Fadi Bidan (Lbn) & Thanaphat Boosarawongse (Tha) 6-3, 6-2.   Girls (final): Lanlana Tararudee (Tha) bt Vlada Mincheva (Rus) 7-6(8), 4-6, 7-6(8); semifinals: Lanlana Tararudee (Tha) bt Vaishnavi Adkar 1-6, 6-2, 6-2; Vlada Mincheva (Rus) bt Meshkatolzahra Safi (Iri) 6-3, 7-5.   Doubles (final): Darja Suvirdjonkova (Srb) & Lanlana Tararudee (Tha) bt Vaishnavi Adkar & Rutuja Chaphalkar 3-6, 7-5, [10-5] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manas-claims-his-maiden-itf-junior-title/article64949799.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:54 IST,||Bhavani and other Indians bow out||Indian fencers, including Olympian Bhavani Devi, bowed out of the women’s individual sabre event of the World Cup after losing their respective contests. Bhavani, ranked 55th in the world, had received a bye in the round of 128 but suffered a 8-15 loss to Spain’s Elena Hernandez in the next round. The 28-year-old secured victories in four matches in the group stage and lost one. One match was called off. Anitha Karunakaran and Josna Christy Jose couldn’t cross the round of 128. While Anitha lost 3-15 to Russia’s Dariya Drozd, Josna lost to Spain’s Araceli Navarro. Bhavani may compete in the next women’s World Cup in Plovdiv on Jan. 28 and 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhavani-and-other-indians-bow-out/article38276443.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:54 IST,||al-Attiyah claims fourth Dakar crown||Qatar’s Nasser al-Attiyah won the Dakar Rally for a fourth time after the gruelling two-week trek through the Saudi Arabian desert came to a climax on Friday. The 51-year-old — champion in 2011, 15 and 19 — took the overall honours by almost half an hour from France’s nine-time World rally champion Sebastien Loeb.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/al-attiyah-claims-fourth-dakar-crown/article64949686.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:04 IST,||DRS distraction helped us, says Elgar||The DRS conundrum and the blow-up by the Indian team on day three of the third Test, actually helped South Africa, felt the Protea captain Dean Elgar, who survived an LBW appeal from R. Ashwin following a successful review. The Indians lost their cool and surprisingly no charges have been pressed for their bust-up. Elgar was dismissed nine overs later, but by that time, South Africa had whittled down the target by another 41 runs. Elgar said, “I loved it. It was a bit of Test match cricket pressure which gave us a little bit of a window period to score freer and chip away at the target. It played nicely into our hands that for a period of time, they forgot about the game and they were channelling a bit more on the emotional side. I am extremely happy it happened that way." Pat for KP, Jansen The Proteas captain was all praise for Keegan Petersen and Marco Jansen. “The knocks KP played for us were massive. He’s evolved as a player. And Jansen gave us a different angle, bounce. He’s a genuine talent.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/drs-distraction-helped-us-elgar/article38276319.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 06:04 IST,||SuperSport clarifies||The Indians exploded in a forgettable display of temper on Thursday during the third Test. They were convinced Dean Elgar was leg-before to R. Ashwin. When the ball tracking showed otherwise, they were furious. Yet, from their remarks, which they made sure was picked up by the stump microphone, it was clear they had lost faith in the system. Meanwhile, broadcaster SuperSport, in its clarification, stated: “Hawk-Eye is an independent service provider approved by the ICC and their technology has been accepted for many years as an integral part of DRS. SuperSport does not have any control over the Hawk-Eye technology.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/supersport-clarifies/article38276318.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:35 IST,||Nikin and Utham shine||Opener S.J. Nikin Jose’s 124 (17x4, 3x6) and a match-haul of nine wickets by Utham Aiyappa (five for 35 and four for 48), helped RBNCC-A score a four-wicket win over Vidyaranya CC in the two-day KSCA Mysore zone first division league recently.  The scores: I div.: Vidyaranya 120 in 37 overs (Surendra Rathore 55, Utham Aiyappa 5/35, L.R. Kumar 3/33) & 204 in 75.1 overs (Surendra Rathore 78, N. Bharath 38, Sohan P. Hegde 32, Utham Aiyappa 4/48, Abhinoam Jacob 4/53) lost to RBN-A 236/7 decl. in 41 overs (S.J. Nikin Jose 124, Kruthik Krishna 35, B. Bhuvan 4/35) & 89/6 in 19 overs (S.J. Nikin Jose 27, N. Bharath 4/35).   II div.: Sunny Side 100 in 37.1 overs (Prajwal 43, D.S. Praveen Kumar 5/30, A.S.Vinay Kumar 3/25) lost to Lucky Boys, Nanjangud 102 for no loss in 18.5 overs (M. Yashwanth 55 n.o., Sarvesh Raju 41 n.o.).   III div.: Royal 279 in 48 overs (Venuprasad 126, Ganesh Raj 48, Manjunath 3/40) bt City Cricketers, Mandya 151 in 23.3 overs (Manz 45, K. Abhilash 26).   IV div.: Nanjangud 133 in 41.3 overs (H.S. Sagar 26, Daivik Sanath 3/35) lost to Jayanagar 134/3 in 23 overs (Varun Kumar 68, Prajwal Gowda 29 n.o) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nikin-and-utham-shine/article38276933.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:55 IST,||AFI postpones Indian Open race walking||The Athletics Federation of India (AFI) has postponed the ninth Indian Open and the fifth international race walking competitions scheduled in Ranchi on February 5 and 6. The federation said it was done forced to postpone the race walking events owing to the surge in the COVID-19 cases and restrictions from the State Government on sports activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/afi-postpones-indian-open-race-walking/article38276454.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:55 IST,||Pandoo appointed IWLF’s High-Performance Director||Indian Weightlifting Federation will get the services of its first high-performance director, Aveenash Pandoo, until the 2024 Paris Olympics. The Union Sports Ministry has approved the appointment of Pandoo at an annual salary of $54,000, said a release on Friday. The HPD has been appointed with focus on development of junior talent with an eye on the 2028 Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pandoo-appointed-iwlfs-high-performance-director/article38276459.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:55 IST,||Bagan-BFC match postponed||The Indian Super League (ISL) match featuring ATK Mohun Bagan and Bengaluru FC, scheduled for Saturday at Fatorda, has been postponed owing to a COVID-19 outbreak in the two sides. The ISL made the announcement on the match-day morning after assessing the severity of the outbreak. On Friday, FC Goa and NorthEast United FC were involved in a 1-1 draw.  The result:   FC Goa 1 (Santana 2) drew against NEUFC 1 (Cabrera 39).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bagan-bfc-match-postponed/article38276451.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 12:04 IST,||Sudoku — January 23, 2022||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-16-2022/article64946274.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:11 IST,||No hurdle too high||Adhav Kandasamy S. was four when his father and uncle took him to Equine Dreams, an equestrian club in Nava India, Coimbatore, for the first time. They wanted to enrol the energetic kid in a new activity. Both were fond of horse riding. And, they thought little Adhav would like it too. Adhav did — more than his father or uncle had imagined. Nine years since he first sat on a horse’s back, he has close to 50 equestrian medals, including an individual gold and a team silver at the Junior National Equestrian Championship 2021 held in Mumbai. An elite sport Equestrian, especially in India, is considered an elite and obscure sport. Only three Indians — Indrajit Lamba (in 1996), Imitiaz Anees (2000), and Fouaad Mirza (2021) — have managed to make it to the Olympics so far. Fouaad’s participation at last year’s Tokyo Games and the two silver medals he won at the 2018 Asian Games brought some spotlight to this otherwise inconspicuous sport. Adhav cannot recall how he felt when he first sat on a horse. He was at ease, more or less. Adhav’s coach, Saravanan K., reckons he is a natural. “What makes our sport unique is that it involves establishing a connection with an animal. And, Adhav quickly builds a rapport even with the most challenging horses. This ability is important for equestrians,” he says. ‘Naturally gifted’ Adhav has ridden over four horses. The current one, AK, is named after himself. “I did not know what to name him. So, I just used my initials,” laughs the 12-year-old. “I bathe him. I groom him. He likes carrots a lot. So, I feed him that. I talk to him a lot. During competitions, I tell him things like ‘Idhu easy ah dhaan irukkum, bayappadadhe’ (Don’t worry, this will be easy)... I don’t know if he understands everything I tell him.” According to Saravanan, the communication is not just verbal. “Your posture is important. If it is not right, your hands might shake and that can upset the horse. Adhav doesn’t have such problems.” Adhav’s favourite category is show-jumping, wherein the horse and rider are required to jump, usually within a time limit, a series of obstacles. He won the gold medal for this event. “I tried dressage. But it’s too slow for me.” Aiming for greater glory He is now targeting the 2026 Asian Games. “We have already started preparations for that,” says his coach. “You need to start very young in this sport and work hard. Adhav travels 15 kilometres every day for his training at 5 a.m. It is not just about him. His success depends on his horse and the support he gets from his parents,” he adds. Adhav’s mother, Subathra Sampath, albeit happy about her son’s success, is disappointed it does not bring him any benefits. “Despite his National-level achievements, he neither has a sponsor or even a scholarship. It is an expensive sport. We have to spend for him and the horse. So, we need the support of his school or the government,” she says. Adhav’s ultimate dream: an Olympic gold medal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/no-hurdle-too-high/article64949798.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 05:01 IST,||Tales from the slithering house||A school in Goa recently had an unexpected student: a feisty, 11-foot-long crocodile. It strayed from the river during the rains and stationed itself outside a classroom window. The staff quickly called Goa’s Steve Irwin — Benhail Antao, and Louise Remedios, a couple that is wedding planners by profession and wildlife rescuers by passion. “It’s a crazy life we lead,” laughs Louise over a call from Goa. “On our anniversary we rescued a monitor lizard, took it to the vet, dressed the wound and made sure it healed,” she adds.  The couple’s bizarre wildlife adventures are now captured in Snakes SOS: Goa’s Wildest , a 10-part series by National Geographic. The show also documents the reptile population, techniques used and the contributions made by Louise and Benhail. Together, they have so far rescued leopards, gaur, porcupine and bats.  Benhail has been a wildlife enthusiast since he was a teenager. “We should all know how to respect animals,” he says, adding that when he started out, he would gently catch snakes and take them to the Forest Department.“There was no Internet back then or books to use as reference. I learnt which snakes are found in India.” Goa, he explains, has 25-30 species of snake and all the big four: Russell’s viper, saw scaled viper, krait and spectacled cobra. An expert now, Benhail hosts workshops educating people about reptiles. It is during one such awareness programme that Louise met him. “Our mutual love for wildlife brought us together,” she says. And just like their wedding clients, who come from all over the world, they also get requests from people all over the country to help rescue snakes. The couple guides clueless people over long video calls on how to deal with an unexpected “guest” in their house. “We want to be called educators, not just snake rescuers,” says Benhail.  Snakes SOS: Goa’s Wildest will air on National Geographic every Monday and Tuesday at 8 p.m. in Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Bengali and Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tales-from-the-slithering-house/article64949800.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:47 IST,||‘Books can talk for the author’||Seven novels, four major accolades including the Sahitya Akademi, three nominations: Anees Salim completed a decade in Indian English Fiction in 2021. The year also marked the publication of his new novel, The Odd Book of Baby Names, a German translation of Vanity Bagh , and the announcement of his next novel, The Bellboy . He is now busy writing another and we caught him in the middle of a hectic schedule. Excerpts from an interview:  In strong spurts, at intervals, that’s been your publishing pattern...  Shortly after The Small-town Sea was published, I found myself unable to write. Not that I felt empty. I had stories and characters inside me but for some inexplicable reason I could not bring myself to create or craft anything the way I wanted. It was an uncertain period for the storyteller in me.   But slowly I regained the rhythm and started to work on an idea that had been with me for a long time and The Odd Book of Baby Names was born. Then I wrote The Bellboy . And now I am writing another one. I guess I have rediscovered the writer in me, and I feel somewhat relieved.  You have this image of a recluse. With your books reaching audiences abroad, is it time to reconsider? My interaction with the world is limited to print and social media. I use both the mediums to remind people that my books exist. I don’t believe in the concept of building an image for the author. Books can talk for the author and, in my case, other than what my books say, I don’t have much to talk about. Having said that, let me add that my views can change in the future. Sometimes I am surprised by how my outlook changes. For instance, as a boy I wanted radio stations to play sad music when I died. As an aspiring writer, I wanted my obituary to appear on the front page. Now I pine for a quiet burial. Even my neighbours should not know about my passing until a few weeks have passed. So time changes the way you look at life, and one day I might make myself less inconspicuous. But I don’t think I will do that with any pleasure. I don’t know if I should change myself because of the overseas deals. I interact with my U.K. editor every second day, and I have promised to meet her in the first half of 2022. I just hope I won’t have to do anything more than a few one-to-one meetings. How has the response been to translations of your works? My books have been translated into several Indian languages. But frankly, I don’t keep track of their performance. I have a feeling that my translated works don’t get much media attention in India. Literary magazines in regional languages are yet to take a serious look at my body of work. Can you tell us more aboutThe Bellboy? The Bellboy is set in Kerala. It is about a 17-year-old boy from a disappearing island who ventures out to the mainland to work as a bellboy in a lodge where people usually come to die. It traces his life on the mainland and the way he loses his way in the world. The book will be published in the U.K. in September 2022 and in India in November.  How have you experimented with background and form, especially inThe Odd Book of Baby Names? I usually leave towns and cities unnamed in my books, or give them fictitious names. Real names don’t work for me, they seem to restrict the movements of my characters.  I created Mangobagh (in the The Vicks Mango Tree ) by gluing many places together. You will find a bit of Hyderabad, a bit of Lucknow, a bit of Delhi and several other cities in that. But any place with the backdrop of a beach is definitely my hometown, though I have left it unnamed in The Blind Lady’s Descendants and The Small-town Sea . The Odd Book of Baby Names has a different setting, and I leave it to the readers to call the city by any name they like. But I have sprinkled the story with enough clues about the setting. As to form, I was convinced that only multiple voices would work in a book which has not just two sides to the story but nine.  How do you research the backdrops for your novels? The places I have lived in help me create the backdrops. But there is more to it. When I travel, I invariably carry home the memories of some places. They may not be clean or pretty places, but they stay with me. It can be a village, a highway, an island, a beach, or just a cul-de-sac. They haunt me until I weave them into my stories.  For instance, The Small-town Sea has a secret beach, and people who pay a visit to my hometown often ask me for directions to the secret beach. The secret beach does exist, but not in my hometown, not even in India. It is in another country and I vividly remember staying a whole day there until it was too dark to see the sea. I felt a string go taut in my chest when it was time for me to leave.   Sometimes places stay with me not as visuals but as sounds. About three years ago, I wandered around a pine forest in Greece, and the sound of birds, not entirely pleasant, stayed in my head until I could write about it (a music that equalled the sound of 100 maracas) in The Odd Book of Baby Names .  Do awards matter? Awards do matter. Awards bring money to writers, but more than that, awards earn them new readers. Why an award, even inclusion in a longlist will have an immediate impact on sales. They help readers generate a reading list and inspire writers to write more. How has your writing changed in the last decade?  I don’t make any conscious effort to make one book different from the other. The seed of each book comes with its own style. The Odd Book of Baby Names is entirely different from all the other books I have written so far. In this, I have tried to experiment with my craft a bit, and when I realised that it was getting too experimental I edited some 40 pages away.  Tell us something about your work in progress. It is about a 35-year-old man who lives with his demented mother and keeps himself engaged with a game he played in his childhood. The interviewer is a writer, editor, trainer and translator who works in English and Malayalam.  I don’t make any conscious effort to make one book different from the other. The seed of each book comes with its own style||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/books-can-talk-for-the-author/article64949901.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:46 IST,||Basking in a terrible light||Writers of science fiction (SF) are living particle accelerators. In their heads, they accelerate ideas to their extremes, smash them together, and note the results. What these collisions reveal is both a snapshot of the future and the present that led to it.  The second volume of The Gollancz Book of South Asian Science Fiction , coming after the well-received first instalment released in 2019, is therefore a detailed preview of the zeitgeist.Inher preface, Manjula Padmanabhan calls the stories “literary chimeras hatched in the nest of ancient belief systems” while the editor, Tarun H. Saint, dubs this configuration of writers and stories a New Wave of South Asian SF & Fantasy (SFF), comparable to the parallel cinema movement of the 1970s.  Adhbuta rasa  So what kind of future is discerned in these three poems and 29 stories, from Sri Lankan, Indian, Pakistani, Tibetan and Bangladeshi writers? While Indians have always demonstrated a hunger for the future, usually expressed as wanting to become as ‘hi-tech’ as the West (or Shanghai or Singapore), this segues into a desire for a return to the eternal golden past. It is not a surprise then that the modern retellings of myths are equipped with vimanas driven by jet turbines and brahmastras as the ultimate WMDs.  Indeed, sociologist Shiv Visvanathan has mused, “Maybe the fecundity of our myths made the SF imagi-nation unnecessary”. But, as Saint says, the “ongoing crises” in South Asia have generated “creative and critical responses” from the SF community. Unravelling world  Past crises had the same effect. Arguably the very first piece of SF by an Indian writing in English was Kylas Chunder Dutt’s A Journal of Forty-Eight Hours of the Year 1945, written in 1835. Two decades before the 1857 rebellion, Dutt imagined an armed rebellion against the British in 1945, proving that SF can very much be spoken as a ‘native tongue’, a play of adhbuta rasa . Saint’s assertion that the region’s SFF has a unique “texture and feeling” is borne out by the stories, where all the sub-genres are presented through a unique lens. For example, Jayant Narlikar’s short story ‘Yakshanchi Denagi’ is probably the politest alien invasion story ever written. Though horrific violence is implied, it is always off-screen, and the aliens are as unfailingly courteous as they are implacably evil.   In ‘Paley’s watch’ by Anil Menon, a mysterious alien object is found, similar to the structure of the universe itself, with a “hyperbolic surface constant negative curvature”. Menon adds some tadka to the dal of this Out-of-Place-Artefact themed story with a youthful cross-cultural romance. Under the hyperpressure exerted by the oncoming future, language itself deforms. In Sami Ahmad Khan’s ‘Biryani Bagh’, a riff on the anti-CAA protests, you have “BiggProtestjeeviBoss subscribers”, “atom-shakti se aatm-shakti” slogans and langarbots. As the economy pivots to Big Data, the “fossil fuel of the new century”, it also becomes the daata (giver) of this new age.  What are the constellations revealed by this map of the future? The tone is hinted at in Vandana Singh’s ‘A Different Sea’, where the protagonist has a vision: “there was no shelter, no safety in an unravelling world.” Certain themes recur — surveillance, climate change and the uses and abuses of memory. For instance, a number of stories feature characters who are in the security services, or subject to panoptic surveillance. Two stories mention a frozen Kolkata and a freezing Dhaka. Many of the stories express the disquiet of the age, but as sci-fi writer Ted Chiang said, “Most of our anxieties about technology are best understood as fears or anxiety about how capitalism will use technology against us.” There are instances where the act of remembering is itself an act of rebellion, as a character in Navin Weeraratne’s ‘The Diamond Library’ declaims: “only in being unwritten can the truth be safe.” Then there is the contested past: in Vajra Chandrasekera’s, ‘The Maker of Memorials’, an augmented super-sculptor builds war memorials, even as conflicts rage on, all part of a grand initiative to displace “the strife of history created… with no thought as to the political needs of the future.”  Still, calling this collection pralayic or apocalyptic would be facile. Rather, folded within the idea of dissolution is Yuganta, the end of an aeon as well as the herald of its rebirth. Perhaps we are witnessing the birth of a new sub-genre of science-fiction, a Yugantic mode, a fiction that mirrors the collapse of our world as one cycle of time unspools and another opens.  Legend has it that a terrible light is seen at the moment of the world’s dissolution — this collection harnesses that energy, like a reactor stealing from the heart of an atom. The future might not be hopeful, but the energies and innovation shown in the responses to it are. The writer is a freelance journalist and graphic novelist.  The Gollancz Book of South Asian Science Fiction, Volume 2 Hachette India    The modern retellings of myths are equipped withvimanasdriven by jet turbines andbrahmastrasas the ultimate WMDs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/basking-in-a-terrible-light/article64949905.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:47 IST,||The long reach of imperialism||The Patnaiks are a renowned scholarly duo and emeritus professors of Jawaharlal Nehru University. More importantly, they have been keeping leftist fires aflame with their contributions over the years. Their book, A Theory of Imperialism , published in 2016 was provocative. It offered a framework for the emergence of imperialism and the causes for its persistence. The endeavour in that book was to “establish... continuity between the colonial period and now, notwithstanding the fact that countries of the Third World are no longer ruled by foreign powers.”  Capital & Imperialism adopts the same or similar economic rationale or matrix but seeks to extend the scope to cover a longer historical horizon. They divide the years into five periods as narrated in Chapter 6. The first is the pre-World War I period of colonialism. The second is the interwar years. The next is the post-World War II years, the ‘Golden Age of Capitalism’. The fourth encompasses the era of globalisation. The last relates to the recent years, which also mark the dead-end of globalisation. Within this period, they narrate the march of capitalism, aided or abetted by imperialism. Though they take the view that there is an unchanging relationship between the metropolis and the periphery, they tweak the matrix, at times, to prove the continuity.  An open system Unlike capitalist economists and even Karl Marx, the authors argue that capitalism is not a closed system. It is an open and ever-expanding system and needs a pre-capitalist periphery to support it through the supply of primary produce. Their supplies are not elastic or inexhaustible. There will be consequent price rises and inflation that can be brought down only by deflationary policies. Moreover, capitalism needs a special setting as described in Chapter 4. There are other requirements like keeping the economy open to trade, capital freedom, the pursuit of deflationary policies, etc. As they contend, “This arrangement is an integral part of ‘imperialism’, which entails the subjection of the periphery.” Though in recent years, some of the constituents governing their relationship, like dependence on primary produce, the metropolis’ reach, etc. are weakened, the authors argue, “It continues to be essential for capitalism, not just as a legacy of their past but as a requisite for the present as well.”  The Patnaiks do not agree that capitalism has changed, as also its role and methods of operation or exploitation. In recent years, many leftist authors have been taking a soft view and hold that imperialism has lost its relevance. Prabhat Patnaik himself bemoaned this in an earlier article. (‘Whatever happened to imperialism?’, Monthly Review , November 1990.) It is discussed in this book too, as he asserts that capitalism has not changed and has to be fought by a coalition of peasants and workers. His fear is that such an ideological retreat would strengthen the rightist forces, e.g. fascism, in the global South. The authors advocate the need for vigilance and aver, “Though the content of this relationship has remained unchanged, the form of it has changed over time.” This book is an attempt to keep the debate on imperialism alive. How do they do it?  Changing global trade The introductory chapters posit an approach to money or wealth which is unique to capitalism. It is rigorous and scholarly. However, it fades in importance as they move on to deal with other aspects of capitalism. The setting for capitalism, as described earlier, falls back on an earlier history and seems frozen in time. There is no reckoning of the rise of the Asian tigers, of India and China, or with the changing structures of trade flows, the rise of supply chains and, lastly, the emergence of multilateral and bilateral free trade agreements. Their argument does not capture the dynamics or the complexity of current trade. The analysis of colonialism before World War I is a close study of the exploitation (drain) of India by Britain. The modality was to intercept the entire external earnings and pay the rupee equivalent to producers/exporters out of taxes raised in India. The account on ‘colonial transfers’ (Chapter 10) is meticulous and offers an estimated value up to 1947 of $1.95 trillion. More distressingly, they offer an account of the Great Famine in Bengal which was caused by “the extreme compression of mass demand to raise forced savings” to fight the war. This reviewer has misgivings over the role of imperialism in the post-war years as narrated in the book. If the Patnaiks had given up the straight jacket approach and applied the tenets of Realist and Conflict Resolution schools, they would have arrived at different perceptions about imperialism. Even the stubborn IMF/World Bank had to change their loan conditionalities under pressure from developing countries. The IMF doesn’t swear any longer by “austerity” or “fiscal deficits.” These changes have come about due to changes in power structures and the declining power of the U.S. along with growing power of the South, especially India and China. While I may differ with them on some of their arguments, it does not take away from the fact that the book is a scholarly contribution on imperialism and its long reach. The reviewer writes on economic and strategic issues.  Capital & Imperialism: Theory, History and the Present Tulika Books||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-long-reach-of-imperialism/article64949898.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:47 IST,||A keen sense of history and a critique of pre-1947 India||Translations, especially from Urdu to English, can be interesting resources in understanding how history and memory have been ‘produced’ for nation-building. Dust of the Caravan is a translation of unfinished personal memoirs of Anis Kidwai by her granddaughter Ayesha Kidwai. It also includes extracts from previously published Partition memoirs of Anis Kidwai, also translated by Ayesha, two additional essays — character sketches of Saifuddin Kitchlew and Mridula Sarabhai — and a fictional feminist utopian piece titled ‘The Search for a Wife’.   I first read Anis Kidwai’s Nazr-e-Khush Guzre , which has several delightful essays including literary criticism and character sketches of political figures.   In its preface, Anis mentions reading an article titled “Biwi kaisi honi chahiye” (desirable qualities in a wife), by her father published in Malumaat magazine. In response, Anis wrote “Shauharon ki qismein” (A typology of husbands).   Anis mentions that the magazine stopped publication in 1918 and her retort was published 13 years after the article that provoked her when Malumaat resumed publication in 1931.  Versatile writer From her translated and untranslated writings, Anis Kidwai clearly comes through as a versatile and prolific writer who possessed a keen sense of history and a sharp social critique. Women’s writing is understood as an important cultural manifestation of their agency but not too well discussed in public discourse. Overly metaphorical fiction writing by Muslim women has received more attention because of their stereotype as suppressed by Islam and Muslim men. Even within autobiographies, only 'rebellion' which fits into the prevalent western liberal feminist framing is credited with agency. Little wonder then that only those writers who have written on ‘forbidden’ or ‘taboo’ subjects have managed to remain in memory as ‘Muslim women writers’, while others slipped into oblivion.  Further, owing to feminist interest in recovery of forgotten histories, autobiographical writings by Muslim women are now being translated but other non-fiction forms such as essays are still neglected. Dust of the Caravan thus signifies some continuity but also some breaks.  Busting myths In the book, Anis dispels the account that she and other Muslim women of the time could get educated only secretly. In the process she provides insights into how Muslim cultural elite women acquired knowledge, and how they and Anis carved a space for their distinctive mode of thinking within an otherwise restrictive culture. It shows that the gendered segregation of spaces in elite Muslim families was not entirely unbreached. While the early chapters echo familiar descriptions of Muslim elite households in north India, what is fascinating is Anis’s description of the everydayness of nationalist politics in her family. She records her own impressions of political events and how she eagerly followed the news. By recounting her yearning to be political and her personal struggles to join in, Anis shows that the resources for negotiating autonomy came not only from rebellion against gendered discrimination, or from anti-colonial struggle, but also from vagaries of life such as dwindling wealth and death. Time in Parliament  As with all unfinished memoirs, Dust of the Caravan leaves the reader with a longing for what remains unwritten. I particularly imagined how valuable the account of her time in Parliament as a Rajya Sabha MP would have been.   Reading Dust of the Caravan I was reminded of Qurratulain Hyder translating her own work Aag Ka Darya . She wrote it in Urdu in Pakistan, and translated or rather transcreated it into English as River of Fire after she came back to India. If we see what she omits, what she retains, and how she translates, it is like reading Qurratulain Hyder’s notion of the two nations. Through translation, Hyder was in essence interacting with readers of two distinct national communities. Anis Kidwai’s work too could be read as a text traversing the multiple nations that India has been and is becoming across space and time.  The reviewer teaches at Jawaharlal Nehru University.  Dust of the Caravan Zubaan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-keen-sense-of-history-and-a-critique-of-pre-1947-india/article64949899.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:46 IST,||The extra mile||In the 1980s, when government bus service started in the somewhat interior region of Baiswara, the town near my village got better connected with the district headquarters. One fine day, an elderly man (Baba) from near my village was returning from Unnao city to his village. He was eager to board the new bus. The travelling time was reduced considerably, besides it offered comfort and convenience. When the bus arrived, Baba boarded it with delight and the journey started. When the conductor came for the ticket, he asked Baba about his destination. Baba told the name of his village. So, the conductor demanded one rupee as fare. But, Baba was an aware citizen of his time. So, he enquired what is the fare for the next stops and the previous ones. To his enlightenment, he came to know that the fare for Bhagwant Nagar (nearest town) was also the same. Bhagwant Nagar was a few kilometres from his village, after which the fares increased. Now the enlightened Baba exclaimed, “Do you think I am a fool? If one rupee is the fare for Bhagwant Nagar, why should I leave before?” The confused conductor asked, “But your village comes before Bhagwant Nagar, right?” Baba declared, “That does not matter. I will fully appropriate my fare charges and then only de-board the bus. Give me the ticket for Bhagwant Nagar.” “As you wish,” the conductor gave him the ticket for Bhagwant Nagar. When the bus arrived at Bhagwant Nagar, Baba has to finally bid adieu to his bus. But, he alighted with a sense of pride, as he was satisfied that he had fully appropriated the fare charges. After walking for a few kilometres, he reached his village and met his fellows. He was excited to tell them about the journey, and even more excited to elaborate on how he outwitted the conductor. With great pride, Baba used to tell, “The conductor tried to fool me, but I outsmarted him flat!” The story crossed the borders of his village and reached our village as well. It became a matter of discussion whether what he did was actually a smart act or not, and what others are supposed to do in such situations. People used to give their “opinions” on this matter in various gatherings. They probably did not know about the ecological footprint then. Fare and comfort were the only parameters to judge the actions of Baba! Today, it is hard to imagine what Baba would have done while travelling in the Metros, where the fare is the same for many stations. Moreover, it is not easy to come back walking! New technologies, platforms, or services always come with some humorous stories, which make embracing them more convenient. The “ice-breaking” required is done by a few legends from among us. Later on, these stories become sweet memories. emailtoaakashbajpai@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-extra-mile/article64949909.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:48 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On January 16, 1979, a landmark nature series titled Life on Earth was first shown on BBC . In it, a presenter travels the globe in order to trace the story of the evolution of life on the planet. In his 80 years in front of the camera he is the only person to win BAFTA awards for work in Black & White, Colour, HD and 3D. Who is this iconic figure in nature conservation who has multiple species named after him?  2 Born on January 16, 1932, Dian Fossey was a conservationist who studied the mountain gorilla groups in Rwanda for 20 years. Her studies led to a better understanding of the gorilla’s intelligence. She was part of a group of women who were doing such studies under Louis Leakey. The other two were Jane Goodall, who studies chimpanzees, and Birute Galdikas, who studies Orangutans. They were known by a clever nickname which referred to the fact there were three of them and they studied this particular order of mammal (under which humans fall too). What is the nickname? 3 The Axolotls are Mexican salamanders which unlike other amphibians, do not undergo metamorphosis and develop lungs and go on land. Axolotls reach adulthood without growing up, they retain their gills and remain aquatic. They also have fantastic regeneration ability, being able to rebuild jaws, spines and even brains without any scarring. This ability to ‘not grow up’ has led to the Axolotl being compared to a fictional character from a popular children’s book. Who is this child who never grew up? 4 The wombat is a small marsupial found in Australia, which has an unusual way to mark their territory. When they leave to forage for food they leave distinctively shaped poop outside to let other wombats know about their burrow. Since most of the area is hilly, the distinctive shape, which looks very unnatural, ensures that it does not roll off. In what peculiar shape do wombats poop? 5 All fish of this species are born with both male and female parts. In a colony that is centred around one sea anemone, the largest fish is the female and the second largest will be the male while all the others will be both. If the female were to die then the male will turn into a female and one of the smaller ones will become male. With this unique ability to change their sexes the colony ensures the safety of the community. Which fish is this whose actual life story might have changed the way a very popular children’s movie had shown? 6 A herpetologist discovered a frog by accident in 2008 in Indonesia which has the ability to enlarge and inflate its nose when the male frog is calling out. This led to it being called by a particular name that references a character from a popular fairytale who had similar issues but under different circumstances. In 2019, it was finally given the same name as its species name as well. What is its name? 7 The characteristic look of this animal helps break up the outline of its body, making it hard to see when it’s stalking its prey and also looks like shadows in the moonlight, disguising the presence of the animal. Interestingly not only the fur, but the skin underneath as well has the same characteristic and the pattern is unique to each individual. What animals are these whose striking feature usually brings fear to any animal in its path? 8 The unique characteristic of these animals is, thanks to the presence of low-molecular weight thiol compounds and few acetate thioesters, they can be detected by a human nose at miniscule concentrations of 10 parts per billion. Which animal that has a characteristic colour pattern as well, due to this marvelous nature, has been vilified in many cartoons and movies? 9 This animal’s eyes are about the size of billiard balls which give them excellent vision that is required to keep an eye out for predators in the vast plains they inhabit. Unfortunately, these eyes take up so much space in the head that the brain size is compromised and it is actually smaller than the eyeballs. Which animal is this that is known for having ‘big’ records in other departments but unfortunately not in brain size? 10 This animal has the world’s slowest digestion (two weeks per meal) as they evolved to expend very little energy because the leaves they usually eat are full of toxins that these animals have evolved to digest. They have a multi-chambered stomach with a variety of bacteria that break down the leaves, but that takes a long time. Which animal is this that takes things very slowly and is the supposedly spirit animal of the presenter from Question 1? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article38276630.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:48 IST,||Notes from Mahesh Khan||The best view comes after the hardest climb, and the best forest rest houses after the toughest roads. This is the modified adage I give to my cousin at the wheel who cannot comprehend why I am always leading people on the worst roads. But there is truth in the statement, applicable to no better place than Mahesh Khan. Despite growing up in Nainital in a family of forest officers, I never visited the Mahesh Khan forest reserve until this monsoon, about 20 odd kilometres from the lake town. The last four-kilometre mark at the reserve entry takes you off smooth tarmac and delivers you onto the signature bumpy forest road that heralds the beginning of paradise. There is no one at the check post when we arrive; I hop off the car to peer into the tiny shelter where I expect a forest guard to be cocooned, but it’s empty. The dying embers of a fire, however, indicate there’s someone around definitely, and within a few moments, a man does come running out of nowhere. He checks our permit, raises the barricade with one hand and waves us through with the other, as we slip into a wonderland, preserved marvellously by the forest department. Constant rain has made little furrows in the loose soil, cutting through the narrow path with dense coniferous forest on either side. Pine dissolves into oak, and a thick bamboo undergrowth sways in the strong wind while we navigate mini streams that appear every monsoon in the hills like old-time regulars. A lone jay perched on a rock takes flight, startled by a vehicle’s intrusion after weeks of unbridled freedom. Moving ahead steadily but careful to avoid the valley on the right, we inch closer towards the forest rest house, the only place for outsiders to stay in this reserve. Architectural history Forest rest houses or FRHs are a story as worthy of conserving as the forests they are born in, for most of these buildings preserve a natural and architectural history of sorts. In a substantially impaired bureaucratic system, here is one that has endured. Not much has changed about these basic structures that were originally built for forest officers to stay in while they inspected forests, or the way they are run for that matter. In a world of privatisation, these are relics from a forgotten era. So when we arrive at the rather premium log huts, I’m surprised; forest rest houses are not supposed to be this flattering. It’s then that I learn from the caretaker Ramesh that this is a new addition built in recent years, and that the original bungalow is a short hike up. Before Ramesh can finish orienting us with the place, Jackson and Roman have shown up, their wagging a mix of curiosity and caution. The duo guard the place, says Ramesh, but can be easily bought with a snack. Hope you’ve got your dinner, he asks, in keeping with the protocol of FRHs where meals are not available. I nod a yes, and we are shown into the unexpected luxury of our bamboo cottages, complete with wooden furniture and a private porch. A lone bulb lights the room rather poorly, but when at a forest rest house, who is there to spend time indoors anyway? The porch becomes our haven and the evening is spent cradled in its shelter. I sink into wordless awe of the silent forest that sits draped in a translucent cloak of mist like a solemn princess. Come morning, I shall set out into this mystical blur to find out more.  Little is known about the Mahesh Khan forest reserve, including why it has an intriguing name. An uphill trail leads to the original bungalow, and I follow closely in Jackson’s muddy paws. Searing through the forest as sunbeams break through the screen of fog particles, we emerge into a clearing at the top. Standing tall is the original dak bungalow built over a hundred years ago in 1911. I meet no one on the premises just as on the trail, and can hear the echo of my whistle across the open foyer. A small metal plaque commemorates the inaugural of the atmospheric building, which is in a pretty decent condition. A short walk further up is Tagore Top, supposedly visited by Rabindranath Tagore when he was writing the Gitanjali . I’ve come across multiple Tagore points in the hills that the legendary poet is believed to have traversed a century ago, and perhaps this too was another spot.  Perfect solitude A sharp bark snaps me out, but it can’t be Jackson; he has long retreated. A repeat in short, regular intervals confirms it’s the alarm call of a barking deer, prey for the leopards this forest is home to. It’s time to walk back, but not without a detour and pit-stop at a little machan I discovered on the previous evening’s saunter. I tread lightly on the rickety wooden stairs that creak under my moderate weight, and take in the half-visible valley, the velvety silence, and the spruce trees springing out of the claggy, Dickensian setting. Somewhere I am at peace, relieved that should I return to this setting someday, I shall find everything as is. I am assured it will remain protected, and hopeful I’ll unearth the story behind a forest called Mahesh Khan. Born and brought up in the Himalayas, the writer is an adventurer who derives great joy from napping under the mountain sun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-mahesh-khan/article64949890.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:46 IST,||Reunion after 50 years||We were meeting after a gap of 50 years, the alumni of a Bengaluru co-ed school. The excitement was palpable. It had all started off when four enthusiastic classmates of the batch of 1972 formed a WhatsApp group called “School Mates” and gradually decided to grow it. We did not even know what messages to post. Back in the 1970s, we boys and girls had been too timid to have much to do with each other, forget interacting the way today’s generation does. At the beginning, getting our school mates together was a very arduous task. It was difficult to locate them after such a long span of time, but gradually the group grew, very slowly at first then faster and faster to over 20 members. Gradually, the posts stirred a desire to have a Zoom meeting. Two or three virtual meetings later, everybody felt it necessary to meet in person, most of us being naturally curious about how the ravages of time had affected one another. But how was this possible? Over the years, we spread over to Canada, the U.S. and several other cities in India. Some of us had retired after working abroad and had now settled down in India. In fact, our most enthusiastic member, hell-bent on immediately organising a reunion, was in Delhi. The Bengaluru- based alumni finally got together one bright Sunday morning with nine classmates meeting at a prominent mid-town club. Of course, there were hiccups, as two of us had last-minute chores to attend, while another had a bereavement, but we were together at last. But what was there to talk about? Fifty years ago, the boys had been too shy to speak to the girls and vice versa. So how to break the ice (most being grandparents now)? One person began to simulate a board meeting, reading out agenda items one after the other, finding out how we could assist our school. This was promptly vetoed out as it was essential to get to know each other first before starting any activity! Yet another put in a video call to our most enthusiastic member in Delhi to ask what next. Everyone remembered a very attractive biology teacher and how several boys would go and attend her class despite being mathematics students. Another remembered how he had hit a classmate in the eye accidentally while playing hockey. Several others recalled how we had been together at NCC camps. Punishments which had seemed highly embarrassing then now brought smiles to our faces. Discussing our old school lives, specially the fun moments when everything seemed much better despite the homework and teacher’s punishment, took up a large part of our meeting time. Nothing beats a school alumni group of friends from a time when we are incapable of selfishness. As social beings, we crave for opportunities to exchange our collective memories, ideas, views, experiences, opinions and agendas and an alumni meet is just the occasion to get together with old friends whom we have not met for years. priyannaik211@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/reunion-after-50-years/article64949908.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:47 IST,||Expert play?||Today’s deal is from an all-expert team match. Both East-West pairs bid to the cold six hearts and both North-South pairs judged well to sacrifice in six spades. Six spades doubled has three obvious losers and the best East-West can do on this deal is to put 500 points in the bank. Accidents, however, can happen on the way to the bank. North was “walking the dog” in the auction, trying to buy the contract at the lowest level possible. It almost worked, but West saved the day for East-West when he came alive and bid six hearts. North bid what he was always prepared to bid and West wound up on lead. West knew that a heart lead was pointless and he was hoping to hold the lead after the first trick in case there was some obvious shift once he saw the dummy. He made the “expert” lead of the king of diamonds! He was unable to hold the lead. East overtook the king with the ace perforce. East was reluctant to cash his ace of clubs as that might give away an important trick. There was no immediate danger in the diamond suit, as he “knew” that his partner held the queen. East shifted to a “safe” high heart and the roof fell in. South shed one club from his hand, ruffing in dummy, and three more on the diamonds after drawing trumps. Making six!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/expert-play/article64949893.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:48 IST,||Call me a pacifist||Dear Agony Akka, I am a young woman in my 30s and I have a high-profile career in the software industry. I work for very long hours and sometimes I even don’t get any off days. On top of that, I work from home and this means that my mother, father and brother keep coming into my room to disturb me. Furthermore, each morning and night, before and after office hours, my mother talks about my marriage. My work pressure is fine but these other pressures from family I am finding very hard to manage. I think I will go crazy. Please can you suggest some therapy or cure.  — Miserable and depressed Dear MAD, One cannot help feeling miserable and depressed these days when it keeps raining like how it has been raining in Chennai. It has been non-stop floods and drizzles and showers and what not and what with the clothes not drying and the walls getting fungus, I am also finding it very hard to manage. Of course, nobody is forcing me to get married but whether one is forced into matrimony or whether one is forced to find new, new spots to dry wet clothes in the house, the effect of the pressure upon the brain is the same. But unlike you I have found the perfect remedy for all mental strain. I have invested in a mosquito bat. As you must be aware when it rains in Chennai there is also a veritable storm of mosquitoes. They invade your house and buzz in your ears like the anchors of TV news channels. And they cannot be switched off either. But offence is the best form of defence. So now each morning I pick up the mosquito bat and I go from room to room chasing them instead of vice versa. I hunt behind doors and under beds. I shake sheets and I move chairs. They slowly emerge from their hiding spots like how sun rays are now emerging in Chennai. Then I swat them. There is one sharp cracking sound, then sizzling sound, then smell of dead mosquito. It is the most satisfying feeling in the world. It is better than a dozen therapy sessions with your favourite shrink or one hour of yoga in the morning. Sometimes they fall on the floor without any sound. I carefully find them and swat them again to hear the buzz. Ah the extraordinary gratification. It makes me forget all my problems. And a bat costs only Rs. 200-300, much cheaper than counselling. I regret that scientists are not doing enough to invent a similar bat for use against annoying human beings. Naturally, I don’t wish for humans to sizzle and die like mosquitoes — I am a pacifist — but something equivalent that could temporarily shut up the aunties who nag single women to get married can be a rather useful addition to science. My only request is to retain the sizzling sound. It is a key component for the therapy to work. Meanwhile, before another full lockdown begins, I strongly recommend that you find a café nearby with Internet facility and start working from there. Families are very nice and loving and they cook food and all that but spending all your time cooped up with them in a flat is like being quarantined with Goonjana Vilom Kashyap. Loud, pointless, and irritating. — AA agony.akka @gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/call-me-a-pacifist/article64949892.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:47 IST,||The making of a champion||Pullela Gopichand’s victory at the 2001 All England Open Badminton Championships was a landmark moment in Indian sport. The fairytale run, with victories over established stars, saw Gopichand emerge as only the second Indian to achieve this feat after Prakash Padukone.  It is fitting that his autobiography, Shuttler's Flick: Making Every Match Count , written with Priya Kumar, opens with a description of this triumph. Going into the final against World No.3 Chen Hong, Gopichand was physically exhausted. A big dose of mental fortitude and game acumen was needed to overcome his fancied opponent.  The journey Gopichand’s journey began with the immense sacrifices made by his family. His parents, Subash Chandra and Subbaravamma, devoted their finances, love and attention to shaping his career. There are several references to his modest upbringing. Gopichand avoided smashes during practice to extend the life of precious shuttles, and was forced to borrow racquets from other players when strings snapped during a match. Gopichand is honest about the “over-age” problem that ails Indian sport. He describes how he would turn up at junior national tournaments, only to face a bearded adult on the other side of the court. It took a reassuring touch from his mother to soothe the pains of an unfair loss. Can there be a success story without self-belief? Gopichand had this quality in abundance. It came to the fore when he declared to his defeatist Indian teammates on a tour to Malaysia that he had it in him to beat the best in the world. Those were fighting words, given that Gopichand was the youngest in the group, and yet to make a mark on the international stage. It would take a few more years for Gopichand, who describes himself as “confident, arrogant and self-assured”, to make good on his daring claim. The book devotes plenty of space to the hard work it took to build the Gopichand Badminton Academy, which has counted Saina Nehwal, P.V. Sindhu, Srikanth Kidambi, Parupalli Kashyap and many others as wards. Gopichand had to run from pillar to post to gather the funds required to build the grand project, which finally came to fruition thanks to donations from generous benefactors. Candid shots Unlike many other star names, Gopichand does not shy away from tackling prickly subjects. He speaks candidly about shifting out from the Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy (PPBA) as a young player, as he was overwhelmed by the towering presence of the legendary Padukone. The matter of Saina exiting his own academy in 2014 — reportedly caused by Gopichand devoting his energy to Sindhu — is handled tactfully. The rationale given is that Gopichand just did not have the time to give each player the individual attention they desired. Author Priya Kumar, a motivational speaker, at times veers away from the script, but for the most part, Gopichand’s story remains in focus. Frequent inputs from Gopichand’s wife P.V.V. Lakshmi, his parents, Saina, Sindhu and others come as a welcome addition to this cerebral, inspiring read.   Shuttler’s Flick: Making Every Match Count Simon & Schuster India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-making-of-a-champion/article64949894.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:46 IST,||Feedback||As someone who grew up in a small town in Assam, I am aware of how difficult it is to make our voices heard in the national media. (‘Ground bytes’; Jan. 9) It’s heartening to know that a number of rural journalists are reporting from the country’s far-flung areas now. May their tribe grow. Gargee Sarma Boruah nThe line “to reach some village I have to first take a bus, then an auto, then another bus, then walk” highlights the pain a rural journalist takes to bring untold stories to the public. Journalists like Sunita and Parth give us confidence that journalism will remain unequivocally independent no matter how authoritarian the regime is. Ranjith Kumar R.  nRural journalism by Khabar Lahariya spotlights the most modern form of media activism that brings to light the harsh realities  of the hinterland. Rural India needs empowered women like Sunita and committed organisations like PARI. Kiran S.R. nIt is true that news coverage in print or electronic media does focus more on urban issues. Unless something unusual occurs, the media does not turn its attention to villages. R.V. Baskaran nWe are very disconnected from the hinterland. Unless we are able to develop a perspective in which stability in the rural area impacts stability in the urban and the whole of India, we are never going to be able to prosper together. Anuradha Pati  nWithout any qualification in journalism or high-end technology, the Khabar Lahariya women have dedicated themselves to sharing untold stories with the world. All that a human being needs is that fire to make a change in society.  Simran nAlthough there has been a sharp rise in Internet penetration amongst the rural population, there hasn’t been optimal use of the technology because of low literacy levels. Rural journalism acts as a medium to reach the marginalised who are otherwise invisible to policymakers. M.B. Zahir Abbas nKhabar Lahariya’s journey from a 4-page Awadhi tabloid to a national news network publishing in various Indian dialects is inspirational. It takes immense guts and determination.  K. Nehru Patnaik    If not for Soubin Shahir’s film Parava , pigeon racers would never  have caught my attention. (‘On a wing and a prayer’; Jan. 9) I’m not a big fan of sports involving birds and animals but the patience and hard work of pigeon racers is commendable. Amy Babu    K.S. Sethumadhavan bravely forayed into areas his contemporaries would not touch with a barge pole. (‘The great storyteller’; Jan. 9) His film Punarjanman was based on a story by rationalist Abraham Kovoor and dealt with the Oedipus complex.   In Chattakari , he dwelt on the romance between an Anglo Indian girl and a Hindu boy. He also introduced Kamal Haasan to Malayalam films through Kanyakumari .  C.V. Aravind    Not only is the article interesting and informative, it also points to the oneness of India. (‘Candy for the gods’; Jan. 9) In north India, we purchase these ‘ chini ke khilone ’ (sugar candy toys) from the market during Diwali. Though I have closely observed their making in shops, I am not sure if they’re made in homes. The recipe has added great value to the article.  Satish Chandra Rastogi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/feedback/article38276599.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:46 IST,||Celebritree||Each year, the U.K.’s Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, work with their worldwide partners to identify and protect unknown plant and fungi species. The new year began with Kew naming a type of tropical, evergreen tree that only grows in Ebo Forest of Cameroon after Hollywood actor Leonardo DiCaprio. The tree is now officially calledUvariopsis dicaprio. About 4 metres tall,U. dicapriohas lustrous yellow-green flowers growing on its trunk that make it immediately recognisable. The ylang-ylang tree native to India and Southeast Asia is a close cousin. At present, less than 50 individual trees have been spotted in Ebo, makingU. dicapriocritically endangered. New species are often named after celebrities: there is the Hugh Hefner rabbit (Sylvilagus palustris hefneri), Prince Charles frog (Hyloscirtus princecharlesi), and a beetle named after DiCaprio’s co-actor fromTitanic, Kate Winslet (Agra katewinsletae). DiCaprio has been closely associated with the star-studded campaign to stop logging in Ebo Forest, a green paradise in rapidly urbanising Africa that is home to endangered gorillas, monkeys and chimpanzees. The Banen people living there depend on the forest for food and medicine and consider it their ancestral land. Ebo Forest was officially proposed as a protected national park by the Cameroon government in 2006. However, in February 2020, the government proposed a licensing that would have resulted in logging concessions. The president of Cameroon cancelled these proposals in August 2020, to great jubilation by activists. DiCaprio’s May 2020 tweet urging people to join the anti-logging campaign is considered a game-changer in the protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/celebritree/article64949910.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:47 IST,||The Wires of War||Jacob Helberg Simon & Schuster Rs. 799 From 2016 to 2020, Helberg led Google’s internal policy efforts to combat disinformation and foreign interference. He found himself in the midst of a technology battle between democracy and autocracy, and argues that this tech-fuelled war will shape the world’s balance of power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-wires-of-war/article64949897.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:46 IST,||All that glitters||The Golden Globes announced last week saw many firsts — first transgender to win an acting award (Mj Rodriguez (in pic), best actress-TV drama,Pose), first award for a Korean actor (O Yeong-su, best supporting actor-TV series,Squid Game), and first-ever best picture (drama) win for streaming giant Netflix (The Power of the Dog). Also, the first time the lavish American film and TV awards show, a precursor-of-sorts to the Oscars, was not televised, had no audience or red carpet celebrities, and was completely boycotted by the industry. The winners were announced via the social media handles of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA), the non-profit behind the awards that has long faced allegations of financial irregularities and lack of diversity. After anLA Timesexposé last year brought the corruption and absolute lack of black representation to the fore, many Hollywood A-listers joined the protests that had previously rocked the Oscars too. Tom Cruise famously returned his three Globes, and Netflix and various movie studios vowed to discontinue promotional activities. NBC, the Globes’ long-time broadcaster, said it wouldn’t air the awards ceremony in 2022 and called for “meaningful reform”. A few months later, the group announced more reforms, brought on a black chief diversity officer, and added 21 new members, including six black journalists. At the conclusion of this year’s tepid Globes, HFPA announced that it was partnering with four diversity and equality organisations, and also promised to work closely with studios, production houses and other stakeholders to create a more equitable environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/all-that-glitters/article64949911.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:46 IST,||Vyasa-Katha||Nityananda Misra Bloomsbury India Rs. 599 This is a collection of 51 fables from theMahabharata. Featuring the clever jackal, the hypocrite swan, the smart mouse, the evil cat, the lazy camel, the arrogant tree, the faithful parrot and more, these fables are a treasure trove of practical and political wisdom, moral values, universal truths and philosophy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/vyasa-katha/article64949906.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:48 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3185||Across 1 Forward and back, witch’s cat (12) 9 Love, I managed, if in a roundabout way, to see an opera (7) 10 Win a motorbike (7) 11 East End theologian’s kind of a sponge (5) 12 Elderly relatives transfixed by Brussels body, one serving Europeans (8) 14 What come and go, largely, in the main? (5,5) 15 After end of jog, before start of ablutions, Everyman’s smelling like old meat (4) 17 Got up for wine (4) 19 Grand won by tyrant after card game somewhere in Balkans (10) 21 When you eat meatiest stews (8) 23 Pooh’s friend’s time for bed (5) 25 Lady on rock, evermore lethally emitting intoning, primarily? (7) 26 Ordering à la carte, rejecting starters of andouillettes and aïoli, English getting something sweet (7) 27 Trembling, gutted after comic genius dismisses second philosopher (12) Down 2 Six initially dubious etymologies dictionary recorded (7) 3 Without fail, staggering blearily (8) 4 River in Slavonic (4) 5 Slips into conversation: ‘Cistern jet’s faulty’ (10) 6 A little fossil I acquired forming part of pelvis (5) 7 Dance with bachelor, a pudding full of booze (3,4) 8 Move fast, with bravery at last, daring to find source of spirit (6,6) 9 ‘Top speed. Satisfied ...?’ met with silence (4,8) 13 Singer’s festive song getting longer (6,4) 16 Inert gas combusts, most hot (8) 18 Bird in box leading to argument (7) 20 Coaching with amateur wanting to boil dumplings (7) 22 Key? Perhaps. Hole? So we’re told (5) 24 Shock as potty is overturned (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3185/article64949889.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:46 IST,||A History of Wild Places||Shea Ernshaw Atria Books $12.99 (Kindle price) Travis Wren has a talent for locating missing people. When he takes on the case of Maggie St. James, he’s led to a reclusive community called the Pastoral, and disappears himself. Years later, Theo, a member of Pastoral, stumbles upon Travis’s abandoned truck and loads of dark secrets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-history-of-wild-places/article64949904.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:46 IST,||Vultures of Paradise||Atulya Misra Rupa Publications Rs. 495 Neha is very successful in business till things start going downhill. Just when she seems to be a failure, Neha creates a corporation to counter our propensity to consume endlessly and create more and more waste. Her project becomes such a hit that it threatens the very people who created it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/vultures-of-paradise/article64949903.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:47 IST,||Akbar||Shazi Zaman Speaking Tiger Rs. 699 Emperor Akbar comes to life in this novel rooted in history. He is portrayed as a restless, questing soul who wished to reconcile a compassionate heart with the sometimes ruthless obligations of statecraft; as the man who could treat as equal not only all faiths but all life — human or animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/akbar/article64949902.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:46 IST,||Big bones||When Joe Davis, who works at Rutland Water Nature Reserve, was landcaping the reserve, he noticed something unusual sticking out from the earth. He thought it was a dinosaur fossil, but it turned out to be the bones of an ichthyosaur. The ichthyosaur, a warm-blooded marine reptile, could grow up to 25 metres long and lived over 180 million years ago. This specimen, which is more than 10 metres long, is the largest and most complete ever found in the U.K. According to Dean Lomax, a palaeontologist who specialises in ichthyosaurs, Britain is “the birthplace of ichthyosaurs” whose fossils have been unearthed here for over 200 years. This was among the “greatest finds in British palaeontological history,” he added. Ichthyosaurs had a set of sharp teeth and are believed to have been top predators of Jurassic oceans. Now, the block of clay with the ichthyosaur’s head has been excavated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/big-bones/article64949912.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:47 IST,||India’s Undeclared Emergency: Constitutionalism and the Politics of Resistance||Arvind Narrain Context/Westland Books Rs. 699 In 1975, the Indira Gandhi government declared Emergency, unveiling an era of state excesses. Nearly half a century later, as the phrase ‘undeclared emergency’ gathers currency, Narrain examines its nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/indias-undeclared-emergency-constitutionalism-and-the-politics-of-resistance/article64949900.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:47 IST,||Indomitable: A Working Woman’s Notes on Life, Work and Leadership||Arundhati Bhattacharya HarperCollins Rs. 699 By chance Bhattacharya came to know of the bank probationary officers’ entrance examination through a friend. She applied, was selected and went on to become chairman of the State Bank of India. In her memoir, she writes about her aspirations and challenges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/indomitable-a-working-womans-notes-on-life-work-and-leadership/article64949896.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:47 IST,||The Dream of Revolution: A Biography of Jayaprakash Narayan||Bimal Prasad, Sujata Prasad Penguin Random House Rs. 799 This is a study of Jayaprakash Narayan’s life and ideas, from the American university campus days to his political coming of age. It takes in its sweep JP’s confidence about the future of socialism, and his political battles with the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-dream-of-revolution-a-biography-of-jayaprakash-narayan/article64949895.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:33 IST,||When it itches, you scratch||There was a young lady from Natchez whose clothes were always in patches. When asked why this was, she replied it’s because wherever I itches, I scratches. An unpleasant sensation that elicits the desire or the reflex to scratch is how itch has been classically defined. Scratching does help ward off that insect which is troubling you; but pruritus (as itch is called) that persists for longer than six weeks is a pathological state with profound effects on the health, physical and mental, of one in seven persons. Ongoing research has uncovered a wide range of mechanisms underlying what appears to be a single condition. Chronic itch can be dermatologic - often triggered by the release of histamine, and treated with antihistamine drugs (e.g., Benadryl), neuropathic (related to the nervous system, as in shingles, nerve compression and cerebral hemorrhage), or systemic (as in renal insufficiency) or psychogenic (as in obsessive-compulsive disorders). Itch in the elderly  The elderly are particularly prone to chronic conditions that manifest as itches. In a South Indian study, (Manickam and colleagues, Journal of The Indian Academy of Geriatrics, 2018; 14:17-25) eczema was seen in 29% of a study group of subjects in the 60+ age group. Another study at the Base hospital of the Delhi Cantonment on the same age group reported that 56% of their subjects complained of pruritus ( Indian Dermatology Online Journal , 10(5), 2019). In an analysis of 100 patients complaining of chronic itch. associated causes could be pinpointed in 62, and included diabetes, hypothyroidism, several cancers and Iron deficiency. ( Indian Journal of Clinical and Experimental Dermatology, 5: 130, 2019).  Factors that induce itch are called pruritogens. Tissues that are sensitive to itch include the skin, mucus membranes and the cornea of the eye. Some nerve fibres in these tissues (pruriceptors) are stimulated by pruritogens and the resulting signals are carried, via itch-signaling neurons in the spinal cord, to the brain. There are several different receptors and channels that respond to pruritogens. A great degree of redundancy in their roles ensures that no matter what, the itch sensation gets through to your brain. A common example of chronic itch is atopic dermatitis, an inflammatory condition showing cracked, itchy skin, which is often caused by allergens. As an example, it may be triggered by the house dust mite, barely a third of a millimeter in size, that feeds on the dead scaly skin that you shed all the time. Its faeces contains a protein which is a potent pruritogen. Upon binding to receptors in the skin, it elucidates allergic reactions such as atopic dermatitis, or asthma. These receptors are therapeutic targets, the aim being to block the itch sensation from being transduced to the brain, without hindering other sensations that protect you from harm. Not the same as pain The scratch response is a key difference between itch and pain. Sudden, sharp pain causes you to hurriedly retract and thus escape damage; scratching actually draws attention to the cause of the itch. Scratching evokes an inhibition of itch-signaling neurons in the spinal cord. This reduces the quantum of itch sensations that reach the brain. What a relief! But the respite is only short-lived – by scratching, you are inflicting mild pain, and in your brain, pain can momentarily overshadow the itch sensation. Scratching may even trigger reward systems in the brain, making it a pleasurable feeling. But for patients with chronic itch, scratching can be a bane, causing damage to the skin and aggravating the itch. Phantom itches People who have lost a hand or leg often find that their ‘phantom limb’ itches profusely. Their brain rewires itself over time and signals from another part of the body now map to the region that earlier received somatosensory inputs from the limb. In a series of deceptively simple experiments, the neuroscientist V.S. Ramachandran of the University of California, San Diego, showed that people who have recently lost a limb in accidents and often complain of their ‘phantom hand itching like crazy’, could obtain relief by scratching various parts of their face – scratch the upper lip, and the absent index finger feels comforted, and so on. Novel therapeutic methods try to tackle chronic itch at many different points, from the skin to the central nervous system. UVB light is known to attenuate histamine release from immune cells in the skin, so phototherapy has proved useful. Garments of a silk that is coated with antimicrobial compounds are another strategy to soothe itching skin. Long-term itch leads to functional anomalies in the regions of the brain associated with itch, and non-invasive transcranial direct-current simulation has been shown to offer relief. (The article has been written jointly with Dr. Sushil Chandani, sushilchandani@gmail.com) dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/when-it-itches-you-scratch/article64949917.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:33 IST,||Covaxin booster increases neutralising antibodies, study finds||A joint study by Bharat Biotech and ICMR has provided the first evidence of the immune response of a homologous booster six months after the second dose. The randomised control trial was carried out on 184 participants belonging to the phase-2 trial arm that received 6 microgram of the vaccine for both first and second dose. The booster dose was found to be safe. The most frequent adverse events reported were mild and transient pain and itching at the injection site. The booster dose was given seven months (215 days) after the second dose. The primary outcome was to measure neutralising antibody titres four weeks after the booster shot.  The results have been posted on a preprint server, medRxiv . Preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed.  The control arm had 93 participants and the intervention arm had 91 participants. However, majority of the 184 participants were younger than 55 years. In the case of the intervention arm, 85 of 91 participants were in the age group 18-55 years, while 82 of 93 participants belonged to the same age group in the control arm. The median age of participants in the intervention arm was 35 years; it was 36 years for the control arm. Small number “The study recruited only a very small number of people above 55 years of age — 6.6% in the vaccine arm and 7.5% in the placebo arm. Since the data are not broken up by age, we can't tell how well the booster worked in the most vulnerable age group,” Dr. Shahid Jameel, Director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, says in an email. “More detailed studies and a longer term follow up are needed.” From January 10, booters are being administered to those older than 60 years with comorbidities and to health-care and frontline workers. The reason for prioritising people above 60 years for a booster shot is because elderly people are relatively less likely to have developed sufficient antibodies after two doses. Low representation With the booster dose study including just half-a-dozen participants over 55 years in each arm, the immune responses following a booster shot in the elderly is still not clearly known. But it was on March 23, 2021, that Bharat Biotech was permitted to conduct a booster dose trial using Covaxin by the Subject Expert Committee. At that time, only those in the phase-2 trial to test vaccine safety and immunogenicity had received the second dose more than six months ago, and hence the permission was granted to conduct the trial on these participants. The phase-2 trial that tested 6 mcg of the vaccine on 190 participants included only 10 individuals who were in the 55-65 years age group. Increase in antibodies About three-fourths of the 184 participants still had neutralising antibody titres above baseline value at the end of six months after the second dose. “As expected, the booster dose shows an increase in neutralising antibody titres against the virus. What is even more pleasing is that the boosting effect is observed against all circulating variants (except Omicron, which was not studied),” Dr. Jameel says. Both the placebo and the intervention arms witnessed an increase in neutralising antibody levels. The increase in antibody levels in the control arm is most likely to be due to natural infection as the booster trial was conducted during the second wave. The increase in neutralising antibodies in both arms provides proof that repeated exposure to the virus antigen either through infection or vaccination leads to an increase in neutralising antibodies. Though studies carried outside India have found that infection leads to higher neutralising antibody levels and longer duration of protection against infection compared with vaccination, achieving protection through vaccination is safe and advisable. Elevated antibodies Though neutralising antibody levels were found elevated in both control and intervention arms, the level of increase was higher in the intervention arm. For instance, four weeks after the booster shot, the control arm witnessed a fourfold increase in neutralising antibodies while the intervention arm witnessed a 31-fold increase. “Since even the placebo arm showed about 4-fold rise in titres (attributed to infection) and the same is expected in the vaccine arm, the actual boost by the vaccine is not about 30-fold but 30/4, which is 7.5-fold,” Dr. Jameel says. The sevenfold increase in neutralising antibodies in the vaccine arm compared to the placebo group following a booster dose becomes clear when the values of the plaque reduction neutralisation test of the two groups are compared. However, the microneutralisation test revealed that the antibody increase in the intervention arm was less than twofold than the control arm. “In the case of binding antibodies, the difference between the two arms is not statistically significant at the end of four weeks following the booster shot,” says Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, physician-epidemiologist and public policy and health systems specialist. As part of another study, the sera samples from individuals who received a booster were tested to assess neutralising capacity against Delta and Omicron variants. While the preprint does not provide any details about neutralising studies against Omicron, a press release sent out by Bharat Biotech on January 12 says the sera samples from individuals who received a booster were found to be “effective in neutralizing Omicron variants on a live virus neutralization assay”. “More than 90% of all individuals boosted with Covaxin showed neutralizing antibodies,” the release says. “As the dominant COVID-19 variant throughout the world, Omicron poses a serious public health concern,” Dr. Mehul Suthar from Emory Vaccine Center and who led the laboratory analysis says in the release. “Data from this preliminary analysis show individuals receiving a booster dose of Covaxin have a significant immune response to both the Omicron and Delta variants. These findings suggest that a booster dose has the potential to reduce disease severity and hospitalisations.”  The study recruited only very small number of people above 55 years of age : 6.6% in the vaccine arm and 7.5% in the placebo arm. Dr. Shahid Jameel Ashoka University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/covaxin-booster-increases-neutralising-antibodies-study-finds/article64949915.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:33 IST,||Muscles starve in the absence of vitamin D, study of mice finds||Skeletal muscles normally brim with energy, yet they starve in the absence of Vitamin D, says recent research led by Aneeshkumar A. G. of National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi. This research demonstrates that glycogen stored in the skeletal muscles is not converted into a usable form of energy without Vitamin D. Usually, the glucose absorbed from the food is converted into glycogen and stored in the skeletal muscle. This stored energy reserve is used by muscles to produce energy after the food consumed is digested. However, in the absence of vitamin D, the skeletal muscle is starved of energy, decreasing muscle mass. Muscle wasting Vitamin D deficiency is often associated with rickets. In rickets, the bone tissue does not correctly mineralise calcium and phosphorus, leading to softening of bones resulting in skeletal deformities. However, we are becoming aware that vitamin D works more as a hormone than and is involved in a host of biochemical reactions. It is key to maintaining metabolic functions, immune system, bone health and plays a crucial role in depression, mood swings, anxiety and sleep quality. As part of the normal metabolic process, proteins produced in our body degrade, and in due course, new proteins are made to replace them. Usually, when the protein degradation exceeds protein synthesis, skeletal muscle atrophy or simply a decrease in muscle mass occurs. "We wanted to find out the molecular nature of muscle dysfunction in the absence of vitamin D. We started with the hypothesis that the root cause is metabolic dysfunction. We used a mouse model which does not have a vitamin D receptor:[VDR] a protein that binds to vitamin D and switches several genes on or off to test our hypotheses," says Dr. Aneeshkumar. Hungry cells Typically, the protein synthesis is high when the digestion of the food is taking place and is slower during the post-absorptive state when the digestion is completed. "In order to examine if the protein degradation and subsequent muscle wasting occur primarily during the absorptive or post-absorptive phase, we compared the protein synthesis during both the phases. In control mice, the levels were as expected. Nevertheless, in mice lacking VDR after the weaning stage of growth, the protein synthesis was impaired during the post-absorptive stage," explains Dr. Aneeshkumar, and adds, "without the vitamin D receptor there was a general increase in protein degradation and a decrease in post-absorptive protein synthesis." Initially, scientists suspected that the absence of VDR is preventing the synthesis of glycogen from the food. "We checked whether the energy deprivation in skeletal muscles is associated with differences in glycogen levels," says Dr. Aneeshkumar. To their surprise, VDR knockout mice had higher glycogen levels than the control ones. "We found that the glycogen synthase, the key enzyme that converts glucose into glycogen, was having a field day without the inhibitory enzymes active". More and more glycogen was being produced and stored in the skeletal muscle. Nevertheless, the glycogen phosphorylase, an enzyme that converts glycogen to glucose when energy is needed, was significantly lower. "As a result, while muscle continued to make glycogen, none of it could be converted back to glucose resulting in energy deficiency," explains Dr. Aneeshkumar. Even with abundant glycogen present, the skeletal muscle could not extract the energy in the absence of vitamin D. "From this research, we think we have found the molecular mechanism by which the vitamin D deficiency leads to muscle wasting. Without vitamin D, glycogen storage cannot be utilised for glucose production. When the glycogen storage does not give energy, particularly in a post-absorb state, the skeletal muscle draws more glucose from the blood. This leads to a systemic energy shortage. When there is systemic lack of energy, like during hunger, the protein degradation in muscle is triggered leading to muscle wasting," explains Dr. Aneeshkumar. "Although our study is in mice, we think this mechanism is broadly applicable in humans as well," he said. (T.V. Venkateswaran is a scientist with Vigyan Prasar and is a science communicator.)  In mice lacking VDR after the weaning stage of growth, the protein synthesis was impaired during the post-absorptive stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/muscles-starve-in-the-absence-of-vitamin-d-study-of-mice-finds/article64949919.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:33 IST,||Science of smell||How do locusts smell an odour?  The ability to smell coffee immaterial of the presence of other interfering smells or the environment remains the same in humans. In effect, other smells or different environmental factors do not get in the way of our ability to experience the smell of individual odours. Researchers at Washington University in St. Louis found the answer as to why this happens by studying locusts (Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences). Locusts were trained to associate an odour with food, their preference being a blade of grass. In six presentations, the locust learned to open its sensory appendages close to the mouth in expectation of a snack after smelling the ‘training odourant’. The researchers studied which neurons were fired when the locust was exposed to the odour under different conditions. Under different circumstances, highly inconsistent patterns of neurons were activated even though the locust appendage close to the mouth opened every time. They turned to machine-learning algorithms to understand this. It turned out that the locust exploited two functional types of neurons: those that are activated when an odourant is present, and those which are silenced when an odourant is present but become activated after the odour presentation ends, says the university press release. To recognise an odourant's presence, researchers simply needed to add evidence for the odourant being present and subtract evidence against that odour being present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/science-of-smell/article64949920.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:33 IST,||16TH-SC-Sixth warmest year||Year 2021 tied with 2018 as the sixth warmest on record, find studies conducted by NASA and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Global temperatures were 0.85 degrees Celsius warmer in 2021 than the average for the baseline period from 1951 to the present. Earth was about 1.1 degrees Celsius warmer than pre-industrial levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/16th-sc-sixth-warmest-year/article64949918.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:33 IST,||16TH-SCI-Mystery of mutations||Mutations can occur when DNA is damaged and left unrepaired. Sequencing hundreds of Arabidopsis thaliana (a flowering weed) plants in the lab, the scientists came across millions of mutations, which when analysed showed a non-random pattern. The study, published in Nature, showed that patches of genome with low mutations had an over-representation of essential genes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/16th-sci-mystery-of-mutations/article64949916.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:33 IST,||16TH-SCI-Slush on the Moon||Research modelling anorthosites – light rocks that formed early in the Moon’s history – yields a new model for the formation of its crust. This theory proposes that crystals remained suspended in liquid magma for hundreds of millions of years as this ‘slushy ocean’ slowly cooled, froze and solidified. The study is published in Geophysical Research Letters .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/16th-sci-slush-on-the-moon/article64949914.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:34 IST,||16TH-SCI-Ultrafast sequencing||Stanford School of Medicine researchers set a Guinness world record for the fastest genome sequencing technique when they sequenced in five hours and two minutes the genome of an enrolled patient. Normally, it is considered a rapid technique if the sequenced results are returned within a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/16th-sci-ultrafast-sequencing/article64949913.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:31 IST,||Has the process to measure TRP improved?||The story so far : The Information and Broadcasting Ministry has asked the Broadcast Audience Research Council to resume the release of television rating point (TVR), also known as target rating points, data. It had been suspended in late 2020 after the police unearthed a ratings scandal, acting on a complaint made by the BARC. To begin with, BARC has been asked to release data of the last three months in a monthly format for a “fair and equitable representation of true trends.”  Why were the ratings suspended? Acting on a complaint by the BARC, the viewership measurement body for television, and one of its contractors, Hansa Services Pvt Ltd., the Mumbai police on October 8, 2020, said it had busted a TRP racket run by three news channels who were manipulating viewership ratings by bribing panel homes where measurement meters had been placed. The police had named three television news channels in the case which led to the arrest of senior-level functionaries of the named channels and the former chief executive officer of BARC. BARC suspended the ratings for all news channels soon thereafter. The measurement company had then said the exercise to improve their statistical robustness and reduce the potential of infiltrating panel homes could take anywhere between 8-12 weeks. Why are ratings important? The resumption of viewership data after over a year is crucial as TV ratings are the measure on the basis of which advertising revenue is benchmarked. The Indian TV advertising is worth over Rs. 32,000 crore. Both advertisers and broadcasters pay a hefty fee to subscribe to the viewership findings which come out every week. Rigging meant faulty calculations for advertisers and loss of revenue for stakeholders running into crores. It is not the first time it has been reported that ratings are being rigged. In 2002-2003, former director general of Doordarshan S.Y. Quraishi wondered how the national broadcaster with a news share of 92% did not figure at the top of the TRP list brought out by the Television Audience Measurement (TAM). Households where meters were installed were being bribed, Mr. Quraishi claimed. A couple of years later, news channel NDTV sued TAM’s parent companies in New York, accusing them of publishing data which was suspect. Eventually, TAM bowed out and BARC was founded in 2010 by the Indian Broadcasting Foundation (IBF), the Advertising Agencies Association of India (AAAI), and the Indian Society of Advertisers —representative of the media industry with all its stakeholders. How was BARC viewership an improvement over TAM? For one, the sample size was scaled up to more than 30,000 households compared to the 9,600 under TAM, considered grossly inadequate for an industry of this size. Second, with multiple stakeholders on its rolls, BARC was taken as representing the media industry. For a while, things worked smoothly till the scam of 2020, mirroring the exact allegations levelled against TAM of data being rigged to help a few. What happens now? With the I&B Ministry directing BARC to roll out the data, officials explained that BARC has undergone a course correction following the recommendations of a TRP committee set up in the wake of the scam. In line with the recommendations, BARC has appointed an oversight mechanism and has made allowances for the induction of independent members to its fold. Meanwhile, the I&B Ministry constituted a committee under the Prasar Bharati Corporation CEO, Shashi Shekhar Vempati, to review the existing guidelines for TV ratings and come out with recommendations. The committee is expected to submit its report soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/has-the-process-to-measure-trp-improved/article64949924.ece
16 January 2022||January 16 2022 03:31 IST,||Pig-to-human heart||The story so far: On January 7, David Bennett, a 57-year-old from Baltimore, Maryland, U.S. became the first person to receive a heart transplant from a genetically-modified pig. Surgeons at the University of Maryland Medical Center transplanted the porcine heart into Mr. Bennett suffering from terminal heart failure. Since transplantation of a pig heart into a human, called xenotransplantation, is an experimental procedure, doctors had to seek an emergency authorisation from the U.S. FDA (Food and Drug Administration). Approval was granted as Mr. Bennett was facing near-certain death due to his condition and was too ill to qualify for a routine human heart transplantor, an artificial ventricular assist device.  Is David Bennett the first person to be transplanted with a porcine organ? Inlate September last year, surgeons at the New York University Langone Health medical centre transplanted a kidney of a genetically modified pig into a brain-dead person. Thesecond suchpig kidney experiment at the same university was carried out on November 22, 2021 on a person maintained on a ventilator. The genetic modification was to deceive the human immune system from recognising the kidney as foreign and reject it. Since the recipients were already brain-dead, the purpose of the transplantation was not to save the patient; it was purely an experiment to find out if an organ from a genetically modified pig would be compatible, function normally and not be rejected. What vital genetic modifications were done to make the pig heart transplantation possible?  Since the human immune system rejects anything that is foreign, whether from another person who is immunologically matched to the recipient or from a different species such as a pig, scientists had to tweak the pig genome to make the organ less likely to be rejected.According tothe  New Scientist , Revivicor, a U.S.-based company, is raising a small herd of genetically engineered pigs. These pigs have 10 of their genes genetically modified to reduce the possibility of rejection. Of the 10 genes, four were inactivated, including one that causes an aggressive immune response and another that causes the heart to grow after transplantation. In addition, six human genes were inserted into the pig genome to further reduce the risk of rejection. The recipient is also on an experimental drug to suppress the immune system so that the transplanted pig heart is not rejected.  In the early 1990s, it became clear that all human immune reaction were directed at one pig antigen — a sugar molecule present on cell surfaces. Knocking out the gene that produces an enzyme, which in turn, produces the sugar molecule, helps in reducing the risk of an immune reaction leading to rejection. The DNA of pigs also contains many retroviruses that can infect human cells. The presence of such a virus in the transplanted organ raises the risk of infection in human recipients. Dozens of retroviruses have been removed from the organ to make it safer when transplanted. Unlike the traditional breeding techniques to know both copies of a gene, the advent of genome-editing tools such as CRISPR/Cas9, which allows precise removal of specific genes has made gene modification simpler, fast and accurate. A genetically modified pig cell is fused with a pig ovum that has its DNA removed. The ova that contain only the genetically engineered genome start dividing to become pig foetuses. This is the same technique that was used to clone Dolly, the sheep. The embryos are then implanted into surrogate mothers. The gestation period is just 114 days, unlike in the case of humans. Pigs have been preferred as ideal candidates for xenotransplantation despite their immune system being different from humans for the simple reason that the porcine organs are anatomically similar to those of humans. What are the reasons for xenotransplantation becoming more acceptable? Last year, nearly 4,000 people in the U.S. received human donor hearts, but the need is far more. The highest demand is for kidneys.According tothe health ministry, around 0.18 million people in India are estimated to suffer from renal failure every year, but only about 6,000 renal transplants are carried out in the country. About 25,000-30,000 liver transplants are needed annually in India but only about 1,500 are being performed. In the case of the heart, 50,000 people suffer from heart failure and are in need of a heart transplant. Yet, only 10-15 heart transplants are carried out in India each year. Harvesting organs from genetically engineered pigs is seen as a viable alternative to meet organs shortage. Besides scientific challenges, there are several ethical challenges to overcome before xenotransplantation of porcine organs become a reality.  Unlike the traditional breeding techniques to know both copies of a gene, the advent of genome-editing tools such as CRISPR/Cas9, which allows precise removal of specific genes, has made gene modification simpler, fast and accurate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pig-to-human-heart/article38276335.ece
