17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||India records a 40% spike in COVID infections over a week||On Sunday, India recorded 2,55,025 new COVID-19 cases, a 40% increase from a week ago. The total number of infections has reached 3.72 crore, and the active cases have crossed the 16.2 lakh mark. Maharashtra recorded 41,327 cases on Sunday, the most for any State, followed by Karnataka (34,047) and Tamil Nadu (23,975). The figures are based on the State bulletins released until 10 p.m. on Sunday. However, Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, Tripura and Ladakh had not yet released data for the day. Vaccination anniversary Sunday marked the completion of one year since India started its vaccination campaign. As of Sunday, 89.4% of the eligible population has been vaccinated with at least one dose, while 64.4% have received both doses. However, Punjab, Jharkhand, Manipur, Meghalaya, and Nagaland lag behind with less than 50% of the eligible population covered with both doses. On the other hand, Karnataka, Gujarat, Sikkim, Jammu & Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Lakshadweep, and Himachal Pradesh have crossed the 80% mark. The vaccination for the 15-17 age group, which commenced on January 3, is proceeding briskly. As of Sunday, 46.5% of the population in this cohort have received their first dose. As of Sunday, 91 crore first doses, 65 crore second doses, and 43 lakh booster doses have been administered across India. No spike in deaths On Sunday, 380 deaths were recorded in India, slightly higher than the average levels recorded in the past 10 days. However, the spike was due to the addition of 150 previously unrecorded fatalities in Kerala as a part of the reconciliation process. Kerala reported the most deaths with 158 fatalities, followed by West Bengal (36) and Maharashtra (29). On Saturday, 16,65,404 tests were conducted for which the results were made available on Sunday. Karnataka on Sunday reported 34,047 new cases, with 1,74,470 samples tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 19.29%. Currently, there are 1.9 lakh active cases across the State. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 21,071 infections. The State reported 13 deaths on Sunday, five of them from Bangalore Urban. Cumulatively, 38,431 persons have succumbed to the virus in Karnataka. Telangana recorded 2,047 new cases and three deaths on Sunday. The infections showed a slight increase from the 1,963 cases reported on Saturday. Andhra Pradesh reported 4,570 new cases and one death in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The test positivity rate stood at 15.2%, the highest in the past 231 days. The number of active cases rose to 26,770. Testing has been on a declining trend in the State for the past four days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-records-a-40-spike-in-covid-infections-over-a-week/article64949289.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:54 IST,||Udupi set for paryaya mahotsava tomorrow||Amidst the shadow of the pandemic, Udupi is all set to celebrate the paryaya mahotsava in a simple manner on January 18. Paryaya denotes the transfer of power of the exclusive right of worshipping Lord Krishna and managing Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple from one seer to another seer of the Ashta Mutts once in two years. The present one (2022-24) is the 251th paryaya. The biennial paryaya system began in 1522. Vidyasagar Tirtha, the seer of Krishnapura Mutt, will ascend the ‘Sarvajna Peetha’ for the fourth time. Ishapriya Tirtha, junior seer of Admar Mutt, will descend the Paryaya Peetha at the 800-year-old Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple on Tuesday. It was his first paryaya. As the preparations for the paryaya mahotsava began about two months ago, final preparations were witnessed in Sri Krishna Mutt and at Krishnapura Mutt on Sunday. Civic workers of Udupi City Municipality conducted the cleaning and sanitization works at bus stands, streets and the toilets in the city. The civic workers also cleaned the Car Street area on Sunday. Mobile toilets were kept at six places in the city for the convenience of the devotees visiting Udupi on two days. The religious events begin with the paryaya seer taking a holy dip at Dandatheertha in Kaup at 2.15 a.m. on Tuesday. Later he will offer a puja to Kalyeeamardana Krishna at Jodukatte. Later, the seer visits various temples, including Sri Krsihna Mutt. The mahotsava consists of a series of religious events culminating in the ceremonial transfer of the ‘Akshaya Pathra’ at 5.45 a.m. Vidyasagar Tirtha will ascend the Sarvajana Peetha at 5.55 a.m. on Tuesday. The paryaya darbar will be held in all its customary grandeur at 6.45 a.m. at Rajangana on Tuesday in the presence of all seers of eight mutts. It will conclude at 8.30 a.m. Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan has requested the devotees to remain at home and watch the proceedings on social media platforms to avoid rush in the city.  During his paryaya, Ishapriya Tirtha, the junior seer of Admar Mutt, had changed the pathway for the darshan of Lord Krishna at Sri Krishna Temple/Mutt. The new pathway started from the mutt’s north entrance near Rajangana. Devotees will cross the “Kattige Ratha” and the golden roof atop the sanctum sanctorum before coming down the steps to have their darshan at Navagraha Kindi.  Devotees then have to climb a flight of steps to go to the dining hall and then, exit from the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udupi-set-for-paryaya-mahotsava-tomorrow/article64949465.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:42 IST,||TS closes school and colleges till January 30||Telangana government has announced the extension of vacations to educational institutions till January 30 in view of the rising COVID-19 cases and the universities immediately followed, announcing online classes during this extended vacation period. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued the orders following directions from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday morning, on the last day of vacations. Earlier, the government announced vacations from January 8 to 16. No clarity on online class However, there is no clarity on conducting online classes for government schools and Intermediate college students. Corporate schools and colleges, however, have confirmed that the online classes will be held till January 30. Government schoolteachers and college lecturers have termed these holidays as a step to keep the teachers away from schools in view of the ongoing protests on GO 317. “This is nothing but an effort to keep the lecturers questioning the irrational transfers using the GO away from the institutions fearing continued protests,” said Madhusudhan Reddy, president of the Government Junior Lecturers’ Association (GJLA). If the government was keen on stopping COVID spread in schools and colleges it would have prepared a plan for online classes first. The sudden announcement has to be viewed as a step to stop the protests, he claimed. Angered some The extended vacation decision has also angered budget schools that have questioned the closure till January 30 while keeping super-spreaders like cinema halls, malls, bars and wine shops open. “Students are getting back into the learning mode slowly and it is ridiculous to target the schools every time the government wants to control COVID spread,” said the Telangana Recognised School Managements Association (TRSMA). In a statement here, the TRSMA president, Y. Shekhar Rao and general secretary S. Madhusudhan questioned the rationale behind the extension when schools were taking all precautionary measures with teachers vaccinated. “When educational institutions in AP are being run in the interests of students, why did the Telangana government take a hurried decision,” they asked. Meanwhile, the Osmania University administration announced holidays till January 30 as per the government orders and also postponed all the examinations to be held during this period. The varsity also has directed the principals of colleges under its jurisdiction to conduct online classes during this period. The JNTU Hyderabad that has jurisdiction over a large number of engineering and management colleges is yet to officially announce the extension of holidays. Much before the government extended the vacation the varsity announced online classes from January 17 to 22. The JNTU Vice-Chancellor has called for a meeting of all the Directors on Monday to discuss the issue and take a final decision, according to a senior official of the varsity. She said no exams were lined up till January 30 in the JNTU campus or constituent colleges. However, private colleges have some exams to be conducted during this period and a decision on these exams will come after the VC’s meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-closes-school-and-colleges-till-jan-30/article64949396.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:42 IST,||Iconic Secunderabad Club gutted in pre-dawn fire||A major fire broke out at the 143-year-old Secunderabad Club in the wee hours of Sunday. Within no time, the main heritage building was gutted in flames completely, resulting in the loss of assets worth at least Rs. 25 crore. No casualties were reported.  Speaking to The Hindu, the club’s president R. Raghuram Reddy said that it is very difficult to estimate the damage as the entire structure was close to a one-and-a-half-century old with a rich heritage. “It is on the right side of the front portion and the windows, doors, flooring, staircase and even ceiling were made of wood. If it was constructed recently or even a few decades back we could have estimated a loss based on the square feet area,” he said. He said that parts of the men's hall and administration office were completely gutted in the fire.  Mr. Reddy suspects that fluctuations in power supply following heavy rains on Saturday evening could have resulted in the short circuit that caused the fire, while District Fire Officer, Secunderabad, K. Madhusudana Rao, said they are yet to ascertain the exact reason for the accident. “I gave a written complaint to the local police requesting them to conduct a forensic investigation to find out the exact reason for the fire accident,” Mr. Rao said. He said that around 3.15 a.m., they got a ‘fire call’ from the Club and four fire tenders from two stations in the Secunderabad area were rushed to the spot to douse off the fire. After assessing the ground situation, three more fire tenders from Secretariat, Gandhi Hospital and Moulali were sent to the spot. Built with wood “The building was built mostly with wood and the fire was rapidly spreading, so a Multi-Purpose Tender from Fire Station Cantonment was rushed to the spot. As the fire continued to spread in all directions of the building and to meet the water scarcity, further Water Cum Foam Tender from Fire Station Snorkel, Water Tender from Fire Station Moulali, Water Bowser Secretariat and Multi-Purpose Tender from Secretariat have been rushed to the spot,” he said. As the internal staircase of the building, which was made of wood, was completely destroyed, fire fighting operations were carried out from the external staircase, which unfortunately didn’t have access to the first and second floors of the building. “With great difficulty, we doused the flames from the windows and the flames were brought under control within three hours,” Mr. Rao said. Known as the ‘elite club’ in the twin cities, it is one of the five oldest clubs in India, the oldest club being the Bengal Club of Calcutta. The Club went through two name changes before the current name Secunderabad Club was finally chosen. The Club was established on April 26, 1878, and was originally known as the Secunderabad Public Rooms. It was renamed the Secunderabad Garrison Club, the Secunderabad Gymkhana Club and the United Services Club. Membership to the Club is extremely difficult to get these days. The Club has slowed down on granting new memberships due to a large member-base. Memberships are bequeathed across generations by the members, much like family heirlooms. And for potential members, the current waiting list is at least 15 years, a source said. Currently, the club has 4,000 members and over 30,000 potential members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iconic-secunderabad-club-gutted-in-pre-dawn-fire/article64949395.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||Naresh Tikait backs RLD-SP alliance||Ahead of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s Mission Uttar Pradesh, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Naresh Tikait has appealed for support for the Rashtriya Lok Dal-Samajwadi Party alliance in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election. So far, the SKM (an umbrella grouping of farmers’ unions) and the BKU have refrained from endorsing any political party. Backing assured On Saturday, Mr. Tikait blessed the RLD candidates from Budhana and Meerapur seats of Muzaffarnagar at the BKU headquarters in Sisauli village. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Tikait said the upcoming elections would test the pride and resolve of farmers. “Wherever there are candidates of the [SP-RLD] alliance, make them win,” he is seen saying in a video of the gathering. Later talking to presspersons, he said, “Whatever I wanted to say, I have said. You could draw your own inference.”  However, BKU general secretary Yudhveer Singh told The Hindu the candidates went to seek Mr. Tikait’s blessings because he is also the head of the Baliyan khap. “He might have got carried away but it should be seen as a social courtesy.”  ‘Apolitical outfit’ Mr. Singh said the BKU continued to be an apolitical outfit. “We still have reservations about the ruling dispensation because some of our important demands have not been met but we are not seeking votes for any political party and it is not part of the Mission U.P. that is going to start from February 1.” Vice-president of the BKU’s Meerut zone Manoj Tewatia, however, said ground reality was different from the formal position. “Mr. Tikiat had to pick between the two Baliyans in the fray,” he said. The BJP has retained the ticket of sitting Budhana MLA Umesh Malik, a protege of Union Minister and Muzaffarnagar MP Sanjeev Baliyan. RLD on the other hand, has fielded two-time MLA Rajpal Baliyan, said to be very close to party president Jayant Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tikait-extends-support-for-rld-sp-front/article64949291.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:00 IST,||As positive cases surge, air traffic drops||With the surge in the number of COIVD-19 cases, the air passenger traffic has been on the decline in Chennai. There has been a significant dip in the number of flights operated and passenger traffic in domestic flights for more than a week now. For the last five months, air traffic was recovering with the Chennai airport registering nearly 20% increase in December with thousands of people flying out for vacation and to meet friends and family. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said the number of domestic flights had dropped. Last month, the airport recorded a maximum of 250 flights a day with about 35,000-40,000 travellers. This number fell to 200 flights and 22,000-23,000 passengers. “The flight schedules have changed with airlines reducing the number of flights as there are very takers for some flights. Ever since the COVID-19 cases began to be on an upward trajectory early this month, we started noticing a dip. It is not clear how long this is likely to last as it depends on the increase or decrease in the number of cases.,” an official added.  Last month, Chennai airport recorded a maximum of 250 flights a day with 35,000-40,000 travellers. This fell to 200 flights and 22,000-23,000 passengers AAI officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-cases-surge-air-traffic-drops-in-state-capital/article64949336.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:12 IST,||213 km in 24 hours in a wheelchair||A para-athlete in Odisha has covered a distance of 213 km in a wheelchair in 24 hours ending on Sunday. If his marathon wheelchair drive is approved by the Guinness World Records, Kamalakant Nayak will break the present record of 182.4 km (113.34 miles) achieved by Mario Trindade of Portugal in 2007. Mr. Nayak, a para-athlete from Puri district, covered the distance of 1.14 km between Rajmahal and Master Canteen Square in the city 189 times. He started turning the wheels at 4.30 p.m. on January 15 and stopped at 4.30 p.m. on January 16. Better Life Foundation, an Odisha-based NGO which organised the event, said the feat would send across a message that disability was only a state of mind. Mr. Nayak had been a veteran of many para marathons on his wheelchair. He first participated in the Ability Marathon in the Kalinga Stadium conducted by the State government and holds the national record of having completed a wheelchair ultra-marathon of 139.57 km in 15 hours. “I am extremely happy for this historic journey I have been preparing for the event for the past six years,” said the para-athlete on Sunday. The organisers had approached authorities of the Guinness World Records to ensure that they followed the necessary procedures for the record. Evidence was collected in three forms — video footage, GPS data and independent qualified witnesses. Mr. Nayak had taken four 30-minute breaks during the 24-hour feat. At around 20 hours, he surpassed the present record of 182.4 km. “Throughout the cycle track, we had installed eight cameras which were running for the entire 24 hours. We had one mobile phone having tracking application to track the run and another GPS device as backup. Besides, we had independent qualified witnesses coming in for four hours at a stretch. They timed every lap that Mr. Nayak did,” said Sidharth Daga, a Mobility Partner. “We are hopeful that Mr. Nayak’s name would find a place in the record book.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/para-athlete-covers-213-km-on-wheelchair/article64949297.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||Yati Narsinghanand arrested in two cases||Yati Narsinghanand, alias Deepak Tyagi, a priest, was on Saturday arrested by the Uttarakhand Police in two separate cases — the Haridwar hate speech in which calls were made for genocide against Muslims, and another case registered recently for derogatory remarks against women, according to the State Director-General of Police (DGP) Ashok Kumar. The arrest comes days after the Supreme Court sent a notice to the Centre, the Uttarakhand Police and the Delhi Police to respond to petitions that people accused of delivering hate speeches at a “Dharm Sansad” in Haridwar had not been arrested yet. The case is expected to come up for hearing later this week. Two of the five accused in the hate speech case have been arrested.  Mr. Kumar told  The Hindu that Narsinghanand was named in a separate first information report registered on January 12 for making derogatory and abusive remarks against women. The case was filed under Section 509 of the IPC (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman).  He said the accused was served a notice under Section 41A of the CrPC (when police may arrest without a warrant) on January 14, and that he would join the investigations whenever called by the police. 14-day judicial custody “When he did not honour the notice, he was arrested in both the cases — for hate speech and making derogatory remarks against women. We sought his judicial remand from court and he has been sent to 14 days’ judicial custody,” he said. A senior police officer said that his police custody was not sought as it was not required for investigations at this stage. The police have so far refrained from making any arrests in the case owing to several Supreme Court orders and observations that bar the police from arresting persons in cases where the maximum possible sentence for an offence is seven years or less, a senior government official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yati-narsinghanand-arrested-in-two-cases/article64949288.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:52 IST,||Protests put off following warnings: Satheesan||The CPI(M) has gone ahead with its party programmes despite warnings of the spread of COVID-19, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has alleged. He said the Congress had put off all its protest programmes following a warning from the Health department that there would be rampant spread of the virus. The ruling party had termed Congress workers, who were providing water and food to those camping on the Kerala border during the early days of COVID-19, ‘merchants of death’. But the CPI(M) was now organising its programmes despite the rapid and serious spread of the pandemic, Mr. Satheesan said. Though an MLA who had participated in the Thiruvananthapuram conclave of the CPI(M) tested positive for COVID-19, the meeting was not called off. Mr. Satheesan added that the government had not addressed any of the concerns raised by the Opposition on the K-Rail project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protests-put-off-following-warnings-satheesan/article38280553.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:37 IST,||Caste atrocity: Six held for assault in Mysuru||Six persons who allegedly assaulted and abused a few members of the Scheduled Caste community over a petty issue in a village in Mysuru rural have been arrested and remanded in judicial custody. The police said the incident occurred at Arisinakare village in Jayapura hobli on Thursday when a group of youth belonging to the Lingayat community got embroiled in a verbal spat with a few members of the SC community while eating street snack (‘pani puri’). The police said the immediate cause for the fracas was being investigated; both groups comprised youngsters in their early 20s and some of them were classmates in school. The group later dispersed but news of the incident reached the family members who went to the locality where the other group resided and this resulted in tension and minor violence. Complaint Other sources said that though the issue was resolved, youngsters from the dominant caste group raked up the issue again on Friday and assaulted members of the other group and subjected them to caste abuse. The police said a complaint had been filed and a case of caste atrocity had been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/caste-atrocity-six-held-for-assault-in-mysuru/article38280489.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||Djokovic loses appeal against deportation||Novak Djokovic’s hopes of defending the Australian Open men’s singles title ended on Sunday after he lost an appeal against the cancellation of his visa and resultant deportation. A three-judge panel of the Federal Court unanimously upheld Immigration Minister Alex Hawke’s decision to cancel the World No. 1’s visa for a second time on Friday. The Australian government had detained the unvaccinated star on Saturday on “health and good order” grounds. The Serb departed Australia on Sunday, bringing to an end a saga which started on January 6 with Djokovic’s 10-hour stand-off with the Australian Border Force at the Melbourne airport. The nine-time Australian Open champion’s visa was cancelled for the first time after the proof he submitted for a medical exemption from vaccination — secured from Tennis Australia and Victoria State government — was deemed inadequate. The decision was overturned by a Federal Circuit Court for procedural irregularities, thus allowing Djokovic to enter the country and even train in the lead-up to the first Major of the year, only for Mr. Hawke to use his ministerial power to eject him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/djokovic-loses-appeal-against-deportation/article38280289.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:12 IST,||A.P. sees highest daily positivity rate in 231 days||Andhra Pradesh reported 4,570 infections and one death due to COVID-19 in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. Though the number of infections reported was less than the previous day’s tally, the test positivity rate of the 30,000 samples tested during the period was 15.22%, the highest in 231 days. Contrary to the rising number of infections and positivity rate, the number of samples tested has come down from 47,000 to 30,000 in four days. The cumulative tally increased to 21,06,280 and the death toll reached 14,510. The number of active cases increased to 26,770 and 669 patients recovered in the previous day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 20,65,000 and 98.04%. The lone death was reported from Chittoor district. District tally Chittoor reported 1,124 fresh cases and Visakhapatnam 1,028. They were followed by Guntur (368), Anantapur (347), Nellore (253), East Godavari (233), Vizianagaram (209), Krishna (207), Srikakulam (187), Prakasam (178), Kadapa (173), Kurnool (168) and West Godavari (95). The total number of infections recorded in the districts so far were as follows: East Godavari (2,97,070), Chittoor (2,55,102), Guntur (1,81,618), West Godavari (1,80,738), Visakhapatnam (1,64,905), Anantapur (1,60,073), Nellore (1,49,155), Prakasam (1,39,706), Srikakulam (1,25,407), Kurnool (1,25,357), Krishna (1,22,597), Kadapa (1,17,160) and Vizianagaram (84,497).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-sees-highest-daily-positivity-rate-in-231-days/article64949296.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:12 IST,||No plan to extend holidays, says Minister||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Sunday clarified that there was no plan to extend Sankranti holidays for schools. In a statement, the Minister responded to reports saying that the government may extend Sankranti vacation in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases. He said along with the health of children, the government had to think of their future as well. Vaccination drive Informing that the drive to vaccinate all teachers across the State had been completed, he said 92% of students in the 15-18 age groups had been inoculated against the virus. ‘Strong safety net’ He said parents need not worry about their children’s safety as the school authorities had put in place a strong safety net around school campuses to contain the spread of the virus.Referring to speculations on extension of holidays, the Minister said at this moment there was no such plan but the government might rethink in the days to come depending on the intensity of the infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-plan-to-extend-holidays-says-minister/article38280147.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:43 IST,||Five killed in separate accidents on NH-65||Five persons were killed in three separate accidents near Choutuppal on the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) in undivided Nalgonda district on Saturday and Sunday. Two accidents, police said, were reported around the same spot near Lingojigudem on Saturday. In the first accident, a father-son duo riding a motorcycle were hit by a four-wheeler resulting in the instant death of the father, 45-year-old V. Sailu. They were heading to Manchala village from Sunkanapalli. Two other youths riding a motorcycle were also hit by a vehicle. Both Cherukuri Sairam and Chenagoni Satish, working at a pharmaceutical company at Veliminedu, police said, died on the spot. The third accident was reported in the early hours of Sunday, when an Andhra Pradesh Road Transport Corporation bus rammed into an SUV that was attempting to take a turn on the highway near Dharmojigudem. Two persons – V. Chandu, 23, and C. Sai Prudhvi Raj, 28, were killed instantly and five others who sustained injuries were shifted for emergency care at a private hospital at L.B. Nagar. Police said the bus belonged to Machilipatnam depot, and a case was registered against the driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-killed-in-separate-accidents-on-nh-65/article38280539.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:42 IST,||Traditional backdrop||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/traditional-backdrop/article64949394.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:01 IST,||Three police personnel placed under suspension||Two sub-inspectors of police and a head constable, all part of a special team in Namakkal district, have been placed under suspension following the death of a differently-abled man, who was detained in a theft case recently. Based on the recommendations of Saroj Kumar Thakur, Superintendent of Police of Namakkal district, Najmal Hoda, Commissioner of Police, Salem city, who holds additional charge as DIG of police, Salem range, issued orders on January 15 placing SIs A. Chandran (Senthamangalam police station) and Poongodi (Puduchatram station) and head constable Kulandaivel (Tiruchengodu rural station) under suspension with immediate effect. The orders did not explain the charges against them, but said an inquiry was conducted into the “grave charges against them” and the three were placed under suspension with immediate effect in public interest. Kumar of Harur in Dharmapuri was arrested by the police for allegedly stealing 20 sovereigns gold jewellery from a shop owner’s house in Senthamangalam. He told the police that five others were also involved. On January 11, the Senthamangalam police arrested Prabakaran, 45, of Adi Dravidar Colony in Karuppur and his wife Hamsala, 40, for their involvement in the case. While Prabakaran was lodged at a sub-jail in Namakkal, his wife was lodged at the Salem Central Prison. On January 12, Prabakaran fell ill and he was admitted to the district headquarters hospital in Namakkal and later shifted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. But, he died later. Claiming that Prabakaran was beaten while in the custody of Senthamangalam police and that led to his death, relatives and members of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi staged a road block near the Collectorate on January 13. They demanded registration of a case under the SC/ST Act, 1989, against the police personnel and demanded their arrest. They refused to receive the body and continued their protest. Salem GH police registered a case under Section 176 CrPC (inquiry by magistrate into cause of death) and G. Kalaivani, Judicial Magistrate No. I held inquiries. On Sunday, the order copy placing the three under suspension was shown to the relatives after which they received the body and left the hospital in the morning.  On January 12, Prabakaran fell ill. He was admitted to the district headquarters hospital in Namakkal and later shifted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. But he died later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-policemen-placed-under-suspension-over-mans-death/article38280395.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:12 IST,||Defer Punjab poll date, say Congress, BJP||After Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi wrote to the Election Commission of India, demanding the postponement of the February 14 Assembly election in Punjab in view of Guru Ravidas Jayanti, the BJP and the Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) on Sunday raised a similar request. Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma said the BJP had requested the EC to postpone the election date as several people travel to Varanasi to pay their respects to Guru Ravidas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/defer-punjab-poll-date-say-congress-bjp/article38280325.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:12 IST,||Raging fire||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/raging-fire/article64949292.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:08 IST,||COVID cases declining in Capital: Health Minister||The COVID-19 cases are reducing in Delhi and weekend curfews have played a vital role in the decline, said Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday. At least 18,286 new COVID-19 cases and 28 deaths were reported in Delhi on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cases-declining-in-capital-health-minister/article64949518.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:10 IST,||Call on reopening schools in Maharashtra soon: Tope||As the number of infections among children in the “third wave” of the pandemic is very low, the Maharashtra government will take a call on reopening schools in the next 15 days, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/call-on-reopening-schools-in-maharashtra-soon-tope/article38280589.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:07 IST,||‘May ally with a non-BJP party if AAP lacks majority’||AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday the party would only think of allying with a non-BJP party in the event of a fractured mandate in Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/may-ally-with-a-non-bjp-party-if-aap-lacks-majority/article38280418.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:10 IST,||Defer Punjab election date: Cong., BJP, PLC||After Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi wrote to the Election Commission seeking the postponement of the February 14 Assembly election in view of Guru Ravidas Jayanti, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Punjab Lok Congress raised a similar request on Sunday. The birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas falls on February 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/defer-punjab-election-date-cong-bjp-plc/article64949451.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:37 IST,||Family donates organs of brain-dead woman||Two kidneys, a liver, heart valves, and corneas were successfully harvested from a 45-year-old brain dead woman at a private hospital in Mysuru on Saturday and donated as per the protocol under the Transplant of Human Organs Act, 1994.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/family-donates-organs-of-brain-dead-woman/article38280487.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:37 IST,||State attracts Rs. 1.6L cr. FDI so far in FY22||Karnataka has attracted FDIs worth Rs. 1.6 lakh crore so far in the current fiscal, which was more than 50% of such investments received in India, said Minister for IT/BT and Skill Development C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-attracts-rs-16l-cr-fdi-so-far-in-fy22/article64949409.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:07 IST,||Mamata writes to PM on tableau’s exclusion||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote to the Prime Minister expressing “shock and hurt” at the State’s proposed tableau being excluded from the Republic Day parade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-writes-to-pm-on-tableaus-exclusion/article38280417.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:10 IST,||Mamata writes to PM on tableau’s exclusion||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote to the Prime Minister expressing “shock and hurt” at the State’s proposed tableau being excluded from the Republic Day parade. She urged the Prime Minister to reconsider the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-writes-to-pm-on-tableaus-exclusion/article38280588.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:28 IST,||16HysurNearby2||CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao constituted a four-member committee of senior IAS officers for administrative reforms in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16hysurnearby2/article38280518.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:37 IST,||Decision on Narayana Guru’s tableau slammed||The decision of the Centre in rejecting the Kerala Government’s proposal to have social reformer Narayana Guru’s tableau in the Republic Day parade has been criticised by former Chief Ministers Siddaramaiah and H.D. Kumaraswamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-narayana-gurus-tableau-slammed/article38280486.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:53 IST,||Weekend curfew halts kambalas||The weekend curfew has forced the annual kambala (buffalo run on slush track or field) events in the coastal belt to come to an abrupt end. According to officials, only six kambalas have been held now under the auspices of the Kambala Committee of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Kasaragod (Kerala) districts .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weekend-curfew-halts-kambalas/article64949466.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,||Hospitals trying to bear Omicron load||Standby buffer staff, internal lockdowns, workplace “buddy systems”, compulsory reporting of fatigue, and workshops to cope with mental and emotional exhaustion — these are among the few changes that have been introduced to the healthcare landscape to help COVID-19 health warriors stay fighting fit in the ongoing pandemic. Healthcare facilities admit that the pandemic has tested and stretched their resources, and the path is riddled with uncertainty and ever-changing living guidelines. India lost over a thousand critical care health workers during the second COVID-19 wave in 2021. Fluid situation “The situation is fluid. There are no specific blueprints for the healthcare sector, and worse, we are as much part of the solution and [also the] victims, but we are learning,” said Rajiv Goyal, vice president, operations, QRG Super Speciality Hospital, Faridabad. His hospital brought in slew of measures, including a buddy system which allows professionals at work to check on each others’ welfare, report any fatigue-related event to the management to help prevent injuries and errors, avoid scheduling staff for more than 12 hours if possible, provide alternative transportation to and from work, mandatory paid rest time, and clear communications. Several hospitals said they had enhanced their staff strength following the devastation during the second COVID-19 wave in which many healthcare workers were also adversely affected. Sugandh Ahluwalia, chief of strategy, Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, said that they currently did not have staff shortages as they had increased staff strength during the second wave of the pandemic. Restricted movement Hospitals are also following an internal lockdown system to keep cross infections to the minimum. Aashish Chaudhary, managing dircetor, Aakash Healthcare Super Speciality Hospital, said that to prevent any spread of infection, internal lockdowns had been brought in. “Hospital staff are not permitted to visit any department other than their own. Staff members go straight home without stopping to speak with anyone from other departments. Every employee has his or her own card restricting their movement to their department only, preventing cross-infection,” he explained. Dr. Ashutosh Shukla, senior director-internal medicine and medical adviser, Max Hospital, Gurgaon, noted that, currently, the number of healthcare workers falling sick is not very high, at around 7-8%. “In case of need, staff from non-critical specialties are being trained on the job and re-deployed for the care of admitted COVID-19 patients,” he said. Early trends Hospitals added that the current wave is witnessing milder infections. Early trends indicate that most of the people getting infected are co-morbid and not fully vaccinated. Hospitals are also allowing only a restricted number of attendants with a patient, while educating all to follow COVID-19 appropriate safety protocols and norms. “Doctors and nurses are used to long working hours. Their training has steeled them to take up this enhanced workload, physical as well mental,” said Bishnu Panigrahi, group head, medical strategy and operations, Fortis Healthcare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hospitals-trying-to-bear-omicron-load/article64949265.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,||Defer Punjab poll date, say Congress, BJP||After Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi wrote to the Election Commission of India (ECI), demanding the postponement of the February 14 Assembly election in Punjab in view of Guru Ravidas Jayanti, the BJP and the Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) on Sunday raised a similar request. Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma said the BJP had requested the ECI through a formal letter to postpone the election date as several people from Punjab travel to Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh to pay their respects to Guru Ravidas. The birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas falls on February 16. “Lakhs of voters should not be denied their right to vote on February 14. The polling date considering the religious sentiments of followers of Shri Guru Ravidas should be postponed. BJP is a party which takes every segment along with it and is considerate to religious sentiments, and at the same time wants that democracy should be upheld and every citizen of the State be able to cast his or her vote,” Mr. Sharma said. Earlier, Mr. Channi, in a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra, wrote that it was brought to his notice by representatives of the Scheduled Caste community, which contributes around 32% of the State’s population, that Guru Ravidas’s birth anniversary falls on February 16. He wrote: “On this occasion, a large number of SC devotees from the state are likely to visit Banaras in Uttar Pradesh from February 10 to 16. In such a situation, many people from this community would not be able to cast their votes for the state assembly, which is otherwise their constitutional right.” ‘At least six days’ “It is considered fair and appropriate that the voting for Punjab assembly elections 2022, maybe postponed for at least six days, enabling about 20 lakh people to utilise their right to vote for the state legislative assembly,” he added. The Punjab Lok Congress, led by former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, has also supported the demand for postponing elections in Punjab by a week. The party has sent a letter to the ECI in this regard. The National Scheduled Castes Alliance (NSCA), an NGO, has also submitted a request regarding postponement of the poll date. NSCA president Paramjit Kainth wrote to the Commission: “The government of Punjab should have been aware of such a dilemma occurring on the date of February 14, and it is an utter disappointment on the State government’s side to not advise your esteemed institution (ECI) regarding the possibility of such nature of inconvenience for the public of the State. As is the case, I request you to consider postponing the voting process to a date after February 18.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/defer-punjab-poll-date-say-congress-bjp/article64949268.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||Centre’s response awaited on law on inter-faith marriages||The law that governs inter-faith marriages in the country, the Special Marriage Act (SMA), 1954, is being challenged for endangering the lives of young couples who seek refuge under it. More than a year after a writ petition was moved before the Supreme Court, seeking striking down of several of its provisions, the Union government is yet to submit its response. “The court has admitted our petition and it was heard once on September 16, 2020. A notice was issued to the Centre and we are awaiting its counter-affidavit,” says advocate Kaleeswaram Raj. Twenty-seven-year old Aafreen Ansari* was under tremendous pressure from her family to get married. But she was already in love with a Hindu boy and the idea of an inter-faith marriage was vehemently opposed by her parents. So, without any further delay, she and Mohan Sharma*, decided to have a court marriage under the SMA around August 2020. “We needed to marry urgently. Our circumstances didn’t allow us to wait any longer. My parents were already suspicious and I was worried that they would restrict my movement,” says Ms. Aafreen. She and Mr. Sharma went online and submitted their application. When they reached the Sub-Divisional Magistrate’s (SDM) office for the verification of their documents, the staff dissuaded them in multiple ways. “They were rude, and they deleted our application on flimsy grounds, which delayed the whole process for us. They threatened to stop our marriage over a spelling error. And then they told us we were required to wait for 30 days and issue a notice inviting objections to our marriage from the public and that this notice would be stuck on the court premises,” recounts Ms. Aafreen. Section 5 of the SMA requires a person marrying under this law to give a notice of intended marriage, and Section 6(2) says it should be affixed at a conspicuous place at the office of the marriage officer. Section 7(1)allows any person to object to the marriage within 30 days of the publication of the notice, failing which a marriage can be solemnised under Section 7(2). Such was the terror of being discovered, that the couple approached the Delhi High Court a few days later, challenging Sections 6 and 7 of the Act. The couple are now married, but the court is yet to give its decision. The law doesn’t require a notice to be sent to the families, but there are often instances where marriage officers and State governments go over and beyond the law to scuttle these marriages. Some State governments can also be overzealous in implementing the law. Haryana, for instance, created a checklist for marriages under the SMA, with 16 criteria that require a couple to publish a notice inviting objections in a newspaper and that such notices be sent to their parents. But even without such over-reach, several provisions in the law put the lives of these couples in danger. “Some States require couples to also seek a no-objection certificate from their parents. The Maharashtra (Department of Registration and Stamps) publicly shares the details of these couples on its website, from where communal elements can access them,” explains Asif Iqbal, founding member of NGO Dhanak, which helps inter-faith, inter-caste, same sex and trans couples.  All eyes are now on the Supreme Court, where a petition in the Nandini Praveen vs. Union of India in September 2021 has sought that these and a few other provisions be struck down as they violate the right to privacy, and the right to marry.  Until the top court decides, couples will be forced to knock on the door of courts to seek protection from a law that was framed with the intent to safeguard their interests.  (* names changed to protect the identity of the subjects )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centres-response-awaited-on-law-on-inter-faith-marriages/article64949281.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||SC verdicts have flagged the threat of hate speech||The seeming delay in taking criminal action against the perpetrators of hate speeches in Haridwar and Delhi is despite the Supreme Court’s judgments that hate speech is an attack on dignity in the “matter of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship” and threatens the unity of the nation as a whole.  “The unity and integrity of the nation cannot be overlooked and slighted, as the acts that promote or are likely to promote divisiveness, alienation and schematism do directly and indirectly impinge on the diversity and pluralism, and when they are with the objective and intent to cause public disorder or to demean dignity of the targeted groups, they have to be dealt with as per law,” the Supreme Court observed in its December 7, 2020 judgment in the Amish Devgan case.  Intent of Preamble The court reminded the government that the Preamble to the Constitution consciously puts together fraternity, assuring dignity of the individual, and the unity and integrity of the nation. It said the dignity of the individual and unity and integrity of the nation are linked, one in the form of rights of individuals and other in the form of individuals’ obligation to others to ensure unity and integrity of the nation. Hate speech not only “insidiously weaken virtue and superiority of diversity, but cuts back and lead to demands, depending on the context and occasion, for suppression of freedom to express and speak on the ground of reasonableness”. By issuing threats upon the liberty and freedom of others, the Supreme Court said, orators of hate challenge the unity and integrity of the nation. Wider acceptance  In the Sabarimala judgment, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud noted that “religious beliefs and faiths ensure wider acceptance of human dignity and liberty, but when conflict arises between the two, the quest for human dignity, liberty and equality must prevail”.   Justice Sanjiv Khanna, in the Amish Devgan case, defines “dignity” as the “basic entitlement as a member of a society in good standing, his status as a social equal and as bearer of human rights and constitutional entitlements”.  Participatory equality in inter-personal relationships among citizens, and between the State and the citizens fosters “self worth”, he added. Loss of dignity “Loss of dignity and self-worth of the targeted group members contributes to disharmony amongst groups, erodes tolerance and open-mindedness which are a must for multi-cultural society committed to the idea of equality. It affects an individual as a member of a group,” Justice Khanna wrote.  Dignity is a part of the individual rights that form the fundamental fulcrum of collective harmony and interest of a society, the court said in its judgment in the Charu Khurana case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-verdicts-have-flagged-the-threat-of-hate-speech/article64949279.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,||Call on school reopening soon: Tope||As the number of infections among children in the “third wave” of the pandemic is very low, the Maharashtra government will take a call on reopening schools in the next 15 days. Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday that despite the State witnessing a high number of infections, 86-87% of the fresh COVID-19 cases were in home quarantine and were exhibiting only mild symptoms like those seen in common cold. “There are different opinions on the reopening of schools. We have discussed the matter in the Cabinet. Parents are divided with some advocating caution and refusing to send children while others insisting on sending them to school. Given that infections among children and hospitalisations, in general, have thus far been low, we will keep schools closed for the next fortnight in the wake of rising cases but take a decision within the fortnight,” Mr. Tope told presspersons in Jalna. Maharashtra has been witnessing a massive spike in daily infections since the emergence of the Omicron variant. This has led the government to impose curbs including the shutting down of schools and colleges which had only reopened recently. The move has come under criticism from parents and activists, particularly from those in the rural hinterland, who have complained about the ill-effects on children from the social margins. Mr. Tope, who congratulated the personnel of the Health Department on the occasion of the first anniversary of India’s vaccination drive, said 90% of the State’s population had been given the first dose and 62% the second, while 42% teenagers in the 15-18 age group had been inoculated thus far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-on-school-reopening-soon-tope/article64949261.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,||In Kohima, a cemetery with a tennis court||Nagaland’s capital Kohima is home to a unique cemetery that also has a tennis court. The United Kingdom-based Commonwealth War Graves Commission (CWGC) has listed five sites with unusual features. The Kohima War Cemetery is one of 23,000 World War graves across the continents maintained by the CWGC. “In 1944, following hard fighting in the Burmese jungle, the Japanese forces in the region pushed across the Chindwin River and into India. In their path was the Fourteenth Army, made up of forces from across the Commonwealth,” the CWGC wrote on its site. “This invasion hinged upon two key points, (Manipur capital) Imphal and Kohima, Defeat for the Fourteenth Army here meant that the Japanese could strike further into India,” it said. “On 3 April, a Japanese force of 15,000 attacked Kohima and its 2,500-strong garrison. The ridges at Kohima lead to two weeks of difficult, bloody fighting as the defending forces were pushed back to the former house of the British Deputy Commissioner,” the CWGC said. The lawn of this house had a tennis court where the British officers played for recreation.“The Japanese force continued to fight for Kohima before they were finally forced to withdraw in May. Those who had fallen in the defence of Kohima were buried on the battlefield, which later became a permanent CWGC cemetery, with further burials from the surrounding areas.” Designer Colin St. Clair Oakes incorporated the tennis court into the design of the cemetery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-kohima-a-cemetery-with-a-tennis-court/article64949263.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||Tasting the malai of power — caste fissures come out in the open in U.P.||In an unprecedented move in December 2019, around 100 BJP MLAs sat on a dharna on the Uttar Pradesh Assembly premises in Lucknow against their own government, accusing it of arrogance and high-handedness.  The protest came in the wake of BJP’s Loni MLA Nand Kishore Gurjar being prevented from presenting his side of the story in an assault case registered against him in Ghaziabad. While Mr. Gurjar’s motives were questionable, the incident showed that a party MLA could not overrule the local administration in the Yogi Adityanath regime.  Cut to Swami Prasad Maurya’s impassioned speech on the occasion of Makar Sankranti earlier this week when he said the malai (perks) of power was not shared with the backward classes by the government in the past five years.  Both Mr. Gurjar and Mr. Maurya belong to OBC communities that roughly constitute around 44% of the electorate in the poll-bound State. The difference is that while Mr. Gurjar is a small fry, Mr. Maurya is a regional satrap who has positioned himself as a bellwether politician and expert in negotiating the shifting political sands. His supporters on the ground did not find anything unethical in his last-minute move and have backed his call to oust the government, in which he was a Minister for five years. Observers of the shifting sands said in the caste-riddled State, it is the share and quality of the ‘cream’ of power that traditionally decides political allegiance during elections. On the fringes still  In the earthy nomenclature of what political scientists term the patron-client relationship,  malai refers to a range of perks of power — from reservation in jobs, a share in government contracts, sanction for illegal transactions, and the freedom to flaunt power and bend the law at the neighbourhood thana (police station).  Also, as a BJP insider explained, in eastern Uttar Pradesh, a cup of tea and a few words of warmth shared by the Chief Minister are sometimes more important than getting work done. The fact that Mr. Adityanath was perhaps unused to these courtesies of Lucknow worked against him. “He is trying to be Modi, forgetting the PM had earned his position while he was imposed on the State,” the party person said. A day after Mr. Maurya’s resignation when pictures of Mr. Adityanath sharing a meal with a Dalit party worker emerged, they were seen as a damage control exercise by a party that has described such photo ops as “poverty tourism” when Congress leaders publicised similar events. Significantly, through just one speech, Mr. Maurya has shifted the narrative of the Uttar Pradesh elections from religion to caste, something Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav had been trying to do for months by cobbling together a rainbow alliance with regional outfits such as the Rashtriya Lok Dal, the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party, and the Mahan Dal. There is a reason. Experts say while the Yadavs and the Jatavs have received the fruits of Mandal politics, the Mauryas, the Sainis, the Kashyaps and the Kushwahas that constitute the bottom of the OBC pyramid in the State remained disgruntled with their share of the pie. Observers said the latter could not benefit from reservations because the Jats, the Yadavs, and the Gurjars are socially and economically better placed to secure jobs. For years, these groups backed Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati, hoping that she would ensure their shift to the SC category, thereby opening up a share of reservation in that section. However, during the BSP regime, it was the Jatavs who enjoyed the so-called cream. In shifting allegiance to the BJP, they saw yet another opportunity for a share in power. However, Mr. Adityanath’s attempts to include many castes languishing at the margins of the OBC category in the SC category could not bypass legal scrutiny. Apart for social marginalisation, the push for privatisation under the BJP’s rule — particularly in basic education that attracts teachers from these castes — has made them insecure about the future of reservation in government jobs. “Except for teaching everything has been privatised. Even our work is assessed by a third party. The impression is that if the BJP government returns, even the teaching part will go into private hands, leading to salary cuts. The talks for bringing down the retirement age to 50 has already started,” said the principal of a primary school in Aligarh. Promise belied Supporters of Mr. Maurya recalled that after the 2017 Assembly election, the BJP had imposed Mr. Adityanath as a Chief Minister on them when the pre-poll promise was to make an OBC face the head of the State.  “We accepted Yogi ji because he came as a monk wrapped in saffron but when he started imposing thakurwad in the garb of Hindutva, it irked our leaders,” said Rakesh Saini, a teacher from Saharanpur, recalling the ill-treatment meted out to Kalyan Singh during the Vajpayee rule. That’s why Mr. Adityanath’s 80-20 remark (referring to the population divide between Hindus and Muslims), which was supposed to be a master stroke, annoyed the OBCs and suddenly became material for a spoof.  Mr. Saini quoted his benefactor and former Minister Dharam Singh Saini who told reporters that he was sidelined in the Cabinet because of his caste. Thus the rush of leaders from the lower strata of the OBCs towards the SP is not being seen as a sudden move. For days, WhatsApp groups have been replete with messages sharing the disproportionate number of Thakurs (the caste to which Chief Minister Adityanath belongs) posted as District Magistrates, Superintendents of Police, and Station House Officers. Observers also put the role of Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya under the scanner and did not give a clean chit to the central leadership of the BJP that has shared a hot and cold relationship with Mr. Adityanath in the past few years. Interestingly, SP insiders talk of a similarity between the Samajwadi Party of 2017 and the BJP of 2022. “In 2017, we failed to keep our house in order before the elections, allowing the Opposition time to stitch alliances with regional caste-based groups. This time it is the BJP’s turn,” said an SP leader from Bijnor. Asmer Beg, Professor of Political Science in Aligarh Muslim University, described the revolt of OBC leaders as “a mini but significant churn in the run-up to the Assembly polls”. “The Hindu-Muslim narrative had become a bit of an overkill and as Akhilesh said if Samajwadi and Ambekarites could come together, we could be in for a surprise,” Prof. Beg said. However, he added, it is still early days and the BJP would try every trick to shift the narrative back to religion. For the SP chief, he said, it is not going to be easy to accommodate the ambitions of the new entrants to the party fold.  One thing is however certain: the Babua (youngster as Mr. Akshilesh Yadav has been referred to by his rivals) has finally become a worthy challenger to the Baba (Yogi Adityanath).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tasting-the-malai-of-power-caste-fissures-come-out-in-the-open-in-up/article64949273.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,||Mamata takes up tableau’s exclusion||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing “shock and hurt” that the proposed tableau of West Bengal has been excluded from the Republic Day parade. “I have been profoundly shocked and hurt by the decision of the Government of India to abruptly exclude the proposed tableau of the Government of West Bengal from the ensuing Republic Day parade. It is even more baffling for us that the tableau has been rejected without assigning any reasons or jurisdiction,” Ms. Banerjee wrote. She urged the Prime Minister to reconsider the decision emphasising that it showcases the sacrifices and contribution of lakhs of freedom fighters and would be most befitting way to pay our respect and homage on the 75th year of Independence. The Trinamool Congress chairperson said the tableau was “commemorating the contributions of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and his INA 125th birth anniversary year and was carrying the portraits of some of its most illustrious sons and daughters — Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Swami Vivekananda, Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das, Sri Aurobindo, Matangini Hazra, Nazrul, Birsa Munda and many patriots”. “I may like to inform you that all the people of West Bengal are deeply pained by this attitude of the Central government. Bengal was at the forefront of the freedom struggle and has paid the heaviest price for the Independence through partition and uprooting of millions of people,” she wrote. She said the exclusion of the tableau amounts to belittling and undermining these freedom fighters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-takes-up-tableaus-exclusion/article64949262.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||Consent should be foregrounded: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said consent is an “underrated” concept in Indian society but it should be foregrounded to ensure safety of women. His comments come in the midst of a debate that calls for criminalising marital rape. Hearing a bunch of petitions last week, the Delhi High Court questioned the exemptions given to marital rape. Last Tuesday, a Bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and C. Hari Shankar asked “if a married woman loses the right to say ‘no’ and if 50 countries that have made marital rape an offence have got it wrong”. “Consent is amongst the most underrated concepts in our society. It has to be foregrounded to ensure safety for women. # MaritalRape,” Mr. Gandhi said on Twitter weighing on the side of the debate that seeks to outlaw marital rape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/consent-should-be-foregrounded-rahul/article38280276.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||Police are trying to prolong journalist’s detention: lawyer||The lawyer of journalist Sajad Gul who was re-arrested hours after acquiring bail on Saturday in a case in Bandipora on Sunday said he feared the police were trying to prolong Mr. Gul’s detention by filing back-to-back FIRs.  “The delay in the release of Sajad under the pretext of a fresh FIR is an attack on his constitutional liberty. In terms of law, the police could add offences during the course of investigation if attracted. However, registration of the second FIR defeats the mandate of law. The matter would be brought before a court of law and justice would be done,” lawyer Umair Ronga told The Hindu .  Mr. Gul is now booked under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (armed with weapons) and 336 (endangering life). Earlier, the court granted him bail in the FIR lodged on January 6 in Bandipora. Mr. Gul, a trainee journalist pursuing a degree in Mass Communication, was arrested on January 6 after he uploaded a video of the protesting family of a slain militant. “He was also involved in spreading disinformation through fake tweets and narratives,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-are-trying-to-prolong-journalists-detention-lawyer/article38280280.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||Press bodies condemn ‘armed’ seige of Kashmir Press Club||Top journalists’ bodies, including the Editors Guild of India (EGI), Press Club of India and Mumbai Press Club (MPC), on Sunday expressed dismay over the “forcible” takeover of the Kashmir Press Club (KPC) by a group of journalists, and demanded restoration of the Club’s registration as a society and early elections. A group of journalists, headed by Salim Pandit and Zulfikar Majid, had on Saturday arrived at the KPC office in Srinagar and appointed themselves as a new body. The development came just a day after the Registrar of Societies put in abeyance its own registration issued on December 29, 2021 to the Club, after the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), CID, Srinagar, put on hold the verification process of the members of the management of the Club. Earlier, the Club, set up in 2019, had announced elections for a new body on February 15. The self-appointed body said it took over the “defunct Club on the popular demand of the journalist fraternity, who were otherwise facing problems on numerous fronts”. The self-appointed body then proceeded to lock the Club for a week. Condemning the incident, the EGI in a statement said, “The Guild demands immediate restoration of status quo before this hostile takeover, announcement of elections to appoint a new management body and strict prohibitions on any armed forces from interfering with the functioning of the Club, without due legal sanction.” Demanding an independent inquiry as to how armed forces entered the Club premises, the EGI said the armed takeover has effectively scuttled rule-based functioning of the Club. “Even more disturbingly, the State police entered the premises without any due warrant or paperwork, and have, therefore, been brazenly complicit in this coup, in which a group of people have become self-declared management of the Club. This violation of the sanctity of the Club by the police and the local administration is a manifestation of the continuing trend to smother press freedom in the State,” it added. The self-styled body, however, said the EGI, the PCI and MPC instead of adhering to journalistic standards of verifying the other side of the story, came up with a half-baked and sensational statement as if some “government sponsored coup” had really taken place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/armed-seige-of-kashmir-press-club-condemned/article38280083.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,||Five injured as BSF men and villagers clash in Tripura||At least five people, including a Border Security Force (BSF) constable, were injured when troops clashed with people at a village in Sonamura subdivision on Sunday. Irate villagers blocked a highway for several hours in protest against what they called an unprovoked assault on them. The incident occurred at Fakiradola locality in Sonamura. Senior BSF officers from the Southern Range Headquarters at Gokulnagar rushed to the spot and pacified the agitators, promising an impartial probe. Latest reports said the road blockade had been withdrawn. Trouble started after a BSF patrol entered a house where a head of cattle was being slaughtered for consumption. The BSF personnel were in a brawl with family members over the issue and a big crowd assembled. This led to a clash with villagers, causing injuries to five. A BSF soldier was also injured and admitted to a hospital. A woman and three men sustained injuries in the incident. The police deployed Tripura State Rifles officers in the area to defuse tension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-injured-as-bsf-men-and-villagers-clash-in-tripura/article38280110.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,||After BJP snub, JD(U) to go it alone in U.P.||Miffed at not being part of the BJP’s alliance with the Apna Dal and the Nishad Party in Uttar Pradesh, the Janata Dal(U) has decided to fight the Assembly election on its own.  JD(U) leader and in-charge for Uttar Pradesh K.C. Tyagi told The Hindu that the party had fought together with the BJP and the Apna Dal in an alliance in the past.  However, despite attempts by Union Minister R.C.P. Singh who got in touch with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and BJP president J.P. Nadda, the party had continued to ignore the JD(U)’s claims. The JD(U) had contested 22 seats in the 2007 election in alliance with the BJP. Meeting on Jan. 18 “When we heard that Dharmendra Pradhan [Education Minister and BJP in-charge of poll in Uttar Pradesh] had announced finalisation of seat sharing with the Apna Dal and the Nishad Party and not mentioned us at all, we decided that we must fight on our own. For this we are holding a meeting on January 18 in Lucknow,” he said said. ‘Original NDA’ The JD(U) had received, he said, application forms from 51 people interested in getting the party ticket. “We are the original NDA allies with Atal Bihari Vajpayee at the head and George Fernandes as convener. We have fought in alliance in non-Bihar States earlier too,” Mr. Tyagi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-bjp-snub-jdu-to-go-it-alone-in-up/article64949271.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||‘Govt. talk on marital rape a delaying tactic’||While the Union government told the Delhi High Court, which is hearing a batch of petitions on marital rape, that a consultative process was under way to bring amendments to criminal laws, women’s rights activists say consensus building on the issue is only a delaying tactic and that their hopes are pegged on the court. The court is hearing multiple petitions challenging the exception to Section 375 of the IPC, which exempts forcible sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife from the offence of rape, provided the wife is above 15 years of age. The petitioners include the RIT foundation, the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) and a survivor of marital rape. On Friday, in its affidavit in the court, the government said that it “is in the process of making comprehensive amendments in criminal laws” and that it has invited suggestions “from Chief Ministers of all State Governments and Union Territories, Chief Justice of India, Chief Justices of all High Courts, Judicial Academies, National Law Universities, Bar Council of India, Bar Council of all High Courts and Members of both the Houses of Parliament”, adding that petitioners are also at liberty to give their suggestions. Women ignored “Who is the government consulting? Women’s rights organisations have not been approached for their views,” said Mariam Dhawale, General Secretary, AIDWA. “A consultative process for the government is just beating around the bush. The Bill seeking 33% reservation for women in Parliament has been hanging for 25 years while there are so many laws that are simply pushed through even when there have been the widest opposition,” said Ms. Dhawale. At least two big committees in the past decade have recommended criminalising marital rape, but successive governments have failed to pay heed resulting in the matter being brought before the Delhi High Court in 2015. A week after the gang rape of a paramedic student on December 16, 2012 that led to nationwide protests, the then UPA government formed a panel led by Justice J.S. Verma (retd.) to propose amendments to the Criminal Law and to provide for enhanced punishments in sexual assaults against women. The Verma panel proposed that “the exception for marital rape be removed” and the law must “specify that a marital or other relationship between the perpetrator or victim is not a valid defence against the crimes of rape or sexual violation”. Earlier, a 14-member committee, headed by academic-turned-activist Pam Rajput, in its report on June 1, 2015, also suggested that “marital rape should be made an offence”. But the government has steadfastly rejected the suggestion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-talks-on-marital-rape-a-delaying-tactic/article64949287.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||‘Army pilots should get underwater training’||The father of an Army Aviation pilot who died in a crash in Jammu and Kashmir last year has written to President Ram Nath Kovind, requesting him to make it mandatory for all Army pilots to undergo underwater survival training and to equip them with essential life-saving gears. Harish Chander Joshi’s son Capt. Jayant Joshi of the 254 Squadron of Army Aviation had died in a fatal crash of his helicopter over the Ranjit Sagar Dam on August 3, 2021 while on a mission sortie. A pilot of Rudra Weapon System Integrated (WSI) attack helicopter, Jayant Joshi along with Lt. Col. A.S. Batth, a test pilot and an aviation instructor, were practising target acquisition and deployment of integrated weapons on the 200-sq. km. dam when the crash took place. “The crash has exposed many glaring gaps in the safety processes being followed in Army Aviation. It has also revealed an attitude of apathy and disregard in the matter of pilot safety and training needs among those responsible for the affairs of Army Aviation,” Mr. Harish Joshi wrote in his letter. The President’s secretariat has forwarded the complaint to the Defence Secretary, according to a communication received by Mr. Joshi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-pilots-should-get-underwater-training/article38280277.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||NIA arrests suspect in fake currency case||The NIA, in a joint operation with the Border Security Force, has arrested a person wanted for allegedly smuggling fake Indian currency notes. The accused Aladu, aka Matahur, a resident of Malda in West Bengal, was wanted in connection with a case registered by the NIA in October 2019. The agency took over the probe from the DRI, which seized counterfeit notes of Rs. 1.99 lakh in value from a person in September 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-arrests-suspect-in-fake-currency-case/article38280076.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||Yati Narsinghanand arrested in two cases||He said the accused was served a notice under Section 41A of the CrPC (when police may arrest without a warrant) on January 14, and that he would join the investigations whenever called by the police. “When he did not honour the notice, he was arrested in both the cases — for hate speech and making derogatory remarks against women. We sought his judicial remand from court and he has been sent to 14 days judicial custody,” he said. A senior police officer said his police custody was not sought as it was not required for investigations at this stage. The police had so far refrained from making any arrests in the case owing to several Supreme Court orders and observations that bar the police from arresting persons in cases where the maximum possible sentence for an offence is seven years or less, a senior government official said. In a video of Wasim Rizvi alias Jitendra Narayan Tyagi that went viral after the Special Investigation Team (SIT) made its first arrest in the case on January 13, Narsinghanand is seen threatening and abusing the police. The Haridwar police had on December 23 registered a case under Section 153A of the IPC (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), entailing a maximum punishment of five years after video clips of the December 17 event went viral. On January 1, it added Section 295A of the Indian Penal Code to the existing FIR. The Section prescribes a maximum of three years imprisonment for “deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs”. It initially named only one accused — Wasim Rizvi alias Jitendra Narayan Tyagi — a former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board, who had recently converted to Hinduism. Later, it added the names of four other accused — Narsinghanand, Annapurna Maa alias Pooja Shakun Pandey, Dharamdas Maharaj, and Sagar Sindhu Maharaj. Narsinghanand, the head priest at Dasna temple in Ghaziabad, faces several FIRs in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi for similar offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yati-narsinghanand-arrested-in-two-cases/article64949274.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:01 IST,||Tikait extends support for RLD-SP front||Addressing the gathering, Mr Tikait said the upcoming elections would test the pride and resolve of farmers. “Wherever there are candidates of the [SP-RLD] alliance , make them win,” he is seen saying in a video of the gathering. Later talking to the reporters, he said, “Whatever I wanted to say, I have said. You could draw your own inference.”  However, BKU general secretary Yudhveer Singh told The Hindu the candidates went to seek Mr Tikait’s blessings because he is also the head of the Baliyan khap. “He might have got carried away but it should be seen as a social courtesy. ”  Mr Singh said the BKU continued to be an apolitical outfit. “We still have reservations about the ruling dispensation because some of our important demands have not been met but we are not seeking votes for any political party and it is not part of the Mission U.P. that is going to start from February 1.” Vice-president of the BKU’s Meerut zone Manoj Tewatia, however, said ground reality was different from the formal position. “Mr Tikiat had to pick between the two Baliyans in the fray,” he said. The BJP has retained the ticket of sitting Budhana MLA Umesh Malik, a protege of Union Minister and Muzaffarnagar MP Sanjeev Baliyan. They faced the ire of BKU during the farmers’ agitation. RLD has fielded two-time MLA Rajpal Baliyan who is said to be very close party president Jayant Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tikait-extends-support-for-rld-sp-front/article64949334.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:11 IST,||T.N. police continue probe into copter crash||“We also conducted combing operations in the forest area abutting the helipad and made anti-sabotage checks along the line of landing. But to rule out sabotage and conclude the investigation, we need to analyse the Flight Data Recorder and the Cockpit Voice Recorder,” the official said. The police have recorded the statements of several eyewitnesses who were among the first to visit the scene of crash at Nanjappachathram and help those battling for life reach the hospital. “Some issues need more clarity and confirmation from the competent authority, which is required for us to complete investigation and file a report in the court.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tn-police-continue-probe-into-copter-crash/article38280592.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||India records 40% spike in COVID infections||The samples tested showed a dip from 47,000 to 30,000 during this period. Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph continued its exponential rise, with 18,123 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours. In the period, 59,314 samples were tested. The State’s active case pool has crossed the one lakh mark and now has 1,03,864 patients. Of this, 4,419 patients are being treated in hospitals. ICUs in both public and private sector hospitals have 644 patients, while 181 are on ventilator support. During January 9-15, new cases increased by 174%, while active cases increased by 144% compared to the previous week. Hospitalisations increased by 31% and ICU occupancy by 14% in the same period. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 50,832, with the State adding 8 recent deaths and 150 deaths as part of death reconciliation, to the official list of COVID deaths on Sunday. (with bureau inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-sees-40-spike-in-covid-infections/article64949275.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,||Vaccination fuelled fight against COVID-19: Modi||Lauding India’s COVID-19 vaccination drive as it completes a year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said it had added great strength to the fight against the pandemic and had resulted in saving lives and protecting livelihoods. When the pandemic first struck, not much was known about the virus. However, our scientists and innovators immersed themselves in developing vaccines, he noted. India feels proud that our nation has been able to contribute to fighting the pandemic through vaccines, Mr. Modi said in a tweet. ‘Exceptional role’ “I salute each and every individual who is associated with the vaccination drive,” he said, adding that the role of our doctors, nurses and healthcare workers is exceptional. “When we see glimpses of people being vaccinated in remote areas, or our healthcare workers taking the vaccines there, our hearts and minds are filled with pride,” he said. The Prime Minister asserted that India’s approach to fighting the COVID-19 pandemic will always remain science based. Health infrastructure is also being augmented to ensure that fellow citizens get proper care, the Prime Minister said, asking people to keep following all COVID-19 related protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccination-fuelled-fight-against-covid-19-modi/article64949266.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,||Resumption of good deeds||Sage Vashishtha praises Aditi, the presiding deity of the star Punarvasu. Aditi is Goddess Mahalakshmi, and Vashishtha says She is Savitri and Gayatri. She is also Jagati, that is, the entire Universe is a personification of Lakshmi. Vashishtha then describes Aditi as katamaa . Commentator Sayanacharya explains that katamaa means She who gives superlative happiness. It is not a cheap joy, but it is a lofty joy, said V.S. Karunakarachariar, in a discourse.  The star Punarvasu is the one on which we must resume any auspicious activity that has been disrupted. When dharma was not being adhered to, and had to be re-established, Lord Narayana took the Rama avatara. Since He was going to re-establish something that was no longer being observed, the Lord chose to be born on Punarvasu, the star prescribed for the resumption of good deeds. Valmiki, while describing Rama’s birth, does not say He was born in Punarvasu. He says Rama was born in the star for which Aditi is the deity. When yagas are performed, the 27 stars are honoured. For each star a brick is laid and a mantra is recited. The mantra for Punarvasu says since Lakshmi is the deity for Punarvasu, this star glitters. The performer of the yaga prays that he too should glitter like Punarvasu, and his fame must spread in all directions. Rama listened to His own story sung by Lava and Kusa. It is not right for a person to want to hear praise of himself. How was Rama’s enjoyment of His own story dharmic? The answer is that the Ramayana is not the story of Rama, but the story of Seetha. Valmiki describes his Ramayana as “Seethaayaah Charitam Mahat” — the great story of Seetha, an avatara of Lakshmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/resumption-of-good-deeds/article38280103.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,||Mandaviya releases stamp on Covaxin||Seventy per cent of India’s adults have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 while 93% received the first jab, said Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya while launching a postage stamp on indigenously developed vaccine Covaxin to mark one year of the inoculation drive. The drive was rolled out on January 16 last year with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase. Mr. Mandaviya said it is a proud moment for Indians and the entire world is amazed by the country’s Covid inoculation drive. “India has been able to achieve the milestone of administering over 156 crore doses despite such a huge population and diversity,” he said. “There was no dearth of manpower or brainpower. What was needed was the ability to identify the potential in the country for coming up with vaccines.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mandaviya-releases-stamp-on-covaxin/article38280095.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||Dissent within Bengal BJP comes to fore||The dissent brewing in the West Bengal unit of the BJP came to the fore on Saturday when Union Minister and Bongaon BJP MP Santanu Thakur, along with two former party vice-presidents, made public utterances against the functioning of the party and demanded the removal of a key functionary. Mr. Thakur, a prominent Matua leader, targeted Amitava Chakraborty, general secretary (organisation), and said that if required he along with other leaders would launch a massive protest till he was removed from the key post. The Bongaon MP was accompanied by former vice-president Joy Prakash Majumdar and Ritesh Tiwari. “One particular leader whose name I don’t want to take is trying to exert undue influence and trying to control all appointments in the committees,” Mr. Thakur said. “We will not allow one particular person to destroy the West Bengal BJP. If required, we will organise a protest on the issue,” Mr. Thakur said. BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said that there was a process to air differences in the party and the leaders should do that. There was no dissent in the State BJP, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dissent-within-bengal-bjp-comes-to-fore/article38280281.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,||Channi brother to contest as Independent||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s brother Manohar Singh, who was eyeing a Congress ticket from Bassi Pathana Assembly seat, on Sunday said he would contest as an Independent from the constituency after the ruling party fielded its sitting legislator. In itsfirst list of 86 candidates, the Congress gave the ticket to MLA Gurpreet Singh G.P. from Bassi Pathana (SC) seat. Mr. Manohar dubbed the decision as “injustice” with the people of the constituency and alleged that the sitting legislator was “incapable and ineffective.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/channi-brother-to-fight-as-independent/article38280091.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,||AAP may tie up with non-BJP parties if it lacks majority: Kejriwal||Remarking that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would only think of allying with a non-BJP party in the event of a fractured mandate in Goa, its national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday expressed confidence that such a need would not arise and said that his party had come forward as “a fresh hope” for Goans tired of the politics of the older parties in the coastal State. Mr. Kejriwal also made it clear that the AAP would not be aligning with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress in the Assembly election to be held on February 14. Vision document The Delhi Chief Minister unveiled the AAP’s 13-point ‘vision document’ in Panaji on Sunday with its promises of free electricity, quality education, equality of job opportunity, unemployment allowance, ease of business — all of it topped by an assurance of “honest governance”. “In the event of a fractured mandate, only then we will think of allying with a non-BJP party. However, while we respect the public’s verdict, I hope this need [of a hung Assembly] does not arise and will not be necessary after the results…the AAP does not understand this politics of ‘make or break’. We only understand how to develop Goa…we leave petty politics to other parties,” Mr. Kejriwal told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-may-tie-up-with-non-bjp-parties-if-it-lacks-majority-kejriwal/article38280092.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||Senior GAIL official arrested by CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a senior official of the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) for allegedly receiving bribes on the promise of allowing some discount to the buyers of petro-chemical products. Five other accused persons were earlier arrested. GAIL Director (Marketing) E.S. Ranganathan was named in the First Information Report (FIR) along with alleged middlemen Pawan Gaur, Rajesh Kumar and N. Ramakrishnan Nair; Saurabh Gupta of United Polymer Industries (Chandigarh) and Aditya Bansal of Bansal Agencies (Karnal, Haryana). During the searches on Mr. Ranganathan's premises, the agency seized close to Rs. 1.30 crore in cash. This apart, Rs. 84 lakh was also found in the possession of other accused persons. Earlier, the CBI had arrested the three middlemen and Mr. Gupta and Mr. Bansal. It is alleged that Mr. Ranganathan had been receiving bribes through the middlemen. Mr. Kumar and Mr. Gaur had asked him to allow some discount to the buyers of petro-chemical products in lieu of illegal gratification and in this regard, they also met him at his residence in Noida Sector-62 on December 11 and at Hotel Leela in Delhi on December 14 last year. The CBI laid a trap and arrested two persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/senior-gail-official-arrested-by-cbi/article38280077.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||Digital cheer for Nagaland’s Mon district||A digital initiative for managing COVID-19 in coordination with local NGOs has won a national e-Governance award for Nagaland’s Mon district a month after the killing of 14 civilians by the armed forces. Mon was among 231 entries from districts across the country in the category of “Use of information and communication technology in the management of COVID-19”. The district’s project named “Technology in aid to administration” won silver while the “COVID call centre and management system” of Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar district won the gold. The national awards were presented at the 24th National Conference on e-Governance in Hyderabad on January 7 and 8. The e-Governance Division of the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions had intimated Mon Deputy Commissioner K. Thavaseelan about the feat on December 10. But the district authorities were then caught up with the complications arising out of the Oting killings on December 4. Of the 1,377 entries, the top 26 initiatives have been awarded in six categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/digital-cheer-for-nagalands-mon-district/article64949280.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:13 IST,||After court rebuke, Odisha proposes to increase wages of convicted prisoners||Odisha’s directorate of prisons and correctional services has proposed to hike incentives of convicted prisoners by four folds after the High Court expressed concern over low wages. If the proposals are accepted, unskilled convicts will get Rs. 234 against Rs. 50 and semi-skilled convicts may be paid Rs. 274 against Rs. 60 per day respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-court-rebuke-odisha-proposes-to-increase-wages-of-convicted-prisoners/article38280278.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||State government issues revised guidelines for COVID-19 testing||The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine issued revised guidelines for COVID-19 testing on Saturday. Citing the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the directorate said in community settings, persons who are symptomatic (cough, fever, sore throat, loss of taste and/or smell, breathlessness and/or other respiratory symptoms), may be tested. Similarly, at-risk contacts of laboratory confirmed cases, persons aged over 60 and those with co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic lung and kidney disease, malignancy and obesity, individuals undertaking international travel as per country requirement and international travellers arriving at Indian airports/seaports/ports of entries may be tested, T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, said in the circular. In hospital settings, testing may be undertaken as per the discretion of treating doctors, with the consideration that no emergency procedure, including surgeries and deliveries, should be delayed for the lack of a test. Patients should not be referred to other facilities for the lack of a testing facility and all arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to testing facilities, mapped to the health facility. Asymptomatic patients undergoing surgical or non-surgical invasive procedures, including pregnant women in/near labour, hospitalised for delivery, should not be tested unless warranted or symptoms develop. Patients admitted in hospitals may not be tested more than once a week. The directorate outlined details of persons who need not be tested. They are asymptomatic individuals in community settings; contacts of confirmed cases, unless identified as high risk based on age or co-morbidities; patients who stand discharged as per home isolation guidelines; patients being discharged from a COVID-19 facility as per revised discharge policy and individuals undertaking inter-State domestic travel. Mr. Selvavinayagam added that the guidelines should be scrupulously followed and unnecessary testing of persons, other than those mentioned in the guidelines should be strictly avoided. Private hospitals should also be instructed to adhere to the instructions, he told the health officers.  In a hospital setting, testing may be undertaken as per the discretion of the treating doctors, with the consideration that no emergency procedure should be delayed for the lack of a test||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guidelines-for-covid-19-testing-revised/article64949311.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||23,957 persons test positive in T.N.||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu rose to 1,42,476 on Sunday, with 23,957 fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours. So far, 29,39,923 persons have tested positive for the infection in the State. Among the fresh cases were 18 persons who arrived from other States or abroad. Of the 241 patients infected with the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus, 231 were discharged after recovery. As many as 10 of these cases had been cross-notified to Puducherry (3); Andhra Pradesh (2); West Bengal (2); and Kerala, Delhi and Jharkhand (1 each). Nine districts reported less than 100 cases each. They include Ariyalur (73), Dindigul (75), Karur (77), Mayiladuthurai (78), Nagapattinam (68), Perambalur (71), Pudukottai (52), Sivagangai (94) and Tiruvarur (84). In Chennai, 8,987 persons tested positive, pushing up the tally of active cases to 57,591, and 6,018 persons were discharged. So far, 6,43,727 persons have been infected in the district. In neighbouring Chengalpattu, 2,701 infections were reported. In Tiruvallur district, 1,273 persons were infected. Kancheepuram reported 831 cases. The State recorded the death of 22 persons, including 10 in Chennai. The toll has gone up to 36,989. With the discharge of 12,484 more persons after their recovery in the past several hours, the number of the recovered persons has risen to 27,60,458. So far 5,85,89,965 persons have undergone the RT-PCR test, including 1,36,559 persons whose test results were declared on Sunday. Among those who lost their lives were two persons, aged 41 and 57, who had no pre-existing health conditions. Twenty others had co-morbidities. As many as 20,088 persons were vaccinated at 2,050 government vaccination camps. Among them were 28 healthcare workers; 18 frontline workers; 262 persons aged 15-18; 12,139 persons aged 18-44; 5,638 persons aged 45-59; and 2,003 senior citizens. The total number of the vaccinated so far stood at 8,81,66,757.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23957-persons-test-positive-in-tn/article64949323.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shockwave from Tonga volcanic eruption recorded in Chennai||The shockwave generated by the massive volcanic eruption in Tonga in the Pacific Ocean on Saturday, which was felt in many parts of the globe, was recorded in Chennai as well, which is located 12,000 km away. It was recorded as a blip in the atmospheric pressure that suddenly spiked by around two hectopascals (hPa) around 8.15 p.m. in Chennai on Saturday, around 10 hours after the eruption happened in Tonga. The eruption of the submarine volcano, believed to be one of the largest in recent history, took place at 5.15 p.m. local time on Saturday (10.15 a.m. IST), triggering tsunami waves of varying intensity along the coasts of many countries on the Pacific Ocean. Detailed information about its impact on Tonga is yet to emerge as communication remained cut off. The sound was heard in some places in New Zealand, located roughly 2,500 km away. The Alaska Volcano Observatory in the United States, located more than 9,500 km away from the site of the eruption, reported that a part of the shockwave measured there was in the audible range. The observatory tweeted one of their scientists saying, “The very large signal is not that surprising considering the scale of the eruption, but the audible aspect is fairly unique.” While it could not be heard in India, it was recorded as a sharp but minor increase in atmospheric pressure. S. Venkataramanan, a Ph.D scholar from IIT Madras, who has a small weather station installed in his house in West Mambalam, was in the middle of some work when he accidentally noticed that his barometer recordings showed a sudden increase in the atmospheric pressure from 1,012.5 hPa to 1,014.53 hPa around 8.15 p.m. “It looked bizarre. I initially wondered if it was a problem with my equipment,” he said. While diurnal variations are observed in atmospheric pressure, the changes are in the pattern of a wave and are gradual. A sudden spike and drop were unusual, he said. He immediately reached out to the active weather blogging community in Chennai, who corroborated his readings. “I contacted some from Bengaluru as well, who also recorded the spike. There was a delay of around 20 minutes, which the shockwave took to reach the skies of Bengaluru from Chennai,” he said. Only then was it confirmed that it was the effect of the shockwave from the Tonga eruption, Mr. Venkataraman added. According to him, the shockwave travelled at a speed of around 1,200 kmph to reach the skies of the city 10 hours after the event. N. Puviarasan, Director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai, said he was alerted on Sunday by his staff who had noticed the blip around the same time. “We were initially surprised as well. Huge winds brought from nearby regions can at times cause the atmospheric pressure to suddenly rise. However, the spike on Saturday looked very different,” he said. He also concluded that it was the shockwave from Tonga after pulling out reports from different weather stations across the country, all of which showed the spike, albeit with slight differences in time. “We can compare it with a loud cracker explosion. If we are within a distance of few metres, we feel a gush of air hitting us, which is the shockwave from the explosion,” he said. “Because of the magnitude of the volcanic eruption, which sent plumes several kilometres high in the air, we are feeling it across the globe. As we are located far away, we neither heard the sound nor felt the shockwave as the change in atmospheric pressure is very small in the range of just 2 hPa recorded by the equipment,” he said. With the Pacific Ocean playing an important role in global weather, the long term impact of volcanic eruptions, if any, has to be studied by experts in the coming days when more details emerge, Mr. Puviarasan added. Mr. Venkataramanan said the rare event was yet another reminder that nature had no boundaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shockwave-from-tonga-volcanic-eruption-recorded-in-chennai/article64949529.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cycling catching on, but facilities lacking||Cycling is picking up in the city, but the infrastructure needs to keep pace with the growth. The number of residents who have tracked their cycling trips using an app in Chennai has increased from 4,866 in 2018 to 18,255 in 2021, said Felix John, a cyclist, who has been designated Bicycle Mayor of Chennai. During the same period, the number of cycling trips in the city has increased from 78,068 to 2.68 lakh. “A bicycle should become a lifestyle choice, meaning it should become our habit. Reducing the dependency on motor vehicles and relying more on alternative modes of sustainable transport for short distances is important. To build a cycling culture, we need to do this on a continuous basis and also amplify the benefits to the fellow commuters. In all this, residents of the cities play an important role and only together can we build a better city,” said Mr. John. “The government needs to provide better infrastructure, legal support and policy to reduce congestion, traffic and pollution. Safety is the number one concern, both for elders and kids when it comes to non-motorised transport. It takes a lot of effort for an individual to decide and take up an alternative mode of transport.” To allow that, the city has to become safe in terms of alternative routes, protect bicycle lanes, introduce traffic calming measures, temporary interventions and create awareness. One of the key requirements was safe parking space for bicycles. “A bicycle could cost you approximately Rs. 10,000 and to leave it unattended by a simple lock calls for prying eyes. To avoid the theft of a bicycle, a city should have supporting safe parking infrastructure. While this needs a lot of planning and progress, the attention to cycling has been incrementally improving over the past few years, which is an added boon,” Mr. John said. Aswathy Dilip, South Asia Director, ITDP, said the adoption of the NMT (non-motorised transportation) policy by the Greater Chennai Corporation has created more than 150 km of safe streets for walking and cycling. However, the pace of this transformation has slowed down over the last year, she says. “During this time period, Bangalore, through its Sustainable Mobility Accord, is creatingvarious safe walking and cycling neighbourhoods. Karnataka has released a progressive NMT Bill that will ensure that roads in all its urban local bodies are created as people-centric connected ‘Complete Streets.’Tamil Nadu should adopt a ‘Right to Walk’ Act that ensures that all new streets created in its urban local bodies will be designed with safe walking and cycling infrastructure. It should mandate footpaths and cycle tracks on existing streets whenever they are redeveloped,” she says. Chennai should fast track the creation of wide, connected, and safe footpaths and bicycle tracks, where possible, on all its arterial streets and traffic calm its neighbourhoods. These projects need coordination among various agencies — GCC, Highways Department, CMWSSB, traffic police and TNEB. “Fast tracking CUMTA or setting up an NMT committee is essential for the same,” says Ms. Dilip. IT professional J. Chidambara Perumal, who is a resident of Padi Kuppam Main Road in Anna Nagar West, says the civic officials have to remove encroachment on roads and develop cycling infrastructure in Anna Nagar to facilitate bicycle connectivity to schools and IT companies in the Ambattur zone. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi says the civic body is putting up a major cycling track along the Buckingham Canal with beautiful landscape. In a bid to promote NMT, the Corporation plans to develop bicycle docking stations at 500 locations in the city, to be added to the existing 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cycling-catching-on-but-facilities-lacking/article64949534.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two policemen shifted on charge of assaulting law student||After two policemen of Kodungayur police station were shifted out to modern control room for assaulting a law college student inside the station, Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal has ordered an an inquiry into the incident. On Friday, Abdul Rahim, 21, a law student, was arrested on charge of slapping constable Uthirakumar when he was stopped while riding a bicycle without wearing a mask. After a verbal duel, the youth was detained in the Kodungaiyur station and was allegedly assaulted by two policemen and later remanded in custody the next day. Advocate Hariharan, representing the student, alleged that his client had been badly beaten up by the police so much so that he had to have suturing in the head. After the matter was brought to the knowledge of the senior police officials, Joint Commissioner West, S. Rajeshwari, conducted an inquiry at the station. After the inquiry, the two policemen were placed under “Vacancy Reserve” on Saturday. According to sources, the policemen at the Kodungaiyur station had ensured that the CCTV in the station was not recording their handling of the youth. The Commissioner of Police said that the inquiry would be conducted in a fair manner with due representation to both the parties.In the preliminary inquiry, the charges such as police personnel urinating on the student were found to be false, sources said. Caution to public The police have urged people to avoid posting any abusive messages in the social media causing any unrest among the public in connection with this incident. Any person posting such messages would be liable to criminal action. The student, in a social media post, thanked the higher officials for altering the sections against him and releasing him on bail on Sunday. A few political parties, including the Viduthai Chiruthaigal Katchi, have demanded the suspension of the police officials for beating up the student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-policemen-shifted-on-charge-of-assaulting-law-student/article38280360.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Perungalathur flyover to be partly ready||Despite the heavy traffic on GST Road, work on building the Rs. 237-crore six-arm flyover is progressing well. The two-lane arm taking off from Chengalpattu side, which will allow vehicles coming into the city, is likely to be ready in three months. Sources in the Highways Department said that 90% of the work on that arm had been done and work to form the approach ramps was to be taken up soon. “We are constructing the crash barriers. The retaining walls are ready. Once that side is over, a portion of the traffic will be allowed, permitting more space for construction on the other side,” said an engineer associated with the project that will have a massive 500m elliptical rotary on top. The work began in December 2019 and so far 65% of the two-lane bi-directional arm landing at Perungalathur across the railway tracks has been completed. “This arm, which was the main reason for this grade separator, is likely to be ready in five months,” said another source. Both two-lane arms of the grade separator, which has a combined length of 2.5 km, on the GST Road are uni-directional. Another arm that gets off on to the Eastern Bypass and lands at Sadhanandapuram would take time to complete since land acquisition is involved. “The bypass runs for 1 km inside the Vandalur Reserve Forest and unless the land is widened there, it cannot touch the ground and the bypass can’t be completed in that stretch,” said a source. Slow-moving traffic Road users who regularly travel on the stretch had been complaining that traffic was considerably slow and that the work should be expedited. However, one of the stipulations of the work was that it should be an eight-lane road. “We widened the road in the stretch where work is under progress. Traffic is slow due to the bus terminus situated there and embarking and disembarking of passengers. We have requested the TNSTC to shift the terminus to either Kilambakkam or near the Vandalur flyover temporarily where there is enough space,” said an official. Raghuraman, a resident of Perungalathur, who pointed out that hardly any work had happened on the arm that would carry traffic from Chennai to Chengalpattu side, said that it should be speeded up. Officials said that shifting the bus terminus, redesigning the foundation due to the presence of Veeranam water mains and land acquisition was taking time. “We have enough hurdles on just one side, which is why once the other side is over, we will allow traffic on that,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perungalathur-flyover-to-be-partly-ready/article64949530.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||NBFCs Ombudsman in Chennai gets 5,845 plaints||The office of the Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFCs) Ombudsman, Chennai, received 5,845 complaints during the period from July 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021. They accounted for 21.68% of the 26,957 complaints received across India, according to the Reserve Bank of India’s annual report of ombudsman schemes, 2020-21. The annual report for the transition year 2020-21 has been prepared for the nine-month period (from July 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021) in alignment with the change in the financial year of the Reserve Bank from July-June to April-March with effect from July 1, 2020, it said. Due to the transition period, the report compares data for the period from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021, as against the number reported in the previous financial year (July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020). On this basis, the office of the NBFCs Ombudsman, Chennai, received 7,600 complaints during April-March 2020-21, 130.30% higher than 3,300 complaints in the comparable period. The Reserve Bank of India notified the ombudsman scheme on February 23, 2018. It was applicable to both deposit-taking and non-deposit-taking NBFCs having customer interface with an asset size of Rs. 100 crore and above. The scheme is administered through the centres in Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai and New Delhi for handling complaints received in the respective zones. The Chennai Office handled 6,462 complaints (including those brought forward from the previous years) and 6,278 complaints were disposed of, amounting to a disposal rate of 97.15% for July 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021. During the period, maintainable complaints of 4,147 were disposed of. Overall the number of complaints against NBFCs increased 38.72% during July 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021, from 19,432 received during July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020. Meanwhile, under the Banking Ombudsman Scheme, Chennai received 19,697 complaints during April-March 2020-21, up 11.13% from 17,724 during July-June 2019-20. For the purpose of comparison, the complaints rose 12.03% to 149 in April-March 2020-21 from 133 in July-June 2019-20. An Integrated Ombudsman Scheme was launched on November 12, on the basis of a ‘one nation-one ombudsman’ approach, for all customers of entities regulated by the RBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nbfcs-ombudsman-in-chennai-gets-5845-plaints/article38280399.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Veteran journalist Sam Rajappa is no more||Veteran journalist Sam Rajappa, a long-serving correspondent of the Kolkata-based newspaper Statesman, whose reporting exposed the police torture and killing of engineering student Rajan during the Emergency in Kerala, is no more. He died in Canada, and is survived by two sons.  Rajappa, a native of Marthandam in Kanniyakumari district, got himself lodged in the jail where Rajan’s friend was kept. His interview with Rajan’s friend and his reporting helped Rajan’s father Eachara Warrier get justice for the death of his son.  He had worked for other newspapers, including The Free Press Journal , before joining The Statesman . He served as a consultant when Malayalam daily Mathrubhumi launched its Chennai edition.  Teaching stint  He was very close to C.R. Irani, Editor of The Statesman , and also taught at The Statesman Print Journalism School in Kolkata. Rajappa also served as the correspondent of the BBC.  He was an expert in Sri Lankan Tamil affairs. His writings had upset the Sri Lankan government, which sent him out of the country once. He was married to Grace, a Fijian, who predeceased him. Several journalists’ organisations condoled Rajappa’s death.  He was an expert in Sri Lankan Tamil affairs. His writings had upset the Sri Lankan government, which once sent him out of the country||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veteran-journalist-sam-rajappa-is-no-more/article64949318.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kids’ satirical show ‘belittling PM’ under scanner: BJP||A satirical show involving children, aired on a private Tamil satellite television channel has run into a controversy with BJP State president K. Annamalai stating that the Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting L. Murugan, has taken cognisance of it. Mr. Annamalai tweeted on Sunday evening that a “TV reality show” was under the scanner for airing certain scenes, “belittling the Prime Minister.” He said Mr. Murugan contacted him and enquired about the ‘reality TV show’. “He has assured action would be taken. My thanks to him,” the BJP leader said. Demonetisation mocked In a video clip of the show, which has gone viral since, two children donning the roles of a king and a Minister, discuss mockingly about a fictional country ‘Sindhia’, where the unnamed ruler demonetised currency, hoping to crack down on black money. The ruler was described as unpopular and unwelcome in the southern part of the country.  In a video clip of the show, two children donning the roles of a king and a Minister, discuss mockingly about a fictional country ‘Sindhia’, where the unnamed ruler demonetised currency||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kids-satirical-show-belittling-pm-under-scanner-bjp/article64949528.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘1.91 lakh beds ready for COVID-19 treatment in T.N., says Health Minister||As many as 1.91 lakh beds have been readied in hospitals for COVID-19 treatment in various parts of Tamil Nadu, said Health Minister Ma. Subramanian in Chennai on Sunday. Speaking to mediapersons after inspecting Chennai Trade Centre COVID Care facility, Mr. Subramanian said only 8,912 patients have been admitted in hospitals. “The Health Secretary has instructed all districts to isolate positive patients. In Chennai and 37998 patients have been isolated in homes. A total of 950 beds are ready in the CCC in Nandambakkam. In other care centres in Chennai, 700 beds are ready. Athipet will have 2000 beds,” he said. As many as 350 beds in Chennai Trade Centre have been reserved for police and government employees. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will increase 535 volunteers for COVID-19 to help residents under home isolation, Mr. Subramanian said. Pointing to low bed occupancy in hospitals, he said RGGGH has 2050 beds, of which 203 were occupied. Stanley Medical College Hospital has 2700 beds and 167 are occupied. In KMC, 111 of 700 beds are occupied, while in Omandurar hospital, 73 of 500 beds are occupied. In King Institute, 782 of 850 beds are occupied. Vaccination camp Everyday, 10 to 20 deaths are reported and 100% of the deceased did not get vaccinated. “On Saturday, a mega vaccination camp will be organised at 50000 locations,” Mr. Subramanian said. Over 75.3 % of the children in 15-18 age group have been vaccinated and a total of 25.21 lakh teenagers have been vaccinated. A Siddha COVID-19 treatment facility will be inaugurated in Tambaram on Monday, said Mr. Subramanian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/191-lakh-beds-ready-for-covid-19-treatment-in-tn-says-health-minister/article64949325.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||A service that shines through the pandemic||R. Kalaivani works long hours in the COVID care facility at the Chennai Trade Centre. For the transgender who went from shop to shop asking for money, the pandemic destroyed her source of livelihood as shops were shut during the lockdown. Her childhood friend, also a transgender, was diagnosed with cancer. “She died despite treatment and I managed to repay her debt. I had no job and no livelihood. I approached three companies but they said they would not appoint a transgender. It was at this point that a company, Sumu, offered me a job in housekeeping,” recalled Ms. Kalaivani. The company placed her in the COVID care centre in Guru Nanak College. Here, apart from her housekeeping work, she assisted the nursing staff in changing diapers for patients; feeding the very sick elderly; and helping people visit the washroom. Her sincere work fetched her a promotion as supervisor. During the second wave of COVID-19, she was transferred to the facility at the Chennai Trade Centre where she was made in-charge of eight supervisors. She has benefitted from the government’s scheme of free housing in Kannagi Nagar, Thoraipakkam, but owing to the long-distance travel,the 36-year-old stays in Mandaveli. “I left home at the age of 13 and since then I have been on my own. At that time, there were no schemes for transgender persons. I would like to lead a peaceful life with the help of a government job,” says Ms. Kalaivani. Since her young age, she has been doing odd jobs at Billroth Hospital and later at the Institute of Mental Health. “I have handled even patients who required oxygen support. I have been vaccinated fully,” she says. As for being accepted by strangers, she says patients find it easier to ask her than men or women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-service-that-shines-through-the-pandemic/article64949532.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police agree to changes suggested by residents at Sholinganallur junction||The Tambaram Police Commissionerate has made some changes to the new traffic regulations which came into force at the Sholinganallur junction on the Rajiv Gandhi Salai from Friday. The changes were made after the Federation of OMR Residents Associations (FOMRRA) gave a representation to the Tambaram Police Commissioner M. Ravi regarding the hardship faced by motorists because of the ban on U-turn at the Aavin and Taj Vivanta junction and the blocking of right turn for vehicles going from Navalur to East Coast Road (ECR). In the new regulations, motorists going from Navalur towards ECR have to proceed to the Medavakkam Toll Plaza and take a U-turn and proceed towards ECR at the Sholinganallur junction. Mr. Ravi said that based on the representations from the residents, senior traffic police officials had allowed U-turn near Aavin and right turn at the Sholinganallur junction for vehicles going from Navalur towards ECR. However, all other traffic changes remain, he added. Harsha Koda, Co-founder, FOMRRA, thanking the Tambaram Police Commissioner for acceding to their requests, said the residents plan to work closely with the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-agree-to-changes-suggested-by-residents-at-sholinganallur-junction/article38280359.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘50-plus more susceptible to COVID-19 death’||Director of Public Health T.S. Selvavinayagam has appealed to senior citizens to get themselves vaccinated and take their medications to prevent death due to COVID-19. According to him, fewer elders have been vaccinated in Tamil Nadu than the other age groups. Only 62% of the elderly had received their first dose and 48% the second dose. Whereas 88.62% of the other categories had received their first dose and 64.23% their second dose as on Sunday. To drive home the need for vaccination, Dr. Selvavinayagam cited the analysis of 191 deaths reported from January 1 to 15. It revealed that 163 of the deaths (85.3%) occurred among those aged above 50. Furthermore, 181 persons among them had pre-existing ailments that led to their death. “The analysis of combination of the elderly with co-morbid [conditions] reveals that 159 out of 191, constituting 83.2% of the deaths, happened among elderly persons with probably an uncontrolled co-morbidity,” he explained. Only 68.5% of them (131) had been vaccinated — either they had received one dose or none at all. The protective effect of vaccination was lost as the elderly had no control over their co-morbidities. But this needed a case-to-case analysis, he said. Dr. Selvavinayagam said an unvaccinated elderly with co-morbidity needed hospital-based care to prevent death due to the infection. “It is time to protect our elders by vaccinating them and ensuring that they take proper medication for the co-morbidity and keep it under control.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-plus-more-susceptible-to-covid-19-death/article38280383.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lake restoration spares neighbourhood of floods||Some areas in the southern suburbs were spared of waterlogging during the recent heavy rain, thanks to the ongoing restoration work at Sembakkam lake. Spread over 100 acres, the lake faced several challenges, including encroachments and sewage pollution. It did not have a defined supply channel and the surrounding localities were waterlogged whenever the lake filled up. However, areas such as Chitlapakkam and Sri Sarvamangala Nagar were not waterlogged during the recent rain because of the ongoing eco-restoration work. The project is being implemented jointly by the Nature Conservancy India, the Care Earth Trust and IIT-Madras with permission from the Water Resources Department (WRD). While the flood regulator constructed by the NGOs helped in regulating the discharge of surplus water, the channel built by the WRD diverted water from upstream localities, such as Selaiyur, Rajakilpakkam and Chitlapakkam to Sembakkam lake. Moreover, the storage capacity of the waterbody has increased by 36% because of the deepening of the lake and strengthening of the embankment. Efforts are on to prevent flow of sewage into the lake and also to install a wastewater treatment system. Nisha Priya Mani, project manager-cities, Nature Conservancy India, said nearly 6-7 million litres of sewage is estimated to be flowing into the lake daily. Treatment system Work would be taken up to treat sewage with constructed wetlands with phragmites species that would act as a biofilter and absorb pollutants in the wastewater flowing into the lake. The low-cost technology would use sedimentation basins and aeration system to reduce pollutants, improve water quality and restore lake habitat. M. Ravi, secretary, Sri Sarvamangala Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, said the eco-restoration work and culverts prevented waterlogging in the area. “We have suggested removal of encroachments behind Thiru.Vi.Ka. Nagar and Vinobaji Nagar. The lake boundary must be demarcated and fenced. Provision of sewer connections must be expedited in Pallavaram,” he said. Residents wanted a water channel to divert water from Pachamalai Hills into Sembakkam lake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lake-restoration-spares-neighbourhood-of-floods/article64949537.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||GI tag sought for Kumbakonam Vetrilai , Thovalai Manikka Malai||Geographical Indications Registry in Chennai has received applications seeking GI tag for two famous products from Tamil Nadu — Kumbakonam Vetrilai and Thovalai Manikka Malai .   The application for Kumbakonam Vetrilai was filed by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore while the application for Thovalai Manikka Malai was given by the Thovalai Manikkamaalai Kaivinai Kalaingargal Nalasangam, Kanniyakumari.  P. Sanjai Gandhi, IP Attorney and Advocate, Nodal Officer, Geographical Indication Registration of Products, Government of Tamil Nadu, who submitted both the applications, said the Kumbakonam betel leaves were heart shaped and grown in the Cauvery delta region by small and marginal farmers. It is particularly grown in Ayyampettai, Rajagiri, Pandaravadai and Swamimalai in Thanjavur district. On an average, about 60-80 lakh betel leaves were harvested annually from a one-hectare plot. A betel leaf cultivator spends Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 50,000 to grow these leaves on a one-acre land. Harvested leaves are washed, cleaned, and graded according to their size and quality. Thovalai Manikka Malai is a special type of garland that is made only in Thovalai, a small village in Kanniyakumari. The flowers used in this particular garland are positioned in a way that when folded they look like a gem. The flowers are generally arranged in five rows, but at times for other decorations, 20 rows are used. The height ranges from one foot to 24 feet and above. Chamba fibre, nochi leaves, oleander and rose flowers are the key materials used for making this garland. Thovalai is famous for its abundance of flowers and most of flowers are procured locally.   When Chinese President Xi Jinping came to Mamallapuram in 2019 and saw these garlands, Prime Minister Narendra Modi described Thovalai Manikka Malai as one of the Tamil cultural arts to him. The garland was used for decoration during a wedding ceremony at the house of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. A group of women from Thovalai went to Mumbai for the decoration work. According to details provided in the GI application, Palani Pandaram invented the technique of Manikka Mala i.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gi-tag-sought-for-kumbakonam-vetrilai-thovalai-manikka-malai/article64949312.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM’s trip, a big boost for the campaign||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started promotion of cycling, walking and running in the past few days. This is part of the Nalamigu Chennai campaign under Singara Chennai 2.0. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin gave it a boost by making a trip recently to show his enthusiasm for riding a bicycle and initiatives by the Union Government to create competition for cycling, walking and running in the cities The number of cycling clubs and residents’ associations that participate in the Corporation’s events is expected to increase after Pongal as the civic body has asked residents to download Strava app to track their cycling and walking activities before January 26. Meanwhile, Chennai has registered the third largest number of citizen registrations in the national-level Freedom to Walk and Cycle Challenge.As many as 1,458 residents from the city have registered for the challenge. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian has covered 181 km in the running challenge, becoming the third ranking participant in the country in the challenge. The final results of the challenge will be released after January 26. The event is expected to create awareness about various non-motorised transportation facilities in the city,the civic officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cms-trip-a-big-boost-for-the-campaign/article38280362.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. doctors to hold protest on January 19||The Legal Coordination Committee for Tamil Nadu Service Doctors has decided to stage a protest on January 19, demanding that the State government implement a Government Order regarding their pay band revision. The doctors said they should be paid arrears from 2017. The doctors want the release of the amended G.O. on the Corpus Fund, which should provide a solatium of Rs. 1 crore for COVID-19 and non-COVID deaths, irrespective of the cause. The amount should be exempted from tax and should be credited to the employee’s account within four weeks of death, they demanded. They also demanded that the State provide more teaching faculty in the newly launched medical colleges besides sanctioning the minimum required posts in specialities, clinical and non-clinical subjects. It called for restoring the dental outpatient clinics in Chennai’s government general hospitals. The members have called for two years’ compulsory rural services in both public health and medical services to be eligible for all promotions. They also want a check on arbitrary and rampant transfers of doctors. The doctors have also planned a day-long token fast on February 10 to reiterate their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-doctors-to-hold-protest-on-january-19/article38280400.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Safeguard sanctity of universities’||The Association of University Teachers has written to Governor-Chancellor R.N. Ravi appealing to him to check the “serious deviations” jeopardising the edifice of higher education in the State and protect it from polemic forces. In a two-page letter to the Chancellor, the association has pointed out the various issues where actions of Vice-Chancellors have triggered controversies. “The constitutional head of the State should be above board. It is in the interest of the institutions that the Chancellor’s office takes action to prevent such breeding of controversies in universities,” said AUT former president K. Pandiyan. The association criticised the appointment of Jagadeesh Kumar, former V-C of Jawaharlal Nehru University, as the Governor’s nominee in several V-C search panels. It pointed out to the dissolution of the V-C search panel for Alagappa University. The committee was dissolved as there were complaints that better qualified persons had been ignored by the panel. The Governor had interviewed three short-listed candidates after which he dissolved the committee since none of them qualified for the post. The association has pointed out instances where Vice-Chancellors or Syndicate members nominated by the Governor had courted controversies. The Governor had nominated T. Periyasami, an associate professor, to the Syndicate of Periyar University despite the controversy surrounding his Ph.D and service certificates. R. Mangaleswaran, who is the Chancellor’s nominee in Bharathidasan University, has been called for an inquiry in a case registered under Prevention of SC/ST Atrocities Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protect-sanctity-of-universities-association/article38280375.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||IGNOU launches online MBA||The Indira Gandhi National Open University’s (IGNOU) School of Management Studies has launched an online Master of Business Administration programme. The course is recognised by The All India Council for Technical Education. General category candidates who have passed a degree with 50% marks can apply. The cut-off score is 45% without admission test in the case of reserved category candidates. Candidates may apply online atignouiop.samarth.edu.in, said K. Panneerselvam, senior regional director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ignou-launches-online-mba/article38280358.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||More than 550 vehicles seized||The Greater Chennai Police acted tough on motorists violating the lockdown on Sunday by seizing vehicles and collecting fines. In the 12-hour operation from 6 a.m. on Sunday, the police seized 555 vehicles comprising 522 two-wheelers, 20 autorickshaws, and 13 four-wheelers, from the violators. They collected a fine of Rs. 4.31 lakh by filing cases against 2,156 persons for not wearing masks and filed cases against 19 persons for failing to maintain physical distance. During the week-long intensive checking since January 7, the police throughout the State collected Rs. 3.45 crore fine amount from 1,64,329 people who did not wear masks, 1,910 persons who did not maintain physical distancing and from 1,552 persons for assembling in public places without any valid reasons. The highest amount of Rs. 86 lakh was collected in Chennai district from 43,417 persons who failed to wear face masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-than-550-vehicles-seized/article38280367.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Put up boards, save waterbodies’||Social activists have urged the State Government to install display boards near the waterbodies to create awareness among residents and prevent encroachments. Placing display boards of the waterbodies and canals containing complete details such as the name of the waterbody, survey numbers, size of the site and the local body to which the property belonged to, would serve as a warning to encroachers. The need for creating awareness comes in the wake of the State Government demolishing a temple “constructed” through funds collected from devotees on a waterbody in Varadharajapuram of Mudichur. Social activist V. Santhanam submitted a representation under the aegis of the Peoples Awareness Association to Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu during the latter’s visit to Chromepet to inspect the road relaying work in Radha Nagar on Friday. The activists requested installation of boards with land record details of the waterbodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/put-up-boards-save-waterbodies/article38280369.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown: arterial roads in city witness low vehicle movement||The total lockdown imposed by the State government to combat the spread of COVID-19 was complete in Coimbatore district on Sunday. The police said that no major violations were reported in city and rural areas of the district on Sunday. Around 1,200 police personnel were deployed to enforce the complete lockdown in city and rural areas. A senior police officer in the city said that vehicular movement was very minimal on Sunday as the lockdown fell during Pongal holidays. The police exempted essential services and vehicles of people who came out for emergencies. Vehicles to drop and pick up passengers at the airport and railway station were also exempted. Arterial roads in Coimbatore city namely Avinashi Road, Tiruchi Road, Sathyamangalam Road, Mettupalayam Road, Palakkad Road and Thadagam Road witnessed very minimal movement of vehicles. Coimbatore rural police strengthened vigil at the check-posts along Tamil Nadu – Kerala borders. Goods vehicles from Palakkad were allowed to enter and leave Coimbatore district. Tiruppur district also witnessed a complete lockdown on Sunday as only vehicles plying for essential services and people who came out for emergencies were exempted. Nearly 1,000 police personnel were deployed in city and rural areas of Tiruppur district for the enforcement of total lockdown. The police said that cases were registered against those who were found roaming unnecessarily in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-arterial-roads-in-city-witness-low-vehicle-movement/article64949521.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||DVAC books Corporation’s assistant revenue officer, former bill collector||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) has registered a case against a former bill collector and an assistant revenue officer of Coimbatore Corporation for misappropriating Rs. 7.57 lakh on the pretext of collecting fines for deviations in building plans. The case has been registered against R. Yuvaraj (40), record clerk and bill collector (full additional charge) of East Zone, who is currently under suspension, and R. Sathya Prabha (55), assistant revenue officer of South Zone (previously East Zone). As per the First Information Report (FIR), Yuvaraj held charges of the record clerk and bill collector (full additional charge) in Ward No. 61 from February 24, 2019 to August 27, 2020 and in Ward No.64 from October 24, 2018 to August 27, 2020. Sathya Prabha held the charge of assistant revenue officer, East Zone, from July 12, 2019 to October 6, 2020. According to the DVAC, every building owner has to submit an application to the Municipal Corporation at the time of fixation of house tax for the newly constructed house or building. The application would be received by the assistant revenue officer, entered in the relevant registers and subsequently sent to the bill collector concerned for measuring the building and submitting the inspection report. During the inspection of building, if the measurement exceeds the approved plan, it would be considered as a deviation. Thereafter, the bill collector will fix the charges for the deviation and the building owner should remit the fee to the concerned zonal office of the Corporation. The FIR said that Yuvaraj colluded with Sathya Prabha during his tenure as bill collector in charge of East Zone and prepared false challan and false seal in the name of Corporation. Signature forged He collected money from building owners and issued cash receipts with forged signature of the cashier in order to make them believe that the deviation charges were paid to the treasury. Sathya Prabha was responsible for the inspection of buildings and verifying the payments and submission of note files to the Assistant Commissioner, East Zone, in order to issue property tax books to the building owners. She colluded with Yuvaraj and misappropriated a sum of Rs. 7,57,430 from Ward No.61 and 64. Vigilance Inspector C. Latha registered a case against Yuvaraj and Sathya Prabha for offences under Sections 120(B), 167, 465, 468, 471, 477 (A) and 409 IPC and 13(2) read with 13(1) (a) of the Prevention of Corruption Act on January 7. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-books-corporations-assistant-revenue-officer-former-bill-collector/article38280411.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||L&T hands over two ICDP projects to government||Larsen & Toubro has handed over two Integrated Community Development Projects (ICDP) to the government at an event held at Kalangal village in Sulur block. The projects, which are Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives of the L& T, cover 2,028 hectares in Madukkarai and 1,585 ha in the Sulur blocks of Coimbatore district. The programmes were implemented in partnership with the local communities led primarily by women. Starting with soil and water conservation, it was extended in a phased manner to develop sanitation facilities and strengthen government school infrastructure. The projects were recently handed over to Deputy Director of Department of Agriculture Shaffe Ahamed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lt-hands-over-two-icdp-projects-to-government/article38280410.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tribal empowerment project launched in tiger reserve||The ICAR–Sugarcane Breeding Institute (ICAR-SBI), Coimbatore, in collaboration with the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), conducted a campaign on ‘knowledge empowerment of tribals’ and launched its Scheduled Tribe Component (STC) project at Attakatti recently. M.G. Ganesan, Deputy Director of ATR’s Pollachi division, said the ICAR-SBI took utmost care in identifying appropriate interventions for the tribal people in the tiger reserve who lived in very remote and almost inaccessible settlements. Unlike other tiger reserves, ATR was home to diverse groups of indigenous people, he said. Referring to Malasar tribes, who were of great help to the Forest Department in training and handling elephants, Mr. Ganesan said saving tribal people was akin to saving forests. He also released the extension pamphlets published by ICAR-SBI. G. Hemaprabha, Director of ICAR-SBI, Coimbatore, pointed out that literacy rate among the tribal population remained low compared to the general population. Tribal people, women and children in particular, should be aware of the fact that education was essential not only for their economic development and prosperity, but also to preserve their culture, she said. D. Puthira Prathap, Principal Scientist and nodal officer of STC, said interventions by the institute for implementing the project were finalised based on a systematic need assessment by conduct of focus groups among two tribes, namely Malasar and Malai Malasar belonging to the tribal settlements of Nagaroothu-1, Nagaroothu-2, Old Sarkarpathy, Chinnarpathy, Koomaatti and Paalakinaru. He said the tribal community in these settlements would be educated on setting up and maintaining a nutrition garden and kitchen garden seed kits would be distributed during the campaign. Along with distribution of radio sets, the tribals were being informed of programmes that could assist in their knowledge empowerment. ICAR-SBI was also distributing farm tools, household items and seedlings to the tribal folk in the villages, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-empowerment-project-launched-in-tiger-reserve/article38280406.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Men posing as I-T officers steal Rs. 20 lakh||Five men, who posed as Income Tax (I-T) sleuths, took away Rs. 20 lakh from a quarry owner in Kinathukadavu in Coimbatore on Saturday. The police said the imposters came to the house of K. Panchalingam, 55, around 1 p.m. They grabbed Mr. Panchalingam’s mobile phone first and introduced themselves as I-T officials. They also showed him their identity cards. The men told him that the I-T Department had information about his tax evasion. They searched the house and collected Rs. 20 lakh. Then they asked Mr. Panchalingam to produce documents related to the source of the money at the office at Race Course in Coimbatore if he wanted to get the cash back, the police said. Suspicious actions When Mr. Panchalingam asked why there were no policemen with them, the men told him that they were not informed of the raid to avoid arrests. The men, who were dressed formally and spoke Tamil and English, also took the digital video recorder of the closed circuit television cameras in the house before leaving. While they were about to leave the place, Mr. Panchalingam noticed that the vehicle used by them did not have a registration number. Suspecting foul play, he alerted the Kinathukadavu police about the incident. Checks were conducted at all check posts. However, the vehicle could not be traced. Special teams have been tasked to nab the imposters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/men-posing-as-i-t-officers-steal-rs-20-lakh/article38280374.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Brief reports||Power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. onJanuary 19in the following areas under Kovilpalayam sub-station: Sarkar Samakulam, Kovilpalayam, Kurumbapalayam, Manikampalayam COINIDA, Vaiyampalayam, Agrakarasamakulam, Kottaipalayam, Kondaiyampalayam, Kunnathur, Kalipalayam and Mondikalipudur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brief-reports/article38280412.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sunday lockdown sees smooth compliance||Shops and establishments, except in the essential category, remained shut, vehicles were kept off the roads and most people stayed indoors as the complete lockdown on Sundays took effect amid a surge in COVID-19 infections. Police said the rules of the Sunday lockdown were strictly enforced and only essential services and emergency travel were allowed. The main roads in Cuddalore, Villupuram, and Kallakurichi towns wore a deserted look. Retail outlets, meat shops, vegetable markets, and industries remained shut. Hotels offered only takeaways. Only hospitals, pharmacies and Aavin milk booths were opened. Violators fined At several places in Cuddalore district, police teams stopped two-wheelers to check their purpose of venturing outdoors. Fines were imposed on those loitering about without masks. A senior police officer in Cuddalore district said barring minor violations, there was a 100% compliance with rules. The law enforcement authorities in Cuddalore, Villupuram, and Kallakurichi districts made extensive deployment of personnel for effective enforcement of the lockdown. The Cuddalore district police had erected 52 checkposts, in addition to the existing ones. Over 1,400 police personnel were deployed in all the seven police sub-divisions in the district. The Cuddalore and Villupuram police also checked vehicles along the inter-State border with Puducherry. They also checked vehicles on important locations within each station’s limits. The police also erected barricades on the East Coast Road and Tindivanam Road, questioning people their purpose of travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sunday-lockdown-sees-smooth-compliance/article64949418.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore records 305 COVID cases||Cuddalore district recorded 305 fresh COVID-19 infections on Sunday, taking the tally to 66,529. The district saw 63,975 recoveries and the active case count stood at 1,677. Villupuram district recorded 134 cases, which took the total number of cases to 47,419. Kallakurichi district recorded 119 cases, taking the overall case tally to 32,617.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-records-305-covid-cases/article38280679.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hero stones discovered at Perumbalai village||Two hero stones with inscriptions in a separate stone dating back to 13th Century were discovered on the north bank of River Cauvery at Perumbalai village in Pennagaram block in the district here recently.  Members of the Yaakkai Voluntary Organisation comprising Chandran, Sudhakar Nalliyappan, Arun Raja and Chirringur Raja documented the hero stones found in a farm land near a hilltop. The inscriptions were not read fully before and the team read the 26-line inscription that describes the conflict in the region. The inscription states the time period as Purva Nakshatra Monday of the month of Chithirai. It also describes the heroic deeds of the dead warrior as “Mathali vikarana surya, the uncontrollable lion, Malaika kalankinalum manam kalankata Cholanga Thevan”.  Sculptures are carved in two separate stones. While one sculpture depicts a warrior confronting and attacking an enemy on horseback, the other sculpture shows the warrior killing the enemy. “It is of historical significance that a hero stone found in the border area of a country bears much rare social information, as indicated in the ancient literature”, said the members who confirmed the inscriptions with senior epigraphist Rajagopal Subbaiah.  Perumbalai has long been historically associated with the Kongu region as Tamil language text- Kongu Mandala Sadhagam states, “Perumbalai to the north and Vaikavur to the south” in a poem that defines the border of the Kongu country. Perumbalai has archaeological evidence of people living here since ancient times. The village and its surrounding areas are low-lying, but rich in ecosystems. The area was also the main road junction before crossing the Cauvery on the way from Gangapadi to the interior of the Kongu region. Iron and mineral resources were abundant in the Mecheri and Mettur areas at that time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hero-stones-discovered-at-perumbalai-village/article64949493.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in road accident||Three persons were killed after the two-wheeler in which they were travelling was hit by a van at Nallampalli here on Friday evening. The deceased has been indentified as Perumal (29) , Thirugnanam (26) and Boopesh (30).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-road-accident/article38280476.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:51 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two boys drown in tank||Veera Harish Kumar, 15, son of Arumugam, and Ezhil Richard, 14, son of William of Reddiyapatti village near Dindigul district, allegedly drowned in a local tank on Sunday. Police said the two boys had gone to the tank for fishing. One of them reportedly slipped and the other attempted to rescue him. In the attempt, both drowned. Preliminary inquiry showed that the boys were studying in classes 10 and 9. They did not know swimming. Taluk police have registered a case. Laid to rest Muthiah, 31, of Kovilparai near Kadamalaikundu in Theni district, who was working with the Indo-Tibet Border Police, in Himachal Pradesh, died two days ago and the body was laid to rest with state honours at his native village on Sunday. Officials said he had been serving in the force since 2017. Married to Arumugavalli, he had two daughters. It is said that two days ago, while on duty, he complained of illness following which he was rushed to the military hospital. However, he died without responding to treatment. The body was laid to rest with full state honours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-boys-drown-in-tank/article38280624.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for threatening businessman||Three persons, who demanded money from a businessman and threatened him in Perundurai, were arrested by the police. According to police, the gang called Subramani, who is former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami son’s father-in-law, over phone and demanded money and threatened him. He lodged a complaint with Perundurai police who registered a case and arrested Chandran, Srinivasan and Palraj, all from Sathyamangalam. They were produced in a court and lodged at prison. Search is on for two other accused. Mr. Subramani runs a paper mill in Sathyamangalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-threatening-businessman/article38280480.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Waterbodies in Anthiyur fill up due to rain||Rain in Bargur Hills and Anthiyur in the past four days has led to many water bodies in the region filling up as surplus water was discharged on Sunday. Varattupallam reservoir with a storage capacity of 1.39 tmc is located on the foothills of Bargur and is brimming to its capacity for the past two months. Over 200 mm rainfall was recorded in the area in the last four days bringing copious water to the reservoir. The reservoir reached its maximum storage level of 33.33 feet on January 13 after which surplus water was released that reached Gettisamudram tank. The tank also reached its maximum storage capacity and water was discharged to reach Periya tank and later Vembathi tank and finally, Appakudal tank that reached its full storage capacity after 15 years. Likewise water from the hill area reached Ennamangalam tank and surplus water from the tank reached Poonachi tank and Gettisamudram tank. Farmers happy Farmers expressed happiness over the tanks filling up in the last three days and said that water shortage would not prevail in the ensuing summer. Farmers, who had cultivated onions, however, said that their crops were damaged due to rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waterbodies-in-anthiyur-fill-up-due-to-rain/article64949491.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 570 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Sunday reported 570 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,10,899. While 151 persons were discharged, 2,389 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 529 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 1,05,765. While 158 persons were discharged, 2,586 persons continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 239 cases taking the tally to 56,112. While 53 persons were discharged, 1,216 persons continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri district reported 308 cases taking the tally to 46,152. While 101 persons were discharged, 1,683 persons continue to be under treatment. Dharmapuri district reported 153 cases taking the tally to 29,988. While 41 persons were discharged, 772 persons continue to be under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-570-new-covid-19-cases/article38280477.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Drop Hindi as desirable qualification in recruitment for posts in All India Radio’||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has questioned the notification of Prasar Bharathi that prescribed Hindi as “desirable qualification” for multi-media journalists (MMJ) to be recruited for Doordarshan Kendra (DK) and All India Radio (AIR) in Tamil Nadu. The recruitment of journalists on full-time annual contract basis is on for the districts of Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruchi, Madurai and Tirunelveli. The duties of the recruits is confined to those districts in Tamil Nadu. “I don’t understand why knowledge of Hindi is sought as ‘desirable qualification’ that too without mentioning whether additional marks or what weightage would be given for candidates knowing Hindi,” he said. The candidates, particularly from rural areas, have genuine apprehensions this “desirable qualification” would be a disadvantage in their selection. Besides, the MP wanted to know whether this present post of MMJ is new one . Mr. Venkatesan pointed out that the notification did not have any reference about reservation. In a memorandum addressed to Minister of Information and Broadcasting Anurag Singh Thakur, Mr. Venkatesan said Prasar Bharathi should drop Hindi as “desirable qualification” and should also ensure reservation in the recruitment if the cadre strength was more than the minimum criteria as per norms for the post.  Will additional marks will be given for candidates knowing Hindi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drop-hindi-as-desirable-qualification-in-recruitment-for-posts-in-dd-and-air-says-madurai-mp/article64949333.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:51 IST,TAMIL NADU||Missing bull found dead||A bull that went missing after taking part in the jallikattu event held at Palamedu on Saturday was found dead in a quarry pit here on Sunday. The police said that the bull, belonging to P. Sivankann (22) of North Street in Palamedu went missing at the collection point. After searching for the bull for several hours, the owner gave up the search after nightfall. On Sunday morning, the bull was found dead in the quarry pit. The pit was around 1.5 km away from the jallikattu venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-bull-found-dead-in-quarry-pit/article38280466.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||All eyes on Alanganallur jallikattu||With the stage set for the conduct of the jallikattu at the world famous Alanganallur in Madurai district on Monday, the officials said that they were fully geared for the event. Minister of Commercial Taxes P. Moorthy and Collector S. Aneesh Shekhar said that all the protocols have been laid out after an inspection of the venue. Only those who had taken both the vaccine shots for COVID-19 virus were eligible to take part. Similarly, a team of doctors and veterinary experts had screened the bulls. With restrictions on visitors, the event was likely to be a subdued one. However, tamers were in an upbeat mood and hoped to bag as many gold coins and other prizes. When reporters asked about negligence shown in adhering to the SOP in the events held at Avaniapuram and Palamedu, the Minister hoped that the people would cooperate and prevent the spread of the virus. Chief Minister M. K. Stalin and his son, MLA Udayanidhi, have announced gifting car each to the best tamer and bull owner, the Minister said and added that voluntary offers from various philanthropists showed their affection for the jallikattu event reflecting the tradition and culture of Tamils. A Tasmac official said that to maintain law and order on January 17, tasmac outlets at Sikkandar Chavadi, Podumbu, Boothakudi and a Manamagizh Mandram at Palamedu Main Road would remain closed during the jallikattu event at Alanganallur. Senior police officers said that they have made elaborate bandobust arrangements and the officials from the Department of Information and Public Relations said that the entire jallikattu event would be available on YouTube and other social mediums, including a few electronic media for the benefit of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-eyes-on-jallikattu-event-at-alanganallur/article64949317.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||MP wants Hindi to be dropped as ‘desirable qualification’||Madurai MP, Su. Venkatesan has questioned the notification of Prasar Bharathi that prescribed Hindi as the “desirable qualification” for multi-media journalists to be recruited for Doordarshan Kendra and All India Radio in Tamil Nadu. The recruitment of journalists on full-time annual contract basis is for the districts of Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruchi, Madurai and Tirunelveli. The duties of the recruits is confined to those districts in Tamil Nadu. “I don’t understand why knowledge of Hindi is sought as ‘desirable qualification’ that too without mentioning whether additional marks or what weightage would be given for candidates knowing Hindi,” he said. The candidates, particularly from rural areas, have genuine apprehensions this “desirable qualification” would be a disadvantage in their selection. Besides, the MP wanted to know whether this present post of MMJ is new one .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-wants-hindi-to-be-dropped-as-desirable-qualification/article38280376.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:51 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level on Sunday in Periyar dam stood at 137.45 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 612 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 69.59 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 207 cusecs and a discharge of 69 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,778 mcft. Periyar recorded 4.2 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article64949470.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Manja proves deathtrap for moped rider in Mancherial||A 39-year-old moped-rider bled to death after being injured by a manja, the banned glass-coated thread used to fly kites, in Mancherial district of Telangana on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Bheemaiah, a labourer of old Mancherial. He suffered a deep cut on his neck from a dangling manja and bled to death even before passersby could help. The police registered a case against unknown persons and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manja-proves-deathtrap-for-moped-rider-in-mancherial/article38280119.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for trespassing into Naval Detachment||A man aged about 40 years was booked by the Nagapattinam Town police for reportedly trespassing into the premises of the Naval Detachment, Nagapattinam, early on Sunday morning. After prolonged questioning by the local police, investigators suspected the person, identified as Abishek Shukla of Uttar Pradesh, to be suffering from mental illness. Q-Branch police sources said the suspect would most likely be admitted to a mental treatment facility, after formal registration of First Information Report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-booked-for-trespassing-into-naval-detachment/article38280450.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||The menace of vehicles with protruding goods||Goods vehicles carrying iron rods and pipes protruding outside the body frame continue to have a free run in the city, posing serious risks to road users. In 2014, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways amended the Central Motor Vehicle Rules (CMVR), 1989, that allowed protrusions of up to one metre beyond the body frame, to ensure that the materials carried on lorries remained within the vehicles’ length. Despite the ban on the practice, a large number of transport vehicles with protruding rods, pipes or girders can be seen plying on the city’s roads, especially on Kamaraj Salai, Anna Salai and 100-feet Road. The Transport Department and the traffic police have not been able to put an end to the menace, even after several accidents involving two-wheelers and cars were reported. “Lorries carrying iron rods, angles, pipes, poles and other construction materials are a common sight on the city’s roads. When a lorry carrying iron rods applies a sudden brake, the vehicle behind it would be caught unawares, and this could result in fatal accidents. The problem gets aggravated when the vehicle is parked on the road, as there are no warning signs,” said Vinoth Thanvinsun, a resident of Raj Bhavan. A Transport Department official said, “Carrying iron rods and other goods protruding beyond the body frame is punishable under Section 190 (3) of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. Lorry operators have been warned against overloading their vehicles beyond the body frame, and have been asked to cover the load with tarpaulin.” “The lorry drivers seldom followthe practice of fixing blinkers on the rear of the vehicles. Though enforcement teams conduct surprise checks, there is little policing on the arterial thoroughfares. The department will step up surveillance,” he added. M. Sivasankaran, president, Puducherry Traders’ Federation, conceded that a few traders were violating the ban. Pandemic effect “There have been problems with the implementation of the Central Act in Puducherry due to the pandemic over the last two years. The government should call a meeting of transport operators and traders and spread awareness about the menace. We will advise our members not to overload vehicles,” he said. “If a vehicle has goods protruding beyond the body frame, the police should not allow it to move. A fine should be levied and the excess load should be removed on the spot. The authorities should ensure that the goods are carried with strict adherence to the traffic norms. There should be zero tolerance of such vehicles, and strict enforcement of the law is the need of the hour,” an urban planner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-menace-of-vehicles-with-protruding-goods/article64949313.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||New regulations for OP services soon in Jipmer||Jipmer has announced regulations to outpatient department (OPD) visits and initiation of teleconsultation services to reduce transmission risks in view of the recent spike in COVID-19 cases over the last couple of weeks in Puducherry. Jipmer Director Rakesh Aggarwal said in a press note that the number of COVID-19 patients in Puducherry has rapidly increased in the last three weeks, resulting in an increase in positive patients being admitted to the hospital. To reduce the risk of transmission of the virus to those going to OPD for consultation, it has been decided to commence teleconsultation services from Tuesday and to limit the number of in-person OP consultations to 50 patients in each department from Wednesday. Jipmer has asked patients seeking consultation from any specialty at the hospital to register by calling the designated number as provided on the Jimper website (www.jipmer.edu.in) to book an appointment for teleconsultation. From Wednesday, in-person OP consultations for elective patients will be based only on prior appointments issued by each department. Further, to reduce the risk of transmission of the virus in the community, as well as within the hospital, Jipmer will continue to carefully regulate the OPD services. This includes the use of measures such as universal masks for all patients and attenders, visits by prior appointment and teleconsultation before physical visits and setting a limit of only one attender per patient. These are important to ensure proper physical distancing between people attending the outpatient services. Patients and their attendants are also encouraged to get fully vaccinated against COVID-19 at the earliest, if not vaccinated already, since it gives protection against the Omicron variant of the virus as well. However, all emergency medical and surgical services will continue as usual, Jimper said. Meanwhile, Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has, during a call with the Jimper Director, asked him to ensure that inconvenience is minimised to patients as a result of the restrictions.  The number of COVID-19 patients in Puducherry has rapidly increased in the last three weeksRakesh AggarwalJipmer Director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-regulations-for-op-services-soon-in-jipmer/article64949419.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||TPR crosses 43% as U.T. sees 1,160 fresh cases||The Union Territory recorded 1,160 fresh COVID-19 cases from 2,657 tests at a test positivity rate (TPR) of 43.6%, and one death on Sunday. Puducherry accounted for 974 of the fresh infections, followed by Karaikal, which logged 129, Mahe 40 and Yanam 17. With 142 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 7,602. Of these, 133 were in hospital and 7,469 in home isolation. The case fatality rate was 1.37% and the recovery rate 92.96%. With the death of a patient in Puducherry, the cumulative toll in the Union Territory went up to 1,887, with Puducherry accounting for 1,472 deaths, Karaikal 252, Yanam 109 and Mahe 54. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,37,710 cases and 1,28,021 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 20.95 lakh tests conducted to date, over 17.75 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,171 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered a total of 14,97,073 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tpr-crosses-43-as-ut-sees-1160-fresh-cases/article64949417.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ramanathapuram MP urges Centre to secure release of fishermen||K. Nawas Kani, MP, has appealed to the Union government to immediately help release the arrested fishermen from Rameswaram, Mandapam and Jagadapattinam in Pudukottai district. In a press note issued here on Sunday, he said the fishermen suffered huge losses due to the pandemic and other issues. The arrest of the fishermen by the Sri Lankan Navy on December 18 and 19, 2021, had come as a big blow to the fishers and their families. Though 68 fishermen were held, only 12 had been released so far. He hoped External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar would take up the issue with the Sri Lankan government and get the jailed fishermen back home safely. He also wanted the governments to find a permanent solution to the issue and bring back the fishermen’s vessels. A Sri Lankan court had extended the judicial custody of the fishermen till January 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-appeals-to-centre-on-fishermen-issue/article38280474.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur dam water level stood at 113.82 feet||Waterlevelat the Stanley Reservoir inMetturstood at 113.82 feet against the full reservoirlevel(FRL) of 120 feet on Sunday. At 8 a.m., the inflow stood at 1,975 cusecs and the discharge was 8,000 cusecs into River Cauvery. The storage was 83.95 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) against the capacity of 93.47 tmc. Meanwhile, waterlevelat the Bhavanisagardamin Erode district stood at 100.33 feet against the full reservoirlevel(FRL) of 105 feet. At 8 a.m., the inflow into thedamwas 1,719 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal, 700 cusecs into Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs into River Bhavani for drinkingwaterpurpose. The storage was 28.98 tmc against the capacity of 32.80 tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-dam-water-level-stood-at-11382-feet/article38280485.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Manjuvirattu: 16-year-old gored to death||A 16-year-old boy, identified as Balaji, was gored to death at the annual manjuvirattu held here on Saturday.  Police said at least 20 others were injured and hospitalised. The annual event was conducted as part of the Pongal celebrations at Nerkuppai in Tirupattur taluk in Sivaganga district. According to the organisers, nearly 100 bulls took part in the event, which had about 1,800 spectators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manjuvirattu-16-year-old-gored-to-death/article38280385.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||People stay indoors during Sunday lockdown||Except for a few vehicles on the roads, most of the people remained indoors as the second complete lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 passed off peacefully here on Sunday. Most of the roads wore a deserted look except for people who travelled for medical purposes as police maintained tight vigil at 14 check posts and at important junctions. Over 1,100 police personnel were on duty from 10 p.m. on Saturday to ensure total lockdown while vehicles carrying essentials were allowed to ply.Additional police personnel were posted at the inter-State check posts with Karnataka at Hasanur, Bargur and vehicles moving without a valid reason were sent back. Corporation officials also inspected market areas and residential areas to ensure that all shops, including meat shops, remain closed for the day. In Salem, all the major roads and flyovers wore a deserted look. Check points were established across the city. Since only parcel services were allowed in hotels and restaurants, food delivery executives waited outside hotels to execute customers’ orders. Only milk booths and milk delivery services functioned for the day as most of the people stayed indoors. In Krishnagiri, all shops remain closed and roads, including the national highways, wore a deserted look. At the inter-State border with Karnataka at Zuzuwadi check post, vehicles from Bengaluru were checked and allowed to enter. People heading to railway stations were asked to produce a copy of their tickets after which they were allowed to continue their journey. Only pharmacies and petrol bunks remained open as the lockdown was total in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-stay-indoors-during-sunday-lockdown/article64949495.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Railway’s stand on train halt irks Papanasam residents||Southern Railway’s decision not to revive the stoppage for Chendur Express (train nos. 16105/16106) at Papanasam has upset the passengers. The move comes despite the train’s arrival at Tiruchi and Tirunelveli junctions ahead of the scheduled time during its upward journey. The scheduled time of arrival of the train proceeding to Tiruchendur from Chennai Egmore (train no.16105) at Tiruchi was 00.05 hours every day and departure at 00.10 hours. However, invariably it reaches Tiruchi five to fifteen minutes ahead of the scheduled arrival on almost all days. The timings For instance, Chendur Express from Chennai Egmore arrived Tiruchi at 23.45 hours on January 12, at 23.55 hours on January 13 and 14. On Friday, it reached the Tiruchi junction at the scheduled time, as per the details of running time of trains operated by the railways available on the web, according to Saravanan of Papanasam, who is also a member of the Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee, Tiruchi division. Similarly, this train reaches Tirunelveli junction nearly 60 minutes ahead of the scheduled time of 05.55 hours every day and starts for Tiruchendur after 06.00 hours, he points out. The reasoning Wondering what could be the stumbling block for reviving the two-minute stoppage for Chendur Express at Papanasam in the backdrop of the arrival/departure timings of this train at two important junctions beyond Papansasm in its upward journey, Mr. Saravanan says it is hard to digest the reasoning that “it would be operationally not feasible to revive the stoppage” given by the officials towards the plea to revive the stoppage at Papanasam, at the recent DRUCC meeting. He also laments that the suspension of passenger train services through Papanasam citing COVID-19 pandemic situation was all set to have an impact on the passenger ticket revenue generation of this railway station. Prior to the novel coronavirus outbreak, the UTS booking remained a reliable source of income for this station which had the track record of income through ticket sales hovering between Rs. 10 to Rs. 12 lakh per month, he points out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railways-stand-on-train-halt-irks-papanasam-residents/article38280444.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Soldier laid to rest in village||Muthiah, 31, of Kovilparai near Kadamalaikundu in Theni district, who was working with the Indo-Tibet Border Police, in Himachal Pradesh, died two days ago and the body was laid to rest with state honours at his native village on Sunday. Officials said he had been serving in the force since 2017. Married to Arumugavalli, he had two daughters. It is said that two days ago, while on duty, he complained of illness following which he was rushed to the military hospital,. However, he died without responding to treatment. The body was laid to rest with full state honours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soldier-laid-to-rest-with-state-honours/article38280471.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||IFFK likely to be postponed||The International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK), earlier re-scheduled to be held in the first week of February, is likely to be postponed again considering the sudden increase in COVID-19 cases in the capital, which on Saturday recorded a test positivity rate (TPR) of 36.1%. The Malayalam film industry, which has been on a revival path after theatres reopened in November, is staring at another possible crisis as some upcoming releases are postponed. The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy had postponed the 26th edition of the IFFK, scheduled for December, to February 4 to 11. Though the film selection process for the festival was over last year, the academy has not been able to begin the ground-level preparatory works due to the prevailing pandemic situation. An organising committee meeting, scheduled last week, was not held. The delegate registration process, which usually happens well ahead of the festival, also has not begun. According to academy officials, a final call on the IFFK will be taken by the Culture department, but going by the current limbo in the preparatory works, the festival is unlikely to happen as per schedule.  The outlook is not very promising for the Malayalam film industry too, with big releases including Dulquer Salman-starrer Salute , directed by Rosshan Andrews, and Tovino Thomas-starrer Naradhan , directed by Ashiq Abu, both scheduled for January, getting postponed due to COVID-19 cases.   Vineeth Sreenivasan’s Hridayam , starring Pranav Mohanlal, and Rajeev Ravi’s Thuramukham , starring Nivin Pauly, have not been postponed yet, but there are concerns of crowd response even if these movies are screened.  Crowd response  “The producers of Hridayam are confident of the release. We have promised full support from the exhibitors, including a minimum guarantee run in the theatres,” says Film Exhibitors’ United Organisation of Kerala (FEUOK) president K. Vijayakumar.   The theatres in the State reopened in November last week. Dulquer Salman-starrer Kurup , which was the first release, became the biggest hit of the year collecting around Rs. 50 crore, according to exhibitors. The much-hyped Marakkar , starring Mohanlal, did not collect as much as it was expected to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iffk-likely-to-be-postponed/article38280118.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Corporation to be strict in enforcing COVID-19 norms||As the Pongal festival season comes to a close, the Tiruchi Corporation plans to crack the whip on those not wearing masks and following COVID-19 protocol. Over the last fortnight, Rs. 73,000 has been collected from individuals and commercial establishments, senior officials said. Many leave their masks at home or keep them in their bags, instead of wearing them. The public has no fear of contracting the viral infection, or of paying up a fine anymore. Despite the increasing number of cases in Tiruchi, the number of deaths reported is low because of which the public is lax, an official said. The people say that they have taken both doses of the infection, and are therefore safe, they do not understand that they could be a carrier of the infection, he added. The public needs more awareness, K. Muthu, a resident of Thillai Nagar, said. "Authorities are trying to send home the message that mask-wearing is the most important way to protect oneself from the viral infection. But most people are not adhering to it," he said.  Speaking to The Hindu , P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, Corporation Commissioner, said that they resumed the collection of fines as the number of fresh cases spiked. Officials are also checking for vaccination certificates of employees and customers at commercial establishments.  A few weeks ago, owners of a sweet shop in the city were fined Rs. 10,000 for flouting the norms. "We have set up teams in all four zones of the city. They conduct surprise checks and ensure adherence," Mr. Rahuman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-corporation-to-be-strict-in-enforcing-covid-19-norms/article38280443.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||BHEL produces import substitute T91 grade seamless steel tubes||In what is described as a ‘major breakthrough,’ the Seamless Steel Tube Plant (SSTP) of Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL), Tiruchi, has manufactured import substitute T91 (SA213) grade seamless steel tubes. The tubes, manufactured from steel blooms, were flagged off by Anil Kapoor, Director, Human Resources and Power, at a function held here recently. Mr. Kapoor, who is also spearheading BHEL’s efforts towards Make in India initiative of the Union government, said the indigenisation of import substitute products would not only help in BHEL’s thermal sector business but also in generating new business opportunities in other sectors. The tubes would be utilised by the High Pressure Boiler Plant to manufacture critical components for a super critical boiler at a BHEL thermal power project, said a press release. Mr. Kapoor also inaugurated a training module for site welding at the Welding Research Institute of BHEL-Tiruchi on the occasion. S.V. Srinivasan, General Manager (in charge), BHEL, Tiruchi Complex; T. A. Daniel Sagayaraj, Deputy Director of Boilers, Tiruchi, and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhel-produces-import-substitute-t91-grade-seamless-steel-tubes/article38280442.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Potholes in bus stand cause hardship to crew, public||The badly-damaged metalled road surface at Central Bus Stand in Tiruchi following the heavy spells of rain in recent months is causing hardship to bus drivers and passengers alike. The extended spells of rain in October, November and December had caused extensive damage to the surface. The top surface of the road has eroded badly, and potholes have emerged at several spots, causing a nightmarish experience to the bus crew and passengers. The drivers are forced to negotiate the potholes carefully. One of the biggest bus stands in the region, it has three sectors: while Chennai, Villupuram, Thiruvannamalai, Tirunelveli,Thoothukudi and Nagercoil bound buses are operated from the first sector (eastern), the third sector (western) is used to operate buses bound for Coimbatore, Erode, Karur and Namakkal. The bays at the middle are used for handling of buses bound for Dindigul, Madurai, Manapparai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai, Karaikudi, Paramakudi and Ramanathapuram. The city buses are operated from the outside periphery of the bus stand. With the operation of buses to destinations in all directions in the State, the bus stand bustles with activity round the clock. The bus stand is spread over about 4.5 acres receives over one lakh passengers daily. About 2,500 buses are operated from the bus stand. “The road is in bad shape. It troubles each and every user of the bus stand and it is not a way to upkeep the facility that receives hundreds of passengers,” says S. Satish, a passenger bound for Devakottai. The bus crew complain that they have been undergoing a tough time since October. Only a few potholes were found in the initial stages of the monsoon. But the entire surface of the bus stand has suffered heavy damage. The absence of regular maintenance has led to heavy damage. “We undergo the sufferings over the last three months. The authorities should have at least carried out patch-up works,” says a driver of a State Transport Corporation bus. When contacted, Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman said that temporary restoration works would be carried out immediately at the bus stand. Based on the requirements, the entire road surface would be re-laid, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/potholes-in-bus-stand-cause-hardship-to-crew-public/article64949349.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Adopt Assembly resolution on Thirukkural ’||The Federation of Tamil Organisations of Tiruchi district has urged the State government to adopt a resolution in the Assembly to press the Centre to declare Thirukkural a national book.   It adopted a resolution to this effect at ‘Thiruvalluvar Thirunal’ celebration here on Saturday. The members garlanded the poet’s statue and organised a Thirukkural Muttrothal at Tiruchi Tamil Sangam.   The event also saw them adopt a series of resolutions putting forth various demands to propagate Thirukkural and Thiruvalluvar’s ideals.   Through one of the resolutions, the forum demanded that the Tamil Nadu Public Serice Commission make Thirukkural a subject in all its recruitment examinations.   While appreciating the government for its implementation of special schemes to promote Tamil language and Tamil people’s welfare, the federation, in another resolution, urged the government to institute district-level awards to recognise scholars engaged in propagating Thirukkura l’s ideals.   The federation called for steps to establish a Thirukkural Kottam, on the lines of Valluvar Kottam in Chennai, in Tiruchi with a Thirukkural Chair and library. The Salai Road in Tiruchi should be named after Thiruvalluvar, it said.  Federation coordinators V.N. Somasundaram and S. Muruganandam were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adopt-assembly-resolution-on-thirukkural/article38280456.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||1,395 COVID-19 cases in central districts||The central districts on Sunday reported 1,395 fresh COVID-19 cases. Two deaths were reported in the region - one each in Karur and Tiruchi, according to a bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Tiruchi and Thanjavur continue to report a large majority of the cases in the region. On Sunday, Tiruchi reported 453 and Thanjavur, 439. The other seven districts in the region reported less than 100 cases each. Eighty-four persons tested positive in Tiruvarur, 78 in Mayiladuthurai, and 77 in Karur. In Ariyalur, 73 patients reported positive, and 71 in Perambalur district. Nagapattinam district registered 68 cases, and in Pudukottai, 52.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1395-covid-19-cases-in-central-districts/article38280448.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Sunday stood at 113.69 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,590 cusecs and the discharge 8,001 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article64949350.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Roads deserted in southern districts, medical shops, petrol bunks kept open||With a total lockdown imposed on Sunday for the second consecutive week, arterial roads, bus stand, markets and residential areas wore a deserted look in southern districts. Barring medical shops, hospitals and petrol bunks, all other establishments were closed. A few restaurants had take-away services. The State government had announced a series of restrictions on movement of people after a steep rise in the number of COVID-19 cases across Tamil Nadu. A few tea stalls and road side vendors near hospitals operated. Those who were moving on two-wheelers and four-wheelers were intercepted by police, who allowed the motorists to proceed after they were convinced of the reasons for their travel. Many youngsters were given a warning and sent back to their homes, a police officer on Thoothukudi - Palayamkottai Road said.  Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, who monitored the bandobust arrangements, told reporters that around 1,600 personnel were deployed on special duty. Besides 68 check posts, including those in the city limits, fines were imposed on 12,000 people for various violations during the last fortnight and Rs 26 lakh was collected.  At a time, when the government had taken measures to administer vaccines to prevent the spread of the virus, he appealed to eligible people to cooperate and help fight the pandemic. In Thoothukudi, fishermen, salt pan workers and many casual workers at the port and other industrial estates remained indoors. In Tirunelveli district, except for movement of essential goods such as milk and newspapers, a majority of the sectors remained shut on Sunday. Papanasam and Agasthiyar waterfalls, which received crowds from neighbouring towns, was shut for public entry. With shrines being closed since Friday, the usually busy Nellaiappar Swamy Temple area was completely deserted. Likewise, normal life was hit in Melapalayam, Thatchanallur, Kalakkad, Valliyur, Nanguneri, Ambasamudram, Kallidaikurichi, Vikramasingapuram and other pockets in the peripheries. In Kanniyakumari district, too, the lockdown was complete and movement of trucks on the national highway was intensified. Vehicles coming from Kerala were thoroughly checked and only essential commodities were allowed entry at Kaliyakavilai check-post, police said. Widespread rain in Tenkasi during the last 24 hours resulted in people staying indoors. There was also rain in Karuppanadhi, Gundar, Shencottah and Adavinainar and other pockets, PWD officials said and added that the waterfall at Courtallam was thin on Sunday.  With no tourists being allowed, a skeleton strength of personnel was posted on bandobust duty, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roads-deserted-in-southern-districts/article64949332.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Probe complaint against inspector, DVAC told||The Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Tiruppur, recently directed the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) to probe into a corruption complaint levelled against an Inspector of Police. Chief Judicial Magistrate V. Pugazhenthi ordered the DVAC, Tiruppur, on January 11 to investigate a complaint received against inspector Elango attached to the Prohibition Enforcement Wing of the city police. Sources said that a Tiruppur-based advocate, Pa. Vijay Anand, lodged a complaint against Elango with the DVAC in 2020. Since no action was taken, Mr. Anand filed a petition before the CJM court, along with documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-complaint-against-inspector-dvac-told/article38280405.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minister’s native near Tiruvannamalai town gets its own panchayat building||Twenty-five years ago, residents in Se.Gudalur, a small farming village located around 10 km from Tiruvannamalai town, built a small room by pooling their resources to run their panchayat office. Their elected members had their regular meetings outside the office due to its cramped space. Now, it has been replaced with an office built at a cost of Rs. 17.64 lakh by the Rural Development Department. Accompanied by Collector B. Murugesh, the panchayat office was opened by State Minister for Public Works, Highways and Minor Ports E.V. Velu. The village is his hometown, where he did his schooling before moving to the town. “During monsoon, we used to relocate record books to the village elder’s house from the old panchayat building. The new office has a separate records room,” said S. Sekar, secretary, Se.Gudalur village panchayat. The new panchayat office has a large conference room to hold monthly meetings by elected members. Visitors also have a waiting room with toilets and faucets. The office is lit with LED lights and runs on solar power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-native-near-tiruvannamalai-town-gets-its-own-panchayat-building/article38280689.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coonoor turns waste into wealth||The Coonoor Municipality (CMC), in partnership with local NGO Clean Coonoor, has managed to produce high quality compost from wet waste generated in the town’s households and market. The first batch of compost, weighing around 10 tonnes, was produced in a relatively short period of 10 days, said P.J. Vasanthan, trustee of Clean Coonoor. Mr. Vasanthan said that usually compost made from municipal waste can only be used on lawns and gardens due to the presence of heavy metal content in waste collected from households. “However, due to excellent source segregation that is enforced by the sanitary workers employed by the municipality, it is possible to produce high-quality manure,” said Mr. Vasanthan. A sample of the compost was tested in Coimbatore. “The test revealed that the fertility index score was at 3.8 out of five and a clean index score of 4.3. This indicates high-quality compost with low heavy metal content, which can be used for high-value crops in organic farming,” he added. “The success of composting tonnes of wet waste in a short period in adverse weather conditions can be attributed to the fact that the unit uses conventional windrow composting as against the in-vessel method advocated in most centres. Windrows can be much more easily manipulated to counter the changes in weather. The unit also uses a 30 HP pulveriser to homogenize the waste, while wood ash from nearby tea factories is used as a bulking agent,” said Samantha Iyanna, Managing trustee of Clean Coonoor. The success of the project has also been credited to the Coonoor Municipality for their work in ensuring segregation at source during the daily door-to-door collection of waste in the town. T. Krishnamurthi, CMC Commissioner, said that waste from households as well as from the Coonoor Market is turned into compost in the waste management park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coonoor-turns-waste-into-wealth/article64949500.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Mattu Pongal’ celebrated with traditional trappings||The Kasthurba Gandhi Kanya Gurukulam Ashram here celebrated 'Mattu Pongal' on Saturday at its 'goshala’ dairy centre, by giving a symbollic wash to the animals with gingelly oil and shikakai, after giving them a bath and painting the horns in different hues. Sandal paste, kumkum and cactus latex (kalli vattam) were smeared on the cattle, before being fed with a special delicacy consisting of a mixture of coconut, banana, jaggery and curd. Rice was sprinkled on the animals and an 'arathi' with lighted camphor waved. The participants prostrated before the 'Gomatha' in keeping with the Indian tradition and took the sand between the toe cleft to adorn the same on their foreheads along with the holy ash. The newly-inducted bull 'Bhima' led the herd of cattle in a mild gallop, according to the organisers. The herdsmen received their dhoti gifts which were tied around the neck of the bovines along with bright yellow samanthi flower, neem, gooseberry, aavarai leaves, and garlands of coloured pith - Netti ( a dried water weed). Thereafter, the participants dined together relishing special sweet Pongal with clarified butter kismis, elaichi, cashews, Mysore Puliyohire, coconut rice curd rice. Traditional dishes An array of side dishes consisted of Tirunelvevi mix vegetables - aviyal, Tanjore red chilli Parippu thohaiyal, appalam, Parippu vada, slightly sweetened sour angerine naarthanga Kumbakonam patchadi. The food was served on banana leaf with plantain fruit amid shouts of 'Pongalo Pongal, Maadu Kannu peruha peruha, Paal paanai ponga ponga, Pongalo Pongal'.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mattu-pongal-celebrated-with-traditional-trappings/article38280457.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||A banyan tree near prison is home to over 1,500 fruit bats||Thickly wooded Bagayam Road connects Vellore town with its outskirts towards Arani. The road has limited users, mostly highway travelers and goods laden lorries, and has more police checkpoints than shops as the Central Prison is located on it.  The secluded nature of the stretch makes it an ideal hunting ground for short-nosed fruit bats ( Cynopterus brachyotis ), which have been roosting on the decades-old banyan tree growing along the Central Prison’s high walls. More than 1,500 fruit bats occupy the branches of the giant tree.   “These bats are found mainly in the banyan tree near the prison complex. They are not found anywhere else in the district in such large numbers. We have to study them,” Prince Kumar, District Forest Office (DFO), Vellore, told The Hindu .  Villagers near Bagayam, a reserve forest, said these fruit bats were found mainly in that particular banyan tree despite the tree being found in many areas within the forest. A few year ago, only a few hundred bats were spotted in the tree. They then multiplied fast, occupying most of the huge tree. During festivals, including Deepavali, residents near the reserve forest area do not burst crackers to avoid harming the bats that roost in the banyan tree. Tracing the possible reasons for the fruit bats to settle in the banyan tree, biologists said these animals usually prefer tall fruit trees. The thick foliage in these trees also helps them roost without disturbances, prevents them from being spotted by predators, including humans, and provides them with much-needed shade. “The scent of their ancestors might be the a reason for the bats to roost in the banyan tree near the prison complex. Previous generations might have made their home in the tree. They are mammals who like to live in groups,” said G. Kamaraj, senior biologist, Arignar Anna Zoological Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-banyan-tree-near-prison-is-home-to-over-1500-fruit-bats/article64949416.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ex-AIADMK functionary held in job scam case||Former All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam functionary, K. Vijaya Nallathambi, who was accused of receiving Rs. 30 lakh from a man, promising to get a job for his nephew in Aavin through former State Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, was arrested on Sunday morning. Nallathambi, who is the younger brother of former Assembly Speaker, K. Kalimuthu, was nabbed by a team of Virudhunagar district police from his hideout near Kovilpatti. He was brought to District Crime Branch office here for inquiry. He has been charged with cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. S. Ravindran, a mechanic from Sattur, had alleged that Nallathambi had received Rs. 30 lakh from him in installments before the Assembly election on the promise of getting his nephew the post of manager in Aavin. Besides Nallathambi, Rajenthra Bhalaji, was an accused in this case. Nallathambi, in a separate complaint had said that he had handed over to Rajenthra Bhalaji and his assistants lakhs of rupees collected from job aspirants. Consequently, Nallathambi, who was till then the Vembakottai union secretary of AIADMK, was removed from the party post. When Rajenthra Bhalaji was arrested in the cheating cases near Karnataka, his advocates had raised doubts over lack of police action against Nallathambi. The Supreme Court had given advance bail to other accused in the case.Rajenthra Bhalaji, who was lodged in Tiruchi Central Prison, was released following the bail ordered by the top court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-aiadmk-functionary-held-in-job-scam-case/article38280386.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rent fixed for paddy harvesters||The district administration has fixed Rs. 2,350 per hour rental for paddy harvesting machinery (with track) and Rs. 1,700 rental for harvester with tyres. After an interaction with owners and agents of paddy harvesters here, Collector, J. Meghanath Reddy arrived at the rates of the machineries based on their present utility and expenses on repair. He appealed to the owners and agents not to collect more than what had been fixed. Farmers could lodge complaints with Revenue Divisional Officers, Tahsildars and engineers of Agricultural Engineering department if the owners/agents demanded more money as rent. The rent for harvesters owned by the department was Rs. 1,630 (with tracks) per hour and Rs. 1,010 (with tyres).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rent-fixed-for-private-paddy-harvesters/article38280463.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two women drown||Two women drowned in separate incidents in Virudhunagar district on Sunday. Police said S. Santhanamari, 25, of Peranaickkanpatti under Vembakottai police station limits went to bathe in an oorani along with her relatives M. Kaliammal, 35 and P. Sumathi, 18. As the women were bathing, Kaliammal and Sumathi went to the deeper portion of the waterbody and began to struggle. Santhanamari rushed to their help and managed to pull them out of danger. However, she drowned. Her body was taken to Sivakasi Government Hospital. In another incident, S. Abhinaya, 19 of N. Venkatesapuram under Sattur Taluk limit drowned in a quarry pit. The deceased had gone along with her father, Shanmugaiah, and a relative, Manoranjani, to take bathe in the quarry pit when she drowned. Her body was taken to Kovilpatti Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-drown-in-virudhunagar-district/article38280464.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Start the process towards prohibition in Tamil Nadu’||K. Balakrishnan, Tamil Nadu secretary of the CPI(M), an ally of the ruling DMK, argues that any assessment of the performance of the eight-month-old government should factor in the unusual circumstances in which it entered office and the challenges posed by COVID-19 and heavy rain last year. In an interview, he, however, points out that many employees are engaged on a temporary basis and paid a consolidated sum. This may cause a social crisis. He also demands that the government start the process towards prohibition. Excerpts: As leader of an ally, how do you evaluate the performance of the DMK government in the last eight months? The DMK assumed office [in May last] at a challenging time. The State was in the grip of the second wave of COVID-19. It was followed by an unprecedented natural disaster caused by heavy rain and flooding. Now the third wave of COVID-19 poses a challenge. The government has handled the situation well, to some extent. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is active, and has taken action to address problems. The government has given away relief and other assistance to people, though it is facing a financial crisis. We have to take into account the fact that the Centre is not extending adequate financial assistance to the State to deal with the pandemic and natural disasters. Of course, people feel that they could not get adequate flood relief. Overall, the government has handled the challenges. At the same time, there is a need to launch constructive measures. The Chief Minister’s proactive role has received kudos from people. But today a lot of government employees are on a consolidated and honorary pay. The DMK government is following the same method of recruitment for government jobs as the AIADMK government did. A government cannot afford to keep employees on a consolidated pay with temporary jobs as it will create a social crisis. The DMK government should remain an alternative in all respects. There is the charge that the DMK, which demanded Rs. 5,000 a family in COVID-19 relief from the previous AIADMK government, is not ready to distribute a similar amount now... The AIADMK did not give any money when the State was reeling under the pandemic. It distributed Rs. 2,500 just before the election. It would have been useful to people had it been given at the time of the pandemic. But the DMK, immediately after coming to power, distributed Rs. 4,000 in two instalments. It was the time when the second wave was at its peak. When in the Opposition, parties, including the DMK, demanded the closure of the retail-liquor shops run by TASMAC. But the DMK government has not taken steps for closing them down. How do you see this? We still demand that liquor shops be closed in phases. There is an opinion that revenue from other sources is dwindling and the revenue generated by the liquor shops is necessary to sustain the government. We cannot accept this argument. Generating revenue by increasing the drinking habit among the citizens is not a good idea. People are not in favour of it either. Whenever the government distributes money to provide relief, it goes back to its coffer through the liquor shops. The government is under compulsion to deal with its financial crisis and the ever-increasing expenditure during the pandemic, but it should not bank on the revenue from the liquor shops. It should consider closing down TASMAC outlets for the welfare of society. It may take time because prohibition does not mean just closure of the liquor shops. The government has to prevent the flow of illicit liquor and bootlegging in the event of prohibition. Drinking habit will not disappear on the day the liquor shops are closed. It is a long process. But the government should start it. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently inaugurated 11 medical colleges in the State. Critics have argued that it is an irony that Mr. Modi was invited when Tamil Nadu is single-handedly fighting against the NEET-based MBBS admissions... I also felt that there was no need to invite the Prime Minister to inaugurate the medical colleges. The colleges were funded by the State government [and by the Centre]. We could welcome it if the Prime Minister helped to complete the construction of the AIIMS [in Madurai] and inaugurated it. The State government is under no compulsion to invite the Prime Minister to inaugurate the colleges. But the government has taken a decision and we cannot question all its decisions. I do not know whether the State government wants to maintain a cordial relationship with the Centre. The Prime Minister, who inaugurated the buildings, was silent on releasing flood relief to Tamil Nadu. Though the Chief Minister raised the issue of NEET, the Prime Minister did not respond. Tamil Nadu MPs are waiting endlessly to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah to press the State’s case for exemption from NEET. We should also keep in mind that this has been the attitude of the BJP-led government at the Centre. There is a suggestion that DMK leader and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin should take initiatives to form a national front against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha election. What is your stand? The DMK has an important role. It is a ruling party and has a substantial presence in both Houses of Parliament. The DMK and the Left have the task of bringing together political parties to defeat the BJP. But it is not sure whether a front with a uniform character would emerge at the national level. It may change, depending on the requirement of each State. In Kerala, the Left and the Congress cannot be part of a front. In West Bengal, the Left cannot join hands with the Trinamool Congress. But such a front in the past emerged only after elections. We have to create strong fronts in every State to defeat the BJP. Both the Congress and the Left have a role. Mr. Stalin, as the Chief Minister of a State, should use his influence to achieve the goal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/start-the-process-towards-prohibition-in-tamil-nadu/article64949319.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. police continue probe into copter crash that killed Gen. Rawat||“We also conducted combing operations in the forest area abutting the helipad and made anti-sabotage checks along the line of landing. But to rule out sabotage and conclude the investigation, we need to analyse the Flight Data Recorder and the Cockpit Voice Recorder,” the official said. The police have recorded the statements of several eyewitnesses who were among the first to visit the scene of crash at Nanjappachathram and help those battling for life reach the hospital. “Some issues need more clarity and confirmation from the competent authority, which is required for us to complete investigation and file a report in the court.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-police-continue-probe-into-copter-crash-that-killed-gen-rawat/article38280387.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||1,866 new COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||A total of 1,866 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday. The Health Department said that 602 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 8,752 active cases on Sunday. A 54-year-old man from the district died of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the toll to 2,530. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 18.3 on Saturday when it reported 1,732 cases. Tiruppur district reported 619 new cases while 212 persons recovered. There were 2,888 active cases of the disease in the district. The TPR of Tiruppur district stood at 17.5% on Saturday. In the Nilgiris, 244 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of cases in the district stands at 3,026. The number of deaths stands at 220, while 1,325 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1866-new-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article38280408.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Presence of a pond without a fence at Karattampatti close to the government nursery school and a public library poses a danger to public safety. Parents are a worried lot and teachers are scared of letting children out of classrooms. The public in the village expect the district administration to barricade the waterbody with a wall surrounding its perimeter. M. Periyamalaiyan, Karattampatti   Travelling public utilising the temporary bus stands operated for pongal festival at Mannarpuram and Cantonment suffer the discomfort of inadequacy of toilets. While the one at Cantonment catering to passengers bound for Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Velankanni and Mayiladuthurai has just one mobile toilet which is common for both men and women, passengers bound for Ramanathapuram, Pudukkottai, Karaikudi and Sivaganga from the north side suffer immensely due to absence of any toilet or drinking water facility. As for the temporary bus stand on the south side of Mannarpuram, there is only one toilet for Madurai, Tirunelveli, kanyakumari and sivakasi-bound passengers. The Corporation ought to provide more toilets and drinking water facilities in the temporary bus stands. M. Raja, Tiruchi   Space on the already narrow Pattabiraman Street that is a link to Tennur High Road is being occupied by two-wheeler mechanic workshops and showrooms. For most part of the day, two-wheelers are parked on the road. The path becomes narrower to such an extent that even ambulances cannot utilise the stretch. It is time the authorities concerned so that traffic hold-ups could be prevented. S. Raghavan, Cantonment   The decision of the authorities to put on hold the plan for establishing a new bus terminus for Srirangam only delays the solution to the problems caused by parking of buses on the already crowded EVS Street. Frequent traffic snarls have made life difficult for people who have no other option but to park their vehicles on the roadside. The city police authorities will do well to replicate the successful measures taken to prevent traffic snarls near the District Court-MGR roundabout Junction. T.M. Ranganathan, Srirangam   The symptoms of Omicron variant of COVID-19 vary from person to person. So far, loss of smell and taste and breathing troubles have been rarely prevalent in Omicron cases. Hence, there is no cause for panic. Be it Delta or Omicron variants of COVID-19, immunistion, and adherence to safety protocol: wearing of face mask, social distancing and frequent hand washing, remain to be of vital importance. M.A. Aleem, Tiruchi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article64949504.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements Coimbatore||Jansons Institute of Technology: Huawei Mobile Services, training and certification, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article38280414.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||Promoting mental health and well-being||KLE Society organised a continued medical education programme on “Promoting Mental Health and Well-being in Children and Adolescents” in Belagavi recently. Commandant of Karnataka State Reserve Police Battalion in Belagavi Hamza Hussain inaugurated the CME in KLE Society’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College in Belagavi on Tuesday. The second international CME was conducted in hybrid mode, with some members attending in offline mode. Organising Chairperson of CME M. Yasmin made the opening remarks. Registrar, KAHER, V. A. Kothiwale welcomed the gathering. Vice-Chancellor, KAHER, Vivek Saoji presided over the function. Certificates were distributed to the winners of poster presentation competition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/promoting-mental-health-and-well-being/article64949431.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Boy dies of heart attack||Manthan Patil, 16, a student of SSLC of St Paul school died of a heart attack in Mazagaon in Belagavi on Sunday. The boy who got up early morning to study, collapsed in his bathroom. He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-dies-of-heart-attack/article38280504.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Body found near bus shelter||The body of Muttu Dumbali, 27, of Basavana Bagewadi town was found at a bus shelter near Basavana Hatti village in Vijayapura district on Sunday. Police suspect that he was killed by his friends over a trivial issue Passers-by noticed the body. The police said the victim had joined three of his friends for dinner at a dhaba. They seemed to have fought and two of them crushed his head with a stone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/body-found-near-bus-shelter/article38280510.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||Simple Sangolli Utsav||Sangolli Utsav, organised in honour of Sangolli Rayanna, a freedom fighter of the 19th century, was celebrated in a simple manner in Sangolli village of Belagavi district on Wednesday, due to COVID-19 restrictions. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath inaugurated a primary health centre in Sangolli, the native village of Rayanna. The Deputy Commissioner paid his respects to Rayanna, a lieutenant of Kittur Rani Channamma who led a war against the British in 1824.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/simple-sangolli-utsav/article64949430.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Four persons killed in road accident||Four persons, including two children, died in a road accident in Kadur village near Rattihalli in Haveri district on Sunday. Four others were injured. Shankarappa Nagappa Goudar, 35, Shantamma Hottigoudar, 30, Punit Harmuchadi, 12, and Raghu Hottigoudar, 14, died when a lorry crashed into two cars. The victims were members of a family travelling in two cars. They were returning from a pilgrimage to Ukkadgatri village near Davangere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-persons-killed-in-road-accident/article38280509.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||Kanavi recovering||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai spoke to doctors attending to Nadoja Channaveera Kanavi, veteran poet, who is admitted to SDM Hospital in Dharwad, for COVID-19 treatment. The 93-year-old writer was admitted after he complained of breathlessness. He was put on ventilator support. His condition has improved, a release from the hospital said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kanavi-recovering/article38280350.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||Priest dies of COVID-19||A young parish priest died of COVID-19 related complications in Belagavi on Sunday. Rev. Fr Sushant Mantri, 48, of St Jude’s Church in Uchgaon in Belagavi district, was admitted to Cardinal Gracias Hospital in Modaga village two days ago. As his condition worsened, he was shifted to KLE hospital. The immediate reason for his death was a cardiac arrest, church officers said. Fr. Mantri suffered from a lung infection and had tested positive for COVID-19 two weeks ago. Hailing from Orissa, he had settled in Uchagaon, after serving in different churches in Mumbai. Trained as a lawyer, he would help church-goers and residents of nearby villages, by providing legal advice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/priest-dies-of-covid-19/article38280497.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||Moneylender shot dead||Unidentified miscreants shot a moneylender in Sankeshwar town in Belagavi district on Sunday morning. Shaila Niranjan Subedar, 56, was shot near her home in the morning and died on the spot. Officers from the Sankeshwar police station visited the spot. Members of the district canine squad were pressed into service. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/moneylender-shot-dead/article38280496.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Metro work: BBMP gives nod to cut open white-topped ORR||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has given permission to Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) to cut open the white-topped Outer Ring Road (ORR) to facilitate the construction of the airport metro line. The BMRCL has already started barricading some stretches of the road to carry out preliminary work. Despite an increasing number of people currently working from home, traffic on the busy road will be affected once the metro construction reaches an advanced stage. “The BMRCL has said that the piers for elevated corridors will come up on the road median, and need around six metres of land along the stretch to build the pillars while the median width is three-four metres. They may cut open one or two metres on either side of the road for this,” said a BBMP official. The BBMP had taken up the white-topping work on all six lanes of the ORR in 2018-19 at a cost of Rs. 15 crore per kilometre. When criticised over the lack of planning and the futility of white-topping a road that would see metro work, civic officials claimed that the BMRCL finalised the alignment of the airport line after white-topping was completed.  “For the stretch between Kasturinagar and Hebbal, the elevated corridor is on the median. Cutting open the white-topped road may be required wherever the median is narrow,” said a BMRCL official. He added that they will use the space available between flyovers to construct the piers. “The BMRCL usually restores the road on completion of the project, and the same rule is applicable here.”  Land acquisition Barring 1,700 sq.m required to construct Kempapura metro station, the BMRCL has completed the land acquisition process on the ORR. It needs the land to build entry points to the station near Nagawara lake. Sources said the Lake Development Authority has given the green signal for this.Officials claim that the land is located between the pathway and fence area of the lake. “The project will have no impact on the lake, but the Revenue Department will take a final decision,” said an official. Meanwhile, the final notification has been issued for the acquisition of additional land to build island platform stations on Ballari Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/metro-work-bbmp-gives-nod-to-cut-open-white-topped-orr/article64949542.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Many fear another lockdown will render them jobless||The weekend and night curfews that will continue till the end of the month have come as a huge blow to the more vulnerable sections of society who do not have the luxury of working from home. Among daily wage workers, drivers, and construction labourers, there is a grim sense of deja vu amid fears of another lockdown — something they cannot afford.  There is severe opposition to any lockdown among these sections. G. Narayana, an auto driver who lost his vehicle as he was unable to repay his loan and shifted to selling items on the street, said restrictions and another lockdown would see many people go hungry. Echoing the views of others in a similar position, he questioned the logic of a lockdown. “During the last two years, lockdowns did not help avoid deaths. If we die, it’s our fate. But don’t snatch our work,” he said. Recently, a clip showing an old woman making a similar argument to a Kannada news channel had gone viral. Studies have shown that during the lockdowns in 2020 and 2021, despite special support packages from the State Government, vulnerable sections of society were more prone to malnutrition, with many forced to ration meals. The Government provided Rs. 1,610 crore relief assistance in 2020 and Rs. 1,250 crore assistance in 2021, which was criticised as “not enough”. “Any lockdown, including weekend curfews, has to be accompanied with an adequate relief package. A lockdown without assistance is inhuman and will be opposed tooth and nail,” said Vinay Sreenivasa, advocate and activist working with the urban poor. ‘Dire situation’ Tanveer Pasha, president of the Ola Uber Taxi Drivers and Owners’ Association, said the argument of people such as Mr. Narayana only reflects the dire situation and the desperation to work and earn a livelihood. “Work from home, and night and weekend curfew have already slashed our business by more than half. Another lockdown will remove thousands of autos and cabs off the road. Many will be pushed to destitution and a debt trap,” he said, adding that any assistance should not only include direct cash transfer, but also relief from loans and interest, home rent, and other such financial obligations. Hotel and retail industries have already gone through several rounds of job loss. “Business was slowly picking up and we had taken our workers back, but now again the process has been disrupted,” said Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president of the Karnataka Regional Hotel and Restaurants’ Federation. Those in the garment sector and migrant labourers are also worried about the uncertainty. Brij Mohan Das had left Bengaluru on foot for his home town in Bihar during the national lockdown in 2020. He returned a few months later and now works as a carpenter. “The first lockdown in 2020 was extremely bad, as we were trapped in Bengaluru with nobody to care for us. Many of us starved, forcing us to go back to our villages... some on foot because public transport was not available. Many from my village now fear the city and haven’t come back. But there are no jobs back home. I was in Bengaluru during the lockdown in 2021 as well. That period was slightly better as the contractor of the project I was working on took care of me. I fear that if cases continue to rise, I may not be so lucky again,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-fear-another-lockdown-will-render-them-jobless/article64949545.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Doctor, four senior hospital employees booked ‘for forcing staff member to clean manhole’||A senior doctor attached to Chinmaya Mission Hospital and four other employees have been booked by the Indiranagar police for allegedly forcing a housekeeping staff member to clean a manhole. Based on a complaint by Madhusudhan K.N., Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department, the police on Saturday charged the chief medical officer and senior HR and housekeeping staff under various sections of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act. In his statement, Mr. Madhusudhan, who conducted a probe before filing a police complaint, said the victim had been working at the hospital for the last 13 years. He claimed that the staffer was forced to get into the manhole to clean it manually, and was told that his employment would be terminated if he did not comply. The staffer approached an NGO for help stating that this was not the first time he had been forced to take up such a task. Notice to be issued The matter was brought to the notice of the department. “A senior officer is now probing the case further and hospital employees will be issued notice to summon them for questioning soon,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctor-four-senior-hospital-employees-booked-for-forcing-staff-member-to-clean-manhole/article38280338.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Police on the hunt for bookie who offered Rs. 40 lakh to cricketer||The Jayanagar police have filed an FIR against a bookie who allegedly contacted a premier league cricket player with an offer of Rs. 40 lakh to fix upcoming matches. Based on the complaint filed by B. Lokesh, a member of the anti-corruption unit of the Board of Control for Cricket in India, the police registered a case against the suspected bookie, identified as Bunny Anand. “He is on the run, and efforts are on to track him down. He was charged under various sectionsof the Karnataka Police Act and for criminal conspiracy and cheating under the IPC on Friday,” said a police officer. Mr. Lokesh in his complaint said Anand, through his Instagram account, approached R. Sathish, a cricketer with the Tamil Nadu Premier League, who has also played in Indian Premier League matches for Mumbai, Punjab, and Kolkata. Anand reportedly offered him Rs. 40 lakh stating that two players had already accepted the offer. According to the complaint, the cricketer rejected the offer and approached the anti-corruption unit of the BCCI. “The Instagram account from wherethe offer was made found to be operated from Bengaluru. The Jayanagar police have initiated investigations and are trying to track down Anand. In 2019, the Central Crime Branch police had uncovered a similar betting racket within the Karnataka Premier League where several cricketers and bookies were working hand-in-glove to fix matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-on-the-hunt-for-bookie-who-offered-rs-40-lakh-to-cricketer/article38280335.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Furniture godown destroyed in fire||A godown of a furniture-manufacturing unit at J. P. Nagar was destroyed in a fire that broke out early Sunday morning. The fire engulfed the godown and spread to the adjacent scrap dealer shop. “Seven fire tenders were pressed into service. No one was injured,” said a police officer from Puttenahalli station. According to the police, passers-by and locals spotted the fire around 5.30 a.m. and alerted the control room. It took fire services personnel around three hours to get the blaze under control. The police estimate goods worth around Rs. 10 lakh were destroyed. “||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/furniture-godown-destroyed-in-fire/article38280328.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||State to scale up teleconsultations||With the Omicron strain not leading to severe infections, the State Government aims to leverage tele-triaging and teleconsultations on scale to manage the third wave mostly at homes, said Health Minister K. Sudhakar on Sunday. “Whatever the caseload, we will as far as possible try to manage it mostly at homes. Leveraging technology and data, we will fight the third wave using new strategies,” he said. According to the Minister, more than 10,000 doctors have been trained in tele-triaging, guiding patients isolating at home and helping them manage COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-scale-up-teleconsultations/article38280327.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Sales executive booked for visiting Yemen||A sales executive who visited Yemen while working in Saudi Arabia was caught when he landed at Kempegowda International Airport on January 14. When they checked his passport and documents, immigration officials saw that while he had arrived from Sharjah, he had visited Yemen for a week. He took an exit visa from Yemen via Sharjah to come to Bengaluru, said the police. “Inquiries revealed that Irfan Khan hails from Chikkamagaluru and worked as a sales executive for a motor company in Riyadh. Using his residential permit, he travelled to a border town in Yemen for work. However, due to emergency curfew there, Irfan was stranded and forced to stay back in the town for a week,” the police added. Later, with the help of a local, he managed to get an exit visa and returned to Bengaluru. The airport police questioned Irfan and recorded his statement for further investigation. A case has been booked. Indians have been banned from travelling to Yemen by the Union Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sales-executive-booked-for-visiting-yemen/article38280329.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||34,047 new COVID cases||Karnataka on Sunday reported 34,047 new cases of COVID-19, while the death toll rose by 13.The total number of cases so far now stands at 32,20,087. To date, 38,431 people have succumbed owing to the infection. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of cases at 21,071, a 5% drop from January 15 when the city reported 22,284 cases. Mysuru recorded1,892 new cases, followed by Tumakuru (1,373) and Hassan (1,171). Of the 13 people who passed away, five were from Bengaluru Urban. As many as 5,902 people were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,83,645. There are currently 1,97,982 active cases across Karnataka. The positivity rate for the day was 19.29% and the case fatality rate 0.03%. A total of 1,74,470 tests were conducted across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/34047-new-covid-cases/article38280330.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Postpone lecturers training programme’||The State Government has been urged to postpone the skill training programme planned for pre-university science lecturers at Challakere in Chitradurga institute from January 20. Letter to Minister MLC Dinesh Gooligowda in a letter to Education Minister B.C. Nagesh said that a skill training programme has been organised for Karnataka pre-university lecturers from Mysuru division by the PU Department at Talent Development Centre. While lecturers require such a skill training, the COVID-19 situation is not conducive for such a programme, he said adding that it can be held at a later date when the situation comes back to normalcy. “The family members are also worried. If one person is affected by the virus, it can spread to others. Hence, the training can be indefinitely postponed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/postpone-lecturers-training-programme/article38280349.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Man on the run for five years arrested||The police on Sunday arrested Tabrez Pasha, a history-sheeter with 16 pending criminal cases, for allegedly robbing a finance firm employee at J.C. Nagar in December last year. “He had jumped bail and was on the run for five years,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-on-the-run-for-five-years-arrested/article38280334.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||1,176 fresh cases in Hassan||The number of COVID-19 cases has been on the rise in Hassan. The district reported 1,176 fresh cases on Sunday taking the total active cases increased to 4,059. One person died and three infected are undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit. Among the fresh cases, 490 were reported in Hassan taluk, 217 in Channarayapatna taluk, 107 in Arsikere, 88 in Alur, 71 in Arkalgud, 72 in Belur, 76 in Holenarasipur, 50 in Sakaleshpur, and five more from other districts. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, 1,385 people have died in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1176-fresh-cases-in-hassan/article38280644.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga reports 366 cases||Shivamogga reported 366 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, increasing the total active cases to 1,335. Of the active cases 1,196 are under home isolation. Of the fresh cases, 161 were reported in Shivamogga taluk, 98 in Bhadravathi, 16 in Thirthahalli, five in Shikaripura, 49 in Sagar, 23 in Hosanagar, eight in Soraba and six more in other districts. There were no deaths due to COVID-19 on the day. Since the outbreak of the pandemic 1,072 people have died in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-reports-366-cases/article38280650.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||Probe ordered into irregularities at taluk office||Following complaints of large-scale corruption and irregularities in handling applications seeking grants of land and regularisation of house properties in Sringeri, the Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner has constituted a committee under the leadership of Assistant Commissioner H.L. Nagaraj to conduct a detailed probe. The committee has been asked to verify documents pertaining to 671 applications said to have been cleared by tahsildar R. Ambuja, who was recently arrested by the ACB police on charges of demanding bribe to regularise a property. Besides Mr. Nagaraj, the committee includes Deputy Director of Land Records of Chikkamagaluru, executive officer of Sringeri Taluk Panchayat, Range Forest Officer of Sringeri and chief officer of the town panchayat as members, as per the order issued by Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh on January 12. ACB sleuths arrested village accountant H. Siddappa and Ambuja on January 6. Earlier too there were complaints of corruption in the taluk office with regard to processing applications submitted under 94 (B), 94 (A), 94 (C) and 94 CC of the Land Revenue Act. Mr. Nagaraj conducted a preliminary inquiry after visiting the taluk office on January 10. During his visit, he sought records pertaining to the applications cleared by the tahsildar till then. However, the caseworker Prakash conveyed that he had no record with him, prompting the officer to suspect that the tahsildar maintained separate files. Later, the officer visited the taluk panchayat and verified the documents related to housing property regularisation within the limits of nine gram panchayats of the taluk. There he noticed that housing sites located in deemed forest areas were in violation of the rules. There were instances of one family getting more than one housing property regularised. The caseworker at taluk panchayat furnished information of 671 housing properties located in Soppina Betta lands, deemed forest area, reserve forest area, cleared by the tahsildar. “Ambuja created unauthorised documents by involving private people, in violation of the government’s circulars and caused a huge loss to the State,” said the DC in his order. The committee has been asked to submit its case-wise findings in its report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-ordered-into-irregularities-at-taluk-office/article38280655.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||Elephants driven away||Forest Department officials in Chikkamagaluru drove away three elephants that entered farms near Nallur, Yarehalli on the outskirts. Two tuskers and a female elephant were spotted in the farms on Friday. The department deputed more than 40 staff for the task. They succeeded in driving them away to the city outskirts by Saturday morning. The animals said to have crossed to Sakaleshpur range by Sunday. The animals damaged sugarcane crop. The staff monitored their movement with the help of a drone camera. Later, they burst crackers to drive them away.  N.E. Kranthi, Deputy Conservator of Forests, on Sunday, told The Hindu that six months ago a tusker had visited these areas. “The same elephant must have brought the other two this time. The staff successfully sent them back to forest areas, from where they had come to these villages.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elephants-driven-away/article38280646.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||Two die in crash||Two people died after the car they were in was hit by a truck near Channarayapatna on Saturday. The deceased have been identified as Sudarshan, 31, and Deviprasad Shetty, 34, of Vitla in Puttur taluk Pramod Kumar, 34, of Sorakki in Dakshina Kannada suffered injuries. The three were headed home from Bengaluru when they met with the accident.Sudarshan, who was driving, and Deviprasad died on the spot. Pramod is under treatment. The Channarayapatna Traffic Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-die-in-crash/article38280637.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||Varsity declares five-day holiday as cases rise||Kuvempu University has declared holiday for its departments on Jnana Sahyadri Campus at Shankaraghatta in Bhadravathi taluk for five days from Monday as 24 people, including 19 students tested positive for COVID-19. The Deputy Registrar (Academics) of the university on Sunday issued a circular declaring a holiday from January 17 to 21. Students in the hostels have been instructed to go home during the holidays. Initially five supporting staff members in the university library on campus tested positive. Following that, 70 students, who were primary contacts of the infected people, gave their samples. Among them, 19 tested positive. All the infected have been sent home and put under home quarantine. The circular said that the teaching staff will take online classes for students of first and third semester students during the holidays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/varsity-declares-five-day-holiday-as-cases-rise/article38280647.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi, Ballari see huge increase in COVID-19 cases||Kalaburagi and Ballari-Vijayanagara districts continued to see a considerable rise in COVID-19 cases on Sunday. As per the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the new cases of the pandemic in Kalaburagi district rose from 384 on Saturday to 562 on Sunday, a rise of 46.35%. After a long gap, the district also reported a COVID-19 death. With 299 persons discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 1860. Ballari and Vijayanagara districts have jointly reported 566 new cases as compared to 410 cases a day before, a rise of 38.04% over the previous day. As many as 40 patients were discharged after they recovered from the illness. With the new cases and discharges, the active cases in the district as on Sunday were 2,196. As precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the virus, the Ballari district administration has already introduced tougher measures that included closures of educational institutions, gyms, swimming pools and cinema halls apart from imposing restrictions to wedding ceremonies and places of worships and banning protests and religious congregations. The Kalaburagi administration, which has not imposed tougher measures specific to the district except for intensifying screenings on the Karnataka-Maharashtra and Karnataka-Telangana borders and weekend curfews, is likely to come up with newer measures depending on the caseload. It is, however, making preparations to handle worsened public health situation with numerous measures such as augmenting oxygen production and supply, hospital beds and paediatric treating facilities. As the weekend curfew was strictly implemented in Kalaburagi and Ballari districts, the cities and towns wore deserted looks on Sunday. Police personnel were found checking the vehicles ventured on the road and imposing fines for the violations. As per the information provided by Ballari Superintendent of Police Saidulu Adavath, Ballari police seized 265 vehicles and collected Rs. 61,000 as fine for the violations till 6 p.m. on Sunday. Ballari Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati directed the officials concerned to take care of the students staying at the government hostels if the latter would wish to stay back. “If the students want to go back to their native places, there should be no hurdles. If they want to stay back, you will have to provide all the facilities for their stay including the food. You should not ask them to vacate the hostels,” Mr. Malapati told officers concerned on Sunday. He also directed the officials of the Social Welfare Department to keep a couple of hostels vacant so that they could shift the students who would test positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-ballari-see-huge-increase-in-covid-19-cases/article64949434.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||21 students test positive for COVID-19||As many as 16 students of the Kittur Rani Channamma Residential School for Girls at Humnabad taluk in Bidar district tested positive for COVID-19, officials sources said here on Sunday. After five students of the school tested positive for the infection on Thursday, nearly 41 students who showed symptoms were subjected to the test. The results of 16 students were positive. Withthis, the total number of infected went up to 21. Isolation arrangements were made in the residential hostels for the infected students and those showing symptoms, the COVID-19 nodal officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/21-students-test-positive-for-covid-19/article38280491.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Mentally challenged man held||A person with mental disabilities created panic among the public by throwing stones at moving vehicles in Kalaburagi on Sunday. A semi-nude man was seen pelting stones at buses and cars near the government printing press inthe city. Soon after the man damaged the front glass of a bus, a car, and two autorickshaws, a group allegedly thrashed him and handed him over to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mentally-challenged-man-held/article38280511.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Weekend curfew halts kambalas||The weekend curfew has forced the annual kambala (buffalo run on slush track or field) events in the coastal belt to come to an abrupt end. In addition to the non-competitive traditional kambalas organised by individual farmers or land-owning entities, including temples, the Kambala Committee of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Kasaragod (Kerala) districts had scheduled 19 events, which are competitive races, in the 2021-22 season from November, 2021 to March, 2022. The events of the committee attracted huge crowd as they are scheduled on Saturdays and Sundays. According to Vijaya Kumar Kanginamane, a former general secretary and presently a member of the committee, only six kambalas have been held now under the auspices of the committee. They were held at Moodbidri, Miyar (Karkala), Hokkadi Goli (Belthangady), Mulky, Kakke Padavu (Bantwal), and Ballamanja (Belthangady). The last kambala of the season has been scheduled on March 26 at Bangady (Belthangady), he said, adding that a majority of traditional kambalas got over by the time the weekend curfew came into force on January 8. He said that a maximum 221 pairs of buffalo took part in the Koti-Chennaya Kambala held at Moodbidri this time. The previous record was in 2013 when 232 pairs took part in the decennial kambala at Miyar. Mr. Kanginamane said that night curfew this year made to stop the event at Kakke Padavu at 10 p.m. and resume the kambala next day morning. He said that the region had about 100 kambala jockeys of which 20 are best performers and among them about eight are toppers. Normally if the events went on without any disruption some jockeys earned up to Rs. 13 lakh a season. The helpers who handled the buffaloes at the events and transporters who transported the animals to the events too earned some money during the season. Mr. Kanginamane said that the committee could organise only 11 events during 2020-21 season due to COVID-19 restrictions. The events were not affected during 2019-20 season as a majority of kambalas had got over by the time the lockdown came into force. “Since helping to prevent the spread of infection and maintaining public health is the priority we have to cooperate with the Government,” he said adding that the events will resume only if the Government allowed them. In 2016-17, the annual event was stopped for the first time, following a High Court ban in response to a petition by animal rights group PETA. An Ordinance in 2017 paved the way for kambala’s continuance. Now, the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Karnataka Second Amendment) Act, 2017, permits it to be conducted with restrictions to safeguard against the mistreatment of the animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-curfew-halts-kambalas/article64949460.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:56 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Centre has hurt followers of Narayana Guru’||By rejecting the Kerala Government’s tableau, featuring social reformer Sree Narayana Guru, for the Republic Day parade, the Central Government has hurt sentiments of followers of this reformer who are spread over across the State, said former Minister B. Ramanath Rai here on Sunday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Rai said Narayana Guru fought for the welfare of the downtrodden and marginalised sections of the society and worked for their empowerment. Apart from Kerala, his followers are spread out in Dakshina Kannada and other parts of Karnataka. Turning down the tableau of Kerala Government featuring Narayana Guru, he said, is tantamount to devaluing downtrodden and marginalized sections of the society by the Central Government. The Congress will fight to restore pride of Narayana Guru and his followers, he said. President of Udupi Pradesh Congress Committee Ramesh Kanchan said the incident has brought out the true colour of Central Government towards the marginalised sections of the society. The BJP Government at the Centre was continuing with the policy of Rashtriya Swayam Sevak Sangh that opposed Narayana Guru in the past, he claimed. R. Padmaraj, treasurer of Kudroli Gokarnanatha Temple that was established by Narayana Guru, said that what has hurt followers of Narayana Guru is the reported action of the Central Government asking Kerala Government to replace the idol of reformer with that of Shankaracharya for accommodating the tableau proposed by Kerala Government in the Republic Day parade. “If the Central Government had merely rejected the proposal of Kerala government it would not have hurt us. But rejecting Kerala Government’s tabaleu as they did not replace Narayana Guru with that of Shankaracharya in the tabaleau on women’s empowerment is not a right decision,” he said. In a statement, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Dakshina Kannada, said the Central Government has disregarded the principle of religious equality and is espousing the cause of majority community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-has-hurt-followers-of-narayana-guru/article64949463.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:56 IST,KARNATAKA||MBBS student files police complaint about morphed photograph||An MBBS student has filed a complaint at the Women’s Police Station that her morphed pictures were being circulated on social media. In the complaint filed on Saturday, the student, who is in her final year, said she had posted on social media pictures with her classmates taken during a fest in college. Some persons have used one of her pictures and morphed the image. This image has been posted on social media stating that she was in a relationship with a boy named Mulla Rahiman. In her complaint she said that the act had caused mental agony to her and her parents. The perpetrators have done it with an intention to cause communal tension, she said, and demanded action against the accused. The station registered her complaint under Sections 354(D), 505(2) and 509 of Indian Penal Code. Search was on for the accused, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mbbs-student-files-police-complaint-about-morphed-photograph/article38280633.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Two deaths, 1,389 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported two COVID-19 deaths and 782 new cases on Sunday. With discharge of 216 patients, the active cases are at 4011. The test positivity rate 6.45%. Among the new cases included 10 students from the hostel of a private nursing college in Mangaluru taluk where a total of 65 samples were tested. With jabbing of 926 persons on Sunday, a total of 31.10 lakh have been vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada so far of which 17.17 lakh have received the first dose, 13.78 lakh received second dose and 14621 received precautionary dose. In Udupi, 607 new cases were reported. With discharge of 63 patients, the active cases are at 2879 and the overall test positivity of the district is at 10.02%. A total of 10.1 lakh people have received the first dose, 8.54 lakh received the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-deaths-1389-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article38280634.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:56 IST,KARNATAKA||MIT professor takes charge as president of new Asset Management Society||Raghuvir Pai, professor at Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), under Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), has been elected as the president of newly constituted Asset Management Society of India. He obtained his PhD in Tribology from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. Mr. Pai has held various administrative positions in MAHE over the past 20 years. The society provides information and professional assistance and advice on asset management for a variety of industries. A decision to form the society was taken during the International Conference on Maintenance and Intelligent Asset Management that was held in the Manipal Academy of Bengaluru on January 17, 2020. January 17, 2022, will be celebrated online as the first foundation day of AMSI. Devendra Kumar Singh, Secretary, Union Ministry of Co-operation and Mukund P. Chaudhari, Chairman and Managing Director, Manganese Ore India Limited (MOIL) will be the guests on the occasion, a release further stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mit-professor-takes-charge-as-president-of-new-asset-management-society/article64949459.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Briefly||The office of S. Angara, Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada and Minister for Ports, Fisheries and Inland Water Transport, will be inaugurated on the St. Ann’s School Road, near the State Bank of India main branch, at 9.30 a.m. on Monday. The office will be at Marine Bunglow.   Minister for Rural Development and Panchayatraj K. S. Eshwarappa and Minister for Public Works C.C. Patil will visit Dharmasthala on Monday. They will participate in a local programme. Mr. Eshwarappa will also visit Ujire in the forenoon.   There will be no power supply to some areas in Udupi district on January 18 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. The areas are Gangolli, Vandse, Bandya, Hemmady, Tallur, Hemmady, Gujjadi, Amparu, Uppinakudru and Hattiyangady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article38280630.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||Family donates organs of brain-dead woman||Two kidneys, a liver, heart valves, and corneas were successfully harvested from a 45-year-old brain dead woman at a private hospital in Mysuru on Saturday and donated as per the protocol stipulated under the Transplant of Human Organs Act, 1994. Nagamma, who suffered from brain tumour, was brought to Apollo BGS Hospitals in Mysuru on Thursday from Government Hospital in Malavalli in a critical condition. She was shifted to ICU for life support and intensive care for two days and was declared brain dead due to brain stem failure on the third day on Saturday. “Ms. Nagamma was healthy before the incident and further tests confirmed her eligibility for organ donation,” said a statement from the hospital, which is now a licensed centre for multi-organ transplant. Her family was counselled about organ donation and her husband and children came forward to donate her organs, the statement added. As per the protocol, officials from Jeeva Sarthakathe, which was earlier known as Zonal Co-ordination Committee of Karnataka for organ transplant, initiated the process by taking into consideration the organ recipients’ waiting list. Around 4.30 p.m. on Saturday, Ms. Nagamma’s organs were harvested. While Apollo BGS Hospitals, Mysuru, was the recipient of two kidneys, Manipal Hospital, HAL, Bengaluru, was the recipient of the liver as the hospital is listed under supra urgent category for life-saving surgery of an acute liver failure case. While the Mysuru Eye Bank was the recipient of corneas, Manipal Hopsital, HAL, Bengaluru, received the heart valves. While thanking the family of the deceased for coming forward to promote organ donation, the hospital authorities have also thanked Mysuru city and traffic police for creating a green corridor from Apollo BGS Hospital in Mysuru to Manipal Hospital, HAL, Bengaluru, for urgent organ transfer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/family-donates-organs-of-brain-dead-woman/article64949398.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||Weekend curfew: Life hit in Mysuru||The city wore a deserted look on Sunday owing to the weekend curfew in place as a measure to curb the spread of COVID-19. All business establishments were closed except those in the essential category that includes shops dispensing pharmaceuticals, groceries, milk etc. All places of tourist interest including the palace, Chamundi Hills, zoo, rail museum, etc. remained closed. The inflow of tourists which was gaining traction after the second wave ebbed, has come to a halt and has hit the tourism sector. Hotel Owners’ Association president C. Narayana Gowda said out of 10,300 rooms in various hotels in the city, only 206 were booked and this is the lowest occupancy rate in recent years. The hospitality and tourism sector have questioned the logic behind the weekend curfew and have pleaded for lifting it on the grounds that it was affecting daily wagers and people from economically weaker sections. Similar views have been aired by members of Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Federation of Organisations and Associations of Mysore (FOAM) which called upon the Government to rescind the weekend curfew. As a result of the weekend curfew, footfall in railway stations declined compared to the weekdays as not many are travelling. Both outbound and inward passenger movement at Mysuru airport too has registered a dip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-curfew-life-hit-in-mysuru/article64949399.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||Legacy waste disposal project inching towards implementation||The legacy of waste of nearly 3.08 tonnes accumulated in Mysuru over the years that is a blot on the city landscape, is set to be treated and cleared as the biomining project is a step closer to implementation. Tenders for the biomining or bioremediation project were being finalised and the work orders are expected to be issued in due course. The project has been delayed as the Government was forced to call for tenders afresh as only one company participated in the bid when it was invited the first time. Subsequently fresh tenders were issued and this has received good response from various companies already engaged in the process and the MCC is expected to finalise the bid in the days ahead before issuing the work order. The project entails clearing the legacy waste at sewage farm in Chamundipuram at the rate of nearly 600 tonnes daily and is expected to be completed in about 18 months. Sources in the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) said that once completed, the MCC can reclaim about 17 acres of land for creating any other infrastructure to cater to the requirements of Mysuru. Though the project is in the pipeline for years, it got bogged down despite receiving Government approval as the works were split into three components. This was opposed on the grounds that the project would suffer due to lack of coordination that could arise among three different parties handling various components of bio-mining. Hence, the detailed project report was reworked as a unitary work. Though it received cabinet clearance in August 2021 and tenders were invited, there was only a single bidder and hence it was cancelled, and tenders were recently invited afresh. MCC officials said the project costs around Rs. 14.38 crore and they expect the 3.08 lakh tonnes of waste to be cleared within 15 months. For the residents of Vidyaranyapuram, parts of Visveswarnagar industrial area and surrounding regions, the project will provide respite from foul odour emanating from the sewage farm. MCC officials also visited Nagpur to study the efficacy of bio-mining and its feasibility. A senior official said the bio-mining process entails segregation of biodegradable waste and plastic and metals before processing. Apart from the clearance of the legacy waste, the MCC is also set to acquire two more solid waste treatment plants within six months – one at Kesare and another at Rayanakere. Together they can handle additional 350 tonnes of waste per day and with the existing infrastructure which is handling 200 tonnes of garbage per day, Mysuru will be free of garbage. This is also expected to improve its score in the future editions of the Swachh Survekshan as the city which generates around 450 tonnes of garbage daily, will be in a position to treat the waste fully without entailing any dumping.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legacy-waste-disposal-project-inching-towards-implementation/article64949402.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 case surge hits new a high in Mysuru||The third wave surge in the district hit a new high when 1,892 COVID-19 positive cases were reported on Sunday. This is one of the highest for a single-day surge and is more than twice the cases reported the previous day. Mysuru city alone reported 1,487 new cases while the rural hinterland comprising 9 other taluks reported the remaining 405 cases. The total tests conducted was 6,988 and the test positivity rate was 27.07%. In rest of the district, T. Narsipur registered 115 cases – the highest for the rural hinterland, while Mysuru taluk recorded 68 cases, followed by Nanjangud (52), Hunsur (51), H.D. Kote (45), K.R. Nagar (37), and Periyapatana (33), while Saragur registered 3 cases and Saligrama reported one new case. With Sunday’s surge there are 5,603 active cases in the district with Mysuru city alone having 4,389 active cases. There was one death and 256 discharges on Sunday. The cumulative death since the pandemic broke out stands at 2,435. There were 6 cases in children below 5 years, 20 cases in those aged between 6 to 10years, and 116 cases in the 14 to 17 age group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-case-surge-hits-new-a-high-in-mysuru/article38280651.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress leaders from Mysuru booked for taking part in padayatra||The city police has registered an FIR against Congress leaders from Mysuru, who participated in the recent padayatra from Mekedatu. Hunsur MLA H.P. Manjunath, former MLAs Vasu and Kadale Keshavamurthy, former MLC R. Dharmasena, Mysuru district Congress Committee president Vijaykumar and Congress leader Srinath Babu have been named in the FIR registered by the Lashkar Police Station in Mysuru. The leaders have been booked under various sections of IPC and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, for violating guidelines. The FIR said that the Congress leaders along with 20 others had set out from Gandhi Square in Mysuru on January 11 at 7.15 a.m. to participate in the padayatra from Mekedatu without wearing masks or maintaining social distance and endangering the lives of others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-leaders-from-mysuru-booked-for-taking-part-in-padayatra/article38280645.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||DC visits taluk hospital||The district administration has made all preparations in the taluk hospital at Shorapuras part of the efforts to tackle COVID-19 and the new variant, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has said. She was talking to the media after visiting the hospital for an inspection. Dr. Ragapriya said that two oxygen generation plants with a capacity of 100 LPM and 500 LPM and 100 beds with 29 ventilators and also 150 oxygen cylinders have been kept ready to face any kind of a situation. “At present, the 100 LPM oxygen plant has been running without any technical issues and producing oxygen. However, the oxygen plant with a capacity of 500 LPM, which was sanctioned for the taluk hospital, will be is yet to be installed as construction work is going on for a shed,” she added. The 500 LPM plant will supply oxygen to 60 beds while the 100 LPM plant will supply oxygen to 20 beds. Thus, there will be no shortage of oxygen. If there is any problem in the production of oxygen in the plant, oxygen will be supplied from cylinders, the Deputy Commissioner further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-visits-taluk-hospital/article64949435.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Step motherly treatment to Kannada’ decried||S.C. Ramesh, Vice-Chancellor, Kannada University, Hampi, said the university was cash strapped and he had written to the State Government seeking assistance of around Rs. 24 crore and hoped it would come through. “It has been 36 months since the university paid fellowships to students. The financial condition has not allowed us to take a single new student in the last three years,” he said, indicating how the financial difficulties had paralysed the university. It has been six months since it paid guest faculty and had no money to give retirement benefits to professors. In 2021, after a public campaign by Kannada organisations, the Government released Rs. 3.52 crore, sources said. Kannada University, Hampi has no college affiliations, doesn’t run courses and is purely research oriented and hence has no revenue sources of its own, but has been under pressure from the State Government to become “self-reliant”, sources in the university said. However, several writers have objected to this, arguing it would change the character of the university. “Can’t the Government of Karnataka not fund a Kannada University, when it can grant Rs. 320 crore for a Sanskrit University, which has failed to attract enough students?” asked writer S. G. Siddaramaiah, a former chairman of Kannada Development Authority. Another senior writer K. Marulasiddappa said it was sad that the Government of Karnataka was showing “step-motherly treatment to Kannada”. “In our State there is a State university and two deemed universities for Sanskrit and one university for Kannada, which is being sabotaged. While we do not oppose research on Sanskrit, is it too much to expect that Kannada should be the priority in our State?” he asked. There has been opposition to this from within as well. T. S. Nagabharana, chairman, KDA, said the authority though did not oppose promoting Sanskrit, the “priorities of the Government seemed to be effectively sidelining Kannada’s interests --- be it the neglect of Kannada University, Kannada medium education or implementation of Kannada in the administration”, he rued. “The authority has also impleaded itself before the High Court in the PIL questioning making Kannada learning mandatory in undergraduate courses and will fight for the language’s interests,” he said. N. Ravi Kumar, general secretary, BJP Karnataka, said the party and the Government won’t shy away from supporting a Sanskrit University. “Sanskrit is the root of our nationality. Can we open a Sanskrit university in England? Eleven years after establishing the university, there was no place to sit, so we have announced support,” he said, adding this did not mean Kannada was not a priority for the BJP-led State government. “There are some issues in Kannada University, Hampi which we will solve,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/step-motherly-treatment-to-kannada-decried/article38280352.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:18 IST,KARNATAKA||Arm of the law||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arm-of-the-law/article64949429.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||Picturesque||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/picturesque/article64949424.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:19 IST,KARNATAKA||COP||In Belagavi district, children, relatives and personal secretaries of Ministers and legislators are holding meetings, giving instructions to officials and conducting inspection of work in progress. Prominent among them is Ambirao Patil, brother-in-law of Ramesh Jarkiholi, who routinely meets officers, inspects works, lays foundation stones for development works in Gokak constituency and meets people who come to see the former Minister. Minister Shashikala Jolle’s son Basava Prasad has held meetings with officers and received public grievances on more than one occasion.Umesh Katti’s nephew Pavan Katti, who has been a zilla panchayat member in the past, inspected the rural drinking water supply works in Hukkeri and asked officers to stick to the deadline. Lakshmi Hebbalkar’s brother Channaraj Hattiholi, who won the recent MLC elections, has also laid a few foundation stones and cut a few ribbons beforeentering the Legislative Council.Not to be left behind, Nagappa Shekhargol, personal secretary of Balachandra Jarkiholi, MLA and KMF chairman, inaugurated some rooms in the government school in Duradundi village on Friday.   KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar claimed that there would be no end to the harassment meted out to him in the wake of the recent padayatra taken out seeking execution of the Mekedatu project. Hitting out at the BJP State dispensation for filing FIRs against Congress leaders for alleged violation of COVID-19 norms during the padayatra, he said: “Whether Mekedatu or not, they are doing all kinds of experiments on me, it’s going on. My daughter was telling me that they have started issuing notices to one of our schools – harassment, there is no end to it. We will have to live and die with it.”    Minister for RDPR K.S. Eshwarappa ( in picture ) is known for his vitriolic attack on leaders in the Opposition. His comments on Congress leaders, who took out a march on the Mekedatu violating COVID-19 norms, received wide media attention. The Minister, at one point, requested the Congress leaders to cancel the march.  Later, he said: “If they wish to risk their life, let them do so” and accused Congress leaders of spreading the infection by taking out the march. When Congress temporarily suspended the march, Mr. Eshwarappa said they (the Congress leaders) took this decision out of fear over the Karnataka High Court’s observations on the padayatra. The court had dashed the dreams of KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, who had planned the march aiming at the CM’s post, the BJP leader claimed. Rishikesh Bahadur Desai Nagesh Prabhu Sathish G.T.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article64949423.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||More curbs as TPR nears 25%||The district registered 715 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was 24.54%. The fresh cases include 704 people who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of six others remains unidentified. Four health-care staff and a person who came from abroad also tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, 217 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district, tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 3,728. With the test positivity rate going over 20%, District Collector A. Alexander on Sunday issued an order imposing curbs in the district to tackle the spread of the disease. The administration restricted the maximum number of people allowed at weddings, funerals, social, political, community and religious meetings to 50. Only those who have received two COVID-19 vaccine doses will be permitted to attend the events. All government, quasi-government, cooperative, public sector and self-government institutions should conduct their meetings online. Malls, supermarkets and other big business centres should take steps to avoid crowding. All shops have been asked to promote online sales. The functioning of swimming pools and gymnasiums, including in hotels, has been banned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-curbs-as-tpr-nears-25/article38280617.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||Tap aquaculture, says Minister||Fish production through aquaculture should be increased substantially as wild catch is declining, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian has said. He was speaking at an awareness programme on aquaculture organised by the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS) here on Sunday. The Minister said there was great potential for aquaculture and those opportunities should be utilised. The programme on aquaculture awareness among farmers was organised under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY). Around 40 farmers from across the State participated in the one-day programme, organised jointly by the Union and State fisheries departments with the support of the National Cooperative Development Corporation. The KUFOS had, in a recent set of recommendations, said environmental and health concerns in fisheries and aquaculture should be addressed and there was an increasing need to use modern technologies to boost the environmental sustainability of aquaculture through targeted interventions. It said there were constraints in the regulation of shrimp aquaculture in the country, and specific policies needed to be framed to judiciously utilise the aquatic environment. One of the pointed references related to the checks on “misuse of chemicals”. The KUFOS had also said disease monitoring should be made more extensive and more environment-friendly, while microbial bioremediation techniques should be adopted to maintain soil and water quality. The university had also called for adherence to legislation to prevent the spread of fish diseases and to establish standardised system of disease testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-calls-for-using-aquaculture-potential/article38280559.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Traffic at Vyttila takes a new turn||The week-long traffic reforms introduced on an experimental basis at Vyttila on Sunday went as planned, according to the traffic police. The number of vehicles on the road was lesser than normal since it was Sunday, and with people staying indoors due to the high test positivity rate for COVID-19. “Our prime aim was to lessen the need for vehicles to criss-cross each other beneath the Vyttila flyover and to overcome the chaos caused by vehicles coming in four lanes from Palarivattom and Ponnurunni [through the Vyttila railway bridge underpass] having to jostle for space on the Thripunithura side of the flyover. This was largely achieved on Sunday when the reforms were introduced. We will closely monitor the situation on Monday and the other days of the week as well,” said City Traffic Police (East) Assistant Commissioner of Police Francis Shelby, based on the feedback received till Sunday evening. The reforms were introduced after several measures were tried out during the past months. They included re-routing of vehicles from Kaniyampuzha Road through the Vyttila Mobility Hub, carried out in 2021. It turned out to be unsuccessful, as the hub does not have a wide road and its exit on the Vyttila-Thripunithura Road is narrow. Another effort was made to redirect vehicles from the Thripunithura side through the road near the Vyttila KSEB powerhouse, to lessen congestion at Vyttila Junction. It turned out that the diversion too would cause congestion and safety issues at the point where the road met the NH Bypass, said sources. The new reforms were introduced as a way out of such problems. The aim was to ensure that motorists had to wait for just one signal change, if needed, said the sources. “One needs to wait and see how the traffic reforms will help decongest the junction,” said Nelson Mathew, a private bus operator. “As of now, this appears to be a way to lessen chaos at the junction. I hope this will help ease congestion, like at the Palarivattom bypass junction,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-at-vyttila-takes-a-new-turn/article64949476.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||As TPR rises, district gears up for strict COVID norms||With the COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) remaining over 30% for the third consecutive day, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday decided to strictly implement restrictions in Ernakulam. The TPR stood at 36.87% on Sunday, when 3,204 cases were reported. The DDMA meeting took serious note of the formation of clusters in 11 centres, including educational institutions, and banned the conduct of political, social, cultural and community functions until further orders. It also urged the public to strictly follow instructions issued by the health authorities. The meeting pointed out that there were 400 positive cases on January 1. The cases had gone up to 1,000 on the fifth day and 2,000 on the twelfth day. The TPR, which stood at 5.38% on January 1, shot up to 36.87% on Sunday. The average TPR for the last three days was 33.59%. The number of people undergoing treatment rose from 3,600 to 17,656 in two weeks. Care centres It was decided that domiciliary care centres would be set up locally and the oxygen-bedded COVID treatment centre at Ambalamugal would be strengthened. The services of more ambulances would be made available. Care centres will be set up at Fort Kochi, Muvattupuzha, Paravur, Kothamangalam, and Thripunithura. According to the health authorities, the number of patients was expected to quadruple by the month-end. At the same time, the number of patients who approached hospitals for treatment would not increase. There was no problem with the availability of beds, including ICUs, they said. Those seeking treatment for respiratory problems and fever at hospitals would be tested for SARS-CoV-2, and the pace of vaccination would be accelerated. The meeting also decided to restore medical facilities that were available during the second wave of the pandemic. A full-fledged COVID control room will become operational from Monday. COVID outpatient departments will be opened at taluk hospitals, and those with severe symptoms will be taken to the Ambalamugal centre and other hospitals, if required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-tpr-rises-district-gears-up-for-strict-covid-norms/article38280565.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:51 IST,KERALA||Synod’s move under fire as protest rages||The stand-off between the combine of laity and priests over the issue of uniform Mass celebration in the Syro-Malabar archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly continues with lay people as well as a priest going on a hunger strike before the Cardinal's house in Kochi city demanding the archdiocese should be allowed the freedom to continue with its half-century-old tradition of fully congregation-facing Mass celebration. "Priests and lay people will strengthen their resistance against the arrogance of the synod of bishops", said a communication from the combine of priests under the aegis of Athirupatha Samrakshana Samithy (Forum for Protection of the Archdiocese) here on Sunday even as Cardinal George Alencherry, Major Archbishop and head of the Syro-Malabar Church insisted the dioceses should comply with a diktat on uniform Mass celebration. Almaya Munnettam (a lay people's combine calling for more transparency and accountability in church administration said a recent circular from the synod on uniform Mass celebraton would find its rightful place in the dustbins. Father Sebastian Thaliyan, a senior priest and convenor of the Samrakshana Samithy alleged the synod was trying to confuse the church members with self-contradictory messages. Arrested Father Tom Mullanchira has continued his indefinite fast before the Cardinal's House while Father Babu Kalathil and two lay persons Prakash P. John and Thomas Keecheri have been arrested and shifted to the Lissy Hospital after their health condition deteriorated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/synods-move-under-fire-as-protest-rages/article38280583.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Automatic block signalling awaits nod||Even as the proposal to lay a third track in the 107-km Ernakulam-Shoranur rail corridor is awaiting final sanction from the Railways, officials are pinning hopes on introducing automatic block signalling in the Ernakulam-Poonkunnam (in Thrissur) corridor as an interim measure to enhance the capacity of the existing double track on the stretch. It is expected to be followed by the extension of the system to the Poonkunnam-Shoranur corridor, since track utilisation on the Ernakulam-Shoranur route is over 120% due to reliance on the conventional block signalling system, it is learnt. It is hoped that the Railways will sanction the roll-out of automatic block signalling in the sector in the impending budget in February. The project has been awaiting approval from the Railway Board. It will help operate more than double the number of trains in the corridor, thereby lessening detention of trains, especially south of Ernakulam and north of Poonkunnam, sources said. Speed of trains Although automatic block signalling will augment density of trains within a section, their speed will remain much the same, unless engineering changes are made to improve tracks, or a third track is laid. There has already been a marginal improvement in speed during the past two years in most parts of the Thiruvananthapuram Division after ‘temporary cautions‘ on speed were withdrawn. The doubling of the Ernakulam-Ambalapuzha corridor and improving terminal facility at Nemom and Kochuveli will catalyse the introduction of automatic block signalling south of Ernakulam too, they said. Citing an example, an official said there were three block sections in the 16-km Ernakulam-Aluva corridor, where only three trains can operate at a time at present. This can go up to one train operating every kilometre, if the new signal system is introduced. There will be no need to alter any civil or electrical components of the rail network to usher in automatic block signalling. At present, a train has to reach the next station for the subsequent train to get the green signal. Once automatic signals are introduced, an interlocked cable network will provide feedback and change signals once a train crosses a signal point, much like in a suburban rail network, the sources said.  Once automatic signals are introduced, an interlocked cable network will provide feedback and change signals once a train crosses a signal point, much like in a suburban rail network||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/automatic-block-signalling-awaits-nod/article38280566.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Mammootty tests positive||Malayalam actor Mammootty tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. In a Tweet, the 70-year-old actor said he tested positive despite taking all necessary precautions. ‘Besides a light fever, I am otherwise fine. I am self isolating at home as per directions of the authorities concerned. I wish for all of you to stay safe. Mask at all times and take care,’ he said. He was in the set of a movie tentatively named ‘CBI 5’ when he tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mammootty-tests-positive/article38280572.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||HC, lower courts to go to virtual mode||The Kerala High Court will shift fully to the virtual mode of hearing from Monday in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases. The hearing was being held in a hybrid mode till now. The court proceedings of the district judiciary will also be held through online mode from Monday. However, cases for trial or any other particular class of cases may be heard through physical mode, if a judicial officer concerned finds that it is absolutely unavoidable. Besides, the presiding officers should ensure that not more than 15 people attend the court at a time, according to an advisory issued by the High Court to the district judiciary. Time slots should be fixed for hearing cases and conducting trials, to avoid overcrowdingin the courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-lower-courts-to-go-to-virtual-mode/article38280577.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:36 IST,KERALA||Fishers hail decision to put off inspection||Fishers have welcomed the decision of the Fisheries department to put off the one-day combined inspection of boats to renew permits for supply of subsidised kerosene. The inspection has been postponed in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases, and a new date will be announced soon. A communication from the department said the test positivity rate (TPR) in many districts remained high, and under these circumstances, the inspection of fishing boats for their fitness and renewal of kerosene permits was being put off. Matysa Thozhilali Aikya Vedhi, an independent union of fishers, said there was considerable relief among fishers about the boat inspection procedures after it was announced that only boats with engines up to 10 years old would be renewed permits. Charles George of the Vedhi said on Sunday that the fishers were worried about thousands of outboard engine vessels going out of business after the inspection. The boats with engines, which are more than 10 years old would not get subsidised kerosene under the public distribution system (PDS) or through the apex fisheries cooperative Matsyafed. Mr. George said the Vedhi had requested the government on several occasions to fix the permit period as 15 years to enable thousands of vessels to remain in business, but the plea had not been addressed. He said the present conditions would give the government enough time to consider the plight of boat owners and fish workers. He said hundreds of boats had gone out of business because of the scarcity of fish catch and the rising cost of operations. The government, through the PDS and Matsyafed, provided a limited quantity of kerosene to fishing boats at subsidised rates as an incentive. However, the increasing cost of fuel and labour had put many boats out of business, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-hail-decision-to-put-off-inspection/article38280568.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Rs. 2-crore project to develop Munroe Thuruthu railway station||Southern Railway Thiruvananthapuram Division has prepared an estimate for a Rs. 2-crore project to develop the Munroe Thuruthu railway station, Kodikkunnil Suresh, MP, has said. Of this, Rs. 30 lakh will be used for laying granite on the first and second platforms and tarring the parking area in front of the station. While the estimate for renovating the second platform shelter is Rs. 44 lakh, Rs. 22 lakh will be spent for the construction of a foot overbridge connecting the two platforms. An estimate of Rs. 86 lakh has been prepared and submitted for further proceedings in order to extend the first and second platforms. This year itself “The estimate was prepared following a detailed discussion with the Southern Railway General Manager and the Divisional Railway Manager. The Thiruvananthapuram Division will submit it to the Southern Railway and from there it will be forwarded to the Railway Board for approval,” said Mr. Suresh. The Thiruvananthapuram Division will start the tender process after getting the approval. The MP said that the works would be completed in 2022. The MP also informed that a meeting of senior officials of the Southern Railway and the Thiruvananthapuram Division would be held at Munroe Thuruthu soon to discuss the works to be implemented at the station. Munroe Thuruthu residents, passengers and people’s representatives had recently organised a protest meet at the station demanding immediate intervention of the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-2-crore-project-to-develop-munroe-thuruthu-railway-station/article38280620.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||E. Kasim memorial hall inaugurated||Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) State general secretary Elamaram Kareem, MP, inaugurated the E. Kasim memorial hall and the renovated CITU House here on Sunday. CITU district president B. Thulasidhara Kurup presided and secretary S. Jayamohan welcomed the gathering. Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] district secretary S. Sudevan, Cashew Workers Centre State president K. Rajagopal, K. Somaprasad MP, CPI(M) State committee member K. Varadarajan, MLAs M. Noushad and Sujith Vijayan Pillai, and Mayor Prasanna Ernest were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-kasim-memorial-hall-inaugurated/article38280614.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||SilverLine: notification for study||Notification has been issued for the Social Impact Assessment (SIA) study in Kollam as part of the land acquisition for the SilverLine project. In the district, 149.42 hectares of land has to be acquired from Kollam, Kottarakkara and Kunnathoor taluks. Areas in Adichanalloor, Chirakkara, Elampallur, Kalluvathukal, Kottankara, Meenad, Mulavana, Parippally, Thazhuthala, Thrikkovilvattam, Vadakkevila, Pavithreswaram, Kunnathoor, Poruvazhi and Sasthamcotta villages will be examined in blocks. The SIA study is being carried out to expedite compensation disbursal and rehabilitation in connection with the land acquisition. Based on the study, a social impact plan will be prepared and the report will be submitted within three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sia-notification-for-silverline/article38280619.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||Kottayam man wins Rs. 12-crore lottery||In a surprising turn of luck, a middle aged man from the district has become a ‘crorepati’ in a matter of just a few hours when he bought a lottery ticket on Sunday morning. The ticket, bought by Sadanandan Oliparambil, a native of Kudayampadi near here, has won the first prize of Rs. 12 crore in the Kerala government Christmas-New Year bumper. Mr. Sadanandan had been buying lottery tickets regularly over the past several years and this was for the first time that he hit the jackpot. According to Mr. Sadanandan, he decided to buy the lottery ticket from Selvan, a local lottery vendor, to make change for a Rs. 500 currency note with him. “I was on my way to a meat stall nearby and was looking to get change for the currency note. When the results were announced by the afternoon, I could not believe my luck,” he said. Living in a small house near Kudayampadi, life had been a struggle for Mr. Sadanandan, a painting worker, especially after the pandemic. “I want to build a better house of my own and take care of the future of my children. A decision on spending the amount will be taken in consultations with my two sons, Saneesh and Sanjay,” he told media persons. The bundle containing the prize-winning lottery had been sold to one Purushothaman of Ayamanom by a lottery agency in Kottayam town. The bundle was subsequently handed over to Mr. Selvan, a local vendor. Besides Mr. Sadanandan, five others who had bought tickets from the same vendor were reported to have won consolation prizes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-man-wins-rs-12-crore-lottery/article64949366.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:34 IST,KERALA||Police start implementing crowd control measures in Kozhikode||The city police on Sunday implemented stringent crowd control measures at the Kozhikode beach and shopping malls as part of their action plan to control the pandemic spread. Entry of the public into the beach side was regulated in the evening, apart from taking spot action against violators of safety protocol. Though there was no prior intimation regarding the curbs, most people were found complying with instructions. Shopping malls were allowed to function only in accordance with the State government’s latest guidelines regarding the number of customers permitted at a time. As part of surveillance measures, more policemen were deployed in the city. Checking squads were given instructions to act strictly on noticing violation of physical distancing norms and reluctance to wear masks. Curbs in public places Until further orders, the entry of visitors into the Kozhikode beach will be regulated. Similar measures will be in place in public parks and tourism spots. “We are also carrying out an active social media campaign for making the public aware of the situation and the need to follow safety measures,” said a police officer with the Cyber Cell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-start-implementing-crowd-control-measures-in-kozhikode/article64949480.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:33 IST,KERALA||Parallel exchange case: Properties of absconding accused to be attached||The Special Investigation Team probing the parallel telephone exchange case has initiated measures to attach the properties of some of the accused in the case who have been at large for over five months. Details of four persons, including a Malappuram native, have been handed over to the Registration Department for immediate action. According to Crime Branch sources, the four who went into hiding were P.P. Shabeer, M.G. Krishnaprasad, Abdul Gafoor, and K. Niyas. Measures to attach their property were initiated to compensate for the huge financial loss incurred by the government caused by the illegal telephone network, they said. It was on July 2 that the police with the support of a team of 23 officers exposed paralleltelephoneexchanges in eight locations in Kozhikode city and arrested P. Jurise, 26, one of the key operators. More than 700 SIM cards and imported call routers had been seized from the rented buildings which functioned as illegaltelephoneexchanges. Noticing the inter-State network of the accused and their alleged association with gold smugglers and extremist elements, the National Investigation Agency too had started a probe into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parallel-exchange-case-properties-of-absconding-accused-to-be-attached/article38280561.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:33 IST,KERALA||CRC to move to new premises||The Composite Regional Centre for Skill Development, Rehabilitation and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (CRC), Kozhikode, is all set to be shifted to a new building on the premises of the Government Hospital of Dermatology from Tuesday. CRC Kozhikode is among the 21 such institutions across the country functioning under the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The Union Territory of Lakshadweep also comes under it. It is the only Central government institution that offers free therapy and rehabilitation to differently abled persons in Kerala. The institution, set up here in 2012, had earlier been functioning from the Social Welfare Complex building at Vellimadukunnu and later from the premises of the Institute of Mental Health And Neurosciences. The services offered are physiotherapy, occupational therapy, speech and hearing, special education, clinical psychology, prosthetic and orthotics, vocational training and skill development, social work, and placements. Rehab professionals in the grade of assistant professor and lecturer and advanced therapy halls along with research facilities are available here. There is a cross disability early intervention centre to detect disabilities in children between their birth and the age of six and ensure treatment and rehabilitation. It also offers professional courses in the sector. M.K. Raghavan, MP, told the media here on Sunday that Veerendra Kumar Khatik, Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment, would open the new facility through online mode at 4 p.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crc-to-move-to-new-premises/article64949484.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||WCC members disappointed||Members of the Women in Cinema Collective (WCC) did not hide their dismay when they were told on Sunday that the contents of the Hema committee report could not be made public. The committee had looked into issues of gender inequality and sexual harassment in the Malayalam film industry in the wake of the sexual assault on an actor in Kochi in 2017. It was after a meeting with the Kerala Women’s Commission functionaries at the Government Guest House, Kozhikode, that the WCC members realised that this panel had not been set up under the Commission of Inquiry Act and its report need not be placed in the Assembly. Film-maker Didi Damodaran, who was among the WCC members that met women’s commission chairperson P. Sathidevi, said there had been some confusion why it had not been happening. Now that the commission had spoken on it, they would knock on every possible door to make it accessible to the public. Gender sensitive “All of us know how important it is to be gender sensitive. That is why we thought of starting with the women’s commission. If there is no action from their side, we will perceive it as a statement [on their stand]. We don’t have time to wait,” Ms. Damodaran said. Actor Parvathy Thiruvoth said that only irrespective of whether the committee report could be or cannot be made public, only the government was left with the powers to do it. “The committee was set up after we met the Chief Minister. We expect that based on its recommendations and the interactions with stakeholders, a proper cinema policy will evolve. We are going to meet other Ministers,” she said. Actor Padmapriya said the committee report was not just about sexual harassment, but other issues as well. If a progressive step had to be taken with the industry support, it had to be made public, she said. She came down on the Association of Malayalam Movie Artistes (AMMA), whose members claimed that they respected the actor who faced the assault. After the general body meeting, AMMA president said that those who went out of the organisation after the episode, including the survivor, could come back if they applied for membership again. “The first step towards respect is to take her back unconditionally,” Ms. Padmapriya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wcc-members-disappointed/article38280578.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:33 IST,KERALA||Forest dept. takes steps to prevent wildfire||Creating fresh fire lines and closely monitoring the entry of visitors, the Forest department is bracing to tackle incidents of wildfire this season around the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary. Patrol squads are closely monitoring vulnerable areas to adopt scientific preventive measures ahead of summer time. Fire lines have been installed in some of the problem spots earlier identified by Forest squads. Besides, controlled burning will be carried out as part of additional safety measures. The department also hopes to source local support for implementing surveillance measures. “One of the main reasons behind fire is the careless behaviour of some sightseers. We are taking all possible measures to keep an eye on such trekkers,” said a Forest department official from Thamarassery. He also pointed out that the entry of poachers was another challenge. People residing close to the forestland and Vana Samrakshana Samiti members have been asked to report unauthorised entry of trekkers into the interior forests. The suspected misuse of fire to smoke out animals by tribespeople or others in their name will also be monitored. Various farmers’ organisations are also keen on the implementation of preventive measures by the Forest department considering the huge loss caused by wild fire in the agriculture sector. According to them, massive fire outbreaks taken place a few years ago in the upland areas of Vanimel and Karassery panchayats had destroyed several hectares of cultivated land. Only better surveillance would avert the recurrence of such incidents, they pointed out. One of the main challenges, according to Fire and Rescue Services officials, is the limited resources available for fighting fire outbreaks in the upland forest areas. The delay in getting timely alerts and the difficulty in reaching hilly terrains with the firetenders make it a real challenge for local rescue teams, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-dept-takes-steps-to-prevent-wildfire/article38280560.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:33 IST,KERALA||COVID-19 caseload goes above 10,000||Active COVID-19 caseload in Kozhikode district rose to 10,529 on Sunday when 1,643 more tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here. According to the District Medical Officer, the daily test positivity rate is 30.65%. As many as 5,500 samples were tested. A total of 104 people are undergoing treatment in government hospitals and 252 others in private hospitals. A total of 8,477 are under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-caseload-goes-above-10000/article38280555.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Directive to rehabilitate tribes||Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes K. Radhakrishnan has directed various government agencies, including the Pathanamthitta district administration, to explore the possibility of rehabilitating the homeless tribals in the Moozhiyar forests to the vacant quarters adjacent to Moozhiyar Power House. A direction to this effect was issued by the Minister during a visit to the Saipin Kuzhi tribal village in the Sabarimala forests on Saturday. The Minister was accompanied by District Collector Divya S. Iyer and Konni MLA K.U. Jeneesh Kumar, among others Several vacant According to the Minister, several of the quarters built by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) had been lying vacant in Moozhiyar for a very long period and they could be used for rehabilitating members of the nomadic tribal groups. The Minister also entrusted the District Collector with submitting a report on the number of people and the vacant space available, after consultations with the Tribal department, the KSEB, local body and the Forest department. As many as 700 tribals will be recruited to the Forest and Excise departments through the special recruitment scheme. Fencing will be erected to prevent wildlife attacks while steps will be taken to ensure power supply to all tribal settlements. “The government aims at providing houses to the homeless and better education for their children. These benefits, however, could not be granted to them as they had not been staying in one place permanently,” said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directive-to-rehabilitate-tribes/article38280618.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Anavoor is CPI(M) district secretary again||Anavoor Nagappan has been re-elected Thiruvananthapuram district secretary of the CPI(M) even as former MP A. Sampath was dropped from the district committee of the party. MLAs V.K. Prasanth and G. Stephen and Thiruvananthapuram Mayor Arya Rajendran, whose names were doing the rounds, failed to find a spot on the district committee. Nine new faces have found a place in the 46-member committee, which was announced on the third and final day of the CPI(M) district conference held at Parassala. Mr. Sampath, who is currently private secretary to Minister K. Radhakrishnan, had allegedly drawn criticism for being inactive in party programmes. Mr. Nagappan, who is a State committee member of the CPI(M), first became district secretary when Kadakampally Surendran relinquished the post in 2016 to contest the Assembly polls. He was re-elected in 2018, and his current stint is the third one. A notable inclusion in the district committee is that of Shiju Khan J.S., general secretary of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare, who had drawn flak over the child adoption row. DYFI leader S.P. Deepak, a former general secretary of the State child welfare council whom the CPI(M) demoted to the local committee following a controversy over hunger-stricken children allegedly eating mud, also has been included in the district committee. Mr. Shiju Khan and Mr. Deepak aside, K.P. Pramosh, Preeja, D.K. Sasi, V. Ambili, Shailaja Begum, R. Jayadevan, and Vineesh are the other new faces in the district committee. Senior leaders including Pirappancode Murali and Chettachal Sahadevan have been dropped from the panel, reportedly as they have crossed the age bar. The 12-member district secretariat, which was announced on Sunday, has four new faces—K.S. Sunil Kumar, D.K. Murali, V. Joy, and S. Pushpalatha. The other members are Anavoor Nagappan, C. Jayan Babu, C. Ajayakumar, B.P. Murali, N. Ratheendran, R. Ramu, K.C. Vikraman, and Puthenkada Vijayan. District panel members Anavoor Nagappan, C. Jayan Babu, C. Ajayakumar, B. P. Murali, N. Ratheendran, R. Ramu, K.C. Vikraman, Puthenkada Vijayan, V.K. Madhu, E.G. Mohanan, S.S. Rajalal, B. Sathyan, Karamana Hari, P. Rajendra Kumar, M.M. Basheer, C.K. Hareendran, V. Jayaprakash, K.S. Sunil Kumar, D.K. Murali, I.B. Satheesh, Madavoor Anil, A.A. Rasheed, V. Joy, S. Pushpalatha, R. Subhash, P. Ramachandran Nair, I. Saju, A.A. Rahim, K. Sasankan, S. Shajahan, V.S. Padmakumar, M.G. Meenambika, R. Ansalan, Attingal Sugunan, S.A. Sundar, C. Lenin, P.S. Harikumar, K.P. Pramosh, Shiju Khan J.S., V. Ambili, Shailaja Begum, Preeja, D.K. Sasi, R. Jayadevan, Vineesh, and S.P. Deepak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anavoor-is-cpim-district-secretary-again/article38280698.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:33 IST,KERALA||Afghan students’ long wait for e-visas piles on their misery||After the return of the Taliban to power in Afghanistan, several students from that country who have been selected for scholarships by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations have been facing an uncertain future as they continue their months-long wait for e-visas. The delay has all but extinguished their hope of securing admissions in universities in India. The Government of India’s decision to invalidate visas issued to Afghan nationals had dealt a severe blow to many. Some of them who had returned to Afghanistan to renew their visas have also been separated from their families that have settled in India for years. Since Aug. 20 Munawar (name changed), a post-doctoral scholar at the University of Kerala, has been waiting for nearly six months for the Indian government’s electronic visa. He is worried about his family that is left to fend for itself in Kerala. Although he managed to complete the formalities without much delay, the emergence of the Taliban regime put paid to his plans to return to India. Like many others, Munawar now awaits the e-visa for which he submitted application on August 20 last year. His wife, a postgraduate student at the University of Kerala, and his three children currently reside in Thiruvananthapuram. “These are hard times for the family. My wife and children recently contracted COVID-19 and continue to suffer from its aftereffects. I only pray that the Government of India take a compassionate view of the Afghan students and expedite the visa processing,” Munawar said. Second home His plight largely mirrored that of Kabul resident Sayed Mahboob Hashimi, a final-year MBA student of Osmania University. Having settled in Hyderabad for three years, his family had made India their second home. Things fell apart when Mr. Hashimi had to head for Afghanistan five months ago to renew his visa. Ever since, his wife and four children have been staying by themselves in India. With several other Afghan students being unable to join their chosen courses in time, their window of opportunity appears to be closing. Many are now trying to obtain Iran visas in the hope of being able to travel to India from the West Asian country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/afghan-students-long-wait-for-e-visas-piles-on-their-misery/article38280558.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||‘New faces on panel to bring in change’||Any exclusions of senior or popular leaders from the district committee of the CPI(M) is part of a move adopted during district conferences to usher in change by making way for new faces, Anavoor Nagappan, who has been re-elected Thiruvananthapuram CPI(M) district secretary), has said. He was responding to questions on Sunday on the exclusion of former MP A. Sampath from the district committee. Talking to reporters at the conference venue, Mr. Nagappan, who had first come to the post in 2016, said that the party had decided to ensure the presence of people aged below 40 and at least 10% women members in the panel. Nine people were dropped so as to provide opportunities to new people, he said. Mr. Nagappan also defended the inclusion of Shiju Khan, general secretary of the Kerala State Child Welfare Council who was embroiled in the child adoption row, in the district committee saying that no wrongdoing had been proven against him. The party would not exclude members merely because of controversies, he said. Aim of new panel Mr. Nagappan further added that the new committee would aim to strengthen the Communist institution in the district and extend support to the development activities of the State government. He also denied charges that the three-day event had flouted COVID-19 norms. According to him, the protocol was strictly adhered to and public functions were avoided. Two of the delegates, including I.B. Satheesh, MLA, who tested positive, had fever symptoms when they arrived, and were sent back, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-faces-on-panel-to-bring-in-change/article38280703.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:51 IST,KERALA||18,123 test positive, case pool crosses one lakh||The State’s COVID-19 case graph continues to surge and reported 18,123 new cases when 59,314 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool has crossed the one-lakh mark and now has 1,03,864 cases. Of the total active cases now, 4% are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals such as COVID first line/second line treatment centres. A total of 4,749 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on Sunday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID has shot up to 528. Hospitalisations have risen to 4,419. The current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State has been rising steadily and the figure jumped from 604 to 644. The number of patients requiring ventilator support also showed increase, from 168 to 181. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 50,832, with the State adding 158 deaths to the official list. This includes eight deaths which occurred in the past few days and 150 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 53,78,831. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases with 3,917, Ernakulam 3,204, Thrissur 1,700, Kozhikode 1,643, Kottayam 1, 377, Pathanamthitta 999, Kollam 998, Palakkad 889, Malappuram 821, Alappuzha 715, Kannur 649, Idukki 594, Wayanad 318 and Kasaragod 299.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/18123-test-positive-case-pool-crosses-one-lakh/article38280582.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||Vaccination for students in schools from Jan. 19||COVID-19 vaccine will be administered in schools in the State from Wednesday. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting presided over by Minister for Health Veena George and Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty on Sunday. The vaccination drive in schools is being undertaken on the directions of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to speed up vaccination for children. Separate meetings by the Health and the General Education departments were followed by the joint meeting of the two Ministers to give a final shape to the school vaccination drive. Guidelines for the vaccination drive in schools have also been released. The COVID-19 vaccine is given to children who are 15 and older. They should be born in 2007 or prior to that. The 15-17 age group is eligible only for Covaxin. The vaccine will be administered only with parental consent. The district task force, with the support of the Education department, identifies schools where vaccines are to administered. Schools with more than 500 beneficiaries are selected as sites for conducting the vaccination. School authorities have to ensure waiting area, vaccination room, and observation room, at the vaccination centre. The centres will be linked to a nearby government COVID vaccination centre. The number of school vaccination centres is decided by the district task force. All COVID-19 protocols will be followed. School authorities have to prepare a list of children to be administered the vaccine on a particular day much beforehand and inform them about the time allotted to them. The day before the vacccination, the school authorities will ensure that all children have registered on the COWIN portal. The vaccination team will comprise a medical officer from the Health department, vaccinator, staff nurse, and support staff provided by the school. The number of vaccinators in each site will be decided on the basis of the number of students. All vaccinations have to be recorded on COWIN. Offline sessions should not be held. Vaccination will not be administered to children with fever and other illnesses. After the vaccination, children will be kept under observation for 30 minutes. A mechanism to manage adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) will be put in place at each centre so that any health problems children may have following the vaccination can be addressed. If children suffer any discomfort, they should be shifted to the AEFI management centre concerned. Schools should arrange for ambulance with oxygen support for this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-drive-in-schools-from-wednesday/article38280567.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Capital district logs 3,917 new cases||The COVID-19 caseload continued to rise towards alarming levels as the test positivity rate zoomed to 36.8% on Sunday. As many as 3,917 fresh cases and 511 recoveries were reported as the number of active cases stood at 24,878. According to official statistics, 10,630 tests were conducted during the last 24 hours. Source of infection The source of infection was unknown in 63 of the new cases. As many as 40 healthcare workers are also among those who have been diagnosed with the infection. The death toll currently stood at 6595 while the district has a case fatality ratio of 1.23. Bookings cancelled The spike in COVID-19 caseload has prompted the district administration to enforce restrictions in tourist destinations. District Collector Navjot Khosa also issued orders to cancel all existing bookings made to Ponmudi and Agasthyarkoodam until Sunday. Bookings can hereafter be made only through the online mode from Monday. A daily limit of 50 has been fixed for tourist entry to these places. The Forest department had commenced bookings to Agasthyarkoodam for the annual trekking season on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-district-logs-3917-new-cases/article64949376.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Leaders express regret over mega Thiruvathira||The local leadership of the CPI(M) has reportedly expressed regret over organising the 'mega' Thiruvathira event at Parassala, ahead of the Thiruvananthapuram district conference of the CPI(M). The event, held on January 11, had drawn flak for disregarding the alarming rise in COVID-19 cases in the State and failing to respect the memory of Dheeraj Rajendran, the SFI activist stabbed to death at the Idukki Engineering College. The event attracted a police case for violation of COVID-19 norms and also drew criticism for the use of a song eulogising Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The general convener of the reception committee, addressing the delegates on Sunday, reportedly expressed regret over the incident on Sunday admitting that it was ill-timed. Defending conferences Meanwhile, CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Sunday defended the decision to hold the district conferences of the party. Delaying the party conferences further would have impacted the democratic nature of the CPI(M), Mr. Balakrishnan said. He also urged party workers to actively assist health workers in tackling the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leaders-express-regret-over-mega-thiruvathira/article38280702.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Recent crime shows link with a 2021 murder case||The interrogation of three people who were arrested by the Vizhinjam police for the alleged murder of an elderly woman has unravelled the mystery that surrounded the death of a minor girl in Kovalam a year ago. The Vizhinjam police had achieved the breakthrough after two of the accused, Rafeeqa Beevi and her son Shafeeque, confessed to have murdered the girl who hailed from Muttakkad that comes under the Kovalam police station limits. The victim was found lying in a pool of blood in her house on January 13 last when her parents were away. The accused mother-son duo used to live behind their house for two years. According to the police, they claimed Shafeeque used to sexually harass the minor girl. They had decided to murder her after she threatened to divulge such instances to her parents. On the day of the murder, Rafeeqa banged the victim’s head on the wall after which Shafeeque bludgeoned her using a hammer. The weapon they had used for the murder is suspected to be the same they purportedly used on 71-year-old Santhakumari whose body was found in the attic of a rented house in Mulloor late Friday. Following the incident in Muttakkad, Rafeeqa and Shafeeque vacated their house and shifted to Mulloor to evade police scrutiny. Some headway The Kovalam police, which had been groping in the dark ever since, have been accused of pinning the blame of the crime on the victim’s parents. The Vizhinjam police had chanced upon the crucial information after a neighbour claimed to have overheard an argument that Rafeeqa had with Al Ameen, another co-accused in the Santhakumari murder case. The findings would be handed over to the Kovalam police that had registered the case, Vizhinjam station house officer Prajeesh Sasi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recent-crime-shows-link-with-a-2021-murder-case/article38280699.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||Plus One transfer results out||The Plus One district/inter-district school/combination transfer allotment results have been published. Results can be looked up on ‘Transfer Allot Results’ link in candidate log-ins through school Principals. The Principals also have to hand over transfer allotment letter print-outs to students. Even if students get a subject combination change in the same school, they should be given a change in admission. For admission, they have to appear with original certificates at the school or course to which they have got allotment to at the time specified in the allotment letter on Monday and Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-transfer-results-out/article38280613.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||KU exams postponed||The University of Kerala (KU) has postponed the second-semester examinations of all CBCSS and career-related CBCSS courses scheduled between January 17 to 24. The postponement has been made on account of the university college union elections. There will be no changes to the examinations of other courses, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-postpones-exams/article38280612.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||One held for assaulting police officer||The Venjaramoodu police arrested one person in connection with alleged assault on a police officer in drunken stupor on Sunday. Roshan of Thembamoodu has been accused with three others of manhandling grade sub-inspector Sharafudeen Kunju who was part of a patrol team when the incident occured. While Roshan attacked the sub-inspector, a control room vehicle rushed to the scene and rescued the police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-assaulting-police-officer/article38280704.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:50 IST,KERALA||COVID hospitalisations go up in State||The demand for hospitalisation has suddenly gone up in the State following an exponential increase in COVID-19 cases and this time, the private sector hospitals rather than the Government hospitals, seem to be taking on the burden. During the Delta wave, the public sector hospitals, especially, the Government Medical Colleges had taken the brunt of the entire COVID burden and its fall-out on the treatment of other non-COVID illnesses had been devastating. This time, a conscious decision has been taken by the administration to shift the focus of treatment to homes and periphery hospitals so that Government medical colleges need take in only severe COVID cases. Tele consultations Many private hospitals are thus beginning to feel the pressure due to the demand for admissions. Major tertiary care private hospitals are now encouraging patients to opt for tele consultations first rather than rush in panic to hospitals as soon as they test positive for COVID. In fact, many clinicians said that most of the elderly getting admitted to the hospitals following COVID are doing so out of sheer panic and not because they are seriously ill. “Our in-patient admissions have doubled now, in comparison to the past two week but most of it is due to panic. A huge number of senior citizens who were vaccinated early and who have now contracted COVID (while they were anxiously waiting for the precaution dose) are now rushing to get admitted because they are extremely worried. This kind of panic is not warranted .We are also getting a lot of incidental COVID cases, which has added to the IP admissions,” says Dr. Rajalekshmi Arjun, senior consultant, Infectious Diseases, KIMSHEALTH. “Other than those with serious co-morbidities -- uncontrolled diabetes, renal diseases, malignancies -- people should stay home and rest, take a tele consult and follow the advice of doctors, “ she added. “Almost everyone in the community now seems to be having fever and respiratory symptoms, most likely COVID. Most of them have mild symptoms, which resolve in three days, even amongst the elderly. Even the ICU admissions are mostly mild or moderate cases, but who have co-morbidities. Panic admissions should not be allowed to threaten the limited surge capacity of hospitals, “ a senior clinician in the Government sector said. Meanwhile, the sudden increase in the number of people testing for COVID has resulted in a huge demand for the monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) treatment, even though doctors are unsure about the efficacy of the current cocktail of casirivimab and imdevimab against Omicron virus variant.. “mAbs is a potentially life-saving drug, strictly indicated for those with multiple comorbidities, who may go on to develop severe COVID disease. It has saved many elderly and the comorbid from severe disease during the Delta wave but it has also turned out to be one of the most misused drugs. The drug is expensive at Rs. 60,000 for the single dose and while the State Government has put in place a strict protocol for the use of mAbs, many private hospitals are now forced to dispense it on demand,” says senior doctor at a hospital in the capital. “Use of point-of-care tests (like Omisure test approved by the ICMR or S-gene Target Failure test) can determine the virus variant involved and may be, optimise the use of mAbs. But most private hospitals are yet to start doing this,” the senior doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-hospitalisations-go-up-in-state/article64949369.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||CPI(M) caught in another Thiruvathira row||A Thiruvathira dance organised by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) at Thekkumkara, Thrissur, on Friday night, ahead of its district conference, has courted controversy. A similar event at Thiruvananthapuram earlier had drawn criticism from many quarters for ‘violation’ of COVID protocol and ‘unwarranted deference’ to top party leaders. The Thekkumkara West local committee had organised the Thiruvathira in Thrissur, with around a hundred women participating in it. There were many spectators too. ‘Planned in advance’ Defending the decision to hold the programme, CPI(M) district secretary M.M. Varghese said that there was no protocol violation during the performance. Local leaders too claimed that the guidelines were adhered to. All were wearing masks. A public meeting was avoided against the backdrop of rising number of cases, but the Thriruvathirakali was planned well in advance, they said. Meanwhile, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) secretary Rajendran Arangath has lodged a complaint with the City Police Commissioner alleging that the Thiruvathirakali violated the COVID guidelines. The Thrissur district conference of the CPI(M) is from January 21 to 23. The public meeting in connection with the conference will be held on a virtual platform on January 23. Leaders, including State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, will participate. Restrictions have been placed on the number of delegates.  KPCC files complaint as nearly 100 women take part in dance in Thrissur ahead of CPI(M) district conference||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-caught-in-another-thiruvathira-row/article38280710.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||30 engg. college students test positive||Thirty students of the Government Engineering College, Thrissur, have tested positive for COVID-19. It is currently the largest cluster in the district. Hostel closed More tests have been done and results are awaited. The authorities have closed the college hostel. As many as 1,700 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Sunday. In all, there are 10,537 positive cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/30-engg-college-students-test-positive/article38280709.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||Online edition of magazine||Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan on Saturday launched the English and Malayalam online editions of Bhakthapriya magazine of the Guruvavyur Devaswom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-edition-of-magazine/article38280712.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Dawning glory||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dawning-glory/article64949371.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:54 IST,KERALA||Swallowed by fumes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/swallowed-by-fumes/article64949360.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Festive ambience||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festive-ambience/article64949475.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Prabhalu’ add grandeur to Sankranti||Scores of men on Sunday took out grand processions of the chariots, locally known as ‘Prabhalu’, on which the idols of Lord Siva are taken out through the paddy fields, during the three-day Sankranti festival in East Godavari district. The ‘Prabhalu’ event is unique to the Konaseema region of the district. Jagganna Thota in Ambajipeta mandal is the major place where most chariots are displayed on the ‘Kanuma’ day. The district police said that the chariots gathered at Jagganna Thota from 16 areas on Sunday. The exhibition of the chariots will continue at Jagganna Thota on Monday too. On Saturday, at least a dozen chariots were displayed in Kothapeta mandal. In the ritual, only men will carry the chariots on their shoulders through the paddy fields from their areas to the designated place. Children and people from other walks of life follow them. The chariots pass through the agricultural fields and canals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prabhalu-add-grandeur-to-sankranti/article64949219.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 babies die of infection after MMR vaccination in Belagavi||Three infants have died in Belagavi district, following infections from improper administration of the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine. Chetan Pujari, 12 months, Pavitra Hulgur, 13 months, and Umesh Karaguddi, 14 months, died of microbial infection recently. Two other children who are admitted in the Belagavi institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) are recovering. These children are from Bochabal and Mallapur villages in Ramdurg taluk. The infants received the vaccine from the primary health centre nurse, M. Salma, in Salahalli three days ago. The other 17 children who got the vaccine are healthy. While two died in the BIMS, one succumbed to the infection in the Ramdurg taluk hospital. Officers say the infection could have spread from non-sterilised syringes. “On the face of it, it seems that the concerned staff member did not take aseptic measures while vaccinating, which led to the infection,” said Ishwar Gadad, District Immunisation Officer, “We have taken the necessary disciplinary action against the concerned staff member. An inquiry has been ordered,” Dr. Gadad said. “This is the first time in five years that we have had such adverse reactions to the vaccination process,” S.V. Muniyal, District Health and Family Welfare Officer, said. Samples sent “We have sent a sample of the vaccine to the central vaccine unit in Kasauli, from where they were received. Urine and stool samples and viscera samples of the victims have been sent for forensic testing,” Dr. Muniyal said. He clarified that this was part of a routine vaccination and did not have anything to do with the COVID-19 vaccination drive. “We have stopped the MMR vaccination in the affected villages. We appeal to the people not to panic and to continue take their children for vaccination,” he said. A Health Department officer lamented that despite several rounds of training sessions, some staff members were careless about their duties. “Aseptic technique refers to the manner of handling, preparing, and storing medications and injection equipment and supplies like syringes and needles. These are necessary to prevent microbial contamination and infection. The vaccination protocol says that nursing and other staff should take aseptic techniques to ensure infection prevention when preparing the vaccines. Such tragedies occur when they are not followed,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-babies-die-of-infection-after-mmr-vaccination-in-belagavi/article38280123.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Karnataka got Rs. 1.6 lakh cr. FDI’||Karnataka has attracted foreign direct investments (FDIs) worth Rs. 1.6 lakh crore so far in the current fiscal, which was more than 50% of such investments received in the entire country, said Minister for IT/BT and Skill Development C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Sunday. The Minister said the State had captured FDI to the tune of Rs. 1.6 lakh crore in fiscal 2022 in diverse businesses and technology areas, including aerospace and defence, agrotech, fintech, healthtech, biotechnology, nanotechnology, electronics, drone technology, hospitality, food processing, manufacturing, hardware and ESDM. The State was home to over 13,000 startups out of the total 57,000 in the country, the Minister said while speaking at an event organised in connection with National Startup Day here. To promote technological innovation in the State, 200 startups would be given seed funding of up to Rs. 50 lakh each in the current financial year, he said. “To maintain Karnataka’s lead position in technology, we will continue to focus on digital education and skill development through effective implementation of NEP,” the Minister stated. The move to set up an ART Park (Artificial Intelligence & Robotics Translational Park) at IISc was testimony to the government's commitment towards the growth of emerging industries, he said. According to the Minister, the focus was to grow and develop the hardware sector on the lines of the software industry. Under ESDM (Electronics System Design & Manufacturing) policy, Rs. 5,000 crore would be given as subsidy, and out of this Rs. 2,000 crore has already been given out in the first year, Mr. Narayan informed. 14 startups awarded The Centre observed a ‘Startup India Innovation Week’ from January 10 to 16 and has announced national rewards for startups for their innovative product development. Out of the 56 startups awarded, 14 are from Karnataka.  To maintain Karnataka’s lead position in technology, we will continue to focus on digital education and skill development through effective implementation of NEP.C.N. Ashwath NarayanMinister for IT/BT and Skill Development||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-leading-in-fdi-in-2021-22/article64949241.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kannada organisations object to govt. move||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led State government has drawn flak from Kannada organisations and writers for promoting Karnataka Samskrit University with a grant of Rs. 320 crore for its campus, while Kannada University, Hampi has almost become “paralysed” due to shortage of funds. The financial condition of Kannada University is so precarious that it has been three years since it has inducted any new students. The government’s move to promote the Karnataka Samskrit University has drawn a lot of ire as it also comes close on the heels of a public interest litigation (PIL) petition by a group of institutions promoting Sanskrit, including a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) affiliate, that blocked making Kannada learning mandatory in undergraduate courses. Kannada organisations and netizens took to Twitter on Sunday with a campaign “#SayNoToSanskrit”. “We should remember the historic Gokak agitation took place against a conspiracy to impose Sanskrit in education at the cost of Kannada. We had to carry out a campaign last year to get some paltry sum of money to Kannada University, Hampi. The priorities of the BJP government have become clear. Time has come to unite against the imposition of both Sanskrit and Hindi,” tweeted T. A. Narayana Gowda, president, Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, leading the Twitter campaign. S. C. Ramesh, Vice-Chancellor, Kannada University, Hampi, said the university was cash strapped and he had written to the State Government seeking assistance of around Rs. 24 crore and hoped it would come through. S. C. Ramesh, Vice-Chancellor, Kannada University, Hampi, said the university was cash strapped and he had written to the State Government seeking assistance of around Rs. 24 crore and hoped it would come through. “It has been 36 months since the university paid fellowships to students. The financial condition has not allowed us to take a single new student in the last three years,” he said, indicating how the financial difficulties had paralysed the university. It has been six months since it paid guest faculty and had no money to give retirement benefits to professors. In 2021, after a public campaign by Kannada organisations, the Government released Rs. 3.52 crore, sources said. Kannada University, Hampi has no college affiliations, doesn’t run courses and is purely research oriented and hence has no revenue sources of its own, but has been under pressure from the State Government to become “self-reliant”, sources in the university said. However, several writers have objected to this, arguing it would change the character of the university. “Can’t the Government of Karnataka not fund a Kannada University, when it can grant Rs. 320 crore for a Sanskrit University, which has failed to attract enough students?” asked writer S. G. Siddaramaiah, a former chairman of Kannada Development Authority. Another senior writer K. Marulasiddappa said it was sad that the Government of Karnataka was showing “step-motherly treatment to Kannada”. “In our State there is a State university and two deemed universities for Sanskrit and one university for Kannada, which is being sabotaged. While we do not oppose research on Sanskrit, is it too much to expect that Kannada should be the priority in our State?” he asked. There has been opposition to this from within as well. T. S. Nagabharana, chairman, KDA, said the authority though did not oppose promoting Sanskrit, the “priorities of the Government seemed to be effectively sidelining Kannada’s interests --- be it the neglect of Kannada University, Kannada medium education or implementation of Kannada in the administration”, he rued. “The authority has also impleaded itself before the High Court in the PIL questioning making Kannada learning mandatory in undergraduate courses and will fight for the language’s interests,” he said. N. Ravi Kumar, general secretary, BJP Karnataka, said the party and the Government won’t shy away from supporting a Sanskrit University. “Sanskrit is the root of our nationality. Can we open a Sanskrit university in England? Eleven years after establishing the university, there was no place to sit, so we have announced support,” he said, adding this did not mean Kannada was not a priority for the BJP-led State government. “There are some issues in Kannada University, Hampi which we will solve. After all Kannada is the top priority in the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kannada-organisations-object-to-govt-move/article38280120.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rejection of Narayana Guru tableau slammed||The decision of the Centre in rejecting the Kerala Government’s proposal to have social reformer Narayana Guru’s tableau in the Republic Day parade has been criticised by former Chief Ministers Siddaramaiah and H.D. Kumaraswamy. “The Centre should apologise for insulting Narayana Guru and allow the tableau to be depicted. The Centre’s decision shows pre-conceived notions about great reformers of the backward classes. What was the rationale behind the decision to reject the Kerala Government’s decision. Does Narayana Guru not belong to Hindu community? The BJP should state its thought clearly,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said on Sunday. He asked if the decision to reject Narayana Guru’s tableau has come to the notice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.He said that Narayana Guru had a century ago fought untouchability and priestly class, and tried to reform the society. “The BJP does not have moral right to speak on Hinduism. During my tenure, we had taken a decision to celebrate Narayana Guru Jayanthi,” he said. Mr. Kumaraswamy also slammed the Centre’s decision. “Narayana Guru had propagated gender equality and was opposed to caste and community hatredness. The decision has been taken by those who do not know the history of social reform movement in the country, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rejection-of-narayana-gurus-tableau-slammed/article64949245.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. police continue probe into copter crash that killed CDS||More than a month after the helicopter crash in which former Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 13 others died, the Tamil Nadu police are awaiting details of the circumstances that led to the incident in Coonoor. On December 8, 2021, an Mi-17 V5 helicopter crashed into a valley and exploded, killing Gen. Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, Brigadier Lakhwinder Singh Lidder and 11 others. The helicopter was flying from the Sulur Air Base in Coimbatore to the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington. It came down a few minutes away from its destination. On a complaint from Coonoor Village Administrative Officer C. Arul Rethna, the Upper Coonoor police registered a case under Section 174 (Unnatural death) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and launched an investigation. In its preliminary findings, the Tri-Services Court of Inquiry ruled out any mechanical failure, sabotage or negligence. It held that the accident happened after the helicopter entered clouds owing to an unexpected change in weather, leading to the spatial disorientation of the pilot. But the investigators in the Tamil Nadu police are awaiting some crucial evidence to come to a conclusion. According to a senior police official, the investigating officer had written to the Sulur Air Base, calling for a copy of the weather forecast given to the pilot. The police sought to know who had decided to go ahead with the flight, even if the forecast had indicated an inclement weather, and the details of the last radio communication between the Air Traffic Control and the pilot. IMD evidence  “We have asked for details that will make clear the circumstances in which the helicopter had to deviate from the flight path and crash into a valley. After India Meteorological Department officials said they had not issued any weather report for the flight, we have called for satellite images for that day [December 8, 2021], along with their opinion on the weather,” officials who preferred not to be quoted told The Hindu .  The Tamil Nadu police had arranged two convoys with Z-Plus security at the Sulur Air Base as well as at the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington. They had been fitted out with bulletproof vehicles for the VIP in case he chose to travel by road. Security personnel were also deployed along the contingency route in accordance with the protocol. “We also conducted combing operations in the forest area abutting the helipad and made anti-sabotage checks along the line of landing. But to rule out sabotage and conclude the investigation, we need to analyse the Flight Data Recorder and the Cockpit Voice Recorder,” the official said. The police have recorded the statements of several eyewitnesses who were among the first to visit the scene of crash at Nanjappachathram and help those battling for life reach the hospital. “Some issues need more clarity and confirmation from the competent authority, which is required for us to complete investigation and file a report in the court,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-police-continue-probe-into-copter-crash-that-killed-cds/article64949240.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In-person lessons suspended for students of Classes 10-12||The State government has announced the suspension of classes on campus for students of Classes 10 to 12 till January 31 in view of the rising COVID-19 cases. Earlier, the government had announced that in-person classes would be suspended for Classes 1 to 9. Classes for 10th, 11th and 12th standard students were continuing on school campuses because of board exams later this year. The government also said that the revision exams which were scheduled to start from January 19 were also postponed. An announcement would be made at a later date about rescheduling the exams. Owing to the delay in reopening schools for the 2021-22 year, the school education department had cancelled quarterly and half-yearly exams. Revision exams Two rounds of revision exams were then announced for the students of classes 10 and 12, which was important as they are preparing to take up the board exams later this year. The first round was scheduled to begin from January 19 and the second round was scheduled for March. With the launch of the COVID-19 vaccination for adolescents in Tamil Nadu earlier this month, several schools over the last week had vaccination drives on campus for their senior students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-person-lessons-suspended/article64949248.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thousands witness local version of Jallikattu at Gudupalle in Chittoor dist.||Over 3,000 villagers gathered at Gudupalle mandal headquarters of Kuppam Assembly constituency on Sunday to witness the frenzied ‘Pasuvula Panduga’, the Chittoor version of Tamil Nadu’s Jallikattu. Compared to the previous years, the number of participants and the cattle was fewer this year due to the weekend lockdown in Tamil Nadu. A bull race event was also reported from Jarugu village of Kuppam mandal. The event, which commenced around noon, went on till evening at the venue near the office of the MPDO at Gudupalle. Hundreds of youths joined the competitions, trying to tame the aggressive bulls and own the trophies tied to their horns. The Kuppam rural police made elaborate security arrangements for the peaceful conduct of the event. About 10 onlookers were said to have been slightly injured when the raging bulls strayed into the crowds at Gudupalle. As the COVID-19 graph is on the rise at the tri-State Kuppam junction, spread over Kuppam, Gudupalle, Shantipuram, and Ramakuppam mandals, the medical and police officials expressed fears about conducting the bull races. ‘Mailar Panduga’ on Jan. 20 The organisers of the ‘Mailar Panduga’ (bull race) at Kenamakula Palli village of Shantipuram mandal are giving wide publicity to the event scheduled to be held on January 20. The organisers have fixed the entry fee for each bull at Rs. 2,000. As many as 32 prizes have been announced, ranging from Rs. 2,001 to Rs. 50501, along with the names of the sponsors. As the venue is close to the Kolar gold fields in Karnataka, many inter-State participants are expected. Meanwhile, the daily tally of COVID-19 cases stood at 1,124 in Chittoor district. Of these, more than 700 cases were reported from Tirupati and Chittoor municipal corporation limits. One death was also reported in the district in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thousands-witness-local-version-of-jallikattu-at-gudupalle-in-chittoor-dist/article38280674.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman, son drown in tank||A woman and her son drowned in Appalakunta tank at Chittapara village of Gudipala mandal near Chittoor on Sunday. According to the police, Kavitha (35) and Delhi (15) of Chittapara village reached the tank in the afternoon to wash clothes. While the woman stayed in the shallow waters at an edge, her son strayed away from her and entered the water body. Seeing Delhi drowning, the woman rushed to his rescue, but she too met with the same fate. The boy was said to be mentally challenged. The police retrieved the bodies and shifted them to the district hospital here for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-son-drown-in-tank/article38280301.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies after attack by camp elephant||A 45-year-old man from Varagaliayar tribal colony in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) was killed when he was attacked by a camp elephant of the Forest Department on Sunday. The deceased was V. Arumugam, a resident of Kozhikamuthy tribal settlement, who was working as the cavady (assistant to mahout) to an elephant at the camp. Forest Department officials said the incident took place on Sunday morning when the mahout and cavady were taking out the elephant, named Ashok, for open grazing. The elephant attacked Arumugam while being taken to its grazing area. He was immediately taken to the primary health centre at Top Slip, and was shifted to the Government Hospital, Pollachi, for advanced care. However, he succumbed to injuries at the Pollachi GH. According to the Forest Department, Arumugam had given routine food to the elephant on Sunday morning. Ulandy Forest Range Officer A. Kasilingam said an immediate relief of Rs. 25,000 was given to the legal heir of the deceased on Sunday. Sources said that the ATR authorities will recommend the Forest Department to provide a job to Arumugam’s son, a graduate.  The incident took place on Sunday morning when the mahout and cavady were taking out the elephant, named Ashok, for grazing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-after-attack-by-camp-elephant/article64949243.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||D. Srinivas to return to Congress||TRS member of Rajya Sabha D. Srinivas will join the Congress soon but the date and venue are not yet confirmed. Though party sources said he is likely to join in New Delhi on January 24 in the presence of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, given his good relations with her, family sources revealed that the date and venue may change. “It doesn’t matter whether he joins in Hyderabad or Delhi but his joining is confirmed,” a source close to the family said. The former Congress chief in combined Andhra Pradesh switched loyalties to the TRS in July 2015 after the formation of separate Telangana and was immediately nominated to the Rajya Sabha by TRS chief K. Chandrasekhar Rao. He is returning to his old party just a few months before he is set to complete his term. Negative impact Mr. Srinivas’s relations with KCR were negatively impacted ever since his son Dharmapuri Aravind defeated Kalvakuntla Kavita in Nizamabad in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Prior to that, Ms. Kavitha took the lead in adopting a resolution by all the nine TRS MLAs of Nizamabad seeking disciplinary action against him for his anti-party activities. KCR suspected his active role behind Kavita’s loss. But, the action did not come and neither did Mr. Srinivas resign from his post nor party. He has been staying away from party activities for the last three years, barring a lone meeting of the RS group of TRS in Parliament House. It was rumoured and acknowledged by several Congressmen that KCR welcomed Mr. Srinivas into the party to ensure the political future of his daughter in Nizamabad. If a tall leader with a considerable following in Nizamabad district joins TRS, KCR thought, it would hit the Congress morale and leave the political space open for Kavita for a long time to come. With Kavita’s loss and Congress candidate Madhu Yaskhi, a sitting MP, pushed to the third place, it was strongly believed that Mr. Srinivas put all his efforts behind his son and BJP candidate, Dharmapuri Aravind, leaving the Congress helpless. Precisely, for this reason, senior Congress leaders are opposing his entry arguing that neither he has the earlier clout nor the party cadre are enthused. In fact, some senior leaders have shot off letters to the party high command opposing his re-entry. “What is the guarantee that he will not back his son Aravind, who will be the BJP candidate again, in the next elections,” asks a senior leader. Mr. Yaskhi, a former Nizamabad MP, however, said that the party high command has taken a decision and he would welcome it while clarifying that he has not written any letter opposing the decision. Another senior leader, seeking anonymity, said they have informed the party leadership in New Delhi that even if he is admitted into the party, Mr. Srinivas should not have any role in ticket selection in combined Nizamabad district in the next elections. “He is joining the Congress to give political life to his elder son Dharmapuri Sanjay, a former Mayor of Nizamabad, who is lying low ever since his father was sidelined in the TRS.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/d-srinivas-to-return-to-congress/article64949246.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||51 hospitals designated for COVID care in E.G.||A total of 51 hospitals have been designated as COVID hospitals to provide medical treatment for patients suffering from the viral infection in East Godavari district. Most affected region The Konaseema region is the most affected by the spread of COVID-19 in the district. According to Collector Ch. Hari Kiran, at least 3,020 beds have been allocated for COVID-19 treatment in the 51 designated COVID hospitals. “About 1,510 beds will be allocated for the patients to be admitted under the Aarogyasri scheme. The rest will be provided at the fee prescribed by the State government,” said Mr. Hari Kiran. By Sunday, 26 hospitals have been designated as COVID hospitals in Kakinada city, 22 in Rajamahendravaram and three in Amalapuram, the headquarters of the Konaseema region, said Mr. Hari Kiran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/51-hospitals-designated-for-covid-care-in-eg/article38280660.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||676 cockfight organisers held in East Godavari||The Rajamahendravaram urban police arrested 676 organisers of cockfights across East Godavari district during raids on Sunday. A majority of the cockfight venues have been raided in the Konaseema region. The police registered 221 cases against the organisers and seized 278 roosters from the cockfight venues. All the arrested organisers belong to the district while the punters had from across the State and also neighbouring States. Warning to organisers Many venues have been found in the Rajamahendravaram urban police limits. The police also warned of registering cases against those who gave their places for conducting the cockfights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/676-cockfight-organisers-held-in-east-godavari/article38280661.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||With just a pickaxe, Kerala farmer carves out a tunnel||It was a holiday trip to Thailand that inspired 69-year-old C.T. Thomas to take a pickaxe and shovel and dig a 25-metre tunnel through a hill beside his home in Peruvamba Eramam Kuttar gram panchayat in Kannur district of Kerala. His enthusiasm sparked by a tunnel cave made by residents of a Thai island, Mr. Thomas decided to replicate the novelty in the laterite hill slope adjoining his house. Six months later, his efforts have borne fruit despite local opposition and the tunnel cave is now a popular attraction, including for those who warned him against it. Despite criticism, he was determined to construct a cave and immediately began the work after arriving from his trip. He started to dig the laterite rocks to carve the tunnel all by himself and without using any electrical machinery. Aware of the fragility of the slopes and amidst dire warnings that the tunnel would collapse, Mr. Thomas worked on the tunnel with only his trusty pickaxe avoiding electrical tools that could have damaged the rocks. With the COVID lockdown affording him free time, he began work on a spot close to his house, which is also built on one such laterite slope. “I removed all the soil after working 14 hours a day without using any electrical machinery or outside labour,” Mr. Thomas said, his work belying his age. All that was with him was a torch as he went on to dig the six feet high tunnel through the laterite hill. Even though the work is exhausting, as he goes digging deep inside the hill, it gives a sense of happiness and satisfaction. he said. The tunnel opens in front of his house and stretches about 25 metres through the hill to end at the back of his house. Inside the tunnel are small chambers and above the tunnel are full-grown rubber trees, which keep the tunnel freezing cold at all times. Not done yet However, Mr. Thomas is not done with his work and continues to dig the tunnel so that he can reach the other side of the hill. While family members were initially apprehensive, after six months of hard work, they are impressed by the tunnel and backing him, he said. Mr. Thomas said it was difficult during rains, as the water seeped into the tunnel. However, it soon drained out. Belying the fears of his neighbours, the tunnel has stood firm over the months. And many of those who were against it, now come to spend time in the tunnel. Once completed, Mr. Thomas wants to throw open the rocky passage for visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-just-a-pickaxe-kerala-farmer-carves-out-a-tunnel/article64949237.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mollywood gender inequality report may stay under wraps||A report of the Hema Commission, set up by the State government to address issues of gender inequality and sexual harassment in the Malayalam film industry, is unlikely to be placed in the State Assembly for a debate. This was revealed after a meeting of members of the Women in Cinema Collective (WCC) with Kerala Women’s Commission chairperson P. Sathidevi at the Government Guest House in Kozhikode on Sunday morning. The commission, led by a retired Kerala High Court judge, was set up on July 1, 2017, after a WCC delegation met Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan against the backdrop of sexual assault on an actor in Kochi. The commission submitted its report to the Chief Minister on December 31, 2019. “I learnt from the then Minister for Cultural Affairs that the committee had not been set up under the Commission of Inquiry Act. So, the government is not bound to place it in the Assembly,” Ms. Sathidevi said. ‘Legislation necessary’ However, she said that legislation was necessary to regulate the functioning of the film industry. Internal Complaints Committees (ICC) mandated by the Supreme Court were not functional there. “Even years after the passage of the Equal Remuneration Act, disparity in wages is a reality in the industry. The commission is of the view that a production house should be given registration for film making only after it sets up an ICC. We will place these issues before the government,” she said. It was the responsibility of film production companies to address those issues. “We came to know that some of those companies were not even aware of ICC.” Ms. Sathidevi said the government was expected to take follow-up measures based on the recommendations of the Hema Commission. Didi Damodaran, filmmaker, said they were not aware that the committee report need not be made a public document. “We hope that the report will be made accessible,” she said. Draws flak Filmmaker Anjali Menon, playback singer Sayanora Philip, and actors Parvathy Thiruvothu and Padmapriya were among those who met Ms. Sathidevi. The Kerala government had drawn flak for the delay in implementation of the report. Recently, a three-member committee was appointed to formulate an implementation plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mollywood-gender-inequality-report-may-stay-under-wraps/article64949244.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curbs on darshan, no free prasadam at Srisailam||Sri Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy temple at Srisailam will curtail the number of devotees to be allowed into the sanctum sanctorum from Monday in view of the increasing COVID-19 positive cases. According to a release from the temple, only 1,000 devotees would be allowed per hour, which makes it about 10,000 to 12,000 per day. The devotees will not be served teertham and prasadam, and the number of persons allowed for Arjitha Seva will be reduced by 50%. Only ‘laghu darshanam’ will be allowed. Devotees have been asked to book their sevas online only. During the six days of Brahmotsavam also only 10,000 people had attended the rituals per day, said the temple officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curbs-on-darshan-no-free-prasadam-at-srisailam/article38280514.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore sees quantum jump in literacy rate||Sitting on the Rachabanda at Mulamudi village, sixty-year-old Ramanaiah, a farmer, started reading a daily newspaper aloud as his fellow villagers looked on with surprise. Sujata, another neo-literate in the village, says: “I no longer need to put my thumb impression while drawing money from bank. I can verify the cash balance in my account on my own.” The change has been brought about because of the 100-day training programme, “Akshara Chaitanyam”, initiated by the Nellore district administration. Explaining how the idea to undertake the programme came about, District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu said: “A few days back some persons, who came to register their complaints during the Grievance day proceedings, had put their thumb impression on a paper without knowing the content, and got cheated.” It was then that we realised the need to teach villagers basic reading and writing skills, he said, with a sense of satisfaction as 93.80% of the 1.24 lakh persons who attended the exams conducted earlier this month were declared passed. Inspired by Sujata and Ramanaiah, scores of fellow villagers also enrolled themselves in the programme, to learn reading, writing and doing simple mathematical skills. As a result, the literacy rate in the district, which was 67% as per the 2011 census, improved to 84% in just over four months of having begun the drive, said Mr. Chakradhar Babu. At present, the literacy rate among men in the district stands at 85.8% and it is 82.2% among women. The pass percentage was 95.01% among Scheduled Caste members and about 93% among the members of Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes. Over 8,400 centres The Collector said the classes are held at village secretariats. The trained education assistants and village volunteers shouldered the task of holding classes at the time convenient to the trainees in over 8,400 centers in 40 mandals, under the supervision by Joint Collector (Development) G. Ganesh Kumar. Six mandals have already been covered under the Centre’s Padhna Likhna Abhiyan. The Open School Society had provided books and other material worth Rs.36.85 lakh to the beneficiaries.  ‘’Now we will focus on imparting literacy to those who were covered in the programme so far. Our aim is to continue the drive until ever person in the district becomes literate,” said District Panchayat Officer M. Dhanalakshmi in a conversation with The Hindu .  Those keen on pursuing further education would be encouraged to appear in class III, V and VIII examinations under the open school system, added Ms. Dhanalakshmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-sees-quantum-jump-in-literacy-rate/article64949308.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID surge puts bull trainers in tough spot||Sixty-year-old Rangaiah, a bull trainer, used to happily go round the town along with the colourfully-decorated Ongole bull and perform a variety of tricks during Sankaranti year after year. But this time, a sudden surge in COVID-19 cases has put paid to his hopes of getting gifts, including new clothes and cash, from the people. Every year, bull trainers from the nomadic Jangam community visit Ongole and other cities and towns for three-to-four months till the harvest festival, before returning to their native village, Nagallamudipi, near Markapur in Prakasam district with handsome gains. “This time, people did not even come out of their house when we went there fearing spread of the infection,” Rangaiah added. The economic condition of scores of families of bull trainers who had been camping on the city outskirts near Zilla Parishad colony ahead of the big festival was no different. “We were hoping against hope for normalcy to return. Now the surge of COVID cases has again put us in a tough spot,” laments another trainer Ramanaiah. Now we are finding the going tough with inadequate food, water and fodder, adds Santhaiah. while sipping a cup of coffee at the deserted C.V.N. Reading room centre here. These trainers tame the bulls disowned by farmers and train them in the Nallamala forests over six-to-eight months. After training, they bring back the docile animals to cities and towns for Sankranti and make them do a variety of tricks to enthrall the audience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-surge-puts-bull-trainers-in-tough-spot/article64949309.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:05 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spandana will be held virtually from today: SP||The Prakasam police on Sunday announced cancellation of Spandana, the grievance redressal forum, at the District Police Office in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases across the district. However, those having complaints could visit the nearest police station and register them through video conferencing facility between 11 a.m. and 2.30 p.m. on Monday, district Superintendent of Police Malika Garg said. People coming to police stations should compulsorily follow COVID safety norms like wearing face masks and washing hands with sanitizers from time to time, she said. The SP assured them that she would thoroughly look into each and every complaint received remotely and promised to ensure justice to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spandana-will-be-held-virtually-from-today-sp/article38280300.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||411 new COVID cases in South Coastal A.P.||Over 400 persons contracted the coronavirus infection in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours. As a result, the number of active cases went up to a little over 2,700 in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Sunday. The only consolation for the health professionals is that the region reported zero deaths during the period. The case count inched closer to 2.89 lakh in the region as 411 persons-- 253 persons in Nellore district and 178 persons in Prakasam district-- tested positive for the disease. Though the daily tally was less when compared to the previous day’s tally of 587, the number of recoveries remained low. Only 35 persons in the region were declared recovered on Sunday. The recovery rate, which was over 99% till last month, dipped to 98.29%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/411-new-covid-cases-in-south-coastal-ap/article38280293.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cattle decorated, worshipped on the occasion of Kanuma||Cattle which are considered part of the family were decorated in the traditional manner in many villages on Kanuma, considered an important festival by the people of Vizianagaram and Srikakulam, the two agrarian districts. People offered special prayers to the animals which work hard along with them in the fields and help them reap bumper crops during the Sankranti season. People settled in other places also visited their native villages to participate in the festival. Former Vice-Chancellor of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University and Special Officer of AP Tribal University-Vizianagaram Hanumanthu Lajipathi Rai and his family members on Sunday participated in the ‘Gopuja’ at Nagarampalli village of Vajrapukotthuru mandal in Srikakulam district. The youngsters in the family were quite excited to see the decoration of the cattle. They offered prasadam to the cows and other animals. Mr. Lajipathi Rai told the media that the cattle would understand the love and affection shown by people with this puja and prayer. P.V.S. Rammohan Foundation president P.V.S. Ramamohana Rao distributed dress material and saris to nearly 200 families at Dhavalapeta of G.Sigadam mandal in Srikakulam district. “The agriculture labourers are also treated as family members. Without their involvement, we cannot grow anything. That is why, we distribute essential commodities and clothes to them every year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cattle-decorated-worshipped-on-the-occasion-of-kanuma/article38280665.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Divine blessings sought to overcome Omicron threat||The Srimukhalingeswara Swamy temple authorities offered special prayers, including Mahanyasa Purvaka Maha Lingarchana, seeking the divine blessings of Lord Siva to overcome the threat of Omicron variant of COVID-19. Temple chief priest Nayudigari Rajasekhar and other priests performed special pujas, including Gopuja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/divine-blessings-sought-to-overcome-omicron-threat/article38280662.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kodiyeri sees corporates’ role in protest||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has said that corporates are behind the protests aimed at scuttling the proposed SilverLine semi-high-speed rail project in the State. Inaugurating the valedictory of the CPI(M) Thiruvananthapuram district conference here on Sunday, Mr. Balakrishnan said the 529.45-km Rs. 63,941 crore initiative would not cause hardship to anyone. He said land would be acquired in the rural areas at four times the market price and at two-and-a-half times the price in municipal areas. ''No one will have to shed tears because of this project. The government will stand with the people,'' he said. He alleged ulterior motives behind the protests mounted by the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and other organisations. He said the protests were designed to safeguard the interests of corporates who were eyeing the lucrative railway business in the country. The BJP-led Central government was moving towards privatising Indian Railways, and the corporates were well aware that wresting the SilverLine project, to be implemented by the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd (K-Rail), would be next to impossible since it was in Kerala, Mr. Balakrishnan said. The CPI(M) State secretary claimed that the detailed project report (DPR), now available in the public domain, had adequate provision to safeguard the environment. Describing the SilverLine as a 'green rail,' he said the project would be implemented by protecting the streams, rivers and paddy fields. Call to inspect DPR The protestors should have opposed the project after inspecting the DPR, he said.. There was no logic behind the protests launched by the Congress, as it was the United Democratic Front (UDF) that put forward the high-speed rail project. Both the Congress and the BJP were fully aware that if the project was allowed, they would be no future for them in the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kodiyeri-sees-corporates-role-in-protest/article38280285.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bull taming a big draw near Tirupati||Youth gathered to tame the charging bulls at the ‘Pasuvula Panduga’ celebrated in the rural areas abutting Tirupati on Sunday. ‘Kanuma’, the third day of the Sankranti festival, is dedicated to livestock and, as such, the festivities revolved around the cattle, be it painting the cow’s horn and adorning it with balloons, or involving their favourite bulls in valorous sports. While Tamil Nadu’s ‘Jallikattu’ is famous all over, a milder version is observed in the bordering Chittoor district. With undeclared restrictions on such sports, the event has been toned down even more in the recent years, making it symbolic. Youth from across the district gathered for the ‘Pasuvula Panduga’ conducted at Arepalli Rangampeta, Pullaiahgaripalle and Arigelavaripalle villages of Chandragiri mandal. The main street was thoroughly barricaded, through which the bulls were made to run. A slate tied to the bull’s horns, considered the prize money, was the ‘juicy carrot’ used to attract the brave youth to participate in the game. Since the event is considered synonymous to courage, confidence and physical strength, the winner is reckoned as the ‘Hero’ of the countryside for the entire year. Hundred pairs of bulls were made to run amok in the narrow lane, with the participants lunging at them and catching hold of the slate tied to their horns. The event turned out to be incident-free in all the three villages. There were no serious injuries to the participants, barring some minor bruises. The injured were immediately rushed to the local hospital. Though the local police denied permission, this time citing COVID-19 norms, the event passed off peacefully and without hassles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bull-taming-a-big-draw-near-tirupati/article64949238.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD proposes more cow-based activities||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has come up with a proposal to take up more cow-based projects, programmes and products by leveraging its dairy potential. As part of the Kanuma festivities conducted at its Sri Venkateswara Gosamrakshanasala here on Sunday, TTD trust board member Pokala Ashok Kumar said that the cow preservation activities of TTD had peaked in the recent times, listing out ‘Gau Adharitha Vyavasayam’, ‘Gudiko Gomatha’, ‘Govinduniki Goadharita Naivedyam’, ‘Gau Puja’ in all temples, Navaneetha Seva, Gau Mandiram at Alipiri, launch of Panchagavya products, a research centre at Palamaner and so on. “There is every need to save the cows, especially enhance the population of Desi breeds for the benefit of posterity,” he said, appealing to everyone to take an oath to protect cows. Chief Vigilance and Security Officer Gopinath Jatti dubbed ‘Gau Puja’ on Kanuma day as an ancient festivity in vogue since times immemorial in India. Dairy Farm Director K. Haranath Reddy presided over the special ‘Puja’ conducted to the deity of Sri Venugopala Swamy at the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-proposes-more-cow-based-activities/article38280299.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS Governor prays at Tirumala||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan offered prayers at Sri Venkateswara temple at Tirumala on Sunday along with her family members. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy formally received the delegation and ushered her into the temple. After darshan, she was presented ‘Srivari Theertha Prasadam’, diary and calendar at Ranganayakula Mandapam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-governor-prays-at-tirumala/article64949255.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cockfights end as Sankranti festivities draw to a close||Huge tents, floodlights, make-shift hotels, fast food centres, biryani points, and parking lots. The cockfight arenas at many villages have these and much more. Despite a ban on the blood sport, rooster fights have been organised in a big way in East and West Godavari, Krishna, and other districts of the State during the three-day Sankranti celebrations. The cockfight arenas have witnessed heavy rush, with the punters betting high on each game. Crores of rupees have changed hands. At some arenas, the punters have transferred money online, and in a few other villages the organisers carried cash. In some other places, the ATMs have reportedly run out of cash as banks declared holidays. In places such as I. Bhimavaram, Veeravasaram, Mogalturu, Sakinetipalli, Jaggaiahpeta, Kalidindi, Gudivada, Nagayalanka, Peddapulipaka, Mudinepalli, Pedaparupudi, and Korukallu, the villagers have carried the trained roosters to the arenas. Gambling and other games have also been arranged by the organisers in some towns and villages. As minor clashes have been reported at a few arenas, the police arranged pickets as a precautionary measure. The rooster fights concluded on Sunday as the three-day Sankranti festivities drew to a close.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/despite-ban-rooster-fights-held-across-ap/article64949228.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||KfW offers financial aid to energy-efficient houses||German State-owned KfW bank has expressed interest in extending financial support to energy-efficiency measures in the Andhra Pradesh government’s flagship housing programme under the Navaratnalu - Pedalandariki Illu scheme.  Martin Lux, Head of Energy Team at KfW, conveyed it in a virtual meeting attended by officials of the AP Housing Department and AP State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) on Sunday. The KfW will provide up to 150 million Euros for the construction of energy-efficient houses and two million Euros for technical assistance and additional financing support for electricity distribution infrastructure and strengthening the power supply networks to the houses, Mr. Lux announced, and sounded confident that it would become a role model. The KfW team comprised Alex Heuer, Rukmini Parthasarathy, Hemant Bhatnagar, Sangeeta Agarwal and Kiran. State Energy Secretary N. Srikant said he was looking forward to collaborating with the KfW in the construction of 15.60 lakh houses in the first phase, of which around 10.72 lakh houses have been already grounded. Special Chief Secretary (housing) Ajay Jan informed the KfW that the State government was in the process of creating the best infrastructure in Jagananna Colonies at a cost of around Rs. 37,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kfw-offers-financial-aid-to-energy-efficient-houses/article64949226.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fate of two major R&B projects hangs in the balance in State||One year ago, Andhra Pradesh had entered into a tripartite agreement with the New Development Bank (NDB) and the Union government for developing two roads and bridges at a cost of Rs. 6,400 crore. The A.P. Roads and Bridges Reconstruction Project (APRBRP) and the A.P. Mandal Connectivity and Rural Connectivity Improvement Project (APMCRCIP) have hit a roadblock as the State government reportedly has not released its share of the project cost till date. According to information, of the total cost of Rs. 6,400 crore, the share of the State government is Rs. 1,920 crore, while the remaining is loan from the NDB. But, even after one year of signing the MoU, the State government “has no money on hand to fulfil its obligation.” While this is so, the NDP, sources say, has rejected the Finance Department’s condition that it release the loan amount upfront without insisting on the State’s share. “The NDB has not only rejected the plea but also stalled the release of the loan amount, pending release of the State share,” says an official on condition of anonymity. CM’s deadline With the NDB mulling over “reconsidering the loan” proposal, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has reportedly pulled up the Finance Department officials and directed them to clear all the hurdles for the projects forthwith and end the impasse. However, the Finance Department has reportedly not taken any steps to tide over the crisis despite the issue being discussed at four high-level meetings chaired by the Chief Minister. The officials got a earful from the Chief Minister when the issue came up for discussion again recently and set January 18 as the deadline to sort things out, sources say. The Roads and Buildings Department planned to widen 3,104 km of roads and construct \ reconstruct 479 bridges in all the 13 districts. The two projects are intended to improve mobility and connectivity to the socio-economic centres, enhance transport efficiency, improve road safety and riding quality, and provide all-weather accessibility for the road users. The R&B Department, which is the executing agency for these projects, has enlisted 124 works in the first phase at a cost of Rs. 3,013.86 crore and awarded the contracts more than nine months ago. However, there has been no progress as initially the contractors were reluctant to go ahead, fearing non-payment of bills by the government. The R&B Department has prevailed upon the Chief Minister for a separate bank account for the projects so that the payments to contractors can be made directly without any hitch. But the Finance Department threw a spanner in the works by asking the NDB not to insist on the State’s share. The R&B Department has lined up 120 works under Phase-2 of the projects at a cost of Rs. 3,386.14 crore. But with the Phase-1 itself on a bumpy road, the fate of the second phase works too hangs in the balance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fate-of-two-major-rb-projects-hangs-in-the-balance-in-state/article38280675.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP trying to suppress Opposition voice, says Varla||TDP Polit Bureau member Varla Ramaiah has accused the ruling YSRCP of unveiling a “false crime” drama with the connivance of the police to suppress the voice of the opposition TDP leaders. Addressing the media on Sunday, Mr. Ramaiah said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and DGP Gautam Sawang would be held responsible should anything happen to TDP Narasaraopet in-charge Aravind Babu, who reportedly suffered fractures. “What was wrong with Mr. Aravind Babu and other TDP leaders staging protests demanding the release of the opposition activists? Why didn’t the Chief Minister take any action against the CI who hit the TDP leader with his boots?” Mr. Ramaiah asked. The CI had acted at the behest of the YSRCP leaders. The YSRCP workers did not allow the ambulance to shift Dr. Aravind to hospital immediately, he alleged. “Dr. Aravind Babu was a doctor and a soft-spoken person. He fell unconscious. The Chief Minister and the DGP will be held responsible if anything happens to him,” he said. Mr. Ramaiah alleged that the YSRCP leaders of Jonnalagadda had taken away the statue of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy and hid it somewhere. Later, they staged a protest and gave a list of TDP leaders’ names as suspects, and the police arrested them, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-trying-to-suppress-opposition-voice-says-varla/article38280676.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Budget preparation exercise begins today||The State government will begin the preparatory exercise for Budget 2022-23 from Monday. The Finance Department has scheduled a series of meetings from January 17 to 24 with all departments to discuss the budgetary allocations. The Finance Department officials will hold discussions with the officials of the other departments over the allocations and budgetary requirements for the financial year 2022-23. The Central and the State government flagship programmes, priority schemes, externally aided projects, the 15th Finance Commission grants and child and gender budget etc. will form part of the discussions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/budget-preparation-exercise-begins-today/article38280664.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six Durga temple employees test positive||Six employees of the Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam have tested positive for COVID-19. Two priests and two staffers each from the engineering and festival wings tested positive on Sunday. The temple authorities asked all the employees to get the COVID-19 test done immediately. The authorities are likely to conduct a test drive for the employees shortly. Executive Officer D. Bhramaramba appealed to devotees to wear masks compulsorily. They have to follow all guidelines scrupulously, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-durga-temple-employees-test-positive/article38280671.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||MTF opposes merger of schools||Leaders of the Municipal Teachers’ Federation (MTF) have given a call for a State-wide protest on January 19 (Wednesday) in protest against merger of municipal schools and seeking implementation of the pay revision promised by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at the time of the elections. In a statement, MTF State president S. Ramakrishna said the proposed merger of primary sections in high schools posed a threat to the jobs of 9,000-odd secondary grade teachers. Moreover, it would reduce the number of municipal schools across the State from 2,115 to a mere 335.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mtf-opposes-merger-of-schools/article38280670.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVL meets Nirmala Sitharaman||BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao tweeted on Sunday that he took part in a pre-Budget consultation meeting with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and presented his party’s views on the Central government’s financial assistance to Andhra Pradesh, “financial misgovernance” and the meltdown in the State as suggested by State party president Somu Veerraju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvl-meets-nirmala-sitharaman/article38280667.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spandana at Sub-Collector’s office today||The government’s grievance redressal programme Spandana will be conducted on Monday at the office of the Sub-Collector on M.G. Road here. In a release, Vijayawada Sub-Collector G.S.S. Praveen Chand said that Spandana would resume on Monday. He said people of the Vijayawada revenue division could submit their grievances with supporting documents on any issue related to the division and their concerns. The programme would be conducted every Monday between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spandana-at-sub-collectors-office-today/article38280719.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s time for some enforcement to check virus spread, say experts||The COIVD-19 positivity rate in the district, especially in the urban areas, has touched 37% and the cases are piling up in hundreds. Keeping this in mind, the experts from the medical field say that it is time for some serious enforcement to break the chain of spread of the pandemic. In the last four days, the district has recorded close to 3,500 cases and as per the officials, every third person is testing positive at the testing labs, which is considered to be on the higher side when it comes to tracking and understanding the trajectory of any pandemic. The experts anticipate a huge spike after the Sankranti festival and feel that some kind of enforcement should have been in place already. Expressing surprise at the rush and public gathering at RK Beach in the last three festival days, senior doctors from King George Hospital and Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences, say that the beaches should have been closed by the authorities concerned to avoid the huge public gathering. At least it should have been regulated, they opine. It is estimated that over one lakh people per day have been to RK Beach in the last two days, as per an official from the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA). It is surprising to see people thronging the beaches, especially the locals, who would have visited RK Beach or Rushikonda Beach several times in the past, despite fully knowing that the third wave is on and this time the transmission rate is very high. People should behave a little responsibly and it is time for the authorities to step in, says former principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. The doctors at the main COVID hospitals, KGH and VIMS, feel that the Pongal shopping should also have been regulated. The malls were full and people were seen flouting the COVID-19 protocols, says Vijay Sekhar from KGH. “We are fortunate that though the cases are on the rise very rapidly, the severity is less and till date the pressure is not that high on the hospitals, unlike in the first and second wave. But things can change, as still people with comorbidities and underlying diseases are susceptible to severity,” remarks VIMS Director K. Rambabu. Apartment associations and welfare associations should step in by supporting the affected persons and families. It has been seen that due to lack of support, an affected person in an affected family is forced to go out to buy essentials and in the process he or she may spread the virus, said Dr. Rambabu. Though the experts do not vouch for a lockdown , they feel that at least public places and public gathering needs to be regulated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-time-for-some-enforcement-to-check-virus-spread-say-experts/article64949253.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases cross 1,000-mark for the second day||The single-day tally of COVID-19 infections crossed the 1,000-mark consecutively for the second time in the district. In the last 24 hours, the district reported as many as 1,028 new infections, ending Sunday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,65,425. A total of 101 persons undergoing treatment for the virus were recovered and fortunately there were no COVID-19 deaths. The death toll stands at 1,112 and the number of recoveries has increased to 1,58,694. The active cases have crossed the 5,000-mark from 100s in just 20 days. By Sunday morning, the number of active cases rose to 5,619. On December 27, the active caseload was 121.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cases-cross-1000-mark-for-the-second-day/article38280726.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special drives conducted to check rooster fights||The police conducted special drives to check cockfights and gambling during the three festival days. As many as 258 persons were arrested for being involved in 71 cases and about Rs. 2.64 lakh was seized from them. The police have also seized 123 roosters from the accused. Of the 71 cases registered, 11 cases were registered under Payakaraopeta police station limits, seven cases each in S. Rayavaram and Yelamanchali, and six cases in Narsipatnam (Town). Similarly, Anakapalle and Makavarapalem police stations registered four cases each, while Nathavaram, Nakkapalle, Munagapaka and Anakapalle (rural) reported three cases each. Atchutapuram, Sabbavaram, Rambilli, Ravikamatham, Cheedikada and K.D. Peta reported two cases each. Other police stations like Koyyuru, Narsipatnam (rural), Rolugunta and a few others reported one case each. On Saturday alone, 43 cases were booked in the district in which the police arrested 163 persons. An amount of Rs. 1.90 lakh was seized. Some parts of Parawada, Anandapuram and Padmanabham from the city police station limits have also reportedly witnessed cockfights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-drives-conducted-to-check-rooster-fights/article38280725.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Extend holidays for schools, State govt. urged||General Secretary of Praja Arogya Vedhika (PAV) T. Kameswara Rao has requested Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to announce holidays for schools immediately after Sankranti. He also urged the Chief Minister to improve facilities in the hospitals, increase COVID-19 tests by announcing health emergency. In a letter to Mr. Jagan, the PAV Secretary said that people are in panic mode due to increase in COVID-19 cases. Already there is a rise in COVID-19 cases in the rural parts of the State. Neighbouring States have already declared holidays for educational institutions, he reminded, suggesting that classes may be resumed online. The PAV member also asked Mr. Jagan to strengthen medical facilities in the rural areas Meanwhile, State Convener of the Child Rights Protection Forum (CRPF), Visakhapatnam, Gondu Sitaram, on Sunday appealed to the State government to declare holidays for one week to 10 days for all schools in the State in the wake of COVID-19 situation. He said that he has written letters to the Chief Minister and the Education Minister on the issue. In arelease on Sunday, he said that the COVID-19positivity rate is around 13.87% across the state, due to which a high percentage of students and their parents are frightened to send children to schools. He said that the COVID-19 cases are likely to increase after Sankranti holidays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/extend-holidays-for-schools-state-govt-urged/article38280724.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spandana, Dial Your Mayor cancelled today||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna in a release on Sunday, said that weekly-grievance ‘Spandana’ programme scheduled to be held on Monday (January 17) is cancelled. He said that the decision was taken to avoid gathering keeping in view the increasing number of COVID-19 cases, he said. Meanwhile, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari said that the ‘Spandana’ and ‘Dial Your Mayor’ programmes scheduled to be held on Monday at Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) are also cancelled due to COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spandana-dial-your-mayor-cancelled-today/article38280723.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steely resolve||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steely-resolve/article64949254.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fight mode on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fight-mode-on/article64949310.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sky high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sky-high/article64949223.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||Heavy rainfall lashes many parts of Telangana||Heavy rain lashed several parts of Hyderabad late on Saturday night and resulted in waterlogging, which gave tough time to motorists. The vehicular traffic had to wade through knee deep water in bylanes of Uppal, Farooqnagar, Chilkanagar, Nacharam and adjoining areas. Water overflowed stormwater drains. Weather observations recorded by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) showed that seven centimetres of rain was recorded in Noothankal of Suryapet and Saroornagar in Rangareddy district in the city. Three centimetres of rain each has been recorded in Mothey, Suryapet (Suryapet district), Ramannapeta (Y. Bhuvanagiri), Jajireddigudem (Suryapet) 2, Nalgonda, Chandur (Nalgonda district) 2 cm each, etc. TSDPS bulletin Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS) has put out the rainfall bulletin where Nacharam recorded 8.5 cm., Kapra 7.7 cm., Uppal 4.8 cm., Malkajgiri 2 cm., etc. Previous night 6.9 cm rain was recorded at Mutharam_Manthani, Peddapalli district. Hyderabad recorded 18.9 degree C in the night and average rainfall of 1.88 mm. IMD bulletin Meanwhile, a day after certain parts of twin cities and Telangana received unusually heavy rainfall, predominantly dry weather has been forecast with cloudy sky and haze for Monday. There has been four degree crop in the day temperature on Sunday - recorded at 25.2 degree C and minimum was 18.9 degree C, three degree above normal and 2 mm of rain. India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin forecast the maximum temperature to creep up to 29 degree C and minimum temperature to be around 18 degree C.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-rain-lashes-several-parts-of-the-state/article64949387.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||Secunderabad Club blaze ravages a slice of Hyderabad’s history||Only the granite pillars stood intact amid the swirling smoke and slush of overnight rain and water poured by 10 fire engines. Security staff created a barricade and stopped people from entering on Sunday morning as the city woke up to the news of 3-a.m. blaze that left the main building of Secunderabad Club in a charred hulk. “It is unrecognisable now. It was a building with extensive use of wooden beams, and wooden staircase with Mangalore tile roof. Now, the sky is visible,” said Anuradha Reddy, a club member and historian. Club members who visited the site in the morning informed that the burnt section included the Colonnade (the British-era men-only bar), the iconic wooden staircase, billiards and snooker room, and the ballroom. While the Colonade was filled with hunting trophies and other antiques, the blaze also destroyed an 1878 snooker table. ‘Like a second home’ Among the first visitors to the site was B. Vijay Kumar who has been a member of the club for the past 51 years. “It is like a second home to me with my family members, including my children and grandchildren, frequenting the club. I am told the blaze has destroyed the secretariat and with it, the records would have been lost,” said Mr. Kumar. Gift of Salar Jung The building destroyed in the blaze was a gift of Salar Jung and was earlier used as a hunting lodge. “Before the construction of the Residency Building in Koti, the British Resident used to function from Bollarum Residency (presently titled Rashtrapati Nilayam as it is used by the President for winter sojourn). Whenever Salar Jung had to meet the Resident, he would stop over and get into full regalia before meeting the Resident,” informed Ms. Reddy. Once the Resident visited the hunting lodge, he took a shine to it. Salar Jung gifted it to the Secunderabad Club which became a watering hole for the British Army Officers in 1878. Club history The Secunderabad Club began as Secunderabad Public Rooms on April 26, 1878, that was located near present-day Tivoli Cinema. The name changed to Secunderabad Garrison Club, Secunderabad Gymkhana Club and then United Services Club allowing membership from all wings of the services. In March 1903, the name was changed to Secunderabad Club and the change coincided with the gift by Salar Jung I who was the Prime Minister of Hyderabad State. Ironically, a bar called 1878, as a tribute to the foundation year, has also been destroyed in the blaze. The club remains an exclusive preserve. Till 1947, only British officers were the Presidents of the Club. The first native to become president of the club was General El-Edroos of Hyderabad Army. After Indian Army overran Hyderabad, General J.N. Chaudhuri became its president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/secunderabad-club-blaze-ravages-a-slice-of-hyderabads-history/article64949390.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:46 IST,TELANGANA||Administrative reforms’ panel formed||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has constituted a four-member committee of senior IAS officers for administrative reforms in the State in the wake of completion of re-allotment of government officers and employees to local cadres on the basis of nativity. The panel will study the functioning of employees in different departments, filling up of vacancies and the role of senior officers in the implementation of government programmes. It will be headed by Inspector General and Commissioner of Stamps and Registration Seshadri, secretary in the CMO Smita Sabharwal, GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar and Commissioner of Women and Child Welfare Divya. The decision to constitute the committee was taken at a meeting presided by Mr. Rao. It was noted that all but 101 out of 38,643 employees, who were allotted to erstwhile districts, had joined their duties. Therefore, steps should be taken to issue job notifications immediately for vacancies arising in those districts. A release said the committee was also mandated to submit reports on construction of integrated government office complexes and functioning of government departments in districts. The reports should include suggestions for improvement of deliverables by the government. Best utilisation The panel should also suggest ways on how best to utilise the services of revenue divisional officers, village revenue officers and village revenue assistants. An assessment of workload on departments in the context of formation of new districts and new mandals should be made to identify the requirement of new posts to ease the burden. Mr. Rao informed the officials that the government was committed to introduce more administrative reforms with a view to step up government programmes in the context of the State taking the top place in the country in implementation of developmental activities. He asked them to suggest measures to utilise the services of employees in creation of basic infrastructure and extension of services in health, education, Panchayat Raj and municipal administration departments. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other senior officials and some MLAs were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/administrative-reforms-panel-formed/article64949384.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||Heavy to very heavy rainfall in undivided Nalgonda||Munugode, Kattangur and Nakrekal mandals in Nalgonda and Noothankal mandal in Suryapet district received heavy to very heavy rainfall till Sunday morning. Nakrekal, as per reports of the Telangana State Development Planning Society, received the maximum 117 mm rainfall. Three centimetres rainfall in Suryapet mandal saw several colonies and low-lying areas inundated. Normal life went out of gear for residents of Manasa Nagar, Sri Ram Nagar, Vinayak Nagar and the neighbouring colonies, as several of their lanes and bylanes remained inundated. Rivulets in the catchment of Musi project overflowed, and the breaching of the Chowdari Cheruvu bund in Suryapet town also resulted in continued water logging. Local legislator and Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy who, reviewed the situation, instructed District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy and the municipal officials for water draining and clearing of nalas to prevent untoward incidents. Gushing rivulets and flooding in the colonies during the day saw a few cattle being washed away, which were rescued later. Unusual scenes for the colonies included a car submerged in the flood waters, breaching of local tanks, and power outages as a few electricity sub-stations were water-logged. Travel between Nalgonda town and Nakrekal also remained cut off as Thatikal village’s tank overflowed. At least eight migrant workers, who were attending the bridge construction works, and stranded in the flood, were rescued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-to-very-heavy-rainfall-in-undivided-nalgonda/article38280695.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:44 IST,TELANGANA||Club president promises to rebuild gutted structure||President of Secunderabad Club, Raghuram Reddy received the first alarm about the blaze at 2:45 a.m on Sunday. After surveying the site, he said, “We are assessing the damage. The pillars are intact and we have plans to reconstruct the building to its original shape. It will be difficult and challenging but our initial thoughts are to rebuild.” “Luckily, the library is safe, as is the mixed lounge. The dining room and AC banquet hall have not been affected as the blaze spread through the right side of the building,” added Mr. Reddy, who suspects heavy rain at midnight, power outage and voltage fluctuation as the reasons for the fire. In 2007, the Secunderabad Club carried out a restoration effort on some of its properties. “We worked on the ballroom and some of the cottages and bungalows as they had wooden truss roof and tilework. We also carried out renovation of the dining room. The documentation of buildings was carried out by us,” said Surya Narayana Murthy of Kshetra, an architectural firm. Elaborating on the challenges related to reconstructing the damaged portions, Mr Murthy averred, “We have lost it. We can reconstruct the building using archival images but cannot restore the original and authentic material that was used for construction. Some of the club’s mementoes and artefacts are irreplaceable.” Lost in the blaze were the Colonnade Bar with its wood panels, flooring, victorian furniture and mounted hunting trophies. But on Sunday, the room was reduced to cinders. It remains to be seen how the Secunderabad Club rebuilds a relic of the Raj.  The pillars are intact and we have plans to reconstruct the building to its original shape. Raghuram Reddy, President of Secunderabad Club||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/club-president-promises-to-rebuild-gutted-structure/article64949392.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||Arrangements inspected for unveiling ‘Statue of Equality’||The State government has made elaborate arrangements for the unveiling of statue of Vaishnavite saint Ramanujacharya, called, the Statue of Equality, on the sprawling ashram of Tridandi Chinna Jeer Swamy at Muchintal on the city outskirts in March.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi has in principle agreed to unveil the 216 ft statue, said to be the second tallest in seated position depicting Ramanujacharya, to commemorate his sahasrabdi (1,000 years since his birth). The first phase of Rs. 1,000 crore project comprises the statue, parikrama and temple.  Ramanujacharya fought against discrimination in the name of caste, colour and creed, and propounded that the Almighty existed in all living beings. That was why it was decided to name this structure as the Statue of Equality. President Ramnath Kovind, Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu and several Union Ministers are expected to visit the venue next month. Ministers E. Dayakar Rao and V. Srinivas Goud were confident that the venue would become a major destination on world tourism map. Accompanied by Sri Chinna Jeeyar Swamy, they inspected the progress of works on laying roads to the venue on Sunday. The works, taken up in coordination with the State government, are progressing at a brisk place and the inauguration ceremony would be held in a befitting manner, they said. Several dignitaries from across the globe are expected to grace the inaugural function and arrangements are being made accordingly. The government had decided to lay internal roads as well as improve other amenities in the Chinna Jeeyar ashram located on the premises to enhance the reputation of the State which is turning out to be a spiritual hub. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is personally monitoring the works like revival of Yadadri temple and development of state of the art infrastructure for the benefit of visiting pilgrims. The Chinna Jeeyar Trust is contributing in equal measure by making arrangements to ensure that the venue reflects Telugu culture. The Ministers made several suggestions relating to the arrangements that should be made for the inaugural and directed them to ensure speedy completion of works without compromising on quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arrangements-reviewed-for-unveiling-statue-of-equality/article64949385.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||Sanction more funds for TS: BJP leaders urge Sitharaman||Telangana BJP leaders urged Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to sanction funds for helping farmers shift from paddy to other crops, develop more agriculture research institutes, establish a separate cargo terminal at airport for exporting fruits and vegetables, an Indian Institute of Management at Warangal, a digital financial management institute at financial district and so on, during an online interaction with her on Sunday. Party leaders like vice president Y. Srinivas Reddy, secretary S. Prakash Reddy, Osmania University’s Y.L. Srinivas, Chartered Accountant Vasudeva Rao and others participated in the meeting where they requested her to sanction funds liberally and clear the projects related to agriculture and allied fields as immediate measures for TS in the forthcoming Union budget. Pointing out that farmers have been facing major problems in paddy cultivation, they wanted steps to be taken to encourage cultivation of oil seeds, pulses and other agriculture products. It was necessary to educate farmers shift from paddy to other crops but a lot of research was needed. Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) institutes and International Crops Research for Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) could be made use of to establish R&D centres across the districts, they said. Setting up of a separate dairy terminal in Shamshabad airpot will allow export of vegetables and other farm products from TS to different foreign countries. Sufficient budget for developing a Tribal University since they constitute 10% of the population, developing infrastructure for the ‘Sammakka- Sarakka Jatara’, developing eco-tourism for handloom centres at Warangal, Dubbaka, Narayanapeta and Gadwal on the lines of recognition is the need of the hour, they informed her. Nagarjunasagar is one of the oldest Buddhist centres and has been an important tourist destination for people from Japan, China, Sri Lanka and others. Hence, Nagarjuna konda and the environs need to be developed further with infusion of more funds to attract more visitors. The BJP leaders also requested some funds for establishment of National Disease Control Centre (NDCC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sanction-more-funds-ts-bjp-leaders-urge-sitharaman/article38280549.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||INCOIS advisories help save money, environment||Timely and prompt alerts issued by the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) in the form of forecasts and warnings to various stakeholders, including the Indian Navy, Coast Guard, shipping industry and the fishermen on the coast, have helped or is continuing to help net a benefit of thousands of crores to the economy. About five ‘no go ahead mission’ advisories provided between 2013 and 2015 itself has worked out to to be very beneficial to the Indian Navy as it has saved more than Rs. 4,000 crore. The environmental effect of savings in diesel consumption computed as carbon credit would work out to an annuity of Rs. 36,200 crore or a present value of around Rs. 2.84 trillion over the 25-year useful life, informed scientists of the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) institute here. Economic analysis indicated that the real growth rate of gross value added in marine fisheries can go up to 7.8% per annum from the current level of 3.9% once the PFZ-OSF (Potential Fishing Zone - Ocean State Forecast) is operationalised uniformly across the country in all coastal areas, said senior scientist T. M. Balakrishnan Nair, in a recent interaction. The overall economic benefit accruing out of the ocean information systems has been calculated to the tune of $ 50.7 billion. For example, advisories to the Coast Guard when 15,211 tonnes of oil was spilled helped save $ 12.25 million in 2015, he explained. The ‘No Tsunami Threat’ advisory issued by India Tsunami Early Warning Centre at INCOIS helps avoid relocation and rehabilitation expenditure considering that the Odisha government would have had to spend hundreds of crores to protect the coastal population during cyclones like Phailin in the absence of such advisory, reminded INCOIS director T. Srinivasa Kumar. With regard to the fisheries, with about 9 lakh fishermen directly getting messages apart from community messaging, it has helped in 2-4 times more catch to them and hence the profit, a 30-70% reduction in search time as direct navigation was given to the shoal leading to carbon dioxide reduction and less fuel usage. Mr. Nair said the Centre Marine Fisheries Research Institute had showed a 15% adoption level of the advisories, fishermen can save up to 237,754.8 gallons of diesel resulting in lesser greenhouse gas emission of 2,412 tonnes. The National Council for Applied Economic Research had computed that savings in diesel consumption is about 38.94 billion over a 25-year period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/incois-helps-save-money-environment/article38280548.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||State logs 2,074 new coronavirus cases||Telangana recorded 2,047 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday even as 55,883 samples were tested. Results of 9,829 samples were awaited. The new infections included 1,174 from Greater Hyderabad region, 178 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 140 from Rangareddy. The total case tally now stands at 7,09,209. Three COVID patients died on the day, taking the death toll to 4,057. Meanwhile, occupancy of ICU and oxygen beds by COVID patients is seeing a gradual increase. While 400-450 ICU beds and around 600 oxygen beds were occupied till January 11, the numbers were 544 and 900, respectively, on Sunday. 1 year of vaccination COVID vaccination drive in the State completed a year. It was launched on January 16, 2021, as part of the nationwide inoculation drive. The first dose coverage among adults in the State has reached 103%, while 75% of the target population had received the second dose till Sunday evening. According to the Health department, the number of adults in the State are around 27767000. Earlier, Health officials had clarified that the migrant population added to the count, leading to over 100% coverage of first dose. In case of children aged between 15 and 18 years, the State has 18,41,000 beneficiaries. Of them, 49% had received the first dose till Sunday night. Health department staff said they have been working on Sundays and public holidays too to immunise people against the infectious disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-logs-2074-new-covid-cases/article38280526.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:31 IST,TELANGANA||Woman found dead in rented apartment||A 23-year-old woman was found dead in her rented apartment at Chintalmet under Rajendranagar police station limits here on Saturday night. According to the police, Iram Khan, who runs a beauty parlour in the area, ended her life by hanging from a ceiling fan. “She slipped into a depression since her divorce and resorted to the extreme step three days ago,” police said. The incident came to light after neighbours noticed foul smell coming from the flat and alerted the police. A case was registered and the body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy. School boy found dead Reportedly upset at being rebuked by his father, a Class VIII student allegedly jumped off the 14th floor of the residential complex building in Chandanagar police limits on Sunday. The 13-year-old boy lived with parents at Nallagandla.  “He was asked to concentrate on studies and to do well,” the police said..  (Contact number of Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni: 914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-found-dead-in-rented-apartment/article38280536.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:31 IST,TELANGANA||Musi project gates lifted||Musi project gates were lifted on Sunday as flood from Hyderabad and from the catchment areas of Nalgonda and Suryapet, in the wake of the sudden and maximum overnight rainfall, started accumulating. The project was already brimming at 644.50 feet as against the maximum water level of 645 feet on Saturday. As the levels inched up, officials started operating the gates by noon. Three gates were lifted to a height of three feet each to discharge about 6000 cusecs. The outflows were maintained around the same capacity, till the two gates were closed in the evening. As per official estimates last available at 7 p.m., the inflows receded to 660 cusecs and the outflow too was regulated at the same level. For the project’s gross capacity of 4.46 tmc., it was holding 4.30 tmc water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/musi-project-gates-lifted/article38280530.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:31 IST,TELANGANA||36 MMTS services cancelled today||The South Central Railway (SCR) has announced the cancellation of thirty-six of the seventy-nine MMTS services due to due to operational reasons and track maintenance activity on Monday. Cancelled services include - Lingampalli-Hyderabad (nine services), Hyderabad - Lingampalli (nine services), Falaknuma-Lingampalli (eight services), Lingampally-Falaknuma (eight services), Secunderabad-Lingampally (one service), Lingampalli -Secunderabad (one service), said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/36-mmts-services-cancelled-today/article38280527.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:45 IST,TELANGANA||Accident victims were Bajrang Dal activists||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad of Telangana in a statement said the two victims in Sunday’s early morning accident at Dharmojigudem on the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada), under Choutuppal police limits, were its Bajrang Dal activists. As per the release, deceased Chandu from Malkajgiri and Prithvi from Jiyaguda, along with others, had gone in their SUV for gauraksha (cow protection). While they were taking a U-turn, a speeding RTC bus rammed their vehicle, killing the two instantly, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/accident-victims-were-bajrang-dal-activists/article38280528.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:32 IST,TELANGANA||Bhatti tests COVID positive||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has tested positive for COVID and got admitted in a private hospital with mild symptoms. He asked all those who had come in contact with him to test themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhatti-tests-covid-positive/article38280542.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||Vigil intensified in border to track tiger||The Forest Department has intensified vigil in the fringe areas of forests in Mahadevpur mandal after a cow was reportedly mauled to death by a tiger in Sironcha forest area of Gadchiroli district in Maharashtra three days ago. The incident took place around 10 km from the inter-State border in Maharashtra, sources said. Following the incident, Forest officials alerted the field staff to step up vigil in the areas located along the course of the Godavari and its tributary Pranahita river abutting the inter-State border with Maharashtra to keep a close watch on the movement of the tiger. Chances of a tiger entering into Telangana from Maharashtra are considered remote as the big cat has to cross the Godavari to gain entry into Mahadevpur forest division, sources in the Forest department said. But, as the animal behaviour is unpredictable, officials are maintaining constant vigil in the forested areas adjoining the river that flows along the inter-State boundary, sources added. As part of the campaign, wall posters are being put up in villages around forest areas highlighting the provisions of the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972, and precautionary measures to avoid human-animal conflict and ensure safety of forest dwellers, cattle and the wild animals.  District Forest Officer B. Lavanya told The Hindu that they were in touch with their counterparts in Maharashtra to track the movement of the tiger.  “The tiger has not been spotted anywhere in the district as yet,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tight-vigil-in-border-to-track-tiger/article38280550.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:46 IST,TELANGANA||Sarvodaya’s Manjeera products to hit market soon||A few Self Help Group (SHG) women from Gounglur village in Pulkal mandal of Sangareddy district will enter the market soon with their brand of products. The products are being branded in the name of Sarvodaya’s Manjeera. Manjeera is a tributary of River Godavari that passes through three States - Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana. Sarvodaya Women Entrepreneurs’ Cottage Industries Private Limited based at Gounglur has got licence from Ayush in the second week of this month. The Sarvodaya industry is getting ready to launch as many as 15 varieties of soaps: papaya cucumber, shea butter, charcoal, aloevera, redwine, goat milk, neem tulsi and cocoa butter based. Cold pressed edible oils such as coconut, groundnut, sesame, sunflower, and moong dal and toor dal will also be marketed. “Sarvodaya’s Manjeera emphasises on connecting global with local and creating rural manufacturing bases for generating gainful employment opportunities for SHG women. The products are FSSAI and GMP certified with superior quality grains directly procured from farmers. Sarvodaya women entrepreneurs is an association of 126 SHGs seeking to empower women by promoting entrepreneurship among them with a focus on Utpathhi (manufacturing) and Upadhi (employment),” Deputy Commissioner, Income Tax and initiator of Sarvodaya activities in the village, P. Sudhakar Naik said. “In recent times, cold pressed oils have become important for many. The willingness to try and incorporate these traditional health foods in cooking is definitely making it popular among the health conscious. Increasing rates of obesity, associated diseases and awareness on how oil is extracted are a few reasons why cold pressed oils are finding place in our kitchens,” Dr. Sudhakar added. Sarvodaya Women Entrepreneurs is an initiative of IRS officers and medical professionals from Hyderabad in association with SHGs from Gonglur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sarvodayas-manjeera-products-to-hit-market-soon/article64949383.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:47 IST,TELANGANA||Quest for a new name||City police commissioner C.V. Anand has sought suggestions from netizens on the name that should be given to the police command and control centre coming up at Banjara Hills in the city. Mr. Anand, at the same time, wondered why the state-of-the-art building was being called twin towers. “Actually, it has four towers and this is a misnomer,” he said, asking netizens for some innovative suggestions on “what to name it”. Within five hours of posting the request on the official Facebook account of city police, as many as 1,500 people sent their likes and 1,100 of them suggested names. Some of the names included Federal Towers of Telangana State, Charminar Protection Centre, C 4 and Four Lions. By all means, the name is likely to be finalised before March 31 as Mr. Anand has already asked the contractor to complete the works by then and keep it ready for inauguration at the hands of the Chief Minister.   After a lot of noise, political ruckus and curses by a section of employees, who were not satisfied with the new zones to which they were allotted, the implementation of new zonal system (GO 317) has been completed recently with some cursing the government for change in their zone “heaped on them” and some taking the change as a blessing. The government or the powers that be, who supervised the whole exercise, appear to have taken everything in their stride. “It’s quite natural that every new system would be taken with a pinch of salt initially as its positive impact would be unknown to the concerned (employees) initially. There’s bound to be some amount of disappointment to a small section when good is going to happen to the remaining sections,” a top official who supervised the zonal system implementation said. As the powers that be have been repeatedly stating that implementing the new zonal system was necessary to take up filling of vacancies and the Cabinet meet being on Monday, the larger hope now is whether there’s light at the end of the tunnel for those awaiting employment notifications.   Tesla boss Elon Musk is suddenly the most wanted man after a tweet by IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao inviting him to set up shop in Telangana. The tweet was followed by film personalities Vijay Deverakonda, Gopichand Malineni, Genelia Deshmukh and Nikhil Siddharth also taking to Twitter and throwing their weight behind Mr. Rao. Now, Punjab, West Bengal and Maharashtra have lined up to roll out a red carpet for Mr. Musk. But, will he meet the challenges set up by the Indian government for his business is the big question.     On Sunday coinciding with Kanuma, chicken prices went up by Rs. 30 a kg. Knowing fully well that non-veg lovers will go for chicken made recipes, retailers suddenly hiked the prices after two days of dull market due to Bhogi and Sankranti. The rates were stable at Rs. 220 a kg until the festival approached. When they were suddenly raised on Sunday, consumers had no other option but to buy grudgingly. Shop owners were also aware that people will buy chicken over mutton on this day. So, it was a field day for them. (M. Rajeev, B. Chandrashekhar and N. Rahul)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/quest-for-a-new-name-for-khaki-hub/article64949382.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:44 IST,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail - Hyderabad||The RTO website has a facility to allow booking of slots in advance and register for service required after online payment. I booked a 1:50 p.m. to 2 p.m. slot for driving licence. But the clerk at the counter said the system was closed from the department’s end at 1:55 p.m. and no more forms could be accepted. As a result, many were turned back. When slot is given for 10 minutes, it’s the responsibility of the department to see to it that forms are accepted. Plus, asking for additional forms is nothing short of harassment. Let’s hope the Transport department sets up a user-friendly interface for its users with courteous staff at its counters. Kumar Shastri, Moula Ali   When crores of public money are spent on plantation of saplings under Haritha Haram annually, protection of decades-old trees with implementation of relevant laws is the least that is expected. Compensatory plantation is prescribed essentially to avoid felling of trees by institutions and individuals as an environment protection act. Non-availabilty of full and authentic data in the State capital itselfreflects the casual attitude of officials concerned. The Chief Minister should look into this since there is every danger of well-intended greenery plans becoming a source of corruption. M.V.Nagavender Rao, Anandnagar   I have been repeatedly pleading to the police department,through these columns, with regard to autorickshaws. My grudge is, almost all autosdo not have transparent windows on the rear side. Even if some of them do, they are plastered with posters. The provision of these transparent windows, be it glass or plastic, will not only enable commuters behind them avoid reckless overtaking and accidents, but anti-social activities, if any, can also be detected. I hope the new police commissioner will look into my suggestion. M.V. Hanumantha Rao, Alwal   I have agricultural land in Shamshabad mandal and received a message on my phone on December 23 from VK-TSAGRI and from CP-Govt TS stating that Rs. 8,000 is remitted in TSAB Khata no. 1402 under Rythu Bandhu (Yasangi 2021). This is not my khata number. I request the government to ensure that the amount is not misused. Beyabani, Hyderabad  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns.  They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu. co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail-hyderabad/article38280523.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:14 IST,||NABARD projects Odisha’s credit potential at Rs. 1.34 lakh cr.||The National Bank for Agricultural Development (NABARD) has made an overall projection of credit potential under priority sector at Rs. 1,34,665 crore for Odisha for the year 2022-23, with an increase of around 21.61% over credit projection of 2021-22. “Out of the total credit potential for priority sector, an amount of Rs. 52,050.78 crore has been assessed under agriculture,” said the apex rural development bank in its State focus paper. “Credit potential under agriculture constitutes around 38.65% of the total priority sector, of which Rs. 48,221.10 crore (92.64%) is estimated under farm credit,” the bank said. Credit potential under agriculture infrastructure and ancillary activities has been estimated at Rs. 1,824.33 crore and Rs. 2,005.34 crore respectively. Credit potential under MSME sector has been assessed at Rs. 60,001.27 crore, constituting around 44.56% of the total priority sector, NABARD said. It said, other sectors consisting of export credit, education, housing, renewable energy and social infrastructure have around 16.79% share. Various schemes Finance Minister Niranjan Pujari emphasised upon the need for increasing the bank credit for priority sector as the government had been giving a lot of support through various schemes like Balaram, Kalia, Samrudhi and Millet Mission, and banks should increase the credit flow for private capital formation substantially. “ NABARD has been increasing their support for the infrastructure development, tribal development, watershed development and micro entrepreneur development among self-help group women and will increase the developmental activities in the State,” said C. Udayabhaskar Chief General Manager NABARD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nabard-projects-odishas-credit-potential-at-rs-134-lakh-cr/article38280606.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:14 IST,||Bihar hooch toll now 11||Seven more people have died here after consuming spurious liquor, raising the toll to 11 in the headquarters of Nalanda district — to which dry Bihar’s Chief Minister Nitish Kumar belongs. According to Nalanda Superintendent of Police Ashok Mishra, the Station House Officer of the police station concerned has been suspended and bodies of eight of the deceased handed over to family members after post-mortem. “Four people died in the early hours of Saturday while four others breathed their last in the evening. Three more died this morning,” he said. “All deaths have taken place in Chhoti Pahari and Pahari Talli localities of the town. The SHO of Sohsarai has been suspended for being lax in keeping an eye on the activities in area under his jurisdiction,” added the SP. Bodies of the three persons who died on Sunday morning have been sent for post-mortem. The family members of the victims said the deceased consumed liquor on Friday night. The hooch tragedy comes barely two months after more than 40 people died after consuming spurious liquor in four north Bihar districts. Meanwhile, State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal, whose party shares power in the State, launched a fresh attack on the CM’s party. “JD(U) leaders would do well to acknowledge that the hydra-headed monster, that is illicit liquor trade, cannot be slain until the nexus of high officials, police personnel and liquor mafia is broken.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bihar-hooch-toll-now-11/article38280605.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:14 IST,||15 lakh respond to AAP’s Punjab CM choice drive||Around 15 lakh people have so far responded to the AAP’s “Janta Chunegi Apna CM” drive, in which the party has asked people to name their choice for its Chief Ministerial face for the February 14 Punjab Assembly polls. “In the 72 hours since the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has released the phone number 7074870748 to know the opinion of the people of Punjab as regards who should be the party’s Chief Ministerial face for the upcoming election, around 15 lakh people have voiced their views,” party MLA Harpal Singh Cheema said. Kejriwal for Mann AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal had asked people on Thursday who should be the party’s Chief Ministerial face for the Punjab polls, even as he had said that his own choice for the post is Bhagwant Mann. Mr. Kejriwal had ruled himself out of the race as the AAP launched the “Janta Chunegi Apna CM” drive and said the name of the candidate for the top post will be announced after getting the feedback of people. The mobile number was launched by the party on which people can give their opinion till 5 p.m. on Monday by recording their voice and sending text or WhatsApp messages as to who should be the party's Chief Ministerial candidate. “In the last 72 hours, seven lakh people called, 5.5 lakh voted for their choice via WhatsApp, 1.5 lakh left voice messages and an equal number of people sent text messages,” Mr. Cheema said. ‘APP will form govt.’ The enthusiasm shown by the people of the State is a testament that this time, the AAP will most definitely form the government in Punjab and that too, with a clear majority, he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the party here. Mr. Cheema said people will "wipe out the traditional political parties" in the upcoming polls and give the mandate to the AAP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/15-lakh-respond-to-aaps-punjab-cm-choice-drive/article64949445.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:14 IST,||ECI allows mediapersons to cast vote through postal ballot||The Election Commission of India has allowed journalists to cast their votes through postal ballot facility, according to an official statement of the office of Punjab Chief Electoral Officer on Sunday. Voting for Punjab’s 117 assembly seats will be held on February 14 and the counting of votes will take place on March 10. The ECI has allowed mediapersons, authorised by the poll body, to exercise their franchise using postal ballot facility, said the statement. “Mediapersons, during a press conference, had asked Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Punjab Dr S. Karuna Raju to include them in absentee voters so that they can cast their votes using the postal ballot facility,” it said. Mr. Raju said any absentee voter wishing to vote by postal ballot has to make an application to the returning officer in Form-12D, giving all requisite particulars and get the application verified by the nodal officer appointed by the organisation concerned. Only one option He said any voter opting for postal ballot facility would not be able to cast a vote at the polling station. Earlier, the elecion commission had allowed voters aged 80 and above, people with disabilities and COVID-19 patients to cast their votes through postal ballots. Those involved in essential services, including personnel of the Food Civil Supplies and the Consumer Affairs, the Food Corporation of India, the All India Radio, Doordarshan, post and telegraph, the railways, BSNL, power, health, fire services and civil aviation can also opt for the facility in case they are on duty, the statement sad. Postal voting centres Meanwhile, postal voting centres (PVCs) will be open for up to three consecutive days in all the constituencies before the date fixed for State assembly polls. On each of the three days, the PVC will remain open from 9 a.m. to 5p.m., it said.  Absentee voter wishing to vote by postal ballot has to make an application to the returning officer in Form-12D, giving all requisite particulars and get the application verified by the nodal officer Dr. S. Karuna RajuPunjab Chief Electoral Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/eci-allows-mediapersons-to-cast-vote-through-postal-ballot/article38280596.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:14 IST,||Man dies after attack by camp elephant in T.N.||A 45-year-old man from Varagaliayar tribal colony in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) was killed when he was attacked by a camp elephant of the Forest Department on Sunday. The deceased was V. Arumugam, a resident of Kozhikamuthy tribal settlement, who was working as the cavady (assistant to mahout) to an elephant at the camp. Forest Department officials said the incident took place on Sunday morning when the mahout and cavady were taking out the elephant, named Ashok, for open grazing. The elephant attacked Arumugam while being taken to its grazing area. He was immediately taken to the primary health centre at Top Slip, and was shifted to the Government Hospital, Pollachi, for advanced care. However, he succumbed to injuries at the Pollachi General Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-dies-after-attack-by-camp-elephant-in-tn/article38280595.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:10 IST,||Anil Vij blames Delhi for COVID spread in Haryana||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Sunday blamed the high COVID infection rate in three districts of the State adjoining Delhi on the “uncontrolled” rise in cases in the national capital. He said Haryana was adversely affected due to its vicinity to Delhi, but there was no need to panic. According to Mr. Vij, more than half of the around 9,000 new COVID cases in Haryana were from Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonipat districts. He, however, added that the State had adequate resources, including medicines and equipment, to deal with the surge. Blame game continues Even during the previous waves, the Haryana and Delhi governments had blamed each other for the high positivity rate in their States, following which the borders were sealed, causing inconvenience to commuters. Of the total 8,900 cases reported in Haryana on January 16, as many as 3,378 — the highest count —were from Gurugram followed by Faridabad with 1,396. Sonipat reported 414 cases. However, both Ambala and Panchkula — Haryana’s districts that do not border Delhi — recorded more cases than Sonipat with 536 and 718 respectively. Of the total 51,000-odd active cases in Haryana, the three districts of Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonipat together have 32,000 cases. With six more deaths reported on Sunday, a total of 10,104 people have died due to COVID in the State so far. Steady vaccination Mr. Vij said that COVID vaccination was being administered rapidly in Haryana and the first dose was given to the entire population. He added that 77% of people were administered both doses. Also, seven lakh children in the 15-18 age group were administered the vaccine. He reiterated that children in the 15-18 age group would not be allowed inside schools without vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/anil-vij-blames-delhi-for-covid-spread-in-haryana/article64949509.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:14 IST,||Woman tortured, gang-raped in Indore||A 32-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped and tortured by her husband and four of his friends in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore district, police said on Sunday, adding that five accused were arrested. The woman claimed that she was brutalised by her husband and others who performed unnatural sex and also singed her private parts with cigarettes. They also threatened to kill her when she resisted the sexual assault, an officer said quoting the FIR. The alleged gang-rape occurred at a farmhouse under the Shipra police station area of Indore between November 2019 and October 2021, the officer said. He said the woman, hailing from Chhattisgarh, got married to an Indore-based man after meeting him on a matrimonial site. However, the man was already married, the police sub-inspector said. The complainant told the police that she somehow escaped from the farmhouse and travelled to her parent'’s home in Chhattisgarh. But one of the accused followed her there intending to harm her, the officer added. Five men, including the victim’s husband, were booked under various sections of the IPC and were arrested from various areas of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, he said, adding that further investigation was under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-tortured-gang-raped-in-indore/article38280434.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:14 IST,||Alwar case: Rajasthan to recommend CBI probe||The Rajasthan government on Sunday decided to recommend a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the case of the mentally challenged girl who was found in a distressed condition on a bridge in Alwar with injuries on her private parts, according to an official release. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, the release stated. The State government will send the recommendation to the Centre for a CBI probe into the case at the earliest, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/alwar-case-rajasthan-to-recommend-cbi-probe/article38280437.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:14 IST,||Lata’s health condition improving, says Minister||The health condition of legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar, who remains admitted in the ICU of a hospital in Mumbai, is improving, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday. The 92-year-old singer tested positive for coronavirus with mild symptoms and was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the Breach Candy Hospital in south Mumbai last week. “Lata Mangeshkar’s condition is improving. I spoke to authorities of the Breach Candy Hospital who updated me about her health. I told them that the spokesperson of the hospital should provide updates on the singer’s condition as people are eager to know about her health,” Mr. Tope told reporters in Jalna. After discussing with her family members, the Breach Candy Hospital can update about the health of the veteran singer, Mr. Tope said. Earlier in the day, Associate Professor Pratit Samdani from the Breach Candy Hospital said that Ms. Mangeshkar continues to be in the ICU and is under treatment. Her niece Rachana Shah had on Thursday said the singer is doing well and requested the media to respect the privacy of the family. Regarded as one of Indian cinema’s greatest singers, Lata Mangeshkar started her career at the age of 13 in 1942 and has over 30,000 songs to her credit in several Indian languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/latas-condition-improving-minister/article64949444.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:14 IST,||‘BJP has given farewell to Adityanath’||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday attacked the BJP, saying the party’s ‘double engine’ model seems to have failed, with its Central leadership not giving the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister the seat of his choice to contest the State Assembly election. While there was speculation that Yogi Adityanath may be fielded from Ayodhya, Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Saturday said the party has decided to field him from Gorakhpur, his traditional political turf that he has represented in Lok Sabha for five consecutive terms. Chief Minister Adityanath is willing to contest from any of the 403 seats, the senior BJP leader said. Speaking to reporters at the SP office, Mr. Yadav said there is “a Chief Minister who seeks a ticket, and does not get a ticket of his choice”. “Sadhus and seers say that if he comes to Faizabad (Ayodhya), then he will be given a farewell. The BJP has already given him a farewell by sending him off to Gorakhpur,” he said. ‘Double engine failed’ Sharpening his attack on the BJP, the SP chief said, “In the fight between Lucknow and Delhi, I think the engines in the ‘double engine’ government are colliding with each other. At times, I feel that the ‘Delhiwala’ and the ‘Lucknowwala’ are trying to take out the wheels of each other’s engine. I would like to congratulate them on the send-off to Gorakhpur.” Mr. Yadav also said the BJP indulges in “negative politics”. “The BJP has been speaking lies, indulging in negative and divisive politics. It has indulged in politics of hatred and to make people fight each other. We will do positive politics, politics of development and prosperity. We will do social justice, and move forward taking everyone along,” he said. The SP chief said false surveys show a number of things, “but we know the ground reality, which is -- they (BJP) are being beaten at the ground level”. He claimed the CM did not want to inaugurate the Lion Safari in Etawah and it was Dara Singh Chauhan who inaugurated it. The safari was built before 2017, when the SP was in power, and it was inaugurated by Mr. Chauhan, who recently resigned from the BJP and the State Cabinet and joined the SP. “At that point of time, I thought that I should take him (Mr. Chauhan) along. There is an English proverb ‘strike the iron when it is hot’. But the BJP people do not know English, and even if they do know, they have gone into damage control or depression,” he said.  Referring to Adityanath eating ‘khichdi’ at a Dalit household on Makar Sankranti, Mr. Yadav said, “With beman (half-hearted approach), he was having khichdi, and he must have recalled that he has not seen soap or shampoo there.”  “Had there been shampoo or soap, then his mind would have been fine,” Mr. Yadav said. “If the poor are not able to have shampoo, soap, food and oil, then the Chief Minister is responsible for it, and the double-engine government is responsible for it. This has been understood by every section of society,” he said. Mr. Yadav said if voted to power, the SP government will conduct a caste census within three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-has-given-farewell-to-adityanath/article64949441.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:14 IST,||Honey production changing Bharatpur’s rural economy||Providing an alternative livelihood model to the farmers, honey production in the vast mustard fields in eastern Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district is changing the face of rural economy. The beekeeping activities have turned the backward region into a “honey bowl” amid increasing cost of farm inputs and shrinking size of agricultural land. Beekeepers from the nondescript Nagla Kalyan village attended a virtual communication with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the district headquarters on the New Year’s Day. They informed him about the formation of the Honey Fed farmer producer organisation (FPO), with which they intend to expand their activities. About 400 farmers in the district, who have become the FPO’s members, intend to take forward their work, doing away with the role of middlemen. The National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED) will help Honey Fed in branding and collective marketing of honey and explore overseas markets for them. The FPO will shortly get an equity grant of Rs. 15 lakh for installation of a honey processing plant on the warehousing premises in the local industrial area. The honey production in Bharatpur, a leading mustard producing district, has been estimated at 3,520 metric tonnes in 2021. Honeybees carry out cross-pollination of the yellow mustard flowers leading to 20 to 25% increase in the crop yield, which has also encouraged the farmers to take up beekeeping as an agriculture-based activity.  Hardayal Singh, 48, a farmer from Nagla Kalyan, who was among the first to adopt apiculture as an occupation, told The Hindu that it had an immense potential to provide livelihood to marginal farmers, unemployed youths and landless labourers.  The formation of the FPO for honey production, which is among the five set up in the country, will enable the honey exporters to purchase the product directly from beekeepers in view of the heavy demand for honey and wax in Europe and West Asia. “The announcement of MSP for honey can also be a significant step to support the beekeepers,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/honey-production-changing-bharatpurs-rural-economy/article64949439.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:10 IST,||COVID cases declining in the Capital, says Jain||The COVID-19 cases are declining in Delhi and weekend curfews have played a significant role in it, said Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday. At least 18,286 new COVID-19 cases and 28 deaths were reported on Sunday. Mr. Jain said the Delhi government was keeping a close watch on the trend and would monitor the situation for three to four days before taking a call on reviewing various curbs. According to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government, 65,621 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 27.87%. On Saturday, the positivity rate was 30.64%. There are 89,819 cases in the city of which 68,411 are under home isolation. “On January 14, Delhi recorded 24,383 positive cases while on January 15, it was 20,178 cases. Today [Sunday], it dropped to 18,286 cases. The weekend curfew is proving to be beneficial, as fewer and fewer people are venturing out, limiting the spread of COVID-19. The number of cases is decreasing, but the government is still trying to implement the best practices,” Mr. Jain said. 15,000 beds The Minister added that the government was prepared to deal with the most serious of situations and can arrange a total of 37,000 beds. At the moment, 15,000 beds are operational. “We can double the number of beds overnight if necessary, but the number of hospitalised patients is currently low with 13,000 beds vacant. Patients who are hospitalised due to COVID are either unvaccinated or have comorbidities,” Mr. Jain said. The Delhi Congress attributed the fall in number of cases to lesser testing and said the government has reduced COVID-19 testing to hide numbers. ‘Dip in testing’ Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had been boasting that the government has the capacity to ramp up testing to 3 lakh per day, yet only over 67,000 tests were conducted on Saturday. Mr. Jain said that Delhi was currently conducting more than three times the number of tests specified by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. On January 12, when 27,561 new cases were recorded, the number of tests was 1,05,102. Since then, the number of tests have been going down every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-cases-declining-in-the-capital-says-jain/article64949517.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:10 IST,||Restrictions leave a bad taste in the mouth||The fresh wave of COVID-19 in the city has brought with it another unpalatable experience for the restaurant industry, which is reeling under uncertainty and job losses. As restaurants have been restricted to functioning only as kitchens, employees have started leaving the city to avoid paying rent. Meanwhile, those from the city have started looking for opportunities in other sectors. Jugul Kishore, who works as a waiter at a plush restobar, lost his job overnight as the Delhi government issued orders to shut down. He is in search of employment to help make ends meet. “During the first lockdown, I was left jobless for two-three months before finding a job of a security guard. Before the second lockdown, I had an inkling that restaurants would shut again so I had applied for a job in advance. This time round, the company does not have a vacancy and I am looking for other opportunities,” says Mr. Jugul. “Life was smooth and I was able to take care of my family well before the pandemic hit. However, the crisis has wiped out all my savings and I am unable to buy a phone for my Class VII daughter to attend online class. I have to think about how to share my phone with her while looking for a job,” says Mr. Jugul. ‘Govt. should help’ He says that those employed in government jobs or the IT sector do not face job losses and wonders why it is the hospitality sector that is being singled out despite restaurants taking all precautions to ensure the safety of staffers and customers. “The government needs to help us out financially in this time. It is easy to announce closure but how does one survive without a job? Compensation is offered to those families who have had COVID-19 victims, but what about those who are struggling to live?” Mr. Jugul asks. The National Restaurants’ Association of India (NRAI) estimates that there are about 95,187 eateries in Delhi, of which 32,777 are organised restaurants with an FSSAI number and pay GST. “We are worried about the fate of 3,01,715 people employed in Delhi restaurants. We don’t want them to suffer, but unfortunately we don’t have adequate resources to support them for long,” says NRAI president Kabir Suri.  Abhishek Patel, who manages a restaurant in south Delhi, says that most of his colleagues are from Himachal and Uttarakhand and they have already left for home so that they do not have to pay rent when restaurants are shut. “It is better to go stay with family back home. My restaurant owners supported me financially through the previous lockdowns but many have lost jobs and had to find other sources of income. I do not have a background where there is any work for me at home. I have been away from my family for the last 12 years so I looked at it optimistically,” says Mr. Patel. He adds that jobs are hard to find in this situation and the only option is to play the waiting game and hope things get back to normal.  Tough to survive As established restaurants negotiate with landlords over rent, freshers in the field see their hopes and aspirations shattered as they had only recently signed agreements for their ventures. Sahil Bhalla, who started a café on December 15, 2021, says the response was positive for the first 15 days but just as the word spread and positive reviews started coming in, COVID restrictions were announced. “Over the past week, we have been getting only 7-10 orders a day via online ordering platforms and 5-10 takeaways during the week when there is no curfew. With such small numbers it is very tough to survive as running costs are high,” said Mr. Bhalla. However, he adds that another cloud kitchen venture of his is doing well as there are minimum running costs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/restrictions-leave-a-bad-taste-in-the-mouth/article64949515.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:10 IST,||Delhi court dismisses bail plea of Sulli Deals creator||Noting that the impact of the alleged acts on society “cannot be reduced to negligible” when compared to other offences with harsher punishment, a Delhi court on Saturday dismissed the bail plea moved by the alleged creator of Sulli Deals, Aumkareshwar Thakur. Metropolitan Magistrate Vasundhra Chhaunkar, in her order, observed that the court cannot ignore the peculiar facts of the case, “which reflect upon the severity and gravity of the alleged acts of the accused”. “The accused had consciously used Tor Browser so that his identity could not be disclosed and various complaints have been received against Sulli deals app, which are pending across India,” Ms. Chhaunkar noted. While dismissing the bail, the court further observed that the investigation was at a nascent stage where crucial evidence and the further chain of events are yet to be conclusively unearthed. “Granting bail to the accused at this juncture will prejudice a fair probe,” the court said. Counsel refutes During the course of proceedings, the counsel for Thakur argued that the Section 153A of the IPC (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, caste etc.) cannot be invoked against his client’s case. The counsel further argued that the “police was working under pressure of media and society” as a lot of public sentiments were involved in the matter. “Prima facie, at this stage the arguments of the counsel for the accused do not hold water as certainly the women of Muslim community only have been targeted by posting their pictures for auction,” the court said. Earlier, alleged Bulli Bai creator Niraj Bishnoi’s bail plea was rejected by a Delhi court. The Bulli Bai application had recently posted photographs of several Muslim women online and “auctioned them off”. Thakur’s Sulli Deals came to the fore six months ago, which used the same modus operandi of “auctioning off” Muslim women online and FIRs for which were lodged both in Delhi and Noida.  The accused had consciously used Tor Browser so that his identity could not be disclosed. Various complaints have been received against the app Vasundhra Chhaunkar Metropolitan Magistrate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-sulli-deals-creator/article38280428.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:10 IST,||HC rejects plea of convict challenging 5-year jail term||The Delhi High Court has rejected the appeal filed by a man challenging the five-year jail term awarded to him for attempting to murder his wife and mother-in-law by hitting them with an axe after he returned home intoxicated. “In the present case, the appellant [man] has used the axe with which he inflicted injury on the victim [wife] on the vital part of the body i.e. the face. Considering the weapon of offence and the vital part of the body where the injury is inflicted, the intention of the appellant to commit murder is evident,” Justice Mukta Gupta said. A local court in March 2020 had convicted Gain Chand for offence punishable under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and directed him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of five years. As per the case of prosecution, Chand was living with his wife and mother-in-law at their house when an altercation took place. It is alleged that he came back intoxicated, went to the kitchen, took the axe and hit the mother-in-law and wife resulting in grievous injury to the mother-in-law and simple injury to the wife. Contradictory testimony Chand had argued that there are material contradictions in the testimony of the two injured victims. He contended that in spite of the prosecution’s claim that there were several eyewitnesses, none were examined. He sought to be acquitted of the charge for offence punishable under Section 307 IPC or in the alternative be released on the period already undergone. The judge, however, refused to accept the plea saying, “Considering the nature of weapon used, that the injuries were inflicted on vital part of the body and the evidence of the two injured victims, this court finds that the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant has committed the offence punishable under Section 307 of the IPC”. “Hence no case is made out for interference with the impugned judgment of conviction,” the judge added. Justice Gupta took note of the nature of injuries caused and refused Chand’s plea to release him on the period already undergone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-rejects-plea-of-convict-challenging-5-year-jail-term/article38280422.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:10 IST,||HC to continue virtual hearings till February 11||In view of the steady rise in COVID-19 cases in the Capital, the Delhi High Court will continue hearing cases through the videoconferencing mode till February 11, it said in an order. The order issued by Registrar General Manoj Jain on January 12 also stated that the district courts in the Capital would also hear matters only through the videoconferencing mode till then. “In continuation of this court’s office order dated December 30, 2021, as directed by the Chief Justice, the existing system of hearing of cases in this court [including the courts of Registrar and Joint Registrar (Judicial)] as well as in the district courts in Delhi shall continue till February 11, 2022,” Mr. Jain said in the order. On December 30, the High Court had decided to shift to the virtual mode because of the “sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases” and the subsequent ‘yellow alert’ declared by the government in the Capital. Following the outbreak of COVID-19 in March 2020, the courts here started holding proceedings through videoconference and were hearing only cases on urgent issues. They restarted complete physical functioning from March 15, 2021, but had to shift to virtual mode again during the second wave of the pandemic. After the end of the second wave, the courts again resumed physical functioning, which has yet again been interrupted by the current spike in infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-to-continue-virtual-hearings-till-february-11/article64949514.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:10 IST,||99 inmates, 88 staffers in Delhi’s jails test positive||A total of 99 inmates and 88 staff members in the jails of Delhi have tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Sunday. According to data shared by the jail authorities, 99 inmates had tested positive for the viral disease till January 14. Seventeen of them have recuperated while there are 82 active cases. Of the 88 prisons staff who have tested positive for COVID, 14 have recuperated while there are 74 active cases. “There are no serious cases so far. Most of the cases are being managed by our jail doctors,” Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said. As part of the steps taken to curb the spread of the disease in the Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini jail complexes, the prison dispensaries have been turned into Covid Care Centres. An oxygen plant will also be made functional in Tihar, officials had said earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/99-inmates-88-staffers-in-delhis-jails-test-positive/article38280429.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:10 IST,||Two cheats arrested for running fake loan racket||Two persons, including a woman, have been arrested by the Delhi Police Crime Branch for allegedly duping people of lakhs of rupees on the pretext of offering them various types of loans, police said on Sunday. According to police, the accused, identified as Jitendra Singh and Geeta Chauhan, were part of a larger gang. They cheated people on the pretext of providing all types of loans, such as personal, housing and business. The fraudsters charged processing fees in lieu of sanctioning the loan. “They took Rs. 13.50 lakh from a person on the pretext of providing a business loan of Rs. 45 lakh for his friend,” Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) Shibesh Singh said. According to the complainant Pankaj Kumar, he came across a commercial that claimed of providing loans with low processing fees. Through it, he contacted Sumit Kumar who said he would help him get a loan of Rs. 45 lakh for a two-time fee of Rs. 45,000 and Rs. 13.5 lakh but went incummunicado on receiving the second payment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-cheats-arrested-for-running-fake-loan-racket/article38280433.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:10 IST,||Man held for impersonating in exam||A 24-year-old man was arrested for allegedly impersonating the original candidate in a written exam held last year for recruitment to Delhi courts, police said on Sunday. The exam was held for the group C category recruitment on February 28 in two shifts across multiple centres in Delhi. Sumit, a resident of Kaithal in Haryana, was arrested on Saturday and is the 18th accused arrested in the 2021 examination case so far, police said. Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) Shibesh Singh said that eleven students were found using “unfair means” at an exam centre in Rohini. The gang had taken money ranging from Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh from the candidates. The main accused Manjeet and Sandeep Kohli are absconding and efforts to nab them are on, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-for-impersonating-in-exam/article38280430.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:13 IST,||M.P.’s famous ‘Collarwali’ tigress, mother to 29 cubs, dies||“Collarwali”,The famous tigress of Madhya Pradesh’s Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR), who had earned the tag of “supermom” for giving birth to 29 cubs, has died, officials said. Known as T15 The 17-year-old tigress, also known as T15, died on Saturday evening, they said. She had given birth to 29 cubs in eight litters during 11 years — between 2008 and 2018 — the officials said, adding that 25 of the 29 cubs survived. An official from the office of the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) confirmed the death of the tigress without disclosing any other information. The tigress, who looked very weak due to old age, was last seen on January 14 by the PTR visitors. According to experts, the average age of a tiger is about 12 years. This female cub was radio-collared in March 2008. After that radio collar stopped functioning, she was again radio-collared in January 2010. The tigress later became famous as “Collarwali” or T15 tigress, the officials said. “Collarwali” had first given birth to three cubs in May 2008, but they could not survive. For the last time, the tigress delivered four cubs in December 2018, which took the number of her cubs to 29. Officials think that this number could be a record. A litter of five cubs In a rare occurrence, “Collarwali”, born as one of the four cubs to famous tigress T-7 in September 2005, had given birth to a litter of five cubs (four females and one male) on October 23, 2010, the officials said. Madhya Pradesh, with 526 big cats, had emerged as the “Tiger State” of the country in 2018. A Pench’ Tiger Reserve's press release said that the tigress died at around 6.15 p.m. on Saturday at the Karmajhiri range of the reserve. A team of foresters had been keeping a watch on the big cat’s health for the past one week, it said, adding that the tigress died due to old age. The carcass was disposed of as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines and its viscera is being sent to laboratories for examination, the release said. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also paid tribute to the tigress. “Tribute to the ‘Super Tigress Mom’ Collarwali of @PenchMP, the pride of Madhya Pradesh and mother to 29 cubs, who played an important role in achieving the Tiger State status for MP. The forests of Madhya Pradesh will always resonate with the roar of the cubs of the ‘Queen’ of Pench Tiger Reserve,” Mr. Chouhan said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mps-famous-collarwali-tigress-mother-to-29-cubs-dies/article64949449.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:14 IST,||Baghel booked for flouting COVID norms||The Uttar Pradesh police lodged an FIR against Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday for allegedly flouting COVID-19 norms while campaigning for a Congress candidate in Noida for the Assembly polls, officials said. Mr. Baghel along with some supporters was in Noida for a door-to-door campaign in support of Congress’ Pankhuri Pathak when the alleged violations took place. The case, lodged under the Epidemic Diseases Act, names ‘others’ also as accused besides the senior Congress leader from Chhattisgarh. “The FIR was lodged against Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel and others for violating COVID-19 rules as set by the Election Commission when they were in the Sector 113 police station area today (Sunday),” a police spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/baghel-booked-for-flouting-covid-norms/article38280600.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:00 IST,||U.S. synagogue sees hostage situation||All four persons taken hostage in a more than 10-hour stand-off at a Texas synagogue have been freed unharmed, police said late on Saturday, and their suspected captor is dead. The siege in the small Texas town of Colleyville — in which the suspect was apparently demanding the release of a convicted terrorist — had sparked an outpouring of concern from Jewish organisations in the United States and the Israeli government. Colleyville police chief Michael Miller told a news conference a “rescue team breached the synagogue” on Saturday evening and rescued three remaining hostages — all adults — being held inside. A first hostage had been released unharmed a few hours earlier. “The suspect is deceased,” Mr. Miller told reporters. The FBI identified the captor as 44-year-old British citizen named Malik Faisal Akram. FBI Dallas Special Agent Matt DeSarno said the four hostages — who included a much-loved local rabbi, Charlie Cytron-Walker — did not need medical attention. “He did not harm them in any way,” he said. There were reports from journalists at the scene of a loud explosion and gunshots at the synagogueshortly before the press conference. That was more than 10 hours after police were alerted to the emergency at the Congregation Beth Israel in Colleyville. Officers evacuated the synagogue’s surroundings and cordoned off the area, the police force said. ABC News reported that the hostage-taker was armed and had claimed to have bombs in unknown locations. That was not confirmed by police although Mr. Miller said that “bomb techs are clearing the scene.”  Siddiqui’s release  Quoting a U.S. official briefed on the matter, ABC reported the man was demanding the release of Aafia Siddiqui — a Pakistani scientist who in 2010 was sentenced by a New York court to 86 years in prison for the attempted murder of U.S. officers in Afghanistan.  She is currently being held at a prison in Fort Worth, Texas. Siddiqui’s lawyer said she “has absolutely no involvement” in the hostage situation. The lawyer confirmed that the man was not Siddiqui’s brother and said she condemned his actions. U.S. President Joe Biden pledged to “stand against anti-Semitism and against the rise of extremism in this country.” “I am grateful to the tireless work of law enforcement at all levels who acted cooperatively and fearlessly,” he said. He also termed the incident an “act of terror” during a separate event in Philadelphia on Suday. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett tweeted: “This event is a stark reminder that antisemitism is still alive and we must continue to fight it worldwide. “To the Jewish community in Colleyville and around the world: You are not alone — we stand united with you.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-synagogue-sees-hostage-situation/article64949346.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:00 IST,||Volcano caused ‘significant damage’||A massive volcanic eruption in Tonga that triggered tsunami waves around the Pacific caused “significant damage” to the island nation’s capital and smothered it in dust, but the full extent was not apparent with communications still cut off on Sunday. The eruption on Saturday was so powerful it was recorded around the world, triggering a tsunami that flooded Pacific coastlines from Japan to the United States. The capital Nuku’alofa suffered “significant” damage, New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said, adding there had been no reports of injury or death but a full assessment was not yet possible with communication lines down. There has been no word on damage in the outer islands and New Zealand will send an air force reconnaissance aircraft “as soon as atmospheric conditions allow”, the country’s Defence Force tweeted. Tonga has also accepted Canberra’s offer to send a surveillance flight, Australia’s foreign office said, adding it is also immediately prepared to supply “critical humanitarian supplies”. The United States was “deeply concerned for the people of Tonga”, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said, pledging support for the island nation. In California, the city of Santa Cruz was hit by flooding due to a tidal surge by the tsunami. Peru closed 22 ports as a precaution while waves of around 1.2 metres hit along Japan’s Pacific coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/volcano-caused-significant-damage/article64949345.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:00 IST,||First Omicron case detected in Beijing ahead of Olympics||Beijing has reported its first local Omicron infection, according to state media, weeks before the Winter Olympic Games are due to start. The infected person lives and works in the city’s northwestern district of Haidian and had no travel history outside Beijing for the past two weeks. The individual experienced symptoms on Thursday and was tested on Friday for COVID-19, officials said in a news conference on Saturday. The news of the infection comes less than three weeks before the Winter Olympic Games’ opening ceremony on February 4, and around two weeks before the start of Lunar New Year celebrations in China. Meanwhile, the Chinese city of Xi’an has gradually begun lifting restrictions after over three weeks of lockdown, as authorities sought to stamp out a local outbreak. Officials told a news conference that lockdown measures had been either partially or completely lifted in some communities that have been designated as lower risk, allowing people to leave their homes for a limited time to purchase daily necessities. The city went into strict lockdown on December 22, following a coronavirus outbreak that officials attributed to the delta variant. China reported 119 new coronavirus infections on Saturday, of which 65 were domestic cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/first-omicron-case-detected-in-beijing-ahead-of-olympics/article64949339.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:00 IST,||Ukraine says it has ‘evidence’ that Russia is behind cyberattack||Ukraine said on Sunday it had “evidence” that Russia was behind a massive cyberattack that knocked out key government websites this past week, while Microsoft warned the hack could be far worse than first thought. Tensions are at an all-time high between Ukraine and Russia, which Kyiv accuses of having amassed troops on its border ahead of a possible invasion. Some analysts fear the cyberattack could be the prelude to a military attack. “All the evidence points to Russia being behind the cyberattack,” the Ukrainian Digital Transformation Ministry said in a statement. “Moscow is continuing to wage a hybrid war.” ‘Data safe’ The ministry urged Ukrainians not to panic, saying their personal information was protected.  The Kremlin earlier rejected the claims and said there was no evidence Russia was behind the attack. “ Russia has nothing to do with these cyberattacks,” President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, told CNN .  But Microsoft warned Sunday that the cyberattack could prove destructive and affect more organisations than initially feared. The U.S. software giant said it continued to analyse the malware and warned it could render government digital infrastructure inoperable. Microsoft said it had not so far identified a culprit but warned that the number of affected organisations could be larger than initially thought.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ukraine-says-it-has-evidence-that-russia-is-behind-cyberattack/article38280065.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:00 IST,||Brother of Rohingya insurgency leader held||Bangladesh police said Sunday they had arrested the brother of a notorious insurgent leader whose organisation has been blamed for murders and drug trafficking in sprawling Rohingya refugee camps. The country is home to around 8,50,000 members of the stateless Muslim minority, who live in patchwork and overcrowded settlements after fleeing systemic discrimination and violence in neighbouring Myanmar. The Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army militant group has been accused of assassinating political opponents, running narcotics and instilling a climate of fear in the camps. Mohammad Shah Ali, arrested late on Saturday by the elite Armed Police Battalion, is the half-brother of ARSA’s infamous leader Ataullah Abu Ammar Jununi. He was caught in a camp near the coastal city of Cox’s Bazar with “arms and drugs,” the battalion said in a statement. Ali’s capture was the most high-profile arrest of an ARSA member since the group was accused of murdering influential Rohingya community leader Mohib Ullah in September, and killing seven others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brother-of-rohingya-insurgency-leader-held/article38280055.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:00 IST,||Netanyahu negotiating plea deal in graft trial||Former Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is negotiating a plea deal in his corruption case, a person involved in the talks said on Sunday. The deal, which could be signed as early as this week, could usher Mr. Netanyahu off the Israeli political stage for years, paving the way for a leadership race in his Likud party and shaking up Israeli politics. Any deal could spare Mr. Netanyahu an embarrassing and protracted trial over an issue that has gripped the nation and risks tarnishing his legacy. Casting doubts Reports of a deal angered critics who said a it would undermine the rule of law. “The man who worked to destroy the public’s trust in the foundations of democracy for personal reasons is not eligible for deals,” Health Minister Nitzan Horowitz tweeted. He was referring to Mr. Netanyahu’s attempts after he was indicted to cast doubt on Israel’s justice system, saying it was biased and pursuing a witch hunt against him. Demonstrators gathered against the developing deal outside the attorney general’s house Saturday evening. A spokesman for Netanyahu declined to comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/netanyahu-negotiating-plea-deal-in-graft-trial/article64949338.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:00 IST,||Myanmar monks flee temples amid fighting||Hundreds of Buddhist monks fled two major towns in Myanmar, a witness said on Sunday, among thousands recently displaced by intense fighting between the military and rebel groups opposed to last year’s coup. A military power-grab 11 months ago expelled civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi’s government with mass protests and subsequent crackdowns killing more than 1,400 — as dozens of rebel groups sprang up to oppose the regime. Loikaw town saw intense fighting last week and the United Nations estimates that almost 90,000 people have fled, with local NGO’s placing that figure far higher at 1,70,000. “More than half the population of Loikaw township has been internally displaced,” the UN said. ‘Impossible to stay’ “It was impossible for us to stay there,” said one Buddhist monk, adding around 30 monasteries were fleeing — an unusual sight in a nation where they are revered and temples are considered safe havens. The monk, among the roughly 5,000 people who have fled to eastern Shan state, said that 12 monasteries in nearby Demoso town had also emptied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-monks-flee-temples-amid-fighting/article38280062.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:00 IST,||Taliban fire pepper spray at protesters||Taliban forces on Sunday fired pepper spray at a group of women protesters in Afghanistan’s capital demanding rights to work and education, three demonstrators said. Around 20 women gathered in front of Kabul University, chanting “equality and justice” and carried banners that read “Women’s rights, human rights”. The protest however was later dispersed by the Taliban fighters who arrived at the scene in several vehicles. “When we were near Kabul University three Taliban vehicles came, and fighters from one of the vehicles used pepper spray on us,” a protester said. “My right eye started to burn. I told one of them ‘shame on you’, and then he pointed his gun at me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-fire-pepper-spray-at-protesters/article38280064.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:00 IST,||Somali govt. official injured in attack||A Somali government spokesman was wounded Sunday in an attack by the Al-Shabaab jihadist group, though his wounds are “not serious,” the Prime Minister’s office said. Multiple sources said the attacker attempted to get onto the spokesman’s car before detonating explosives, partially destroying the vehicle. “Two other people got injured in the blast.” Witnesses confirmed that the attacker had pressed himself against the car before a loud explosion was heard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/somali-govt-official-injured-in-attack/article38280063.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:00 IST,||Mali ex-president Ibrahim Boubacar Keita dies aged 76||Mali’s former President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, who led the West African country from 2013 until he was ousted in a coup in 2020, died at the age of 76 in Bamako on Sunday, his family said. The cause of Keita’s death was not given.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mali-ex-president-ibrahim-boubacar-keita-dies-aged-76/article64949343.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:00 IST,||Prince Harry files court claim over UK police protection||Prince Harry has filed a claim for a judicial review against the British government’s decision not to let him personally pay for police protection while in the U.K. The Duke of Sussex’s legal representative said on Saturday that Prince Harry wants to bring his children Archie and Lilibet to visit his home country from the U.S. but that is too risky without police protection.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/prince-harry-files-court-claim-over-uk-police-protection/article38280070.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:32 IST,||Taxing cryptocurrency transactions||Notwithstanding the eventual introduction of the Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill in Parliament, cryptocurrencies continue to proliferate. In fact, a liberal estimate suggests that as many as 10 crore Indians may already have investments exceeding a total of $10 million in them. This not only creates an avenue for generation of tax revenue for the nation but also puts forth a Herculean challenge for the tax authorities who have to track and tax transactions involving cryptocurrencies. Although the Income Tax Act, 1961 (“IT Act”) does not specifically mention cryptocurrencies, it does cast a wide enough net to bring crypto transactions under its ambit. Trading in cryptocurrency may be classified as transfer of a ‘capital asset’, taxable under the head ‘capital gains’. However, if such cryptocurrencies are held as stock-in trade and the taxpayer is trading in them frequently, the same will attract tax under the head ‘business income’. Even if one argues that crypto transactions do not fall under the above heads, Section 56 of the IT Act shall come into play, making them taxable under the head ‘Other sources of income’. However, this in itself is not sufficient in order to put in place a simple yet effective taxation regime for cryptocurrencies. Since cryptocurrencies are unlike any other asset class, stored and traded virtually, there are varied challenges which need to be addressed in order to streamline the process of taxing crypto transactions. Varied interpretations First, the absence of explicit tax provisions has led to uncertainty and varied interpretations being adopted in relation to mode of computation, applicable tax head and tax rates, loss and carry forward, etc. For instance, the head of income under which trading of self generated cryptocurrency (currencies which are created by mining, acquired by air drop, etc.) is to be taxed is unclear. If these are taxed under capital gains, what should be taken as the cost of acquisition for the purpose of computation? If the acquisition cost is to be taken as the fair market value of the said cryptocurrency as on date of generation, how does one arrive at this value? Since there is no consistency in the rates provided by the crypto-exchanges, it is difficult to arrive at a fair market value. Conversely, there are divergent views in the market treating such an income as ‘business income’ or ‘other sources of income’, which are taxable at individual tax rate slabs (which may be higher than those applicable to capital gains). Similarly, when a person receives cryptocurrency as payment for rendering goods or services, how should one arrive at the value of the said currency and how should such a transaction be taxed? Second, it is often tricky to identify the tax jurisdiction for crypto transactions as taxpayers may have engaged in multiple transfers across various countries and the cryptocurrencies may have been stored in online wallets, on servers outside India. In such cases, it becomes difficult to pinpoint which jurisdiction’s tax laws would become applicable and what kind of tax treatment would be effected especially in light of various nations having differing tax treatment for crypto assets including imposition of a general ban on them. Third, the identities of taxpayers who transact with cryptocurrencies remain anonymous. Each crypto address comprises a string of alphanumeric characters and not the person’s real identity, giving tax evaders a cloak of invisibility. Exploiting this, tax evaders have been using crypto transactions to park their black money abroad and fund criminal activities, terrorism, etc.  Fourth, the lack of third party information on crypto transactions makes it difficult to scrutinise and identify instances of tax evasion. One of the most efficient enforcement tools in the hands of Income Tax Department is CASS or ‘computer aided scrutiny selection’ of assessments, where returns of taxpayers are selected inter alia based on information gathered from third party intermediaries such as banks. However, crypto-market intermediaries like the exchanges, wallet providers, network operators, miners, administrators are unregulated and collecting information from them is very difficult. Another consequence of this lack of information is that the tax authorities are left with hardly any tools to verify any crypto transactions which do get reported. They are instead forced to fully depend on the data provided by the taxpayers.  Fifth, even if the crypto-market intermediaries are regulated and follow Know Your Customer (KYC) norms, there remains a scenario, where physical cash or other goods/services may change hands in return for cryptocurrencies. Such transactions are hard to trace and only voluntary disclosures from the parties involved or a search/survey operation may reveal the tax evaders. While the aforementioned challenges provide enough food for thought to policymakers, certain steps can be taken to provide a robust mechanism for taxing crypto transactions going forward. To begin with, the income-tax laws pertaining to the crypto transactions need to be made clear by incorporating detailed statutory provisions. These could include provision of a definition for crypto assets for tax purposes and guidelines addressing the major taxable events and income forms associated with virtual currencies. This should be followed by extensive awareness generation among the taxpayers regarding the same. The practice of having separate mandatory disclosure requirements in tax returns (as is the case in the United States) should be placed on the taxpayers as well as all the intermediaries involved, so that crypto transactions do not go unreported. Additionally, the existing international legal framework for exchange of information should be strengthened to enable collecting and sharing of information on crypto-transactions. This will go a long way in linking the digital profiles of cryptocurrency holders with their real identities. Training is important Furthermore, the Government must impart training to its officers in blockchain technology. In this regard, it may be noted that the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime’s ‘Cybercrime and Anti-Money Laundering’ Section (UNODC CMLS) has developed a unique cryptocurrency training module, which can aid in equipping tax officers with requisite understanding of the underlying technologies. Tax authorities should also equip themselves with the latest forensic software (such as Elliptic Forensics Software is being used by the USA Internal Revenue Service and GraphSense used in the European Union) which can analyse a high volume of crypto transactions at a time and raise red flags in cases of suspicious transactions. It is certain that cryptocurrencies are here to stay. A streamlined tax regime will be essential in the formulation of a clear, constructive and adaptive regulatory environment for cryptocurrencies. Aastha Suman is in the Indian Revenue Service, posted as Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax, Karnataka and Goa. Ishaan Sharma is in the Indian Railway Accounts Service, posted as Divisional Finance Manager, Bengaluru Division, South Western Railways. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/taxing-cryptocurrency-transactions/article64949552.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:31 IST,||Storm warnings of a megacity collapse||The unpredicted spell of staggering rain over Chennai on December 30, 2021 capped a season of repeated monsoon inundation and urban paralysis, coming as a stark reminder to political leaders that they are underestimating the risk of urban collapse due to extreme weather events. Tamil Nadu’s capital, with an international airport and a major seaport, was gridlocked after heavy rain at the tail end of the northeast monsoon, presenting a dystopian picture of ambulance sirens wailing in still traffic, people deserting vehicles to walk to rail terminals in blinding rain and workers unable to return home until late in the night. The nightmare revived memories of the great deluge of 2015, although the death toll was not comparable. Suburban gated communities on the city’s IT corridor and inner city residents alike were affected, and COVID-19 was momentarily forgotten, as rail and Metro lines were quickly overwhelmed. A non-starter The catastrophic 2015 flood, an unprecedented event, raised expectations of a major shift in priorities for urban development. That deluge was akin to the great flood of 2005 in Mumbai, which too raised hopes that policies would be redrawn. In spite of immense community support and active mobilisation for change, both cities witnessed a regression, as informality remained dominant, laws were just on paper, and unsustainable changes were made to the urban environment. Permanent, elite constructions were favoured at the cost of ecology. The monsoon of 2021 in Chennai, with its black swan evening of 24 cm rain, raises a question: would urban development be more sustainable and equitable if the guiding principle is climate change? This new approach would prioritise ecological and sustainability concerns over aesthetics, and reject market-oriented ‘fantasy plans’, as some scholars describe an increasingly flashy vision of urbanisation. While green roofs, electric vehicles and solar power would be welcome, they would not replace conservation of natural flood plains, rivers, mangroves, marshes and gardens. It would be the future-proofing that India’s cities need, to avert sudden dysfunction caused by climate events. Report’s inputs In its report (https://bit.ly/3frSElV) on ‘Reforms in Urban Planning Capacity in India’ (September 2021), NITI Aayog cites the COVID-19 pandemic as a revelatory moment that underscores the dire need for all cities to become healthy cities by 2030. Climate impacts are certain to affect cities even more fundamentally and permanently. Consistent with the approach of the present Central government, NITI Aayog recommends 500 priority cities to be included in a competitive framework, adopting participatory planning tools, surveys and focus group discussions to assess the needs and aspirations of citizens. There is considerable importance given to technological tools, private sector talent and mapping strategies to identify a city’s assets and to plan spatially. What is needed is a central role for democratically-elected local governments, to ensure greater inclusion and a sense of community. In Tamil Nadu, urban local bodies have not had elections for a decade, while the long coastline of the State has been hit by cyclones that have crippled Chennai and other towns. It is multidimensional All dimensions of a city’s growth, starting with affordable housing, play a central role in adapting to future climate change. They can lower carbon emissions growth even during infrastructure creation if biophilic design and green materials are used. A large volume of new housing stock is being created in the 7,933 urban settlements in the country today, of which the bulk is in a small number of million-plus cities. Less than half of all cities have master plans, and even these are ruled by informality, since both influential elites and the poor encroach upon commons such as wetlands and river banks, as Chennai and Mumbai have witnessed. After a catastrophic flood, the emphasis is on encroachment removal directed almost entirely at the less affluent. A top-level department for climate change adaptation is best suited to serve as a unifier, bringing all relevant departments in a State, such as housing and urban development, transport, water supply, energy, land use, public works and irrigation to work with elected local governments that set priorities and become accountable. Neglect of municipal councils, lack of empowerment and failure to build capacity among municipal authorities have produced frequent urban paralysis in extreme weather. In Chennai, the focus after every flood has been on the storm water drain network, while commercial encroachment of the vast marshland in Pallikaranai, a natural sponge for the city, gets insufficient attention. This experience echoes the fate of encroachments along Mumbai’s Mithi river, where the Mithi River Development and Protection Authority, after the 2005 flood, favoured removal of dwellings, while sparing ‘permanent structures’ that were too big to touch. Leaning on market forces The encroachment of important commons reflects the extreme dependence on market forces to supply affordable urban houses. In Chennai, speculative values have outpriced the middle class and young workers aspiring for their first home, sending them out of the city to relatively cheaper suburbs. Most of these suburban investments do not reflect their true value, even if they are layouts ‘approved’ by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, because outlying town panchayats have little capacity or funds to create even basic infrastructure such as water supply, sanitation and roads. For many residents, monsoon 2021 was no different from others before it. They may live in gated towers along the IT corridor but they struggled to stay afloat, using boats or trucks to get supplies and to travel. Such images rarely get media play, as they represent the unflattering reality of high house prices. Suburban home buyers would gladly transfer some part of the price for infrastructure building, rather than let it be cornered solely by speculators. Now that Chennai is working on a new master plan and a climate action plan, with planned investments in infrastructure including Metro rail links to the western and southern suburbs, it should introduce regulation to ensure value capture. A familiar story Loose metropolitan boundaries with little control over neighbouring local governments produce amorphous building regulations. In Chennai’s case, unplanned densification is occurring in three neighbouring districts which are linked to the core city by local transport and are hence part of a larger metropolitan area. Here, traditional natural assets such as wetlands, reservoirs and watercourses are being lost rapidly. This is typical of other major Indian cities as well, where population growth at the peripheries has been accelerated by anomalous land and housing price increases at the core and absence of adequate good rental housing. India’s cities will continue to be drivers of economic growth with significant production and consumption, but that sunrise story is threatened by unsustainable urban development in the era of climate change. The experiences of Mumbai earlier and Chennai recently are storm warnings, and greater centralisation of governance can do little to address this. The need today is not for flashy retrofitted ‘smart’ urban enclaves but sound, functional metropolitan cities that can handle floods, heat waves, pollution and mass mobility to keep the engines of the economy running. Urban India would otherwise turn into a subprime investment. G. Ananthakrishnan is a Chennai-based journalist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/storm-warnings-of-a-megacity-collapse/article64949559.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:31 IST,||Predatory pricing is prising Indian livelihoods apart||Last week, and all of a sudden, people in the small town of Talode in Nandurbar district in Maharashtra could not buy Colgate toothpaste from their only local store. It was because Nandurbar’s distributor had decided to boycott Colgate’s products and not supply them to the kirana store in Talode. Further, all consumer goods distributors in Maharashtra were protesting against Colgate’s alleged unfair treatment of traditional distributors vis-à-vis B2B technology companies such as Reliance’s JioMart, Udaan and others.  Breaking the flow Nearly half-a-million of India’s distributors pick up goods from consumer companies such as Colgate and deliver them to 13 million small local stores located in 7,00,000 villages and towns across the country through a web of millions of traders and other intermediaries. A vast majority of these distributors and traders are small family businesses that have developed relationships with their local stores over many decades.  The kirana store in Talode sells a 100g tube of Colgate toothpaste to the consumer for Rs. 55, the maximum retail price (MRP). The Nandurbar distributor sells Colgate toothpaste to the Talode store for Rs. 45 and the manufacturer, Colgate, sells it to the distributor for Rs. 40. This is an illustrative but typical example of the current supply chain for consumer goods products in India.   Enter the new age technology B2B companies. They have developed technologies to connect directly to the kirana store in Talode through a mobile phone app, bypassing the intermediaries. They supply Colgate toothpaste to the local store for Rs. 35, lower than the Rs. 45 charged by the distributor. Ostensibly, the people of Talode will also benefit from these lower prices at their local store.  Unable to match such prices and facing the peril of losing business, India’s distributors claim these are unfair practices and want manufacturers such as Colgate to stop supplying goods to the technology companies. Colgate has refused to do so and, hence, the distributors have decided to boycott its products. Hardly ‘creative disruption’ New innovations disrupting an existing process and rendering incumbents futile is generally a healthy process of ‘creative destruction’, as the Austrian economist, Joseph Schumpeter, postulated. But if this disruption is driven not entirely by technology innovation but also through pricing power, would it still be healthy? These technology companies bear a 15%-20% loss on every Colgate toothpaste they sell to the local store. They deliberately offer their product at a price lower than what it costs them, to lure local stores away from the traditional distributors. Further, they offer extensive credit terms and working capital to the local stores. In other words, these technology companies rely not just on their mobile phone app innovation but also steep price discounting and cheaper financing to win customers. Udaan has suffered total losses of more than Rs. 5,000 crore in just five years and JioMart reports even greater losses. Indian companies are able to absorb such heavy losses because they have access to copious amounts of money. These companies are flush with funds from foreign venture capital firms, which in turn are largely funded by American pension funds and university endowments. To put it cheekily, an American senior citizen is discounting Colgate toothpaste for a Talode villager while displacing the Nandurbar distributor, thanks to what economists call global capital flows. Such capital flows foster innovation and yield enormous consumer benefits is the neo-classical economic doctrine. The flip side is that India’s millions of distributors and intermediaries have no access to such finance. They are typically small businesses built over many decades by pledging their personal assets as collateral in return for meagre bank loans. These small companies are cut off from the endless stream of free foreign money that gushes into new age ‘startups’ and established large corporates. Evidently, these companies use the money to not only build new technologies but also to undercut competitors and steal market share. They are able to sustain huge losses for several years until they destroy incumbents and gain dominant market share. After which, they will presumably raise their prices to turn profitable. It is similar to what India experienced in the telecom sector with Jio. This practice, called predatory pricing, is illegal in most countries including India. Behind the veil of technology innovation of these startups lies a murky abuse of pricing power. If this was true ‘creative destruction’, then these technology companies would lure the Talode store owner only with their innovative app and efficiency than also suffering losses on every sale and offering cheaper finance.  While consumers may benefit from lower prices, should the livelihoods of millions of distributors, traders and their families suffer only because they do not have equal access to easy money as these technology companies? The distributor and trader in Nandurbar and the kirana store owner in Talode belong to the same local community. Surely, there will be social ramifications within that community for some of these families being thrown in disarray?  A global problem To be sure, this is not just an India problem but a global one. The conventional economic notion that lower prices, regardless of the means adopted, are a sole and worthy pursuit is under severe challenge. Social media companies such as Facebook give away their products for free and e-commerce companies such as Amazon sell at lower prices, benefiting consumers enormously, but also causing immense social strife and disharmony. The new Chairperson of the Federal Trade Commission in America, Lina Khan, who is a fierce critic of abuse of pricing power by technology companies, is seeking to frame new rules to check such anti-competitive behaviour. What India faces But in India’s case, there is an added complexity of foreign capital flows. Large sums of free money printed in America are finding their way to India’s stock and start-up markets. Access to this capital is only available to a tiny proportion of Indian businesses but threatens the livelihoods of millions of Indian families, as in the case of distributors, causing massive income and social disparities. Even erstwhile champions of free capital flows are now cautious about their social implications. To be clear, this is not a Luddite argument against e-commerce or technological innovations. The issue is about illegal predatory pricing and abuse of pricing power by startups and big corporates through preferential access to easy foreign money. By some estimates, there are more than 20 million families (100 million people) in India whose livelihoods depend on intermediary roles in the consumer goods supply chain. If suddenly these families are displaced and left stranded, it can cause enormous social unrest in the nation. Perhaps, the residents of Talode may even be willing to pay slightly more for their tube of toothpaste if they realise that some families in their community are being put to misery by free American money. Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and Chairman of Data Analytics of the Congress party||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/predatory-pricing-is-prising-indian-livelihoods-apart/article64949556.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:32 IST,||A ‘lifeline’, animal farmed||A few days ago, from the midst of the daily gloom of COVID-19, came uplifting news of a pathbreaking surgical procedure in a New York hospital. A pig’s heart was successfully transplanted into a 57-year-old man dying of heart failure. The ‘xenotransplant’, as interspecies transplants are called, was a reminder of the endless possibilities to treat otherwise untreatable diseases. Transplantation to replace failing organs is one of the spectacular achievements of medicine in the last century. The number of transplants has increased, the list of organs transplanted has grown and outcomes have got better. But the field is also a victim of its own success as the numbers of those needing transplants now far outnumbers the availability of human organs. Both living and dead humans are being sourced as donors but because of scientific, ethical and social challenges, the number of human donors remains restricted. The desperation for organs also creates a fertile ground to lure the vulnerable to sell their organs as we witnessed in the recent kidney scandal in Assam. Given organ shortage, it is intuitive that scientists would turn to animals. It also overcomes another hurdle in human to human transplant; one does not have to seek consent from an animal which can be sacrificed for the organ. Of course not all agree with such a narrow utilitarian approach. Brief history The use of animal organs to replace diseased human ones is a very old idea. Some of the earliest blood transfusions were from animals. Early kidney and liver transplants were attempted from baboons and chimpanzees as these primates were considered closest to humans. In the early 1960s, a surgeon called Reemtsma in New Orleans performed 13 chimpanzee to human kidney transplants. One of the recipients, a schoolteacher, went back to work and lived for 90 days. However, most of these transplants failed and were gradually given up. The interest in pigs as a source of human organs is recent. There are several reasons why scientists have now zoomed in on these otherwise shunned creatures as a source. One interesting reason is that in the western world, it is socially more acceptable to breed pigs for this purpose. From a scientific viewpoint, pigs are genetically modifiable to reduce the chances of rejection by the human body. There are concerns about the transmission of pig viruses through the transplant but this barrier has also been partly overcome by bio protection and genetic manipulation. But COVID-19 will regnite this debate. In what sounds somewhat dystopian, there are now companies breeding genetically modified pigs in special farms for the express purpose of transplantation. One such U.S.-based company Revivicor supplied the pig heart for the New York transplant. Will this transplant boost xenotransplantation? Will this mean the end of organ shortage? Even the most optimistic scientists will agree that these are still open questions but the developed world is inching in this direction. It is a matter of time before more xenotransplants are attempted. When this happens, there will be the question of whether the organ will function in the long term. And, whether it will transmit hitherto unknown diseases to humans. A dying individual offered a xenotransplant as the only life-saving option may not care for such questions. The animal rights movement is not impressed. PETA has decried the pig heart transplant. It said: “Animals aren’t tool-sheds to be raided but complex, intelligent beings. It would be better for them and healthier for humans to leave them alone and seek cures using modern science.” Coming from meat-eating countries, this sounds somewhat paradoxical. The easy public acceptance of the pig compared to other animals as a source says something about our double standards. There was a curious fallout of the New York case in India. The local media suddenly remembered the bizarre story of a heart transplant attempted by a surgeon called Baruah in the 1990s. Some went on to describe this as the world’s first attempt. Baruah, working out of his Guwahati clinic, had transplanted the lung and heart of a pig into 32-year-old Purno Saikia. It was clearly a premature experiment using an unsuspecting poor Indian as a guinea pig. It ended in disaster for the patient and Baruah who was struck off his medical degree. Though somewhat shaken by COVID-19, humanity’s desire to prolong life at all costs is a given. An increasingly common cause of death and suffering is end stage failure of critical organs (heart and liver). And since new organs replace failing ones successfully, we will continue to widen the net for sourcing them. But in our quest towards immortality, recent events show that in good and bad ways, our lives depend not only on other humans but also on other species cohabiting the planet; all creatures big and small. Dr. Sanjay Nagral is a surgeon and writer based in Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-lifeline-animal-farmed/article64949555.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:32 IST,||Super-spreaders in the making||The rapid spread of Omicron in the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic does not appear to have deterred communities in coastal Andhra Pradesh from going ahead with the renowned three-day rooster fights held on the eve of the Sankranthi festival that began on January 14. Despite court orders and directives of the need for ‘strict vigilance’, the holding of this bloodsport now might turn out to be a COVID-19 super spreader event — lakhs of people are expected as participants and spectators. High stakes, a huge draw In the hoary tradition of rooster fights, sharp knives are fitted to the legs of two roosters. The birds are then egged on to fight till one surrenders or dies. High stakes and big bets are common, estimated to run into crores of rupees. The bets often go beyond money and can involve agricultural land, houses, cars, and other properties. While the main attraction is the bird fights, it is the associated gambling and liquor trade that draw in large crowds. While the sport is common in almost all the districts, it is a high-profile game in East and West Godavari, Krishna, and Guntur as senior politicians, cine actors, heads of big businesses and even NRIs take part. The annual event pulls in people from even Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. In most constituencies, local leaders host the arenas. In a sense, rooster fighting is an open secret in the State. Huge cutouts and banners are made ready to welcome celebrity participants. Arrangements related to arenas, tents, seating and parking begin several weeks ahead. Restaurants and hotels can expect brisk business and pricing is on the high side due to the high demand for accommodation and food. The bird fights continue late into the night, under floodlights. In this instance of the raging pandemic, there is concern from a public health perspective as most of the participants are breadwinners and youth. Officially, the State reported over 3,000 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday, but the actual figure could be several times higher given the potential for underreporting. On the ground, a festive mood is visible around the arrangements for arenas in all districts. Thousands of people working in other States have returned home and toll plazas on highways are seeing serpentine lines of vehicles. The Andhra Pradesh State Department has made arrangements for thousands of ‘festival special’ buses to clear the rush. But, no special arrangement or social distancing is facilitated in the special buses and trains either. Festivals, customs and traditions form an integral part of society but in the name of a festive spirit and frenzy, the larger cause of public health has clearly been sacrificed. The second wave of COVID-19 claimed the lives of many due to negligence and a lack of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. It appears that public memory may be too short even this time and caution may be cast to the wind in public places, the use of transport facilities and in the way gatherings are arranged. The cost of flouting COVID-19 protocols could be very high. The police have already booked hundreds of cases, seized money, knives, roosters and even taken people into custody but have been unable to restrict the arrangements due to support from political leaders and businessmen. The broader COVID-19-related restrictions might help reduce the risk of overcrowding associated with the fights becoming ‘super-spreaders’. The State Government has issued orders to impose a night curfew from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m., valid till January 31. While larger gatherings, including congregations, marriages and religious events have been restricted to 200 participants each and night activity banned, some orders were revised and the restrictions put off till January 18, a day after Sankranthi. appaji.r@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/super-spreaders-in-the-making/article64949553.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:31 IST,||Unconquered||Sport throws up surprises and cricket is not immune to it. The latest twist transpired at Cape Town’s Newlands where South Africa registered a seven-wicket victory in the third Test and won the series 2-1 against India. In recent cricketing history, this was a script-altering moment. India was the fancied team even if it missed the injured duo of Rohit Sharma and Ravindra Jadeja. Virat Kohli’s men had a swagger gained from defeating Australia in its backyard and leading 2-1 over England in an unfinished series at the Old Blighty. The loss to New Zealand in the World Test Championship final was deemed an aberration. This squad had quality batters, fearsome pacers, Rishabh Pant’s x-factor and R. Ashwin’s guile. In contrast, South Africa was in transition and after the first Test loss at Centurion, Quinton de Kock prematurely retired. Leading 1-0, India was expected to twist the knife in and win the series, an accomplishment that eluded it since the maiden tour of South Africa in 1992-93. South Africa remains India’s Final Frontier and when the dust settled at Newlands on Friday with the nearby Table Mountain casting a shadow, the host had the last word, having ambushed India in consecutive Tests. Dean Elgar’s men triumphed in the second Test at Johannesburg and extended that winning habit into Newlands while the Indians were sore losers. The manner in which Kohli and Company reacted after an LBW appeal was negated through the Decision Review System, was obnoxious. Elgar survived against Ashwin and Kohli set a poor example with his antics before the stump microphone, a trait that a few wrongly emulated. South Africa won because Elgar and Keegan Petersen bolstered the top-order while speedsters Kagiso Rabada and Marco Jansen bowled sharp. Over two seasons India coped with a fragile middle-order. Cheteshwar Pujara, Ajinkya Rahane and Kohli have not flourished, though the last-named hinted at having turned a corner with a 79 in the last Test. But time is running out for Pujara and Rahane, especially after the latest series average of 20.67 and 22.67, respectively. Pant’s splendid hundred proved inadequate as his acclaimed colleagues flattered to deceive. Defending meagre 200-plus targets can test the finest bowling attacks and Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami had an unenviable task. India has to strengthen its batting and improve its on-field demeanour. Above all, a Test captaincy change has been forced after Kohli stepped down on Saturday. Perhaps the latest result precipitated his decision, marking the end of a leadership era. Having taken charge in 2014, Kohli became India’s most successful leader in the longest format with 40 triumphs from 68 matches. Rohit may be the successor, but before that the three ODIs against South Africa beckon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/unconquered/article38280042.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:31 IST,||Friend in need||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s virtual meeting with Sri Lanka’s Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa on Saturday, with an assurance that India will support Sri Lanka “in all possible ways for overcoming the economic and other challenges posed by COVID-19 pandemic”, was significant and timely. A crucial week lies ahead for the Sri Lankan economy, when President Gotabaya Rajapaksa must make a decision on whether to service debts to bonds with an instalment of $500 million due on January 18, or to default for the first time ever, given the island’s precarious finances. Mr. Gotabaya is expected to address Parliament this week on how he will deal with the economic crisis. This includes a credit crunch, a slump in GDP spurred by COVID-19 losses to tourism, exports and remittances, foreign reserves that dwindled from $7.5 bn in 2019 to $1.6 bn in November 2021, and pending debt repayments of more than $7 bn expected in 2022. The most immediate problems come from rising unrest. In the preceding weeks, the Rajapaksa government reached out to India and China, which are most likely to help given their respective interests in the island. Mr. Gotabaya even received a visit from Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, who discussed a full debt restructure of Sri Lankan borrowings. Beijing has also extended a currency swap arrangement of $1.5 billion. It was to India, however, that Mr. Rajapaksa turned with a humanitarian appeal and SOS. Mr. Jaishankar, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Mr. Basil decided on a “four-pronged” initiative, that included Lines of Credit (LoC) towards the import of fuel, food and medicines, currency swap and debt deferrals from India to Sri Lanka, as well as the conclusion of the Trinco-oil farms project. Matters have moved swiftly since Mr. Basil’s visit and it is heartening that the Trincomalee project MoU was signed earlier this month after decades of delays. Subsequently, India has extended $400 million under the “SAARC currency swap” arrangement and agreed to a partial deferral of a $500 million settlement from Sri Lanka by two months; the $1.5 bn LoC for essential imports is reportedly under way. It would be naive to assume that New Delhi’s assistance will paper over other problems in the complex relations between India and Sri Lanka. Amongst other issues, the friction over fishermen’s rights and pending political solution for war-torn Tamil areas remain sticking points, while concerns over Colombo’s strategic ties with China have often led to open disagreements. It is important to note, however, that in times of peril, New Delhi and Colombo have established a robust channel of communication and demonstrated an ability to act on promises quickly, proving that adage about friends (and neighbours) in need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/friend-in-need/article38280043.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:32 IST,||Nepal recognises Bangla||Kathmandu, Jan. 16. Nepal to-day extended recognition to Bangla Desh. A Nepalese Foreign Ministry announcement this afternoon said that Nepal has recognised Bangla Desh as a sovereign, independent State and the Government of the Peoples Republic of Bangla Desh as its “de jure” Government. The spokesman clarified that Nepal wanted to continue to have friendly relations with Pakistan. Nepal is the eighth country so far to recognise Bangla Desh. The others are Bhutan, East Germany, Poland, Bulgaria, Mongolia and Burma, besides India. Nepal is about 25 km from Bangladesh’s north western borders. The Bangla Desh Relief Committee of Nepal in a statement welcomed the decision as a wise and significant step. The former Home Minister and leader of the outlawed Nepali Congress Party, Mr. S.P. Upadhya, expressed satisfaction that “the Nepalese Government took a formidable and wise decision, keeping in view the national interests.” Observers in Kathmandu felt the recognition was an attempt by Nepal to safeguard its trade route through Bangla Desh from Radhikapur. A spokesperson for the West German Foreign Ministry to-day issued a statement in Bonn “deploring” the establishment of diplomatic relations between East Germany and Bangla Desh. The Yugoslav Government was considering the question of granting recognition to Bangla Desh, according to its Consul-General in Dacca, Mr. Mirke Zec. Mr. Mirke Zec called on Sheikh Mujibur Rehman yesterday. — UNI and AFP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/nepal-recognises-bangla/article38280048.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:31 IST,||Letters||For the ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh, it seems to be a season of reverse migration. The spate of political desertions tell a tale. The BJP could face a tough time as the Samajwadi Party seems to be rising. If the Congress fares better than last time — if it does so — it may prove advantageous for the BJP. Dr. D.V.G. Sankararao, Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh   The decision made by Virat Kohli to relinquish Test captaincy has come as a complete surprise to millions of cricket lovers. Kohli can be counted as one of the most successful, if not the most successful, Indian captain at the helm. Though there has been a slump in his form over time, he still remains one of the best batters. Now, without the burden of captaincy, one hopes that he is able to focus on the game better and create batting records. There has been some kind of upheaval and realignment in the Indian cricket team. All matters must be sorted out as quickly as possible. Anthony Henriques, Mumbai   Australia’s cancellation of tennis star Novak Djokovic’s visa has left one at a loss for words. The Federal Court’s decision reflects very little of law and more of authority. Students of law and fans of the game of tennis will be dismayed at the ruling which has denied millions the pleasure of watching Djokovic on the tennis court. I do not know on what principle of law the cancellation is justified. Perhaps, it was based on the principle of the rule of law that however high you may be, the law is above you. If that be so, it will become the rule of thumb. “Amidst the clash of the arms, the laws of England but speak the same,” was the famous saying of Lord Atkin but that does not hold good for all situations. Every law should have exceptions. The only thing is that they should be reasonable and not arbitrary. Novak Djokovic made use of an exception written into the law. To have rescinded his visa for narrow political gains smacks of arbitrariness. This is not the way to foster sports. N.G.R. Prasad, Chennai    I am an electronics engineer with over three decades of experience specialising in the type of chips used to design Electronic Voting Machines (EVM). Kudos to The Hindu for clearly explaining [as a full page graphic] the foolproof features of the EVM (E-paper, “Text and Context” page, January 13, 2022), which is the most secure way to conduct elections. Unfortunately, political parties of every hue have deliberately sown the seeds of doubt in the minds of everyone about the veracity of these machines, especially when they lose an election.  J. Hareesh, Houston, Texas, U.S. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/letters/article64949560.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:12 IST,||Ask US||Q.I am 22 and have managed to save some funds from pocket money during my time at college and converted it into a fixed deposit. Yet, with the very low interest rates being offered by banks during recent times, my money is just not growing. How do I move into the financial market and importantly, where do I find specific knowledge regarding investing as a beginner? Stuti Swagat A.It is good to diversify your investments across asset classes. And if you do not need money in the short term, then you should definitely invest in market-linked instruments like mutual funds. Stocks could be the next step and that too, only if you are willing to track the markets closely. With mutual funds, start with simple equity index funds that track the market passively. This way you don’t need to do much research on which fund or fund manager is doing well or worry about being sold the wrong product with high commission. If you can commit to not touching your savings for at least seven years, consider 60-70% in equity index funds (like the Nifty 50, Nifty 500, Next 50 and so on) and the rest either in traditional options such as PPF or in debt mutual funds, specifically short duration and corporate bond funds. Ensure you do a regular monthly SIP on these funds to navigate market ups and down. You can read this article to get more clarity on how to invest in the market. Go to https://bit.ly/InvestmentBeginner or scan the QR code that appears along with this article.  On building knowledge – both reading and investing will help. You can consider reading books such as Let’s talk money by Monika Halan, Money wise by Deepak Shenoy and You can be rich too: with goal-based investing by P.V. Subramanyam and M. Pattabiraman, to know the basics of money and financial planning. You may refer to mutual fund (MF) websites to know the basics of MFs.  Q.I am 28 and self-employed. I have started developing an interest in the stock markets and have been learning since the pandemic began. I couldn't help noticing the sudden growth in people’s interest in initial public offerings (IPOs). However, research efforts made via the Internet tell me that some experts view it as unsafe, without proper knowledge, to go for these offerings. So, what should we know about, before applying for an initial public offering? Kavin S A.IPOs are seen as a source of quick wealth in a bull market. But popular to such bull market belief by new investors, past data of IPOs suggest that the wealth effect fizzles out with time. If you are really interested in investing in an IPO, you need to get the following three combinations right: one, you need to find a business that is scalable and that can compound earnings and generate steady cash flows. Two, you need to identify such a business at the right time — when its growth is taking off. Three and most importantly – you need to buy it at a reasonable price/valuation that provides sufficient upside for you. In stocks that are already trading in the secondary market, getting all of these three right may be difficult but very much possible. With IPOs, it is not easy. For one, your understanding of the company making the public offer is limited to what is said in the offer document or prospectus. Here, the performance record stated is limited. Two, in terms of timing, IPOs are more timed to offload the stakes of promoters or private equity investors when a sector is fancied the most (such as chemicals or e-commerce IPOs in 2021) than allowing you to enter a business at the right, opportune moment. Three, since those exiting the company during the IPO would want the maximum value, it is not easy for an IPO to be priced realistically — leaving real long-term upside. You will see that the IPOs of brands such as Policy Bazaar, despite listing gains, have slipped below the offer price, unable to sustain the gains! So, if you are lucky to get all these three right, IPOs make sense. Else, they are more a lottery! Q.I am a 32-year-old Air Force employee with nine years of service left. I want to invest about Rs. 5,000 monthly for my one-year-old daughter in the stock market. Please advise. Vivek K A.First, thank you for your services. We’re glad that you are starting investments early for your daughter’s future. Since you have a girl child, consider a product like Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana by the government. This can be about Rs. 2,000. For the rest, start investing in equity mutual funds — index funds like the Nifty 50, Nifty 500, international index like Nasdaq 100. Use systematic investment plans (SIPs) and ensure you do not disturb the corpus for at least 7 years. As your income grows, raise your SIP value. Set aside any lump sums you get to save, separately, in FDs for any school expenses beginning in the next couple of years. (The adviser is Co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article64949298.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:12 IST,||Lakshya stuns World champion Yew, clinches his maiden title||When it mattered, Lakshya Sen produced the strokes needed to stay out of trouble and finally nailed recently crowned World champion Loh Kean Yew to claim his maiden singles title in the $400,000 India Open badminton here on Sunday. With a display of improved defence and fine mix of powerful smashes, the World Championships bronze medallist outwitted the gold medallist 24-22, 21-17 in 54 minutes. This was India’s second title of the evening following Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty’s stunning 21-16, 26-24 win over three-time World champions and currently ranked second, Ahsan Mohammad and Hendra Setiawan. But the victory of Lakshay in the most awaited clash dwarfed everything else. Sensing that the shuttle speed at the K.D. Jadhav Hall was not to the liking of Loh, Lakshya cashed in on the opportunity and came up with quick-fire smashes that kept an otherwise speedy Singaporean guessing. It was clear that Loh was not at this best on this day and Lakshya seized the opportunity to post his third victory in five meetings. Bouncing back In the 26-minute first game, Lakshya seemed in cruise mode when leading 19-14. But the World champion bounced right back to win six straight points and held a game-point at 20-19. What followed was a battle of nerves. Lakshya made it 21-20 but Loh nosed ahead at 22-21. Eventually, Lakshya won the last three points and converted his second game-point. In the second game, Lakshya broke away from 8-all and stayed ahead by at least two points to close the match. The men’s doubles final produced its share of joy with the Indians saving five game points in the second game and converted their first in the most intense phase of the 53-minute contest. With the slow shuttles demanding more endurance, the Indians had plans to tire out their rivals, aged 37 and 34. After claiming the first game with surprising ease and leading 19-17 in the second, Indians faced their first serious threat. Gritty response The Indonesians held five successive game-points from 20-19 but all credit to the Indians for their gritty response. Satwik’s predominantly attacking play, combined with a sound defence of both players, carried the day. It was a huge moment for Satwik and Chirag to win a final against such a legendary pair. The Indonesians, nicknamed “Daddies”, are ranked second in the world and have three World titles. This was the Indian duo’s second win over the former World No. 1 pair in five meetings. In the previous two matches, the Indian pair failed to take a game off the famed rivals. This was a third BWF World Tour title for Satwik and Chirag following the 2018 Hyderabad Open and the 2019 Thailand Open. Earlier, Busanan Ongbamrungpham outlasted Thai compatriot Supanida Katethong 22-20, 19-21, 21-13 for the women’s singles title. Busanan became the third and second successive Thai winner of India’s flagship event. In fact, in the last 10 editions, the women singles title has gone to Thailand five times with Porntip Buranaprasertsuk (2011) and its numero uno Ratchanok Intanon (2013, 2016, 2019) beating the field. In comparision, Saina Nehwal (2010, 2015) and P.V. Sindhu (2017) have had less success in their home conditions.  The results (finals, Indians unless stated):   Men: Lakshya Sen bt Loh Kean Yew (Sgp) 24-22, 21-17;   Doubles: Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Chirag Shetty bt Mohammad Ahsan & Hendra Setiawan (Ina) 21-16, 26-24.   Women: Busanan Ongbamrungpham (Tha) bt Supanida Katethong (Tha) 22-20, 19-21, 21-13.   Doubles: Benyapa Aimsaard & Nuntakarn Aimsaard (Tha) bt Anastasiia Akchurina & Olga Morozova (Rus) 21-13, 21-5.   Mixed doubles: Hee Yong Kai Terry & Tan Wei Han (Sgp) bt Chen Tang Jie & Peck Yen Wei (Mas) 21-15, 21-18 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakshya-stuns-world-champion-yew-clinches-his-maiden-title/article64949299.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,||India missed a golden opportunity to conquer South Africa||So, the India-South Africa series has consumed a captain! Virat Kohli’s passion and energy will be missed. Not so much his personality cult. He was a leader to those committed to him. And, he needed his support staff to drive his captaincy. He had his successes, got his men to rally around him and cherished and pursued overseas triumphs. He also had his failures. Once he had a different set of support staff, Kohli was taken out of his comfort zone. Disappointing Kohli said in his statement he was no longer able to give 120 per cent as captain. But why? He is still good as a player and still arguably the fittest cricketer in the side? Kohli leaving captaincy following a major series defeat is disappointing. Fighters don’t quit. But then, Kohli’s captaincy is past now. As and when he takes over, Rohit Sharma will have a challenging road ahead. So why did India fail to conquer South Africa in its backyard after a victory in the first Test at Centurion? The batting failed as a unit in conditions where the ball seamed and bounced at a good pace. India lost wickets in clusters, unable to build partnerships. K.L. Rahul made an outstanding hundred in the first Test and then tapered off when the Proteas bowled a lot closer to his off-stump. The gifted Rishabh Pant belted a riveting unbeaten 100 in the third Test at Newlands. In between there were no centuries for India. Cheteshwar Pujara and Ajinkya Rahane had their moments but could not push on to a bigger score or be more consistent. If these two senior batsmen cannot pull their weight in crucial campaigns, then India can try youngsters in their place. The replacements Hanuma Vihari impressed at the Wanderers, and Shreyas Iyer made a hundred on Test debut at home. India has replacements. In low-scoring scraps, contributions from the lower middle-order are vital. The solidity of the left-handed Ravindra Jadeja was missed. And when they had the opportunity to shut the door on South Africa, the Indians allowed the Proteas to sneak back. Kohli’s dismissal to a delivery well outside off in the Indian second innings at Newlands when he was, along with Pant, taking the game away from South Africa, being a case in point. India wasn’t ruthless enough. And the Indian seamers could not quite bowl the right length on these pitches. Twice, the famed bowling unit failed to defend a target beyond 200 and on both occasions, did not even run South Africa close. India needs a quality left-arm seamer, who can add a different angle and dimension. And when will off-spinner R. Ashwin bowl India to victory in a SENA — South Africa, England, New Zealand, Australia — country like that genius Erapalli Prasanna accomplished with eight for 76 against New Zealand in Auckland, 1976. All the on-field temper tantrums over DRS only helped the Proteas. India will not get a better opportunity to conquer South Africa in South Africa again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-missed-a-golden-opportunity-to-conquer-south-africa/article64949232.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:51 IST,||Calicut University reigns||After the high-pressure semifinal against host Mahatma Gandhi University, the final was a lot easier for Calicut University. Calicut defeated Jalandhar’s Sant Baba Bhag Singh 2-0 and regained the National inter-university men’s football title at the Mar Athanasius College ground here on Sunday. The goals came in a five-minute spell early in the first half, through U.K. Nisamudheen off a 19th minute corner kick and through captain Mohammad Safneed’s penalty a few minutes later. Unexpected  “This is an unexpected triumph. Because this time, we did not the get the sort of talent we had expected from colleges,” Calicut’s coach Satheevan Balan, the coach of the 2018 Kerala Santosh Trophy team, told The Hindu. “And then, we got just about two weeks to prepare, normally we get about 21 days. And we had just three days after the team was finalised and just two practice games. Earlier we used to get 10 days with the team and four or five friendly matches.” It was the 11th time Calicut was winning the all-India title and the fourth under Balan. Rectify the mistakes Calicut had finished third in the recent South Zone event but it used that event to correct mistakes with every match. “After our South Zone title hopes vanished with the self goal against host MG in the semifinal league, my goal was to finish among the top eight in the all-India so that we could qualify for the Khelo India championship,” said Balan. “Our real campaign began with the National here. And in the quarterfinal, we went with a do-or-die mentality against defending champion Panjab (Chandigarh). This morning, it was a tough semifinal against MG and after the victory, we felt we could win the title.” Calicut had won the National varsities men’s volleyball title at Bhubaneswar a week ago and on Sunday there was another big victory to celebrate.  The results: Final: Calicut 2 (U.K. Nisamudheen 19, Mohammed Safneed 23-pen.) bt Sant Baba Bhag Singh, Jalandhar 0.   Semifinals: Calicut 1 (Nizamudheen 26) bt Mahatma Gandhi, Kottayam 0; SBBS 1 (Nimrattpal Singh 19) bt Punjabi, Patiala 0.   Special prizes: P.K. Mishal (Calicut, best striker), Nithin Wilson (Mahatma Gandhi, best midfielder), Ajay Alex (Mahatma Gandhi, best defender), P.K. Suhail (Calicut, best goalkeeper) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/calicut-university-reigns/article64949363.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 04:59 IST,||Miracle underlines her class in Indian Oaks||Trainer Pesi Shroff’s wonder filly Miracle (P.S. Chouhan astride) proved her staying potential by winning the Villoo C. Poonawalla Indian Oaks (Gr. 1) over a 2,400m trip, the stellar attraction of Sunday’s (Jan. 16) races here. The winner is owned by Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo & Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo. Shroff saddled three more winners on the day. The champion daughter of Multidimensional and Khalila, who was racing second on tight reins throughout the trip till the bend, cruised ahead into the straight to win the ‘Ladies Derby’ comfortably. With Sunday’s win, Pesi Shroff has set an amazing record of saddling 10 winners in the Indian Oaks, the most by a trainer since the race’s inception in 1944. 1. MARCHETTA PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: SUNLORD (Kirtish) 1, Vikramaditya (Antony Raj) 2, On Va Danser (Kaviraj) 3 and Mascara (Yash Narredu) 4. 1-1/4, 2-1/2 and 2-1/2. 1m, 24.65s. Rs. 19 (w), 10, 21 and 13 (p). SHP: 79, FP: 217, Q: 124, Tanala: 726 and 194. Favourite: Sunlord. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Mukul Sonawala & Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP. Trainer: P. Shroff.  Note: Hellbent (Parmar up) stopped galloping near the 1000m and did not complete the race  .  2. HOMI MODY TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: GIANT STAR (Neeraj) 1, Truly Epic (C.S. Jodha) 2, Victorious Sermon (Zervan) 3 and Caprisca (Antony Raj) 4. 6-1/4, 1 and 2. 2m, 1.87s. Rs. 12 (w), 10 and 25 (p). SHP: 48, FP: 61, Q: 30, Tanala: 122 and 34. Favourite: Giant Star. Owners: Mrs. B.E. Saldhana, M/s. Mark Saldhana, Vivek S. Jain, Faisal F. Qurreshi & Khushroo R. Battiwala. Trainer: M. Narredu.  3. THUMBELINA PLATE (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: SUPERNATURAL (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Liam (T.S. Jodha) 2, Hooves Of Thunder (Yash Narredu) 3 and Chat (Trevor) 4. 7-1/2, 3/4 and Hd. 1m 24. 13s. Rs. 17 (w), 12 and 92 (p). SHP: 129, FP: 828, Q: 379, Tanala: 1,689 and 310. Favourite: Supernatural. Owner: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Keki D. Mehta & Mr. Dara K. Mehta rep. Darashaw Bloodstock Pvt. Ltd., Ms. Ameeta Mehra rep. Mehra Stud and Agricultural Farms Pvt. Ltd. & Mrs. Liane Luthria. Trainer: P. Shroff.  4. UTTAM SINGH TROPHY (2,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: KAMARIA (C.S. Jodha) 1, Botero  (Trevor) 2, Brazos (Parmar) 3 and Skystorm (Antony Raj) 4. 3/4, 10-1/4 and 1-1/4. 2m, 32.72s. Rs. 58 (w), 24 and 10 (p). SHP: 56, FP: 187, Q: 34, Tanala: 539 and 739. Favourite: Botero. Owners: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy. 5. RAMNIWAS RAMNARAIN RUIA GOLD CUP (Gr. 3) (2,000m) (Terms), 4-y-o only: CHOPIN (Neeraj) 1, Chieftain (T.S. Jodha) 2, Zarak (Dashrath) 3 and The Awakening (Yash Narredu) 4. 3-1/4, 1 and Hd. 2m, 5.69s. Rs. 30 (w), 17 and 46 (p). SHP: 107, FP: 270, Q: 94, Tanala: 1,127 and 724. Favourite: Darwin. Owners: Equs Racing (PF), M/s. Berjis Minoo Desai & Suhrud S. Jhaveri. Trainer: P. Shroff.  Note: First favourite Darwin (Y.S. Srinath up) dislodged his rider soon after the start. Srinath escaped unhurt  .  6. P.D. AVASIA TROPHY (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: PETRONIA (Trevor) 1, Multistarrer (Kaviraj) 2, Superleggera (Zeeshan) 3 and Exotique (P.S. Chouhan) 4. 2, 1/2 and 4. 1m 22. 67s. Rs. 13 (w), 12, 16 and 27 (p). SHP: 43, FP: 60, Q: 44, Tanala: 377 and 173. Favourite: Petronia. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Hosidar Daji.  7. VILLOO C. POONAWALLA INDIAN OAKS (Gr. 1) (2,400m) (Terms) Indian Fillies, 4-y-o only: MIRACLE (Multidimensional-Khalila) (P.S. Chouhan) 1 , AAH BELLA (Multidimensional-Secret Garden) (A. Sandesh) 2, ANIMOUS (Ampere-Westphalia) (Neeraj) 3 and HELA (Multidimensional-Fond Fantasy) (Bhawani) 4. 4-3/4, hd. and 3-3/4. 2m, 37.37s. Rs. 10 (w), 10 and 11 (p). SHP: 13, FP: 12, Q: 10, Tanala: 17 and 15. Favourite: Miracle. Owners: Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo & Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo. Trainer: P. Shroff.  8. TRICUMDAS DWARKADAS TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: NOTHING TO WORRY (Akshay) 1, Lagertha (Peter) 2, Emerald (Kaviraj) 3 and Remus (Antony Raj) 4. 1/2, 3 and 1. 1m, 10.95s. Rs. 75 (w), 18, 36 and 23 (p). SHP: 97, FP: 1,819, Q: 544, Tanala: 3,984 and 2,846. Favourite: Dragoness. Owner: Mr. Balam Mohla. Trainer: Vishal Gaikwad.  9. MARCHETTA PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: FULL OF GRACE (S. Zervan) 1, Cherished (Kirtish) 2, Polaris (Bhawani) 3 and Camden Town (Antony Raj) 4. 1, 1 and 3. 1m, 24.39s. Rs. 32 (w), 14, 12 and 30 (p). SHP: 39, FP: 171, Q: 54, Tanala: 1,073 and 552. Favourite: Cherished. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Shantanu Sharma. Trainer: Vishal Gaikwad.  Jackpot: (i) 70%: Rs. 5,432 (4 tkts.) & 30%: 776 (12 tkts.); (ii): 70%: 3,948 (15 tkts.) & 30%: 174 (146 tkts.). Treble: (i) 1,885 (4 tkts.), (ii) 126 (67 tkts.). (iii) 378 (24 tkts.). Super Jackpot: 70%: C/o & 30%: 6,558 (1 tkt).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/miracle-underlines-her-class-in-indian-oaks/article64949458.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:11 IST,||Aakarshi sets her sights on the Syed Modi Open crown||Aakarshi Kashyap believes that the semifinal appearance in the just-concluded India Open in Delhi is a “huge morale booster” and she “needs to be more consistent” as she chases a major title when she competes in the next big event — Syed Modi Open in Lucknow this week. Optimistic  “I am satisfied with the way I have played in the India Open. I was optimistic of making it to the semis once the draw was out. Yes, there is always scope for improvement,” Aakarshi said to The Hindu .  The gifted shuttler from Durg (Chhattisgarh), who trains at the Suchitra Badminton Academy, says the biggest lesson from the defeat to 12th seed Busana Ongbamrunghpan in the India Open semis was that she should be more aggressive once in the lead. “I had five game points against Busana. Should have finished off with a more aggressive approach. This is what I should be aiming for in future,” she said. Fortunate “I am fortunate to have a mentor like Pradeep Raju Sir who always makes it a point to make a critical analysis of my games in all big events and to M. Srikanth [fitness coach] sir for ensuring the right kind of fitness levels,” she said. A big fan of P.V. Sindhu and Saina Nehwal, Aakarshi said she will be gunning for the title at the Syed Modi and the Odisha Opens before looking at an opportunity to play in the All England later this year. “I believe my strong points are the drops big and half-smashes besides the ability to retrieve. All I am looking for now is to minimise unforced errors,” the 20-year-old said. The 2019 South Asian Games team gold medallist, who is currently ranked 76, also said she will be targeting to break into the top 30 in the World.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aakarshi-sets-her-sights-on-the-syed-modi-open-crown/article64949304.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:11 IST,||Corfe Castle for Kakatiya Million||Trainer L. D’Silva’s Corfe Castle, who ran close second to Multifaceted in the Sprinters’ Cup at Mumbai, should make amends in the Kakatiya Million, the main event of Monday’s (Jan. 17) races here. ABERADER PLATE (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 12.40 p.m.: 1. Carlisle (8) C.S. Jodha 56, 2. Star Medal (7) Nakhat Singh 56, 3. Tihamah (4) Ashad Asbar 56, 4. Almas (5) R. Ajinkya 54.5, 5. Bifrost (3) Mukesh Kumar 54.5, 6. Carnival Lady (1) B. Nikhil 54.5, 7. City Of Hustle (2) B.R. Kumar 54.5 and 8. Silver Lining (6) Md. Ismail 54.5.  1. ALMAS, 2. CARLISLE, 3. STAR MEDAL VEGAVATHI PLATE (Div. I) (1,100m) Maiden, 4-y-o & upward rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 1.15: 1. Ayur Tej (1) Mukesh Kumar 60.5, 2. Dizizdtymtowin (11) Abhay Singh 60.5, 3. Space Time (7) A.A. Vikrant 60.5, 4. Berkeley (5) Nikhil Naidu 60, 5. Most Loveable (6) P. Gaddam 59.5, 6. Golden Amaris (3) Rafique Sk. 58, 7. City Queen (4) G. Naresh 57.5, 8. Elegant Stroke (2) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 9. Racing Rani (8) Afroz Khan 54, 10. Good Tidings (10) Akshay Kumar 52.5 and 11. Acadian Angel (9) Santosh Raj 50.  1. BERKELEY, 2. GOOD TIDINGS, 3. DIZIZDTYMTOWIN WISHFUL THINKING PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 1.50: 1. Top Diamond (9) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Baudelaire (8) Suraj Narredu 59.5, 3. Muaser (10) Nakhat Singh 59.5, 4. Gurbaaz (6) Nikhil Naidu 54, 5. Mireya (4) Kuldeep Singh 54, 6. Story Teller (2) R.S. Jodha 54, 7. Valiant Prince (5) Rupal Singh 54, 8. Redeem Our Pledge (1) Neeraj 53.5, 9. Battle Ready (7) G. Naresh 53 and 10. Flying Rudolf (3) Rafique Sk. 53.  1. TOP DIAMOND, 2. BAUDELAIRE, 3. REDEEM OUR PLEDGE HOVERCRAFT PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.25: 1. Char Ek Char (10) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. Indie (8) Abhay Singh 59.5, 3. Nearest (11) Gaurav Singh 58, 4. Silk (2) B.R. Kumar 56, 5. Lifetime (5) Khurshad Alam 55.5, 6. Garnet (6) A.A. Vikrant 55, 7. Blast In Class (13) Santosh Raj 54, 8. Executive Decision (3) R. Ajinkya 54, 9. Pedro Planet (9) Md. Ismail 53, 10. Ashwa Sultan (1) S.S. Tanwar 52.5, 11. Blazing Jupiter (12) B. Nikhil 52, 12. Exponent (7) P. Gaddam 52 and 13. Ostentatious (4) Afroz Khan 52.  1. EXECUTIVE DECISION, 2. CHAR EK CHAR, 3. INDIE KAKATIYA MILLION (1,200m) (Terms), 4-y-o & upward, 3.00: 1. Ashwa Bravo (2) Suraj Narredu 56, 2. Corfe Castle (1) C.S. Jodha 54 and 3. Smashing Blue (3) Akshay Kumar 52.5.  1. CORFE CASTLE HOVERCRAFT PLATE (Div. II) , rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.35: 1. Hard To Toss (10) Deepak Singh 60, 2. Shaquille (3) Gaurav Singh 59.5, 3. Furious Fun (1) Santosh Raj 57, 4. Ashwa Rajauri (8) Kuldeep Singh 56, 5. Royal Pal (11) Abhay Singh 56, 6. Unmatched (5) Akshay Kumar 56, 7. Star Cruise (12) A.A. Vikrant 55, 8. Above The Law (4) R. Ajinkya 54, 9. Explosive (7) Afroz Khan 53.5, 10. Loch Stella (9) R.S. Jodha 53, 11. Alluri’s Pride (6) Rafique Sk. 52.5 and 12. Silk Route (2) Surya Prakash 52.5.  1. ABOVE THE LAW, 2. UNMATCHED, 3. ASHWA RAJAURI GAJASIMHA RAO MEMORIAL CUP (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 4.10: 1. Ashwa Brooni (2) Rafique Sk. 60, 2. Long Range (1) Surya Prakash 60, 3. Ashwa Vikrant (6) B.R. Kumar 59.5, 4. Mirana (3) Santosh Raj 59.5, 5. Makhtoob (9) C.S. Jodha 57.5, 6. Red Snaper (13) Nikhil Naidu 55.5, 7. Dandy Man (7) Ashad Asbar 55, 8. Good Connection (12) Mukesh Kumar 54.5, 9. Trump Star (10) A.A. Vikrant 53.5, 10. Aerial Combat (11) Akshay Kumar 52, 11. Beauty Flame (5) Gaurav Singh 51.5, 12. Star Racer (14) B. Nikhil 51.5, 13. Mark My Day (8) Nakhat Singh 51 and 14. Flying Jet (4) Afroz Khan 50.  1. MIRANA, 2. GOOD CONNECTION, 3. AERIAL COMBAT VEGAVATHI PLATE (Div. II) (1,100m) Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 4.45: 1. Blue Label (1) R.S. Jodha 60.5, 2. Princess Shania (4) Rafique Sk. 60.5, 3. Wild Card (5) Mukesh Kumar 60.5, 4. Stark (2) Surya Prakash 60, 5. Winning Player (3) Gaurav Singh 59.5, 6. Sharp Mind (10) Khurshad Alam 57.5, 7. Southern Lady (7) Suraj Narredu 57, 8. That’s My Way (6) Afroz Khan 56.5, 9. Air Salute (8) Santosh Raj 54.5 and 10. Big Day (9) Nakhat Singh 52.5.  1. SOUTHERN LADY, 2. STARK, 3. WILD CARD  Day’s Best: CORFE CASTLE Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 3, 4 & 5. (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/corfe-castle-for-kakatiya-million/article38280303.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:15 IST,||Focus finally shifts to on-court action||The Australian Open, dogged by unprecedented controversy and confusion, finally gets under way on Monday — without men’s defending champion Novak Djokovic. Italy’s 150th-ranked Salvatore Caruso, the so-called ‘lucky loser’, has been selected to take Djokovic’s place in the draw. The Serbian World No. 1’s decision not to get vaccinated against COVID-19 sparked a saga which dragged through the courts and culminated in him facing deportation on Sunday. It halted, for now, his dream of becoming the first man to win 21 Grand Slam titles. That opportunity is now solely with Rafael Nadal. Fellow 20-time Grand Slam winner Roger Federer is injured and not in Australia. The 35-year-old Spaniard Nadal won the warm-up Melbourne Summer Set title on his return from a long injury lay-off and Covid. Nadal, who faces American Marcos Giron in the first round on Monday, is seeded six this year and in the same quarter of the draw as World No. 3 Alexander Zverev. With Djokovic out, World No. 2 Daniil Medvedev — last year’s finalist who won his first Major at the US Open in September — will start favourite. Zverev, Stefanos Tsitsipas and Andrey Rublev round out the top six. Women’s World No. 1 Ashleigh Barty is the hot favourite to break through and win a Grand Slam on home soil for the first time. With American great Serena Williams missing through injury, defending champion Naomi Osaka, seeded 13, could be her main threat. Perfect preparation Reigning Wimbledon champion Barty capped a perfect preparation by convincingly winning the Adelaide International, her first tournament since the US Open, and said she was “chomping at the bit”. World No. 2 Aryna Sabalenka is in crisis, self-destructing early at two warm-up tournaments where her serve deserted her. Garbine Muguruza, Barbora Krejcikova, Maria Sakkari and Anett Kontaveit are all also considered contenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/focus-finally-shifts-to-on-court-action/article38280128.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,||Djokovic loses appeal||Novak Djokovic was deported from Australia on Sunday after losing a bid to stay in the country to defend his Australian Open title despite not being vaccinated against COVID-19. A masked Djokovic was photographed in a Melbourne airport lounge with two government officials in black uniforms before he left for Dubai. It's not clear where he will go from there. Among the possibilities are Spain, Monaco or his native Serbia, where he has an almost iconic status and would likely be greeted with a hero's welcome. The No. 1-ranked tennis star has spent the past 10 days at the center of a dizzying drama over his vaccination status that has polarised opinion worldwide and struck a chord in Australia, where coronavirus cases are surging. The 34-year-old said he was “extremely disappointed” by a court's decision Sunday that led to his deportation. But he added that he respected the ruling and would cooperate with authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-loses-appeal/article64949231.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,||Ostwal announced his arrival in style||Struggle through daily local train commute is synonymous to cricketers from Mumbai. But Vicky Ostwal is different. Despite hailing from Maharashtra, Ostwal spent countless hours in local trains to pursue his cricketing ambition. “We just hope it’s the beginning for him. He has been working hard all these years. And the effort on Friday is a reflection of his passion, perseverance and the sacrifices that he and his parents have made,” says Mohan Jadhav, Ostwal’s coach at the Dilip Vengsarkar Cricket Academy on the outskirts of Pune. Hailing from Lonavala, a hill station on the Mumbai-Pune national highway, it was Ostwal’s primary school teacher who spotted his spark. Father Kanhaiya, a real estate developer, then started ferrying him to the Vengsarkar Academy in south Mumbai. “When he was around 13, I told his parents it would help him if they relocate closer to the academy. Being the supportive parents, they moved to a house that’s at walking distance from the academy and since then he hasn’t looked back,” Jadhav says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ostwal-announced-his-arrival-in-style/article38280131.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:11 IST,||Salah does it for Egypt||Mohamed Salah squeezed a volley under the goalkeeper to give a nervous Egypt a 1-0 win over tiny Guinea-Bissau, which was denied maybe its biggest result at the African Cup of Nations when it had a brilliant late equaliser contentiously disallowed after a VAR check. Salah’s breakthrough came in the 69th minute after the seven-time African champion laboured to break down Guinea-Bissau. The victory revived Egypt’s Group D campaign after it lost its opening game to Nigeria 1-0.  The results:   Group D: Nigeria 3 (Chukwueze 3, Awoniyi 45, Simon 46) bt Sudan 1 (Khidir 70-pen).   Guinea-Bissau 0 lost to Egypt 1 (Salah 69).   Group F: Mali 1 (Kone 79-pen) drew with Gambia 1 (Musa Barrow 90-pen) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/salah-does-it-for-egypt/article64949301.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,||Ostwal and Bawa scythe through SA line-up||Four-time champion India dished out a clinical show to start its Under-19 World Cup campaign on a winning note, thrashing South Africa by 45 runs here on Saturday. Put in, India rode on skipper Yash Dhull’s 82 to post a fighting 232 and then bundled out the opposition for 187, with left-arm spinner Vicky Ostwal (5/28) and pacer Raj Bawa (4/47) doing the damage. After losing Ethan John Cunningham (0) in the first over, Valentine Kitime (25) and Dewald Brevis (65) put on 58 runs. Ostwal broke the stand, removing Kitime in the 12th over. Another Ostwal strike, in the 21st over, checked the South African progress. Skipper George Van Heerden (36) tried to take the game deep but ran out of partners. The South African innings eventually folded in 45.4 overs.  The scores: India 232 in 46.5 overs (Shaik Rasheed 31, Yash Dhull 82, Nishant Sindhu 27, Kaushal Tambe 35; Matthew Boast 3/40) bt South Africa 187 in 45.4 overs (Valentine Kitime 25, Dewald Brevis 65, George Van Heerden 36; Raja Bawa 4/47, Vicky Ostwal 5/28).   Zimbabwe 321/8 in 50 overs (Panashe Taruvinga 36, Emmanuel Bawa 100, David Bennett 58, Connor Mitchell 35; Rasan Kavau 3/65) bt Papua New Guinea 93 in 35 overs.   Ireland 236/9 in 50 overs (Joshua Cox 111 n.o., Philippus le Roux 32) bt Uganda 197 in 48.1 overs (Pascal Murungi 63, Juma Miyaji 38; Matthew Humphreys 4/35).   UAE 284/7 in 50 overs (Alishan Sharafu 37, Punya Mehra 72, Nilansh Keswani 38, Ali Naseer 73) bt Canada 235 in 46.4 overs (Anoop Chima 46, Mihir Patel 96, Kairav Sharma 43).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ostwal-and-bawa-scythe-through-sa-line-up/article64949235.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:37 IST,||Footballer Azeez passes away||Former Karnataka State footballer and Santosh Trophy winner Abdul Azeez passed away early on Sunday at Perinthalmanna, Malappuram district, Kerala. He was 73 and is survived by his wife and two daughters. Azeez was part of the erstwhile Mysore team which won the Santosh Trophy in 1967-68. In a football career that spanned 21 years (1964 to 1985) he also represented Services, Bengal and Maharashtra. During his club career, Azeez turned out for ASC & Center FC and Kolkata giant Mohammedan Sporting. He was known for his speed and dribbling skills and was popularly called ‘Malappuram Azeez’, in memory of the town he grew up in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/footballer-azeez-passes-away/article38280306.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:11 IST,||Vidit off to a winning start||Vidit Gujrathi was off to a winning start when he overpowered USA’s Sam Shankland in 63 moves spread over six hours in the Masters section of the Tata Steel Chess at Wijk Aan Zee on Saturday. R. Praggnanandhaa drew with Anish Giri in 44 moves from the black side. Vidit, Jan-Krzysztoff Duda and defending champion Jordeen van Foreest shared the lead following their triumphant start in the 14-player, 13-round premier event. World champion Magnus Carlsen, a seven-time winner, and Fabiano Caruana were among those involved in draws. Ganguly posts win In the 14-player Challenger section, Surya Shekhar Ganguly was among the four first-round winners while Arjun Erigaisi drew.  First-round results (Indians unless stated): Masters: Vidit Gujrathi bt Sam Shankland (USA); Anish Giri (Ned) drew with R. Praggnanandhaa; Andrey Esipenko (Rus) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor).   Fabiano Caruana (USA) drew with Sergey Karjakin (Rus); Daniil Dubov (Rus) drew with Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze); Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol) bt Richard Rapport (Hun); Jorden van Foreest (Ned) bt Nils Grandelius (Swe).   Challengers (involving Indians): Surya Shekhar Ganguly bt Marc Andria Maurizzi (Fra); Arjun Erigaisi drew with Lucas van Foreest (Ned).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-off-to-a-winning-start/article64949302.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:59 IST,||Mani rises to the occasion for Express XI||R. Mani took five for 19 as Express XI defeated Vetri by 32 runs in the TAKE-DDCA second division league recently.  The scores:   II div.: Express XI 163/7 in 30 overs (S. Kumaresan 57, G. Selva Kumar 43) bt Vetri 131 in 26.3 overs (T. Nikshan Israel 38, R. Mani 5/19).   III div.: Godson 224/9 in 30 overs (P. Sambath Kumar 44, P. Britto 35, R. Saravana Pandian 29, R. Packia Raj 3/25) bt All Rounders 164 in 18.5 overs (S. Aravind 37, B. Manikandan 30, J. Clinton 3/14, R. Saravana Pandian 3/30).   IV div.: Eleven Star 111 in 23.4 overs (M. Ashraf Dheen 3/27) lost to Sachin 114/3 in 20.2 overs (R. Muthukannan 28, J. Abdul Kareem 42) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mani-rises-to-the-occasion-for-express-xi/article64949348.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:11 IST,||Benitez sacked as Everton manager||Rafael Benitez was sacked as Everton manager on Sunday after just eight months in charge of the struggling Premier League club. The Spaniard paid the price for a dismal run of nine defeats in last 13 league matches, culminating in a 2-1 loss at lowly Norwich on Saturday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/benitez-sacked-as-everton-manager/article38280307.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:10 IST,||Chirag, Shruti to lead challenge||The top names in the junior boys’ and girls’ categories in the country, Chirag Duhan and Shruti Ahlawat, will be leading the challenge in the singles events of the Central Excise and CGST ITF World Ranking Tennis (grade 2), which gets underway here at the Bengal Tennis Association complex on Monday. While Duhan with his current ITF junior world ranking of 76 is the top seed, the boys’ main draw has attracted a sizeable number of Indians. The girls’ singles main draw also sees a lot of Indian names led by Shruti Ahlawat, who is the highest ranked Indian in the ITF juniors with a rank of 79.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chirag-shruti-to-lead-challenge/article38280658.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:56 IST,||Chinnamaruthu sizzles||Chinnamaruthu (88, 70b, 5x4, 7x6) helped Young Talents score to a five-wicket win over Thiaga CA in the semifinals of the Young Talents-G.R. Cricket Academy tournament recently.  The scores (semifinals):   Asiatic Cricket Transformers 167/9 in 30 overs (Satish Kumar 40, Prasanna 33, Lalith 3/24) bt Elite CA 119 in 27.3 overs (Madhavan 50, Ragavendran 4/31).   Thiaga CA 142/9 in 30 overs (S. Srinath 59, Keerthi Vasan 27, L. Ganesh 3/21) lost to Young Talents 146/5 in 27.2 overs (Chinnamaruthu 88, Naveen Utham 36, Utsav Varadh 3/16).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chinnamaruthu-sizzles/article38280355.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 06:16 IST,||Liverpool moves into second place||Liverpool climbed to second in the Premier League with a 3-0 win over Brentford on Sunday. In Bundesliga, Robert Lewandowski’s hat-trick gave Bayern Munich a 4-0 win over Cologne. The Pole also reached 300 Bundesliga career goals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-moves-into-second-place/article64949233.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:31 IST,||Hedgehog’s superbug connection||Superbugs are bacteria that have acquired resistance to several types of antibiotic drugs either through genetic mutation or through build up of resistance over time, chiefly due to the misuse or overuse of antibiotics. This means that certain antibiotics, which have saved millions of lives earlier, will no longer be effective against such bacteria. Scientists call them drug-resistant bacteria or antibiotic-resistant bacteria, and they are posing a significant health threat globally today. Scientists discovered one such superbug, called the MRSA (or methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus), in 2011. It was thought to have emerged in cows given the large amounts of antibiotics used among cattle. However, a team of international researchers have found that drug-resistant bacteria MRSA evolved naturally about 200 years ago as a result of a battle between a parasitic fungus species and a bacteria species that share space on the skin of wild hedgehogs. While the use of antibiotics often drives the evolution of superbugs, this study shows the origins of some antibiotic-resistant bacteria in Nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/hedgehogs-superbug-connection/article64949561.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:31 IST,||An Ashes series decided in the fifth Test||While the current Ashes series was won by Australia after the third Test itself as they took an unassailable 3-0 lead, there have been other series that have been more closely competed. The last time an Ashes series was decided in the fifth and final Test of the series was in the previous series when England hosted Australia. England won the final match to level the series 2-2. But as Australia had won the Ashes before this one in 2017-18, they retained the trophy. England were trailing the series 2-1 and had already lost the trophy by the time the fifth Test of the 2019 Ashes series began in September at The Oval in London. Australia won the toss and elected to field first and it seemed like a good decision as they were able to bundle out the hosts for 294. Jofra Archer was England’s star with the ball as he finished with figures of 6 for 62 in the first innings to restrict Australia to 225 and give his side a lead of 69. Fifties from Joe Denly and Ben Stokes allowed England to score 329 in their second innings to set a target of 399 for Australia to win. Stuart Broad and Jack Leach took four wickets apiece as England rolled out Australia for 263 and won the match by 135 runs to level the series 2-2.  Did you know?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/an-ashes-series-decided-in-the-fifth-test/article64949563.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:31 IST,||Homecoming of the striped hyena||The sighting of a striped hyena in the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary on the Delhi-Haryana border recently made headlines. Why? Come, let’s find out. The striped hyena is a near-threatened species with less than 10,000 of them in the wild globally. It is “one of the least known large carnivore species”, and since it is a nocturnal creature, its sighting is rare. It is found in several African and Asian countries, including Nepal and India. The last time a striped hyena was sighted in Delhi was under tragic circumstances - it was killed in a road accident in 2015. On several occasions, pugmarks were found in the Aravalli forests spanning the neighbouring regions of Gurugram and Faridabad too. It is said that during 2017-2018, pugmarks of a striped hyena were found in the Asola sanctuary. And finally comes this sighting at the sanctuary through a camera trap. Interestingly, a striped hyena was spotted for the first time since 2017 in Uttarakhand’s Corbett Tiger Reserve this August. So why are such sightings important? “It’s a scavenger and plays an important role in maintaining the stability of a forest ecosystem. The presence of a striped hyena in Asola indicates an improvement in the Asola forest.” As a scavenger (an animal that consumes dead organisms), it helps clean up the surroundings, decreasing the chances of potential spread of infection. Since scavengers usually feed on kills left behind by larger predators, the presence of a striped hyena is also indicative of the presence of predators such as leopards and tigers. The sighting is also significant because it gives hope at a time when the number of striped hyenas is decreasing due to several reasons such as habitat loss, death due to accidents, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/homecoming-of-the-striped-hyena/article64949562.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:10 IST,||Tit for tat||Eight months into the lockdowns in 2020, Chepauk’s rapper K. Nigavithran released his first album,82 D Block, a well-rounded bag of eight songs about his memories growing up in the neighbourhood. It was the album that put him on the map. However, a few months before the album released, Nigavithran was entangled in an episode with the police for being the flagbearer of a protest that happened in Chepauk’s Lock Nagar. He was on their lookout for two days, until it was proven to the officers in-charge that he had little to do with the issue.  Nigavithran turned the anger and frustration he felt at that point into a catchy rap song ‘Pazhiku Pazhi’ which is part of his first EP, Dishonored , that was released recently across streaming platforms. But it wasn’t this incident that triggered him to come up with the EP. Through Dishonored , says Nigavithran, he wanted to register the pain of Chennai’s budding rap artists and the price they pay.  He attributes this to how corporate-driven the independent music scene has now become. “They [music platforms] have only been encouraging and publicising already established indie artists. Very little space is given to emerging rappers,” he says, adding, “if you have to make a big mark, you have no other option but to go through them.” He says, “I am not blaming anybody, it’s just that that is how it works.” Finding his space Like many indie artists, Nigavithran says his EP stems from the rejection he has faced so far. “I have performed at music shows and events. There have been times I have felt they have used me as a filler before the main performance.” Which is why the first song ‘N.I.G.A’ is all about himself and acts as an introduction to those who might not know Nigavithran or where he comes from.  Nigavithran is unabashed about who he is and the distinctive voice he seems to have in the indie space, which forms most of the lyrics of ‘Black Panther’. A fan of Marvel and DC films, he says that he could relate to Black Panther the most and hence the song. The groovy ‘Peruku Hip-Hop’ discusses the politics of the indie scene and how most of the talented artists are waiting for that one chance. But he ends the EP on a positive note with ‘Ondraga Payanipom’ which says something to the effect of: “I and my music shall travel along.”   Produced by Dudez in Madras and marketed by RayApp, Dishonored marks Nigavithran’s first collaboration with other indie artists such as Stan, Nina Sam and Lenix. But life came a full circle when he recorded D. Vinoth, a sound engineer who pushed Nigavithran to become a rapper, for ‘Ondraga Payanipom’; incidentally, a song about journeying.   Since his debut album,82 D Block, Nigavithran has been putting out singles on streaming platforms. But he says the reception he got for Dishonored has been heartening. He says, “A lot of rappers in the city reached out to me via DMs and calls and said that they could relate. After all, it was made for us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tit-for-tat/article64949454.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:47 IST,||Let’s talk about Science||“To make the flow of ideas, information, and the details of life in science more transparent and accessible, and open up avenues of collaboration, association, and opportunities.” This, says Naman Jain, is the principal idea behind Zeroing In: The Science Podcast. Jain, who is currently pursuing his Ph.D from Max Planck Institute of Quantum Optics, Garching, Germany, is one of the directors of the non-profit organisation Zeroing In, which has produced two seasons of interesting and informative science podcasts on topics as varied as space science and neuroscience. The other two directors are Prajwal Patnaik, currently pursuing his Master’s from the University of Sydney, Australia and Himanshu Mishra, currently pursuing an MBA in business management from XLRI., Delhi-NCR. The organisation has seven constant members and other young people from academia, who can be loosely grouped as “students”, being undergrads, postgrads, Ph.D students and early career researchers, contribute to the making of the podcasts.  Initially created in collaboration with the Alumni Association of the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, “it has now branched into an independent non-profit association. We are registered as a Section 8 company now,” says Kriti Raj, a volunteer who does the outreach for Zeroing In, in an email to The Hindu . She is an Aerospace engineer, trained in the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, and is in the process of transitioning into a space scientist.  Gap in perception  The idea of Zeroing In came up because the members, as students, were conscious of a gap in students’ perception of the horizons of science. This was mainly due to the lack of interactions with leading scientists and researchers. Despite producing top-notch scientists and engineers, India is not apparent in the world map of pivotal results in science and core technologies, the group feels. “We started Zeroing In with the central aim of bridging this pronounced gap,” says Jain.  There have been 13 episodes so far, with seven in the first season and six in the second. “We are currently working on the third season,” says Raj.The third season is set to take off in the week of January 24. Originally slated for release around mid-December, it was postponed because of the website re-launch.The team has received numerous comments and feedback on the last two seasons. As Jain puts it, “The feedback from students included comments on how they have had an enriching experience of simply being able to listen to real-life scientists and researchers who are otherwise only stories in books.” Further, from college students and researchers, the group has received wishes to have some of the sessions published as video podcasts, to delve more into interdisciplinary ideas, and also to foray into the less-talked-about subjects in school curricula. “Up to now, we have had over 20,000 listens on our content,” he says.  The group tries to publish one episode every two weeks, and the podcasts can be heard from all popular platforms such as YouTube, Spotify, Google Podcasts, Apple Podcasts, Breaker, RadioPublic, and Anchor, in addition to being popularised on social media. “It is important to acknowledge that this initiative grew out of the support of the Alumni Association of the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology,” says Jain. “ Zeroing In has evolved organically into an independent not-for-profit organisation, and while it is currently thriving on minimal costs, which definitely is difficult and limiting. We are in discussions with a very promising opportunity for support.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/lets-talk-about-science/article64949551.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 03:47 IST,||A healthy blend||Just like we need two eyes for a three-dimensional view and two ears to hear stereophonic sound, we require a judicious mixture of Arts and Science subjects to reap the full benefits of education. This combination was prevalent in higher education in Tamil Nadu. The pre-university course introduced in 1956 had four subjects of equal credit. As a student of the first batch, I had Maths, Physical Sciences, Logic, and Economics. In the three-year B.Sc. that followed, I studied Maths (Main), Physics (Ancillary), World History (Minor), as educators then felt that exposure to the Arts subjects would improve the scientist’s depth of vision. Combined power Science and the Arts are complementary and necessary for holistic development. While the Arts improve soft skills like communication, Science sharpens analytical and independent thinking. Maths is seen to be intertwined with the Arts such as music, dance, and architecture. Pythagoras was a geometer, number theorist, and musicologist. Mathematician Rene Descartes and the multidimensional Euler were also music theorists. Physicist Einstein was an accomplished pianist and violinist; mathematician Manjul Bhargava plays the tabla; and the astronomer Herschel composed 24 symphonies and concertos. Architecture imbibes many mathematical concepts. It is therefore clear that blended learning of science and arts subjects is beneficial but the current level of blend is not sufficient. In Engineering/Technology education, for instance, only Business English is offered. Why not offer literature as an elective? Performing Arts, History, Politics and other such subjects can be offered as minors. Not only will this go a long way in improving their soft skills but also help them develop in a holistic manner. The writer is former professor and Head, Entrance exams and admission, Anna University, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/a-healthy-blend/article64949550.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:10 IST,||George Clooney whips up a soothing, heady cocktail||This adaptation of Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist and journalist J.R. Moehringer’s eponymous memoir is a mellow drink, spiked with hefty doses of nostalgia and an astonishing performance by Ben Affleck. After his father, the radio announcer known as The Voice (Max Martini), lets them down again, nine-year-old JR (Daniel Ranieri) and his mother, Dorothy (Lily Rabe), return to stay with his eccentric grandfather (Christopher Lloyd). Though Dorothy does not like staying with her parents as she feels it is an admission of defeat, JR enjoys the interactions with the extended family who breeze in and out of the family home. JR is especially fond of his uncle, Charlie (Ben Affleck), who runs a bar called The Dickens on Long Island. Identity issues Uncle Charlie is a surrogate father to JR who is struggling with issues of identity — he calls himself JR rather than Junior as he is named after his father. Charlie, who is self-taught, is a life coach for JR from telling him the essential things required to be a man to advising him to pick philosophy as one will always do well in that class since there is no right answer. Dorothy wants JR to go to Yale and become a lawyer and though JR wants to be a writer, he does go to Yale and get a law degree. The movie follows JR’s journey as he goes through college, meets and falls hopelessly in love with Sidney (Briana Middleton), a “lower-upper-middle” girl.  After floating around, JR finally goes to The New York Times to get a job in a bid to win Sidney over, and because when “You suck at writing that’s when you become a journalist (ouch).”  Gentle likeability  The seventies and eighties are beautifully recreated with the clothes, cars and music being just so. While the whole “birth of a writer” is not particularly path-breaking (“you are a writer the minute you say you are”), The Tender Bar has a gentle likeability.  Tye Sheridan as the older JR, Rabe, Ranieri and Lloyd are eminently watchable, while Affleck hits the bullseye as Charlie, making one immediately long for an uncle as cool as him. Understated power There is an understated power to the actor’s performance that grabs one’s attention and keeps it. Affleck should rightly be proud of “injecting this movie onto the world”. And yay for George Clooney for whipping up this soothing heady cocktail. The Tender Baris currently streaming on Amazon Prime Video.  The Tender Bar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/george-clooney-whips-up-a-soothing-heady-cocktail/article64949455.ece
17 January 2022||January 17 2022 05:10 IST,||A slice of Japan||The Japan Foundation based in Delhi has announced the Japanese Film Festival 2022, which will be held virtually in India to celebrate Japanese culture through a collection of specially curated films.   The fifth edition of the two-week festival, which begins from February 14, will screen 20 Japanese films, including Under the Open Sky, It’s a Summer Film, Mio’s Cookbook, Masked Ward, The God of Ramen, Rashomon, and The Floating Castle. The films cover genres like animation, feature drama, romance, thriller, classic comedy, and documentary. All films will have English subtitles. Koji Sato, the Director General of the Japan Foundation New Delhi, said: “We are confident the festival will be successful and bigger with the online platform and our dear audience will be able to experience the same magic and energy like ever before.’’  The theme that runs through the festival’s curation is ‘Journey’ and the 20 films have been carefully selected to represent several aspects of this theme.  To know more about the line-up of films and other details, visit: https://jff.jpf.go.jp/watch/ jffonline2022/india/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-slice-of-japan/article64949456.ece
