18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||Punjab polling now on Feb. 20||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Monday postponed polling for the Punjab Assembly election from February 14 to 20 after the State government and political parties raised concern that many devotees would be in Varanasi to celebrate Guru Ravidas’s birth anniversary on February 16 and miss out on voting. Representations to the ECI said devotees started going to Varanasi a week before the celebrations, and holding polling on February 14 would deprive them of the chance to vote. In a press statement, the ECI said it had decided to reschedule the poll. Counting would, however, take place on March 10, as in the poll schedule announced on January 8. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had written to the ECI asking for a change in the poll date, as members of the Scheduled Caste community would go to Varanasi to observe Guru Ravidas Jayanti. The Punjab unit of the BJP too had raised the issue. The ECI said in the statement that it had “received several representations from State Government, political parties and other organisations” in this regard. Taking inputs from the government and the Chief Electoral Officer, the ECI announced a new schedule. Nomination papers can be filed from January 25 to February 1, scrutiny of papers would take place on February 2, the last date of their withdrawal would be February 4 and polling would be held on February 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heeding-calls-from-parties-ec-defers-punjab-poll-to-feb-20/article64948889.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||Two Indians, a Pakistani killed in UAE tanker blasts||Two Indians and a Pakistani were killed in a massive explosion in three petroleum tankers in Abu Dhabi on Monday. The blast is believed to have been sparked by a fire near the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) facilities, in what is claimed as a “drone attack” by Yemen’s Houthi rebels. In a strongly worded statement, UAE Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan called the explosions a “cowardly act of terrorism”, and promised to hold Houthi militia “accountable”, indicating there could be reprisals. If confirmed, this is the second attack this month by Houthi rebels affecting Indians, after they seized a UAE-flagged ship in the Red Sea off the Yemeni coast and took its crew, including seven Indians, hostage. The Indian Embassy in Abu Dhabi said it was awaiting confirmation on the identity of the two Indians killed, and was in “close touch with UAE authorities”. An ADNOC statement said all three who died were employees. “Those responsible for this unlawful targeting of our country will be held accountable,” a statement issued by the UAE Foreign Ministry said, expressing condolences for the deaths. “The UAE reserves the right to respond to these terrorist attacks and criminal escalation,” it added, describing them as crimes committed in flagrant violation of international law. ‘Drone attack’ Eyewitness accounts and videos shared on social media showed columns of black smoke billowing from the Musaffah Industrial City of Abu Dhabi (ICAD)-3 area outside the UAE capital. The fire is believed to be the result of a drone attack in the port area where the ADNOC storage facilities are housed. Another smaller fire was extinguished at the new construction area of the Abu Dhabi international airport. “Initial investigations found parts of a small plane that could possibly be a drone at both sites that could have caused the explosion and the fire,” the Abu Dhabi police said, according to a Reuters agency report, but added there was no significant damage to the areas. Houthi rebels, who have been fighting the Yemeni government backed by a Saudi-UAE coalition, claimed they had carried out a “military operation” in the UAE, but this was not confirmed by Emirati officials. Houthi spokesperson Mohammed Abdul Salam was quoted in Arabic media, saying the alleged attack was a “warning” to the UAE to “stop interfering in Yemen”. Houthi militia, believed to be supported by Iran, have in the past claimed to have carried out a number of drone attacks on oil installations in Saudi Arabia as well. The explosions come days after Houthi rebels captured a cargo ship Rwabee off the Yemeni port of Hodeidah and have held its crew, including seven Indian nationals, hostage since January 2. India had spoken out at the UN Security Council to condemn the detention of the Indians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-indians-a-pakistani-killed-in-uae-tanker-blasts/article64948887.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:02 IST,||Don’t close Shiradi Ghat stretch for six months: MLC||Manjunath Bhandary, MLC, has written to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to reconsider the move to close the Shiradi Ghat stretch on Mangaluru-Bengaluru National Highway 75 for six months to widen the 10-km highway stretch between Donigal and Maranahalli. In the January 16 letter, the MLC said that the Shiradi Ghat is a vital link between the coastal belt and the hinterland. The business establishments and major industries of the coastal region like MRPL, MCF, New Mangalore Port depend on the NH 75 for transportation of goods. If the Ghat section is closed it will hamper the activities of trade and industry and cause inconvenience to people. The MLC requested the Chief Minister to instruct the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to complete the highway widening within a short period of time. Work strategies will have to be planned properly to achieve this, he said adding that adequate arrangements for materials and work force will to have to be made and the civil works should be started at multiple locations simultaneously. Meanwhile, addressing presspersons here on Monday, Mr. Bhandary said that he is hopeful that the Chief Minister will take up the matter with the NHAI and reconsider the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-close-shiradi-ghat-stretch-for-six-months-mlc/article64949089.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:49 IST,||Probe begins into death of infants after MMR vaccination||Health Department officials have begun an investigation into the death of three infants allegedly owing to septic administration of the measles-mumps-rubella(MMR) vaccine at Ramdurg in Belagavi district. Of the five children of Ramdurg taluk who developed sepsis, three died and two are under treatment in Belagavi institute of Medical Sciences. On the instructions of K. Sudhakar, Health Minister, the Commissioner (Health) on Monday suspended the Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) and the jurisdictional pharmacist, pending further inquiry, department sources said. Preliminary investigation has pointed out that the paramedical staff in charge of vaccination did not follow aseptic measures. It shows that the cold chain was not maintained somewhere, according to sources. “It seems that M. Salma, the ANM, administered the vaccine two days after she collected it from the primary health centre. She collected the vials on January 10, but gave them on the 11th and the 12th. The cold chain was broken as she preferred to keep the unused vials in a hotel’s refrigerator instead of returning them to the hospital’s cold storage,” a Health Department officer said. This could have happened owing to several reasons. One, the doctors and the paramedical staff in village hospitals do not stay in the same villages. They go to the PHC, collect the vials, but do not come back to the PHC to return them. This is clearly against the vaccination protocol, where each vial is tested for temperature, before and after the delivery and the return. Secondly, most villages have power only for 5-6 hours a day. This affects the cold chain. Only taluk hospitals and community health centres have generators and uninterrupted power supply systems. Most PHCs lack them. What is more, the huge staff scarcity forces the department to appoint just one pharmacist for 3-4 PHCs. Of the 506 gram panchayats, there are only 120 PHCs. The 40 pharmacists in the district take charge of these 120 PHCs. These further complicate issues, said a department officer. A member of the district pharmacist association argued that the Government was being unfair in keeping the pharmacist under suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/probe-begins-into-death-of-infants-after-mmr-vaccination/article38285074.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||COVID-19 spike continues, 2.32 lakh cases on Monday||India recorded 2,32,760 COVID-19 cases on Monday, a 40% increase from a week ago. The number of infections has reached 3.74 crore, and the active cases have crossed the 17-lakh mark. On Sunday, 13.13 lakh tests were conducted, a 21% decline from the day before. The test positivity rate (the number of cases detected per 100 tests) continued its ascent and reached 17.7%, the highest in the ongoing wave. Maharashtra logs highest Maharashtra recorded 31,111 cases on Monday, the most for any State, followed by Karnataka (27,156) and Tamil Nadu (23,433). The figures are based on the State bulletins released until 10 p.m. on Monday. However, Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Jharkhand and Tripura had not yet released data for the day. While 89.7% of the eligible population has been vaccinated with at least one dose, 64.9% have received both doses. In the 15-17 age cohort, 48.4% of the population have got their first dose. Altogether, 91,41,91,708 first doses, 66,07,95,449 second doses and 49,35,439 booster doses have been administered across the country. On Monday, 300 deaths were recorded in India, slightly less than the average levels recorded in the last week. Kerala reported the most deaths at 72, followed by West Bengal (33) and Maharashtra and Delhi (24 each). West Bengal saw 9,385 new cases but the case positivity rate dropped to 26.4%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-case-spike-continues-despite-holding-fewer-tests/article64948886.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:55 IST,||Law soon to regulate fees in private institutions||The State government has decided to regulate fee in private schools, junior and degree colleges and introduce English medium education in government schools from next academic year. A group of ministers to study the twin objectives and submit required guidelines was finalised at a meeting of the Cabinet presided by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday. Minister for Education P. Sabita Indra Reddy will head the committee which was also include K. T. Rama Rao, Koppula Easwar, Talasani Srinivas Yadav, G. Jagdish Reddy, T. Harish Rao, V. Prashant Reddy, Puvvada Ajay Kumar and E. Dayakar Rao. The Cabinet also decided to enact a legislation giving statutory backing to the decision, a release said later. A sum of Rs. 7,289 crore under head ‘Mana Ooru, Mana Pranalika’ was approved on the occasion for strengthening government schools, providing quality education and creation of improved basic infrastructure in the institutions. Through other decisions, the Cabinet approved the proposal of the Education department to set up a womens’ university. Similarly, a forest university was also decided and the forest officials will submit a preliminary blue print in the matter at the next meeting. Minister for Health T. Harish Rao informed the meeting that COVID-19 was under control in the State and that the government was fully prepared to face any exigencies. The government had already administered five crore doses of COVID vaccination by now. Vaccination of all eligible persons will be completed soon. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao directed the officials to complete procurement of paddy cultivated in kharif till the last arrivals at market yards. Due to unseasonal rains, the paddy was still going to market yards, he noted. It was decided to provide a quota for graduates of Forest College and Research Institute at Mulug in Siddipet district in direct recruitment to some posts of Forest department They will have 25 % reservation in recruitment of Assistant Conservator of Forest and 50 % reservation in recruitment of Forest Range Officers and Foresters categories. Suitable amendments to Telangana Forest Service Rules, 1997, and Telangana State Forest Subordinate Rules, 2000, will be made. At a detailed discussion on irrigation sector, the Cabinet approved budget for various projects. A sum of Rs. 388.20 crore was sanctioned for excavation of a link canal between Mallannasagar and Tapaspalli reservoirs in Siddipet district. Tapaspalli reservoir had a command area of 1.29 lakh acres. Similarly, Rs. 44.71 crore was sanctioned for revival works on Peddacheruvu tank at Buddharam village of Gopalpet mandal in Wanaparthy district, Rs. 144.43 crore for the Ghanpur branch canal works of Mahatma Gandhi Kalwakurthy lift-irrigation scheme, Rs. 50.32 crore for modernisation plan of Ghanpur anicut of Nizam era in Medak district and Rs. 27.36 crore for 11 check dams in Wanaparthy and Gadwal districts. The Manjira Lift Irrigation Corporation Limited was approved for raising funds for Sangameswara-Basaveswara Lift-Irrigation Project in Sangareddy district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/law-soon-to-regulate-fees-in-private-institutions/article38285093.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:09 IST,||Gifts galore for tamers, bull owners at jallikattu||Thousands of spectators watched the world famous Alanganallur jallikattu in Madurai district on Monday which was held amidst the COVID-19 restrictions. The event was flagged off by Minister P. Moorthy at 6.40 a.m. in the presence of Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar. As many as 1,020 bulls and 300 bull tamers participated in the eight rounds of the event that concluded at around 6 p.m.At the end of it, 45 people were injured. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation, residents of Alanganallur were permitted to watch the event from galleries in batches. A rotation method was followed to ensure that all people got an opportunity to watch the event. However, most of the people failed to comply with COVID-19 guidelines. They were seen without masks and there was no physical distancing. Officials had to intervene and they were seen urging the public to follow the guidelines. It rained gifts at the event and Karthik of Karuppayurani was adjudged the best bull tamer. He won the first prize - a car - for taming 21 bulls. The bull belonging to Tamil Selvan of Kaikurichi, Pudukkottai district, was adjudged the best bull at the event. The bull owner also won a car. The second and third prizes ranged from motorcycles to LED TVs, home appliances and furniture. Gold coins were given to all participants. Ministers P. Moorthy and Palanivel Thiaga Rajan handed over the prizes to the winners and other participants. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan was present. Adequate police personnel were deployed at the venue to ensure safety. Twelve ambulances and two bike ambulances and fire tenders were deployed at the venue. Teams from the Red Cross, Animal Husbandry Department and the Revenue Department were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/thousands-gather-at-alanganallur/article64948970.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:05 IST,||Vaccination for students at 967 schools||Arrangements will be made in 967 schools to administer COVID-19 vaccine to students in the 15-18 age group, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. He was speaking after a high-level meeting of General Education Department officials here on Monday to decide on COVID-19 vaccination to children and the functioning of schools in the wake of the rise in the COVID-19 case graph. The COVID-19 vaccine will be administered in schools from Wednesday. As many as 8.14 lakh children are eligible to receive Covaxin. As per Health department figures, 51% of the children in the eligible age group have been administered the vaccine so far. The Minister said schools with more than 500 students would be considered to set up vaccination centres. In the case of schools with less than 500 students, vaccination would continue through the existing close-by Health department infrastructure. Parental consent He reiterated that vaccines would be administered to students only with parental consent. Differently abled students who should not be vaccinated needed to present certificates from the doctors concerned. The General Education Department would gather details of the number of children vaccinated each day through the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education’s Sampoorna portal, the Minister said. There would be no major change in the functioning of schools, including timings, for Classes 10 to 12. The existing system would continue for the next couple of weeks, following which a review would be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-for-students-at-967-schools/article38285130.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:56 IST,||‘Coastal areas in T.N. may experience mild rain’||Many areas in and around Chennai woke up to a rainy day and typical Northeast (NE) monsoon weather on Monday. Some other places in the south and coastal region too, recorded moderate rain. With the NE monsoon yet to withdraw over the region, the Meteorological Department has predicted that the sporadic rainfall may continue till Tuesday. After many dry days, several places in Chennai and neighbouring districts received rainfall of light to moderate intensity on Monday. The rain gauge in Ambattur received heavy rain of 6 cm during the past 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m., on Monday. Coonoor in Nilgiris district too, recorded 6 cm rainfall. Other places such as Nagapattinam and Marakkanam in Villupuram district (4 cm), and Kothagiri in Nilgiris (3 cm), Karaikal and Tiruchendur in Thoothukudi district (2 cm) too, received light rains. The same weather trend may continue till Wednesday, and dry weather is set to prevail from January 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/coastal-areas-in-tn-may-experience-mild-rain/article38284966.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||SC voices concern for children hit by third wave||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed a deep sense of anxiety on whether the third wave of the pandemic will put more children, both orphaned and abandoned, on the streets. A Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and B.V. Nagarathna reminded the country’s bureaucracy that fighting COVID also means fighting to keep children off the streets. “We are not running away from the reality of the pandemic. Bureaucrats are busy... But part of COVID battle is to see that children are off the streets,” Justice Rao addressed the Centre and the States. Justice Nagarathna said there was every possibility that the third wave may upend the lives of many more children. ‘States must wake up’ “Justice Nagarathna is right... More children may end up on the streets,” Justice Rao said. He said the State governments should wake up on their own rather than the court goading them awake. The Bench said the estimate of children on the streets may cross 15 lakh in reality. Advocate Shobha Gupta, for a petitioner, said she could, during every day of her commute in the capital, see at least eight children begging on the streets at the traffic lights. “You [governments] are obliged to rescue and rehabilitate these children... Instead, you say the slow pace of the rescue is because of COVID. We have told you to take the support of voluntary organisations, district authorities,” Justice Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-voices-concern-for-children-hit-by-third-wave/article38284863.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||India helping the world deal with pandemic: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday pitched India as a country that is supporting the world in dealing with the COVID pandemic. Delivering a special address to the World Economic Forum’s Davos Agenda 2022 summit, he said Indian doctors and health professionals are winning the confidence of the world with their excellence. “Today, India is the third largest pharma producer in the world. In COVID times, we have seen how India, following the vision of ‘One Earth, One Health’, is saving crores of lives by giving essential medicines and vaccines to many countries,” Mr. Modi said. He added that India has utilised the period of the pandemic for introducing “reforms”, stating that India's actions have placed a major example before the world. Mr Modi said India is trying to conclude Free Trade Agreements with many countries in the world and claimed that the spirit of entrepreneurship is at a high among the youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-helping-the-world-deal-with-pandemic-says-pm/article64948885.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:09 IST,||NIA gathering details||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is gathering details on the explosion involving three petroleum tankers in Abu Dhabi on Monday. Through amendments in the National Investigation Agency Act in 2019, the agency has been empowered to investigate terror cases involving Indians and Indian interests abroad, apart from cases of cybercrime and human trafficking. If necessary, an NIA team may contact its counterparts in theUAE to determine the facts related to the explosion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-gathering-details/article38284897.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:53 IST,||Namma Metro sees daily ridership drop by 1 lakh||The transport sector, which was hoping to make up for losses incurred over the last two years, has been hit by the third wave of the pandemic. The exponential surge in COVID-19 cases and the subsequent restrictions imposed by the State Government has already made a dent in ridership on Namma Metro and city buses. The number of metro commuters has dropped from 3.5 lakh to 2.5 lakh in less than a month.“After the second wave of the pandemic, ridership had increased gradually and touched 3.5 lakh daily, but it has now reduced by 1 lakh,” said Anjum Parwez, MD, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (BMRCL). As a result, revenue generation has taken a hit. “Daily earnings have come down from Rs. 75 lakh to Rs. 55 lakh. We are following the State Government’s guidelines and are allowing passengers as per seating capacity.” To avoid overcrowding on platforms, BMRCL had decided to regulate the entry of commuters into stations. After weekend curfew was introduced, frequency of trains dropped from 20 to 30 minutes. A BMRCL official said they are expecting ridership to drop in the coming days if COVID-19 cases rise again. “People are opting for private modes of transport as a precaution. The closure of schools and colleges and work from home have also resulted in reduced patronage.” said the BMRCL official. City buses too have recorded a drop in commuters. Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), which had seen ridership touch 23-24 lakh a day, said it has reduced to below 20 lakh. “We have seen this kind of drop during the previous two waves, too,” said a BMRCL official. RITES is consultant for ORR–Airport line The Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES) has been selected as the project management consultant for ORR – Airport Line (Phase 2A and 2B) of Namma Metro. Anjum Parwez, managing director of BMRCL, said that RITES will work as a third party agency to make sure that the 57 km metro project from Central Silk Board to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) is completed as per standards specified in tenders and follows safety measures. RITES had earlier provided general consultancy for 42 km of Phase I of Namma Metro.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/namma-metro-sees-daily-ridership-drop-by-1-lakh/article38284894.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:33 IST,||Telangana seeks defence corridor||At a meeting of Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari with southern States, IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao accused the Centre of overlooking Telangana. Mr. Gadkari was chairing the conference on PM Gati Shakti — a digital platform for integrated planning and implementation of infrastructure connectivity projects across the country. Mr. Rao said, “Hyderabad is a popular destination for defence. But, unfortunately, when we demanded a Defence Industrial Production Corridor for Hyderabad, it was given to Bundelkhand where there is nothing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-seeks-defence-corridor/article38285092.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:15 IST,||Forgotten lessons||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crowd-surge/article64948957.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:19 IST,||Significance of Dalit votes to the fore||The way all mainstream political parties pushed for postponing the voting day in Punjab citing Guru Ravidas Jayanti shows the importance of Dalit votes for them. With the Scheduled Castes constituting close to 32% of the State’s population, parties couldn’t afford to annoy them.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/significance-of-dalit-votes-to-the-fore/article38284859.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||CM for reducing gap for COVID precaution dose||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said he would suggest to the Central government to look into the possibility of reducing the gap for the precaution dose of the coronavirus vaccine from nine to six months and to three months eventually so that it would benefit frontline workers and those providing emergency services and help in bringing down hospitalisations. In a review meeting on COVID-19 on Monday, he directed the officials to focus on scaling up vaccination in five districts (East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam) which lagged behind the others in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-for-reducing-gap-for-covid-precaution-dose/article38284860.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:02 IST,||‘Issue disability cards for endosulfan victims’||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Monday directed officials to issue disability and smart cards within a month to all recognised endosulfan victims in the district. Dr. Rajendra directed the District Disability Welfare Officer to involve multipurpose rehabilitation workers and village rehabilitation workers for a drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/issue-disability-cards-for-endosulfan-victims/article64949088.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:21 IST,||Akhilesh promises MSP, cane dues within 15 days||After promising free electricity for irrigation, the Samajwadi Party on Monday said it would ensure minimum support price for all crops, pay sugarcane farmers their dues within 15 days and provide interest-free loans, insurance and pension to farmers if it comes to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/akhilesh-promises-msp-cane-dues-within-15-days/article64949073.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:08 IST,||Police clueless in Alwar rape case||Six days after the alleged rape of a differently abled minor girl in Rajasthan’s Alwar, the police were still clueless about the absconding culprits. The Opposition BJP workers on Monday staged protests in all districts against the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-clueless-in-alwar-rape-case/article38285167.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:15 IST,||Chennai Mayor will be a woman from SC category||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued orders to reserve the Chennai Mayor post for a woman belonging to the Scheduled Castes (SC). It also reserved the Mayor posts in Tambaram and Avadi Municipal Corporations for a SC (Women) and SC (General) respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennai-mayor-will-be-a-woman-from-sc-category/article38284927.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:49 IST,||Cases in Bengaluru drop, but rise in districts||As the third wave of COVID-19 continues to see cases mounting, the numbers in districts other than Bengaluru Urban are showing a worrying upward trend. Mysuru, Hassan and Tumakuru have started reporting over a 1,000 cases a day,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-in-bengaluru-drop-but-rise-in-districts/article64949043.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:20 IST,||‘R-Day tableaux rejected after due process’||After three States — Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Kerala — kicked up a political storm over the rejection of their proposed tableaux for this year’s Republic Day parade, government sources on Monday said they were rejected by the Subject Expert Committee after “due process and due deliberations”. The Ministry of Defence is yet to release the list of tableaux selected for the parade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/r-day-tableaux-rejected-after-due-process/article38284994.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:20 IST,||‘Need more time to decide on marital rape’||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that it needs “reasonable time” to formulate its stand on the issue of criminalising marital rape. Its response came against remarks made by a Bench, while hearing a batch of petitions challenging the provision in law that makes an exception for marital rape, that the Centre has to say “yes or no”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/need-more-time-to-decide-on-marital-rape/article38284995.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:49 IST,||Revisit water disputes Act, Bommai tells Centre||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said irrigation projects in Karnataka are bogged down by inter-State river water disputes and asked the Centre to “revisit the Inter-State River Water Disputes Act since the law is creating more disputes than resolving them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/revisit-water-disputes-act-bommai-tells-centre/article38285072.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||‘Tableaux rejected after due process’||After three States kicked up a political storm over the rejection of their proposed tableaux for this year’s Republic Day parade, government sources on Monday said they were rejected by the Subject Expert Committee after “due process and due deliberations”. Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Kerala have said their tableaux have been rejected by the Union government. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) is yet to release the list of tableaux selected for the parade. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi dated January 16, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wrote that people of Bengal were “deeply pained” by the government’s decision. This is a wrong precedent adopted by the CMs to portray an outcome of an objective process as flashpoint between the Centre and the States, a source said. “This goes a long way in harming the federal structure.” Stating the rejection is unmistakably linked to regional pride and projected as an insult to the people of the States by the Central government and this script also plays out almost every year, the source said. “Perhaps the CMs have no positive agenda of their own that they have to resort to the same old trick using misinformation year after year.” Stating that due to time constraints, only some of the proposals can be accepted, the source said 56 proposals were received for the Republic Day parade 2022 from the States and Union Ministries of which 21 have been shortlisted. It is natural for more proposals to be rejected than those accepted given the paucity of time, the source said. The proposals are evaluated in a series of meetings of the committee comprising eminent people in art, culture, sculpture, music, architecture, choreography among others, government sources said. The source said the proposals of Kerala were accepted through the same process and system under the same government in 2018 and 2021, of Tamil Nadu in 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021 and of West Bengal in 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2021. “The proposed tableau was commemorating the contributions of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and his INA [Indian National Army] on his 125th birth anniversary and was carrying portraits of some of the most illustrious sons and daughters of this country…, Ms. Banerjee said in the letter. “It is even more baffling for us that the tableau was rejected without assigning any reasons or justifications,” Ms. Banerjee said. A few days ago, the government had announced that the Republic Day celebrations will now begin from January 23 every year instead of January 24 to commemorate Netaji’s birth anniversary. This year’s tableau of the CPWD includes Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and so the question of his insult does not even arise, the government source said. ‘Deeply disappointing’ Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who has also written to Mr. Modi in protest, said in a tweet, “It is deeply disappointing to note that the tableau depicting VO Chidambaranar, Mahakavi Bharathiyar, Rani Velu Nachiyar and Maruthu Brothers — renowned freedom fighters from Tamil Nadu — is excluded from Republic Day parade, 2022.” According to the State government, Kerala’s tableau design was rejected as it featured a statue of Sree Narayana Guru as against the selection jury’s suggestion of Adi Sankaracharya. Communist Party of India general secretary D. Raja called the decision to reject the three tableaux as “discriminatory” and an attack on federalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tableaux-rejected-after-due-process/article64948879.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,||Vaccination for 12-14 age group likely from March: NTAGI chief||India may begin inoculating children in the 12-14 age group against COVID-19 in March as the 15-17 population is likely to get fully vaccinated by then, N.K. Arora, Chairman of the COVID-19 working group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), said on Monday. Of the estimated 7.4 crore population in the 15-17 age bracket, over 3.45 crore have received the first dose of Covaxin so far and their second dose is due in 28 days, he said. Active participants “Adolescents in this age group have been actively participating in the inoculation process, and going by this pace of vaccination, the rest of the beneficiaries in the 15-17 age group are likely to be covered with the first dose by January-end and subsequently their second dose is expected to be done by February-end,” he said. Once the 15-17 age group is covered, he said, the government is likely to take a policy decision for initiating the vaccination drive for the 12-14 age group in March. According to him, there is an estimated 7.5 crore population in the 12-14 age group. Provisional vaccination reports till 7 a.m. on Monday showed that with more than 39 lakh doses being administered in a span of 24 hours, the cumulative number has exceeded 157.2 crore doses. According to government data, over 3.45 crore first doses have been given to children in the 15-17 years age group so far. India began administering the “precaution dose”, a third jab of COVID-19 vaccine, to healthcare and frontline workers, including personnel deployed for election duty and those aged 60 and above with co-morbidities, from January 10 amid the country witnessing a spike in coronavirus infections, driven mainly by the Omicron variant of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccination-for-12-14-age-group-likely-from-march-ntagi-chief/article64948852.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||BJP sacks Uttarakhand Minister Harak Rawat||Uttarakhand Minister Harak Singh Rawat was sacked from his post and removed from the BJP on Sunday night, prompting him to say that “if Congress wasn’t winning earlier, it was definitely winning now” and that he will “now initiate talks” with the Congress. Sources said he may contest on a Congress ticket from Doiwala against former Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said Mr. Rawat was trying to exert pressure on the BJP to give ticket to his family members, and that these tactics would not work on the party.  “We are against vanshwad [dynasty politics] and the party does not react to these pressure tactics,” Mr. Dhami said.  Mr. Harak Singh struck a tearful and at times defiant note as he spoke to the media in New Delhi, where he had been summoned by the BJP’s top leadership on Sunday and given the marching orders. Social media reports  “The BJP acted on me on the basis of social media reports. They are not going to admit that they did not allow me to work, did not grant a medical college in Kotdwar, instead they are citing that I will be joining the Congress. The only thing I asked of Pralhad Joshi was that I was not keen to fight polls and to consider my daughter-in-law [Anukriti Gosain] from Landsdowne seat. I know all about the leaders of the BJP, iss hamam main sab nange hain [all are naked in this bathhouse],” he said.  Mr. Harak Singh’s move to enter the Congress, however, has come up against some opposition from former Chief Minister Harish Rawat, who has assessed Mr. Harak Singh as being close to senior Congress leader Pritam Singh, who heads the anti-Harish Rawat faction in the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-sacks-uttarakhand-minister-harak-rawat/article64948865.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,||Parties vie to take credit for Punjab poll deferment||With the Punjab Assembly election postponed to February 20 from February 14 in view of the Ravidas Jayanti celebrations, the growing significance of politics surrounding Dalits in Punjab, who comprise 32% of the State’s population, has yet again come to the fore. The way all mainstream political parties pushed for the change in the voting day in the State shows the importance of Dalit votes. In the run-up to the polls, the parties are leaving no stone unturned to woo the Scheduled Castes. After the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), along with its alliance partner the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), on January 10 first raised the demand to postpone the election date, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi wrote to the Election Commission of India, asking for the election to be postponed by at least six days. The BJP and its allies — the Punjab Lok Congress and the SAD (Sanyukt) — also urged the Commission to postpone the date of voting. Soon after the Commission rescheduled the election date on Monday, a battle to take credit for the decision broke out among the parties. Punjab BSP president Jasvir Singh Garhi alleged that the Congress and the BJP were busy playing petty politics on Dalit issues and termed them “anti-Dalits”. He said it was only after the BSP and the SAD submitted a memorandum to the Commission, the other parties started to grab the issue. “After we raised the demand only, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who himself is from the SC community wrote a letter to the Commission for the postponement,” he added. The Punjab Congress, on Twitter, posted the Chief Minister’s letter, dated January 13, and claimed that based on his request the election had been postponed. Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) State president and Lok Sabha member Bhagwant Mann, in a statement, welcomed the decision. He stated that he had written a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra, demanding the deferment of the polling date. The BJP, in a statement, also mentioned raising the demand with the Commission. The demand for rescheduling the voting date was also raised by several social outfits, pointing out that the birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas falls on February 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parties-vie-to-take-credit-for-punjab-poll-deferment/article64948859.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||NGOs linked to Congress receive FCRA nod||More than a year after it announced on Twitter that an inter-ministerial committee had been constituted to probe violation of various legal provisions by NGOs associated with Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, the Union Home Ministry recently renewed the FCRA registration of two of them. The Ministry also refused to provide any information about the findings or the composition of the committee under a Right to Information Act (RTI) query, stating that “such clarifications do not come under the ambit of the RTI Act, 2005”. On July 8, 2020, the Ministry on its Twitter handle — @pibhomeffairs — announced that an inter-ministerial committee to coordinate investigations into violation of various legal provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), the Income Tax Act, the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA), among others, by the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF), the Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust (RGCT) and the Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust had been set up. The announcement coincided with the height of tensions along the LAC in eastern Ladakh in 2020, after 20 soldiers were killed in clashes with China’s Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) on June 15. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi had sharpened his attack on the government, accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of surrendering territory to China. The BJP had then accused the two Congress-linked NGOs of receiving foreign funds from the Chinese government in 2005-06, and the probe committee was formed soon after. Both the RGF and the RGCT are registered FCRA associations, a pre-requisite for NGOs and other associations to receive foreign donations. Congress president Sonia Gandhi is the chairperson of the RGF and the RGCT. The registration has been renewed and is now valid till 2026. The Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust is not registered under the FCRA. The Hindu had filed an RTI with the Ministry seeking to know the composition and the terms of reference of the inter-ministerial committee, the number of meetings held so far and the findings of the report submitted, if any.  Response to RTI In response to the RTI query furnished after two months, B.C Joshi, Director, FCRA, replied saying: “It is informed that, you have sought clarifications instead of seeking information as defined under Section 2(f) of the RTI Act, 2005. Such clarifications do not come under the ambit of the RTI Act, 2005. It is to inform that CPIO is not required to furnish information which requires drawing of inference and/ or making of assumption or to interpret information.” On December 31, the registration of nearly 6,000 NGOs had lapsed as they had not applied for renewal or did not meet the eligibility conditions. The FCRA registration is valid for five years and more than 18,000 NGOs came up for renewal in 2020-21. As of now there are 16,876 registered NGOs, down from 22,762 active on December 31, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fcra-registration-of-ngos-linked-to-congress-renewed/article64948872.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,||Virat, Darmi and Heena get Army chief’s pat||Virat, Darmi and Heena were awarded the Chief of the Army Staff Commendation on the eve of Army Day on January 15 for their exemplary service. Virat is a horse with the President’s Bodyguard (PBG), while Darmi and Heena are Army dogs. Virat, a Hanoverian breed, was issued to the PBG on September 12, 2000. He performed his duties as the Commandant’s charger for over a decade and awed spectators, including foreign dignitaries, with his trademark poise and confidence, an official said. “Within a short span of time, he displayed the potential and temperament to become the most trustworthy parade horse,” the official noted”. “During Republic Day Parade and Beating Retreat ceremony in 2021, the horse performed exceptionally well despite his old age.” “From the beautiful arch of his neck right down to his graceful trot, to the wisdom in his eyes, Virat is a horse like no other,” said an officer who has served with the PBG. The Army has eight different trades of dogs: tracker, guard, mine detection, explosive detection, infantry patrol, avalanche rescue operations, search and rescue, assault and narcotic detection. Darmi was pressed into service for a search and rescue operation at a post on the Siachen Glacier on April 25 last year. Undeterred by the extreme cold at an altitude of around 16,500 feet, low atmospheric oxygen and high intensity winds, Darmi confirmed the exact location of Fibre Reinforced Plastic (FRP) that was damaged, dislocated and buried under 25 feet of hard snow. This helped in finding six soldiers and three porters, an officer explained. Heena, a Labrador retriever, is a tracker aged five years and is highly loyal, even-tempered, intelligent, obedient and exceptionally reliable, the officer said. In February 2021, Heena was part of an extensive search operation along the Line of Control in Kashmir after an infiltrator was eliminated, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/virat-darmi-and-heena-get-army-chiefs-pat/article64948854.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,||Kathak legend painted a divine romance on stage||A complete artist who lived music in its entirety, Kathak legend Pandit Birju Maharaj transcended to a heavenly stage on Monday, leaving behind a rich legacy. Inspired by the rhythm of nature, every time he took the stage, it seemed the Almighty was dancing through him. Be it the movement of ants, a river in spate, a bird feeding its young or the Earth’s motion on its axis, there was nothing that escaped the Kathak maestro’s dancing eyes.  Pandit Birju Maharaj’s eloquent facial expressions remained unmatched. For the Padma Vibhushan, Kathak was not limited to the parans and chakkars .  The stage was a canvas for Maharajji, as he was popularly called, where he would etch paintings of Krishna and Radha’s divine romance that would dissolve in space only to be replaced by a new one. Blessed with the gift of communication, a poetic heart, and a taste for the finer aspects of life, his magnetic personality kept both the discerning connoisseur and the layman hooked. Yet he wore fame and honour lightly, the key to his immense popularity among the lay public and his stature in the art and culture fraternity. Like his favourite deity, he could be mischievous and philosophical simultaneously. Old-timers fondly remember his ethereal performances with Odissi legend Kelucharan Mohapatra where Maharajji would become the playful Krishna and Kelubabu would essay the coy Radha. Trained by his father Acchan Maharaj and uncles Lachchu Maharaj and Shambhu Maharaj, the journey from Brijmohan Nath Sharma to Birju Maharaj was not easy but he relentlessly worked to refine the dance form and took it out of the narrow lanes of Aminabad to the international proscenium. His father passed away when he was just 13 and he grew up under the watchful eyes of his uncles. He would often cycle to teach at Sangeet Bharti and perform for hours in private gatherings since Delhi was yet to get its big performance spaces.  Always humble, always positive, he would say Kathak exponents are actually kathaakars (storytellers) and that they should tell the tales of their times. He would find rhythm in the most mundane of things and weave it into his expansive vocabulary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kathak-legend-painted-a-divine-romance-on-stage/article64948857.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||Akhilesh dismisses speculation about sister-in-law joining BJP||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday dismissed speculation about his sister-in-law Aparna Yadav joining the BJP. Taunting the BJP, he said, “The BJP is more concerned about my family than me. Are you asking the question after being inspired by the BJP?” He was speaking to reporters at the party headquarters in Lucknow. This is not the first time Mr. Yadav has to field questions on his family. Ms. Aparna Yadav is married to Prateek, son of Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh’s second wife Sadhana. Mr. Singh acknowledged his second wife only in 2007, four years after the death of his first wife and mother of Mr. Akhilesh Yadav. During the protracted battle over ownership of the party between the father and the son in 2016, both Ms. Aparna and Mr. Prateek were at the forefront. The warring sides called a truce only after Mr. Akhilesh Yadav, among other things, agreed to allow Ms. Aparna to contest from the Lucknow Cantonment seat. It was the very first time that Mr. Singh’s second family got political space. Until then Mr. Singh’s cousin Ram Gopal Yadav, SP’s key strategist, had stalled all moves by Ms. Sadhana and Mr. Prateek to enter electoral politics. In June 2012, the Kannauj Lok Sabha seat fell vacant after Mr. Akhilesh Yadav resigned to become Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister. Sources say Ms. Aparna was eager to fight from Kannauj but the party decided to back Mr. Akhilesh Yadav’s wife Dimple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-dismisses-speculation-about-sister-in-law-joining-bjp/article38284789.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,||Keep PM’s itinerary strictly confidential: Home Ministry||The Ministry of Home Affairs has expressed serious concern over leakage of the Prime Minister’s tour programme on social media and said the itinerary of the VVIP is a classified document.  Referring to instances where the Prime Minister’s tour programme was shared in the social media, the MHA in a communication to the Chief Secretaries/DGPs said sharing such information could have serious implications on the security of the VVIP in the prevailing scenario as it had the potential of being misused by extremist elements, highly placed government sources told The Hindu on Monday.  The guidelines assume significance in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s proposed event at Ferozpur in Punjab on January 5 getting cancelled after his convoy was held up on a flyover for about 20 minutes as the road was blocked by protesters. While the MHA had termed the incident as a “major security lapse” and called for fixing responsibility for it, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi dismissed the allegations saying there was no threat to the Prime Minister’s security though he expressed “regret” over the incident. Law enforcement and security agencies were told to ensure confidentiality of the tour programme of VVIPs, the sources said. The proximate security of the Prime Minister is provided by the Special Protection Group which is an armed force of the Union. Acting on the advisory, instructions were given to top police officers on the protocol to be followed while handling Prime Minister and other VVIP tour programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keep-pms-itinerary-strictly-confidential-home-ministry/article38284811.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,||Molnupiravir kept out of norms for treatment of adult patients||The Central government has not included antiviral drug Molnupiravir in its revised clinical guidance for management of adult COVID-19 patients, and has specified that Remdesivir and Tocilizumab should be prescribed under certain conditions only. It stated that high risk for severe disease or mortality is among those over 60 years with co-morbidities such as cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes mellitus and other immunocompromised states (such as HIV), active tuberculosis, chronic lung/kidney/liver disease, cerebrovascular disease and obesity. The guidelines were revised by the All India Institute of Medical Science and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) COVID-19 National Task Force/ Joint Monitoring Group, under the Health Ministry. Safety concerns Molnupiravir had previously received a thumbs down from the ICMR even after it got approval for emergency use by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). ICMR Director General Balram Bharagava had raised safety concerns about the drug. Meanwhile, the World Health Organization on January 14 added new drugs Baricitinib and Sotrovimab for treatment of COVID-19 patients. The global health body noted that Baricitinib is recommended for treating those suffering with severe or critical COVID-19 and Sotrovimab , a monoclonal antibody drug, is recommended for treating patients who have mild or moderate COVID-19. Gopi Krishna Yedlapati, consultant interventional pulmonologist, Yashoda Hospitals, Hyderabad, said Sotrovimab, a synthetic antibody, was not yet available in the country. Manoj Goel, director, Pulmonology, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, said Baricitinib was being used in seriously ill patients along with steroids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/molnupiravir-kept-out-of-norms-for-treatment-of-adult-patients/article64948855.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||Supreme Court upholds decision to wind up Devas||The Supreme Court on Monday upheld a National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) decision to wind up Devas (Digitally Enhanced Video and Audio Services), once touted as a move to revolutionise digital media and broadcasting services via satellite but ended up as a case of fraud and corruption under CBI investigation. It noted that what started out as ‘DEVAS’ (gods) “ultimately turned out to be ‘ASURAS’ [demons]”. “If the seeds of the commercial relationship between Antrix [commercial arm of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO)] and Devas were a product of fraud perpetrated by Devas, every part of the plant that grew out of those seeds, such as the agreement, the disputes, arbitral awards, etc., are all infected with the poison of fraud. A product of fraud is in conflict with the public policy of any country, including India. The basic notions of morality and justice are always in conflict with fraud,” Justice V. Ramasubramanian, who authored the judgment for a Bench led by Justice Hemant Gupta, wrote. Antrix’s petition The NCLT’s direction in May last to wind up Devas came on a petition filed by Antrix, which had argued that its agreement with Devas spoke about three components, namely, DEVAS2 Technology, DEVAS services and DEVAS device, none of which existed either on the date of formation of Devas or on the date of execution of the agreement or on the date of termination of the agreement and not even on the date of winding up the company. Antrix had accused Devas of violation of the SATCOM policy, manipulation of minutes of meetings and of the “shocking nature” of the financial fraud involved. Not only the Devas management, officials of Antrix as well as the officials of the Department of Space are facing prosecution for fraud, criminal conspiracy and offences under the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. “We do not know if the action of Antrix in seeking the winding up of Devas may send a wrong message to the community of investors, but allowing Devas and its shareholders to reap the benefits of their fraudulent action, may nevertheless send another wrong message, namely that by adopting fraudulent means and by bringing into India an investment of Rs. 579 crore, the 133 investors can hope to get tens of thousands of crores of rupees, even after siphoning off Rs. 488 crore,” Justice Ramasubramanian observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supreme-court-upholds-decision-to-wind-up-devas/article64948876.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||Maharashtra seeks poll quota||The Maharashtra government has moved the Supreme Court urging for a recall of its direction to the State Election Commission to revert 27% seats reserved for Other Backward Classes (OBC) in local body elections to ‘general category’. When the case was called, the State, represented by senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, informed a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar about their plea for recall of the order dated December 15 last. The court ordered the Election Commission to denotify the 27% seats as OBC and issue fresh notification declaring them as belonging to the general category within a week. Court order “Direct State authority and State Election Commission to treat the notification issued for OBC reservation as non est in every local body in which elections are already notified... In other words, the State Election Commission must immediately issue fresh notification for the 27% seats reserved for OBC as ‘general category’ and initiate election process for those along with the election process for the remaining 73% seats,” the court stated. The order had come on a petition challenging a Maharashtra ordinance that introduced 27% reservation for OBC category in local elections. The State Election Commission had subsequently issued notifications to give effect to the ordinance. ‘Triple test’ The court said a ‘triple test’ need to be followed before deciding on the extent of quota to a category. Firstly, a dedicated commission need to be set up to conduct contemporaneous rigorous empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of the backwardness as regards local bodies within the State. Secondly, there is a need to specify the proportion of reservation required to be provisioned local body-wise in light of recommendations of the Commission, so as not to fall foul of overbreadth; and thirdly, reservation should not exceed aggregate of 50% of the total seats reserved in favour of SCs/STs/OBCs taken together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/recall-poll-quota-order-says-maharashtra-govt/article38284659.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||Concerned for children hit by third wave: SC||Justice Rao said the State governments should wake up on their own rather than the court goading them awake. The Bench said the estimate of children on the streets may cross 15 lakh in reality. Advocate Shobha Gupta, for a petitioner, said she could, during every day of her commute in the Capital, see at least eight children begging on the streets at the traffic lights. “Imagine the condition of these children who live out in the open streets in the bitter cold of Delhi...” Ms. Gupta told the court. “You are obliged to rescue and rehabilitate these children... Instead, you say the slow pace of the rescue is because of COVID-19. We have told you to take the support of voluntary organisations, district authorities,” Justice Rao said. The court contemplated various suggestions, including giving traffic policemen the responsibility to alert authorities, to forming special units to rescue children from the streets. The issue had been brought to the forefront by an NGO, Save the Children, which had reported that there were two lakh such children in 10 districts of Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Delhi alone. However, an affidavit filed by the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), through advocate Swarupama Chaturvedi, said data compiled from States about children orphaned, abandoned and those who lost either parent to COVID add up to just 1,47,492 as of January 11, 2022. The NCPCR has been compiling data on these children since April 2020. It has a dedicated web portal ‘Baal Swaraj Portal - COVID Care’ for this purpose. Of this, orphans number 10,094, those who lost one parent are 1,36,910 and children abandoned are 488. Uttar Pradesh has recorded 9,247 children under all the three categories, Delhi 6,629, Andhra Pradesh 8,760, Gujarat 14,770, Kerala 3,773, Maharashtra 19,623, Tamil Nadu 11,014, West Bengal 6,835, and Punjab 1,438. “There might be lakhs of children in street situation in the remaining parts of the country who need to be rescued and rehabilitated,” the court had responded in an earlier order. The court said the process of collecting the information with regard to the social background of the children, identification of benefits under the individual care plan and the enquiries have to be conducted by the Child Welfare Committees under the Juvenile Justice law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/concerned-for-children-hit-by-third-wave-sc/article38284656.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||State Cong. divided over Harak Rawat’s re-entry||The leadership of the Uttarakhand Congress on Monday seemed divided over induction of former BJP Minister Harak Singh Rawat back into the party. On a day when the Congress screening committee to shortlist the list of candidates met, there was intense speculation that the former Minister would rejoin the Congress. However, head of the Congress campaign committee and former Chief Minister Harish Rawat said “anyone who wants to return to the Congress must first apologise” for leaving the party. In March 2016, the now expelled BJP leader, along with nine Congress MLAs, had switched sides and joined the BJP. People’s sentiments “The party has to make a decision but I am sure it will decide after factoring in the sentiments of the people,” the former Chief Minister said. “All those who were involved in the March 18 [2016] incident should apologise to the party and the country as a whole.” Uttarakhand PCC chief Ganesh Godiyal, however, took a more nuanced view. He said the decision on the expelled BJP leader would be taken jointly by the senior leadership, but his (Mr. Harak Rawat) statement of “selflessly” serving the Congress should be appreciated. “I respect his sentiments to serve the Congress party,” Mr. Godiyal told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-cong-divided-over-harak-singhs-re-entry/article38284787.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||NIA announces Rs. 10-lakh reward on SFJ operative||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has declared a reward of Rs. 10 lakh on Germany-based Jaswinder Singh Multani of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), who has been booked along with his associates from other banned outfits like the Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) and the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) for allegedly attempting to revive terrorism in Punjab. Preliminary findings have also indicated the role of Multani in the recent Ludhiana court complex explosion. The NIA has accused him of coordinating with Pakistan-based pro-Khalistani elements and the ISI and conspiring to carry out terror attacks in Mumbai and other parts of the country. The NIA registered the case following a direction from the Centre to probe the allegations against Multani. At the instance of the Indian agencies, the German police had last month detained and then released him after he submitted an affidavit promising to cooperate . Multani’s name had come up in two FIRs registered by the Punjab police last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-announces-rs-10-lakh-reward-on-sfj-operative/article38284851.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||India helping the world deal with pandemic: PM||He added that India has utilised the period of the pandemic for introducing “reforms”, stating that India's actions have placed a major example before the world. Mr Modi said, India is trying to conclude Free Trade Agreements with many countries in the world and claimed that the spirit of entrepreneurship is at a high among the youth. “This is the best time to invest in India as big reforms are happening in IT and BPO sectors,” Mr Modi said, adding that more than 50 lakh software developers are working in the country and 10,000 startups have registered in the last six months. “The digital infrastructure that India developed and adopted in the last few years has turned out to be a major strength for India. The Arogya Setu app used for the tracking of corona infection and the Co-Win portal which is used for vaccination are technological solutions that India is proud of. Bigger countries have taken note of these developments,” he said. “India has gifted a beautiful bouquet to the world. This bouquet contains the unbreakable trust of the Indians in democracy. This also contains the temperament and talent of Indians. The multilingual and multicultural environment of India is a great strength of the world. This strength teaches India to work for the world whenever it’s facing a crisis,” the Prime Minister said in his virtual speech. India, he said is committed to reducing interference by the government in business and new areas are emerging for investment. “India has deregulated several sectors like drones, space, geospatial mapping. India has carried out big reforms in the outdated telecom sector,” Mr. Modi said. Mr. Modi claimed that India had about 100 registered startups in 2014 but their numbers have been boosted with the participation of the young entrepreneurs and added, “Today there are more than 60,000 startups in India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-helping-the-world-deal-with-pandemic-pm/article38284664.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||Kashmir Press Club ceases to exist: J&K govt.||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday said the Kashmir Press Club (KPC) ceased to exist and the building had been handed over to the Estates Department in the wake of “a threat of breach of peace and safety of bona fide journalists”. “In view of the unpleasant developments and dissensions between various groups of journalists, it has been decided that the allotment of the premises at Polo View of the now deregistered Kashmir Press Club (KPC) be cancelled and control of land and buildings, which belongs to the Estates Department, be reverted back to it,” a government spokesman said. Stating that the J&K government was “concerned” over the emergent situation, the spokesman said the factual position was that the KPC, as a registered body, had ceased to exist and its managing body too had come to a legal closure on 14 July 2021, the date on which its tenure came to an end. The government said it was committed to a free and fair press and believed that journalists were entitled to all facilities, including a place for professional, educational, social, cultural, recreational and welfare activities. “It also hopes that a duly registered bona fide society of all journalists shall be constituted as soon as possible and the same shall be able to approach the government for reallocation of the premises,” the spokesman said. The government move comes as the erstwhile elected body of the KPC announced fresh elections on February 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kashmir-press-club-ceases-to-exist-jk-govt/article64948873.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||In Manipur, BJP banks on development plank||The BJP is going to the Manipur polls with the slogan “Hanna Hanna BJP, Henna Henna Chaokhatpa”, which roughly translates to “Again and again BJP, more and more development”, banking on the track record of Chief Minister N. Biren Singh’s government. The anti-Biren Singh camp in the party has been batting for an Assam model within the State, where incumbent Chief Minister Sarbanda Sonowal was replaced with Himanta Biswa Sarma after the BJP won the State for the second time. In the past 10 days, however, the party has tried to settle the question, with both Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda endorsing the Chief Minister. Speaking at a virtual function after inaugurating 29 infrastructure works worth Rs. 2,450 crore, Mr. Shah said, “Once more you must give us the opportunity to form a BJP government under the leadership of Biren Singh. Our government has ended a blockade and bandh regime and now we promise to deliver a drug-free Manipur.” Mr. Nadda also made a similar statement at a recent public meeting. Two-term MLA Rajkumar Imo Singh, who quit the Congress to join the BJP, said the BJP government’s two big achievements were bringing peace and ending the blockade/bandh regime and bridging the hill-valley divide. As a course correction, the government, under fire for the arrest of journalists and activists, in October launched a public grievance redress programme where people can directly register a complaint with the Chief Minister’s Office. So far, the government has claimed, it has reached and resolved 50,000 complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-manipur-bjp-banks-on-development-plank/article64948860.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||AAP alleges conspiracy as candidate joins Congress||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate from Ferozepur (rural) constituency in Punjab, Ashu Bangar, on Monday quit the party and joined the Congress, accusing the AAP leadership in Delhi of running the party like a private company. The Arvind Kejriwal-led party hit back at the Congress, alleging it of sabotaging its candidates under a conspiracy. Mr. Bangar said Punjabi leaders were facing humiliation at the hands of AAP leaders from Delhi. He said the decisions surrounding the affairs of the State unit were being imposed by the central leadership without taking the members from Punjab into confidence. “Candidates are being threatened to not speak on the pretext that their tickets will be cancelled. Also, the party is working as B-team of the BJP,” Mr. Bangar alleged. Sources said other AAP leaders could join the Congress in the next few days in the run-up to the Assembly election. AAP senior leader Harpal Cheema accused the Congress of tearing apart AAP candidates, which he termed as a “vile act of politics”. “Our candidates are being sabotaged under a conspiracy. Congress has approached many of our candidates and is giving them all kinds of lures to join Congress. Congress is also intimidating AAP candidates,” he said. He said Mr. Bangar has a hospital in Moga against which a case has been going on. “Due to the fear of going to jail, he joined the Congress. The Aam Aadmi Party has no need for such cowardly candidates.” Taking a dig at the AAP, the Congress’s media in-charge, Alka Lamba, said, “History repeats itself once again. In 2017 similar allegations were made against AAP & Punjabis never forgave them. It shows that only faces have changed but their modus operandi remains the same.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-alleges-conspiracy-as-candidate-joins-congress/article38284855.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||Two Indians, a Pakistani killed in UAE blasts||“Initial investigations found parts of a small plane that could possibly be a drone at both sites that could have caused the explosion and the fire,” the Abu Dhabi police said, according to a Reuters agency report, but added there was no significant damage to the areas. Houthi rebels, who have been fighting the Yemeni government backed by a Saudi-UAE coalition, claimed they had carried out a “military operation” in the UAE, but this was not confirmed by Emirati officials. Houthi spokesperson Mohammed Abdul Salam was quoted in Arabic media, saying the alleged attack was a “warning” to the UAE to “stop interfering in Yemen”. Houthi militia, believed to be supported by Iran, have in the past claimed to have carried out a number of drone attacks on oil installations in Saudi Arabia as well.  The explosions come days after Houthi rebels captured a cargo ship Rwabee off the Yemeni port of Hodeidah and have held its crew, including seven Indian nationals, hostage since January 2. India had spoken out at the UN Security Council to condemn the detention of the Indians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-indians-a-pakistani-killed-in-uae-blasts/article38284853.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||COVID spike continues, 2.32 lakh cases recorded||On Monday, 300 deaths were recorded in India, slightly lesser than the average levels recorded in the last week. Kerala reported the most deaths at 72, followed by West Bengal (33) and Maharashtra and Delhi (24 each). West Bengal registered 9,385 new infections but the case positivity rate dropped to 26.4%. Over the past few days, the State has recorded more than 20,000 infections and the case positivity rate had crossed 30%. Even as the fresh infections have reduced, the State recorded 33 deaths in the past 24 hours. The percentage of occupancy in COVID-19 beds stands at 6.38%. The active COVID-19 cases were 1,58,623. Andhra Pradesh reported 4,108 cases when 22,882 samples were tested. The test positivity rate was at 17.95%, the highest in the past 233 days since May 30, 2021. The tally of active cases rose to 30,182, the figure tripling in just six days, with an average of 4,500 cases reported in the past five days. Telangana reported 2,447 cases on Monday with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounting for 1,112 cases. The State’s active case pool now has 22,197 patients. Kerala’s COVID case graph continued its exponential rise on Monday too, logging 22,946 cases, when 69,373 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool, which had just 19,021 cases on January 2, has shot up to 1,21,458 cases as on Monday, in a space of just 15 days. Of the active cases, 5,057 are being treated in hospitals. On Monday, 711 persons were admitted to hospitals. Maharashtra logged 31,111 cases of COVID-19 and 24 deaths on Monday. Mumbai, which accounts for a chunk of the State’s case load, reported 5,956 cases much lower than the 7,895 cases reported on Sunday. Cases continue to rise in Assam, with 6,982 infections detected when 64,919 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate has risen to 10.76%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-cases-increase-despite-fewer-tests/article38284663.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,||Senior leaders put Trinamool in a spot||Rumblings within the Trinamool Congress have put the party leadership in a fix, with two senior leaders over the past few days publicly airing differences. Senior MP and the party’s chief whip in Lok Sabha Kalyan Banerjee created a flutter after he questioned claims of Trinamool general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s ‘Diamond Harbour model’ for controlling COVID-19 in his parliamentary constituency. “What is the Diamond Harbour model,” Mr. Kalyan Banerjee had asked. He questioned why football tournaments were organised by Mr. Banerjee in Diamond Harbour at the start of the New Year if he was serious about COVID management. However, Mr. Kalyan Banerjee is not alone. Another senior Trinamool Congress leader Madan Mitra, who has considerable influence on social media, has over the past few days said there is no platform where party leaders can air their opinions or differences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/senior-leaders-put-trinamool-in-a-spot/article38284810.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||SP promises MSP, cane dues within 15 days||After promising free electricity for irrigation, the Samajwadi Party on Monday said it would ensure minimum support price (MSP) for all crops, pay sugarcane farmers their dues within 15 days and provide interest-free loans, insurance and pension to farmers if it comes to power. The promises, announced by party chief Akhilesh Yadav here, may find their way into its official manifesto for the 2022 Assembly election. He had earlier also promised 300 units of free electricity to domestic households. He said his party was willing to create a “revolving fund” to ensure cane farmers get their due. “Even if we have to create a revolving fund, we will do it so that the payment to the farmers does not stop.” Along with farm leader Tajinder Virk, who was injured in the October 3-incident in Lakhimpur Kheri when a convoy of cars ran over protesting farmers, Mr. Yadav took a pledge, with grains in their hands, to defeat the BJP in the coming election. Takes a pledge  “We take this anna sankalp [pledge on grains] that we will defeat and remove the BJP which has carried out atrocities and injustice against farmers,” said Mr. Virk, extending his support to Mr. Yadav.  Mr. Yadav also said the SP would withdraw all cases lodged against farmers and provide an aid of Rs. 25 lakh to the family of each farmer who died in the protest. The SP’s promises to farmers come ahead of the election in which the western parts of the State will vote first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-promises-msp-cane-dues-within-15-days/article64948868.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,||N.D. Patil passes away||N.D. Patil, a towering political figure in Maharashtra’s social reform and left movement, passed away in his hometown Kolhapur on Monday. He was 92. Patil’s last rites will be carried out on Tuesday with State honours. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar paid tributes to the leader. A life-long Marxist, he was a leader of the Peasants and Workers Party (PWP). He has served as Cooperation Minister of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nd-patil-passes-away/article38284802.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||Grand flypast planned for Republic Day||The flypast during the Republic Day parade this year will be one of the “largest and grandest” that have taken place over the Rajpath, an Indian Air Force spokesperson said on Monday.  A total of 75 aircraft will take part in the flypast coinciding with 75 years of Independence with the aviation assets of the Army and the Navy joining the IAF. The parade would end with the Amrit formation featuring 17 Jaguar aircraft flying in the shape of ‘75’ to mark 75 years of independence, said Wing Commander Indranil Nandi.   Other major formations include the Vinaash formation by five Rafale jets and the Baaz formation featuring one Rafale, two jaguars, two MiG-29s and two SU-30MKI aircraft.   The Navy would also take part in the flypast with a P-8I maritime patrol aircraft and two MiG-29Ks flying in the Varuna formation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/grand-flypast-planned-for-republic-day/article38284653.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||‘All non-BJP parties must support Utpal’||All non-BJP parties must support Utpal Parrikar, the son of former Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar, should he decide to contest the coming Goa Assembly election, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Monday. Taking a jibe at the current State BJP leadership under Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, Mr. Raut, in a tweet, said that if all Opposition parties in the State supported Mr. Utpal’s putative candidature from Panaji by not fielding any candidate against him, then it would be a “true tribute” to the late Manohar Parrikar. Mr. Utpal has been deeply disenchanted with the present BJP leadership which, according to the political grapevine, may deny him a ticket. Mr. Utpal has expressed interest in contesting as an Independent from the Panaji constituency, which was held by Manohar Parrikar for 23 years before his untimely demise in March 2019.  “If Utpal Parrikar contests Independent from Panaji seat, I propose all non-BJP parties including Aam Aadmi Party, Congress, Trinamool Congress and Goa Forward Party should support his candidature and not field a candidate against him. This will be a true tribute to Manohar bhai ,” Mr. Raut tweeted on Monday.  The Sena MP said last week that his party was ready to back Mr. Utpal’s candidature from Panaji. Last week, BJP’s Goa in-charge Devendra Fadnavis commenting on Mr. Utpal’s possible candidature said the BJP did not give ticket just because someone was the son of a former Chief Minister and that the award of a ticket would depend on whether a candidate had work to show for it. While Mr. Utpal has been upset with the ‘direction’ the BJP has been taking since his father’s death, he is particularly piqued with the party’s proposed decision to field former Minister Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate from Panaji. “I cannot tolerate the kind of politics that is happening in Goa… It is not acceptable to me. Are they [BJP] suggesting that only winnability is the criteria and that integrity, character doesn’t matter? And you are going to give the ticket to a person who has criminal antecedents [alluding to Mr. Monserrate] and we have to sit home quietly?” Mr. Utpal had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/non-bjp-parties-must-support-utpal-parrikar-says-sena-mp/article64948862.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:16 IST,||Chhattisgarh CM questiones ‘selective’ FIR||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday alleged that the Election Commission of India was not acting fairly, a day after the Uttar Pradesh police registered an FIR against him for allegedly flouting COVID-19 norms while campaigning for the Assembly poll. “Why action against the BJP candidate and the Minister was not taken in Amroha even though they had been engaged in door-to-door campaigning for the last five days?” he questioned in a video statement shared on his Twitter handle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chhattisgarh-cm-questiones-selective-fir/article38284786.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||Uttarakhand Mahila Congress chief joins BJP||Former Congress MLA and Uttarakhand Mahila Congress president Sarita Arya on Monday joined the BJP in Dehradun in the presence of Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and State BJP president Madan Kaushik. In a series of tweets, Mr. Dhami said he welcomed the former Nainital MLA to the BJP. There was no respect for women, party workers and the public within in the Congress, Mr. Dhami added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttarakhand-mahila-congress-chief-joins-bjp/article38284783.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||Central Vista project is on schedule: Puri||The Central Vista Avenue redevelopment project is “on schedule” despite recent rain and the rise in COVID-19 cases fuelled by the Omicron variant, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said in a tweet on Monday. Mr. Puri visited Rajpath just days ahead of the Republic Day parade. In a tweet, Mr. Puri said: “Visited Central Vista Avenue to review progress of the project. Despite the unprecedented rains a few days ago & the current Omicron outbreak, work is progressing on schedule.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-vista-project-is-on-schedule-puri/article64948882.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||BMS to protest for universal pension plan||The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh on Monday said it would hold protests outside all Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) offices on Thursday to demand a universal pension scheme and increase in monthly pensions under the EPS95 scheme. The central trade union said it would submit a memorandum to the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman asking for its long-pending demands to be addressed. It also demanded an increase in monthly pension from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 5,000 under EPS95.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bms-to-protest-for-universal-pension-plan/article38284651.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||‘Builders can’t be allowed to fleece buyers’||The Supreme Court on Monday told the Centre that builders cannot be allowed to fleece the middle-class in need of a home. The court highlighted the dire need for “model builder-buyer and agent-buyer” agreements with uniform terms and conditions of sale and purchase of residential flats. “There is a need for uniform rules or builders can put up whatever they want in their agreements and fleece the buyers. We are concerned about the middle-class home buyers,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud addressed the Centre, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Mr. Mehta agreed that builder-buyer agreements for homes cannot be “one-sided”. “There must be some essential terms in these agreements which are uniform across and cannot be compromised with,” Justice Chandrachud said. Mr. Mehta said he would consult the government.The case was listed after two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/builders-cant-be-allowed-to-fleece-buyers/article38284650.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,||Bombay High Court rejects anticipatory bail to BJP MLA||The Bombay High Court on Monday rejected extension of anticipatory bail for Maharashtra BJP MLA Nitesh Rane in an alleged attempt to murder case. A single Bench of Justice C.V. Bhadang also refused relief to another accused, Sandesh alias Gotya Sawant, but granted bail to co-accused Manish Dalvi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-high-court-rejects-anticipatory-bail-to-bjp-mla/article64948850.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:22 IST,||Chargesheet filed against 14 in Jorhat lynching case||A chargesheet against 14 accused in the lynching of an AASU leader in Jorhat was filed in a local court on Monday, a police officer said. The chargesheet was submitted within 50 days of the incident, he said. Fifteen people were arrested in connection with the case in which Animesh Bhuyan was lynched by a mob over a road accident here on November 29 last year. Two others were also injured in the incident. The prime accused, Neeraj Das alias ‘Kola Lora’, was killed on December 1 after being reportedly hit by a trailing police vehicle when he jumped out of the police car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chargesheet-filed-in-jorhat-lynching-case/article38285014.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,||Member of SC panel on farm laws wants report to be made public||A member of the Supreme Court committee on farm laws has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi stating that if the court does not release the report of the panel on farm laws, he will make it public at an appropriate time. Anil Ghanwat added he would do this to inform policy makers and farmers since the majority of submissions to the committee were supportive of the now-repealed farm laws. Two previous letters Mr. Ghanwat, one of the three-member panel appointed by the apex court on farm laws, has in his letter to the PM pointed out that he has previously written two letters requesting the report’s release. He said, “It is now almost a year since the committee submitted its report to the Supreme Court. If the court does not release the report despite my two letters requesting its release, I will make it public at an appropriate time to inform policy makers and farmers, particularly since the overwhelming majority of the submissions the Supreme Court Committee received were supportive of the now-repealed farm laws.” The letter has also been sent to Chief Justice of India and Union Minister of Agriculture. Mr. Ghanwat, a farmer leader and president of Swatantra Bharat Party (SBP), also demanded lifting of the moratorium on Genetically Modified crops. He said he will launch a ‘Feed India Movement’ from February 16, with the slogan ‘Biotechnology to Feed India. Natural Farming to Starve India’. “There is a suspicion among farmers that your government is promoting natural farming in order to cut its fertilizer subsidy. We oppose all subsidies but these must be removed only after the full suite of reforms have been enacted and farmers compensated for negative subsidy,” he wrote to Mr. Modi. One of the demands raised by Mr. Ghanwat includes preparing a White Paper on agriculture policy which shall consider a full suite of reforms, including technology reforms, not piecemeal reforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/member-of-sc-panel-on-farm-laws-wants-report-to-be-made-public/article64948858.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:22 IST,||AAP CM face for Punjab to be announced today||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said his party’s chief ministerial candidate for the Punjab Assembly polls will be announced on Tuesday. AAP has received around 22 lakh responses under its campaign to elect its CM face for the Assembly polls, a party leader said. Mr. Kejriwal had asked the people of Punjab to suggest names of their preferred candidates.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-cm-face-for-punjab-to-be-announced-today/article64949072.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||Goa battle only between Cong, BJP: Chidambaram||A day after Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal disparaged the Congress in Goa, former Union Finance Minister and senior leader P. Chidambaram on Monday retorted that the contest in the coastal State was only between the BJP and the Congress. In a series of tweets, Mr. Chidambaram, who is the Congress’ senior election observer for Goa, said parties like the AAP and the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress would only fracture the non-BJP vote in Goa. “The contest in Goa is between Congress and BJP. My assessment that the AAP (and the TMC) will only fracture the non-BJP vote in Goa has been confirmed by Mr. Arvind Kejriwal,” he tweeted. Remarking that the choice before the voter in Goa was “stark and clear”, Mr. Chidambaram said: “Do you want a regime change or not? I appeal to the voters of Goa to vote for a regime change and vote Congress.” He further said that those voters who indeed wished a regime change “after ten years’ of [the BJP’s] misrule” would vote for the Congress while the others “would continue will vote for the BJP.” On Sunday, Mr. Kejriwal, while releasing the AAP’s vision document for Goa, had said his party had come forward as “a fresh hope” for Goans frustrated with the politics of the older parties like the Congress, the BJP and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) — each of which have governed the State in the past. Targeting the Congress in particular, the AAP’s national convenor, quipped: “Why will people vote for the Congress? Like the AAP has given guarantees (of free electricity, education among other things) once the polls are over, the Congress’s guarantee is that if you vote for them, they will go over to the BJP.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/goa-battle-only-between-cong-bjp-chidambaram/article64948867.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||Ex-MLA quits TMC in less than a month of joining it, may return to Congress||Goa’s volatile political arena continues to be plagued by “musical chairs” ahead of the Assembly election, with former three-time MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco now quitting the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) less than a month after he had left the Congress and joined it. Mr. Lourenco, former MLA from Curtorim in South Goa, He said his supporters had urged him to rejoin the Congress party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-mla-quits-tmc-in-less-than-a-month-of-joining-it-may-return-to-congress/article38284788.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:28 IST,||Army denies operation inside Myanmar territory||In response to news item ‘Three killed in exchange of fire near International border’ published in The Hindu dated January 14, 2022, the Army on Monday denied that any such operation has taken place inside Myanmar territory. The story stated that a camp of the Peoples’ Liberation Army, an insurgent group located in Myanmar territory, was attacked by Indian special forces. “Indian Army/ Assam Rifles were not involved in any such operations,” Wing Commander Mandeep Hooda, Defence PRO, Kolkata, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-denies-operation-inside-myanmar-territory/article38284852.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||ICF bags award for new LHB coach design||The Integral Coach Factory here has bagged the national innovation award for suggesting a modification in the existing Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches that will not only cut cost but enhance the aesthetics by averting undulations. Team ICF suggested replacement of the existing five-piece side wall and three-piece roof sub-assemblies of the LHB coach with one metal assembly respectively. Assembling the coach as per the new design would cut the cost of making each non-AC Sleeper Class coach by Rs. 1,19,607 and AC Air-coach by Rs. 57,003. According to a senior ICF official, old method of LHB shell body assembly involved putting together 13 pieces, including 4 doorways, two middle side walls, one roof centre part and two end parts. In the new method conceived by Team ICF, only three pieces — two side walls and one roof — were required to assemble the body shell. “The method replaces the five sub-assembly pieces on one side — two doorways, one middle side wall and two toilet side walls — with one integrated piece. Similarly, the three sub-assemblies will be replaced by one in the making of the roof,” the official who preferred anonymity said. Reduces time The new innovation reduces cost of manufacture of LHB body shells and also reduces the assembly and crane handling time. It improves the aesthetics since the undulations caused due to putting together of different pieces is averted, the official said adding that a final go-ahead to manufacture LHB coaches in the proposed design may require clearance of the Research Design and Standards Organisation (RDSO). The proposed cost-effective method was possible with in-house manufacturing of the complete set. ICF is one of the largest coach making factories in the world. The factory rolled out Train18, later flagged off as Vande Bharat Express, in 2018. The Railway Board last week informed that Team ICF would get a group award of Rs. 1 lakh under the “Suggestion Scheme for Best Innovation” on Indian Railways for the year 2020-21. Team ICF, comprising 12 officials, was led by Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineer K. K Mohan with the guidance of Chief Works Engineer Amlan Tirkey. The Southern Railway bagged the first place with Rs. 1.5 lakh group award for suggesting “Automatic Gauge Face Greasing Machine”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/icf-bags-award-for-new-lhb-coach-design/article64949173.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Precaution dose uptake lagging in State||The uptake of the precaution dose of COVID-19 vaccine is low among healthcare workers, frontline workers and the elderly with co-morbidities in the State. Since its rollout on January 10, only 81,369 persons have received the precaution dose in the State. Now, the Health Department is all set to shoot off reminders through SMS and urge hospital heads to ensure that their eligible staff get vaccinated with the precaution dose. According to data availed from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, overall, 36,27,041 persons — 5,65,218 healthcare workers (HCW), 9,78,023 frontline workers (FLW) and 20,82,800 persons aged above 60 with co-morbidities were eligible for the precaution dose in the State. The coverage was the lowest among the elderly with co-morbidities. Only 1.31% of them — 27,389 persons — received the precaution dose. A total of 23,603 FLWs, accounting for 2.41%, and 30,377 HCWs, accounting for 5.37%, have received the precaution dose so far. Overall target Of the overall target, 4 lakh persons were eligible for vaccination for the precaution dose on the day the drive was launched. A total of 10,75,351 persons would be eligible for the precaution dose in the whole of January. Anyone who received the second dose prior to April 14, 2021 were eligible for the booster. According to health officials, the precaution dose uptake was poor. “People have not understood the seriousness and importance of vaccination,” said T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. In fact, officials expected better acceptance for the precaution dose especially among HCWs and FLWs. “We will be pushing a little harder now after the festival season, directly requesting the heads of each institution, including private ones, to ensure that eligible members are vaccinated. They need to understand that they have the potential for exposure every moment,” he said. E. Theranirajan, dean of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, said they were asking all eligible healthcare workers to get the precaution dose. “We have asked all department heads for a list of persons who are due for the precaution dose. Around 1,000 of them are eligible as of now,” he said. For the elderly with co-morbidities, Dr. Selvavinayagam said family members and friends should motivate and bring them to the vaccination centre. There was no need for any certification or documents, he added. To set reminders for the precaution dose, the Directorate has planned to send SMS through the Co-WIN portal. “The SMS will be sent three days before the due day, on the due day and again after three days. This will be for both the second dose and precaution dose hold-outs,” he said. Daily increment Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Monday told reporters that very few had received the precaution dose. Noting that only 81,369 of the 4 lakh persons got the booster shot, he said, “Only one in five persons has received the dose. This shows that even HCWs and FLWs did not opt for the booster dose. Those who received the second dose prior to April 14, 2021 should get the precaution dose….The number of eligible persons will increase to 10 lakh by February 1. The number of eligible persons will keep increasing everyday.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/precaution-dose-uptake-lagging-in-state/article64948944.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man dies while cleaning a septic tank||A 29-year-man got asphyxiated and another was rendered critical while cleaning a septic tank at a house in Injambakkam in Neelankarai police station limits on Sunday. Rajan, 65, a resident of Seshadri Avenue, Injambakkam, called Anbumani, owner of a suction truck, to clean the septic tank at his house. The truck, driven by Muthukumar, 30, and with cleaner Dravida Kathiravan, 29, reached the spot. The two removed the sewage from the tank till a depth of 10 feet and then Kathiravan got into the tank. Within a few minutes, he fainted. Mr. Muthukumar, who went to his rescue, also became unconscious. Mr. Rajan and his neighbourspulled them out and rushed them to a private hospital. Kathiravan was declared brought dead and Mr. Muthukumar is in a critical condition. The police sent the body of Kathiravan to the Government Royapettah Hospital for post-mortem. The police booked a case against Mr. Rajan and Mr. Anbumani under Section 304-A (Causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code andProhibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act. According to Safai Karmachari Andolan (SKA), an NGO, 55 deaths were reported infive years from 2016 with Chennai recording the highest number of 12 deaths due to manual scavenging. Last year, the Centre told the Rajya Sabha that 43 people died while cleaning sewers and septic tanks in Tamil Nadu in five years, the second highest after Uttar Pradesh, which reported 52 deaths. Social activists said political will was needed to eliminate manual scavenging. A change was brought about after the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act came into effect. Both the Supreme Court and the High Courts had given firm directions on preventing manual scavenging. And yet such incidents happened. Lack of awareness A. Narayanan, director of Change India, an NGO, said all sewage contractors and their lorries should be registered. No unauthorisedcontractor was allowed to collect sewage and transport it to the nearest treatment plant. Everything was mechanised now, eliminating the need for manual cleaning. The government should conduct a major awareness campaign. The septage management policy was drafted by the government seven years ago but not implemented properly. It stipulated how to prevent workers from getting into the septic tank. The government should give enough publicity to the policy and make all stakeholdersaware of it, Mr. Narayanan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-while-cleaning-a-septic-tank/article38284942.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:29 IST,TAMIL NADU||NBFCs Ombudsman in Chennai receives 5,845 complaints||The office of the Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFCs) Ombudsman, Chennai, received 5,845 complaints during the period from July 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021. They accounted for 21.68% of the 26,957 complaints received across India, according to the Reserve Bank of India’s annual report of ombudsman schemes, 2020-21. The annual report for the transition year 2020-21 has been prepared for the nine-month period (from July 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021) in alignment with the change in the financial year of the Reserve Bank from July-June to April-March with effect from July 1, 2020, it said. Due to the transition period, the report compares data for the period from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021, as against the number reported in the previous financial year (July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020). On this basis, the office of the NBFCs Ombudsman, Chennai, received 7,600 complaints during April-March 2020-21, 130.30% higher than 3,300 complaints in the comparable period. The Reserve Bank of India notified the ombudsman scheme on February 23, 2018. It was applicable to both deposit-taking and non-deposit-taking NBFCs having customer interface with an asset size of Rs. 100 crore and above. The scheme is administered through the centres in Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai and New Delhi for handling complaints received in the respective zones. The Chennai Office handled 6,462 complaints (including those brought forward from the previous years) and 6,278 complaints were disposed of, amounting to a disposal rate of 97.15% for July 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021. During the period, maintainable complaints of 4,147 were disposed of. Overall the number of complaints against NBFCs increased 38.72% during July 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021, from 19,432 received during July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020. Meanwhile, under the Banking Ombudsman Scheme, Chennai received 19,697 complaints during April-March 2020-21, up 11.13% from 17,724 during July-June 2019-20. For the purpose of comparison, the complaints rose 12.03% to 149 in April-March 2020-21 from 133 in July-June 2019-20. An Integrated Ombudsman Scheme was launched on November 12, on the basis of a ‘one nation-one ombudsman’ approach, for all customers of entities regulated by the RBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nbfcs-ombudsman-in-chennai-receives-5845-complaints/article38284989.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||NGOs to form RWAs in tenements||The Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board has decided to involve more non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in improving the living standards of the people in its tenements and to assist in formation of residents’ welfare associations (RWAs).  In a step towards this, the Abdul Kalam Makkal Nala Sangam (Abdul Kalam People’s Welfare Association), an NGO based in Kannagi Nagar here, has been provided 10,000 sq. ft. space at a subsidised rent to widen its community outreach.  M. Govinda Rao, Managing Director, TNUHDB, said the board was encouraging more organisations to come forward to work for the wellbeing of the people in its tenements. “We will look at their track record and allocate space to them at subsidised rent at our project sites so that they can increase their outreach,” he said.The Sangam had been working in Kannagi Nagar for the past few years with its focus on education. E. Marisamy, a resident of Kannagi Nagar, who is the president of the NGO, said the organisation was started in 2016. “One of our first activities was to organise tuition classes for Class X students as many were dropping out after failing in Class X,” he said. He said that it was subsequently expanded to students of all classes along with support for their extracurricular interests. “Around 50 to 60 students are now joining colleges every year with our support,” he said. With the new space, he said, the Sangam planned to conduct skill development programmes to improve the employability of the youth. “This space was earlier used by a hospital. It vacated a few years ago. We are planning to reorganise the space into small classrooms for our work,” he said. Bigger role  Mr. Rao said the Board would support the organisation in expanding its work. More NGOs would be roped in for the implementation of Nam Kudiyiruppu Nam Poruppu scheme, which intends to transfer maintenance of the tenements to the RWAs.  “We want the NGOs to help the residents in the formation of RWAs and making them functional,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngos-to-form-rwas-in-tenements/article38284950.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Mayorship reserved for SC woman candidate||In a significant decision, the Tamil Nadu Government on Monday issued orders to reserve the Chennai Mayor post for a woman belonging to the Scheduled Caste (SC) when ordinary elections are conducted for the urban local bodies in 2022. It also reserved the Mayor posts in Tambaram and Avadi Municipal Corporations for a SC (Women) and SC (General) respectively.  A senior official told The Hindu that this will be the first time a woman from the SC community will be elected as Mayor of the Greater Chennai Corporation when “indirect elections” are held for the urban local bodies this year. Explaining the reason behind the decision, he said the rotation of reservation was to be notified once in 10 years, he said.  When the elections are held and results announced, all three municipal corporations in and around the State capital would be held by members of the SC community — two of them women. The Mayor posts in nine Corporations — Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Dindigul, Erode, Kancheepuram, Karur, Madurai, Sivakasi and Vellore have been reserved for Women (General) candidates. More posts set aside The State government also reserved the post of chairperson of 10 municipalities to SC (General) candidates, 10 Municipalities to SC (Women), one Municipality to woman from the Scheduled Tribes (ST) and 58 others to Women (General). It also reserved 288 chairperson posts in town panchayats — two for ST (Women), one for ST (General), 43 for SC (Women), 42 for SC (General) and 200 for Women (General). The senior official pointed out that the Supreme Court had in September last year granted four months time over the elections to the urban local bodies in the State. “The deadline expires next week, and so, we have notified the reservation of seats for Mayor posts in municipal corporations, chairperson posts in municipalities and chairperson posts in town panchayats,” the official said. When the elections for urban local bodies are held, the post of Mayors, chairpersons of municipalities and presidents of town panchayats would be held as “indirect elections”, wherein the elected councillors would elect eligible persons for these posts, he said. For the list of seats reserved for women, SCs and STs, log on to http://bit.ly/3fxY4vU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-mayorship-reserved-for-sc-woman-candidate/article38284930.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. logs 23,443 new cases of COVID-19||Fresh coronavirus infections dropped marginally in Tamil Nadu on Monday as 23,443 persons tested positive for COVID-19. The State’s active caseload surpassed 1.5 lakh. The new cases may be slightly lower compared to 23,975 cases on Sunday. The cases have dropped marginally for the second consecutive day but the number of tests have dropped as well. In the last two days, the number of samples tested remained more or less the same — at around 1.40 lakh — while the overall positivity rate stood at 16.71%. Chennai registered a decline in fresh cases from 8,987 to 8,591. Similarly, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur too recorded a dip in daily cases. While Chengalapattu logged 2,236 cases as against 2,701 the previous day, the daily infections dropped from 1,273 to 1,018 in Tiruvallur. However, Coimbatore saw a rise in fresh cases as its tally surpassed 2,000. As against 1,866 cases the previous day, the district logged 2,042 cases on Monday. Similarly, cases rose in Kanniyakumari from 678 to 831. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally so far to 29,63,366. Another 20 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 37,009. All of them had co-morbidities. Chennai accounted for the most number of fatalities at nine. The number of active cases rose to 1,52,348. Of this, Chennai accounted for 60,126 active cases followed by Chengalpattu (16,546) and Coimbatore (10,147). As many as 13,551 persons, including 6,124 persons in Chennai, were discharged after treatment. Vaccination report A total of 1,21,466 persons, including 74,270 aged 18 to 44 and 30,598 persons aged 45 to 59, were vaccinated on Monday, taking the overall coverage of government vaccination centres so far to 8,82,88,223.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-logs-23443-new-cases-of-covid-19-20-deaths/article64948943.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||MGR’s birth anniversary observed||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami garlanded the statue of the party founder and former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran at the party’s headquarters here, and released a book authored by the party’s deputy propaganda secretary S. Kalaipunithan on the founder. The AIADMK’s former interim general secretary, V.K. Sasikala, visited the memorial house of MGR on Arcot Street in T. Nagar and offered floral homage to the bust of the former Chief Minister. The AMMK general secretary. T.T.V. Dhinakaran, who also paid his respects to the AIADMK’s founder, expressed shock over the reports of the Central government rejecting the proposal of Tamil Nadu for a tableau displaying freedom fighters for the Republic Day parade. He wanted the Centre to permit the tableau. Cotton, yarn price Mr. Panneerselvam on Monday sought the intervention of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on the issue of rising prices of cotton and yarn. Referring to the call given by garment exporting units for a two-day strike, he pointed out that the average price of cotton per candy was Rs. 38,000 in 2020, and went up to Rs. 55,000 at the end of that year. It rose to Rs. 64,000 at the end of 2021. Now it stood at Rs. 73,000. If this trend continued, the price could touch even Rs. 80,000. The reason attributed to the increase was the levy of import duty. Prior to this, the price in India was lower than that of the international market. Likewise, the yarn price has increased by Rs. 30 per kg since the beginning of this year and in the past year, it rose by Rs. 150 per kg. In view of the shortage of yarn, the availability of cotton in the market, which should have been 200 lakh bales in the last three months, was only around 125 lakh bales, leading to the import of cotton. Even though import and export, as a subject, belonged to the Central government, it was the duty of the State government to explain to the Centre the problems being faced by the textile sector in the State. The Chief Minister should exert enough pressure for the removal of the duty. In another statement, Mr. Palaniswami, slammed the State for filing cases against those who criticised it. There were honest police officers whose services could be used for establishing the rule of law. Action should be taken against erring police officers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mgrs-birth-anniversary-observed/article38284933.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Include T.N.’s tableau in Republic Day parade: Stalin||Disappointed that the State has been deprived of the opportunity to participate in the Republic Day Parade in Delhi on January 26, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to include the State’s tableau in the parade to showcase the freedom fighters from Tamil Nadu. “Exclusion of the tableau of Tamil Nadu will deeply hurt the sentiments and patriotic feelings of the people of the State. That the committee chooses to ignore and reject all the seven designs shown to it as per the modifications suggested by its members is unacceptable,” Mr. Stalin contended in his letter to the Prime Minister. A copy of the letter was shared with the media. He pointed out that the Union Defence Ministry had proposed the theme of the tableaux for the Republic Day Parade, 2022: “India @ 75 – Freedom Struggle, Ideas @ 75, Achievements @ 75, Actions @ 75 & Resolve @ 75” and said the State had submitted sketches choosing the theme “Tamil Nadu in the Freedom Struggle” depicting the renowned freedom fighters from Tamil Nadu. “In fact, the representatives of the State appeared before the Expert Committee for selection for tableaux thrice. In the first meeting, the Expert Committee expressed satisfaction about the theme ‘Tamil Nadu in the Freedom Struggle’. The design depicted freedom fighters of Tamil Nadu during the British Raj in the front and during the East India company’s period at the back of the tableau,” he said. The design had V.O. Chidambaranar (V.O.C.), the famous freedom fighter who founded the Swadeshi Steam Navigation Company in 1906 during Indian Independence movement to compete against the British. V.O.C. was charged with sedition by the British Government and sentenced to imprisonment. The design also had Subramania Bharathi popularly known as Maha Kavi Bharathiar who kindled patriotism in the minds of the people with his fiery writings during the Independence movement. The poet was held in high esteem by Mahatma Gandhi also, the CM pointed out. The rear of the tableau had been designed to showcase a statue of Rani Velu Nachiyar riding a horse with a sword and with women soldiers. She was the first Indian queen to wage a war with the East India Company in India. She was the Queen of Sivagangai Region from 1780 to 1790. She blew up an ammunition storage of East India Company by arranging a suicide attack, he said. “Marudhupandiyar brothers (known as Maruthu brothers) gave protection to Queen Velu Nachiyar and helped her win the war against the East India Company and win back Sivagangai. They also became Kings of Sivagangai and later were executed by the East India Company. The images of Maruthupandiyars are proposed to be depicted in the tableaux. V.O.Chidambaranar, Maha Kavi Bharathiar, Veeramangai Velu Nachiyar, Maruthu brothers are a few among the several freedom fighters,” he pointed out. “This is a matter of grave concern to the State of Tamil Nadu and its people and I request your urgent intervention to arrange to include the tableau of Tamil Nadu that will showcase the freedom fighters of Tamil Nadu in the Republic Day Parade 2022 in New Delhi,” Mr. Stalin reiterated. In a statement, MDMK founder Vaiko pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on multiple occasions lauded Subramaniya Bharathi and the contributions of Bharathi, V.O.C. and Velu Nachiyar were no less than freedom fighters from the North India. Mr. Vaiko said that the Union government did not have the powers to exclude any State. “I urge that the tableaux of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and West Bengal should be included.” PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Monday said the Centre should reconsider its decision and accept Tamil Nadu’s tableau to be a part of the Republic Day parade in New Delhi. Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan also requested the Centre to ensure that the tableau of Tamil Nadu showcasing the freedom fighters of the State is included in the Republic Day Parade 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/include-tns-tableau-in-republic-day-parade-stalin/article38284939.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Central Institute of Classical Tamil releases eight books||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin released eight books published by the Central Institute of Classical Tamil (CICT) in Chennai when he visited its new premises at Perumbakkam here on Monday. Minister for Industries (who holds the portfolio of Tamil Official Language and Culture) Thangam Thennarasu received the first copies of the books.  The books are: Tholkappiya Aayvu , Dheivachchilayaar Uraineri , Ayngurunooru Kurinji , Ayngurunooru Paalai , Vaaymozhi Vaaypattu Kotpaattu Nokkil Sanga Ilakkiyam , Puthiya Nokkil Kalabirar Varalaaru , Dravidian Comparative Grammar - II and A Historical Grammar of Tamil .  During his visit to the institution’s new premises, which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week, Mr. Stalin, who is the Chairperson of the institute’s governing board, inspected the infrastructure, including the library and the auditoriums. He announced that the Kalaignar M. Karunanidhi Classical Tamil Award for the years between 2010 and 2019 would be given away at a function at Anna Centenary Library on January 22. Shozhinganallur MLA S. Aravind Ramesh, Tamil Development and Information Secretary Mahesan Kasirajan, Director of Tamil Virtual Academy V.P. Jayaseelan, CICT’s Vice-Chairperson Professor E. Sundaramoorthy, and CICT’s Director Professor R. Chandrasekaran were present .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-institute-of-classical-tamil-releases-eight-books/article64949170.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers resume free food supply for COVID-19 patients||Neeta Jessani, 21, an interior designer and her mother Poonam Jessani sent out hundreds of fresh home cooked meals for free for COVID-19 patients last year. Now, with sharp spike in cases in the city, she has been flooded with calls again which has prompted her to resume her service.  “We didn’t realise several people were affected till we began to get numerous calls every day. We provide breakfast and lunch with varieties like idli, pongal, upma, paratha, dal, subzi, bisibelebath and pulao . We are cooking for ourselves anyway, so why not do it for another few families? At present, we take up to 10 persons per meal. If there is a kid too in the list, we drop in a chocolate as well to cheer him or her up. While the food is free, those ordering from us will have to take responsibility for delivery,” she says.  Like Ms. Jessani, quite a few have resumed sending home-made meals for free for COVID-19 patients. From ensuring the food is low on oil, spices and salt, these persons ensure the patients get fresh nutritious home-cooked meals. Helping senior citizens Latha Dubay, a working professional is up and about early to ensure that the lunch and dinner she sends for the senior citizens are ready on time. “Last year, we, a bunch of volunteers, did it on a large scale and sent hundreds of meals. Now, the calls are much fewer and hence we do it individually. For now, I cook for 3-4 families and deliver it at the residence. This is for people who are elderly, who have a tough time managing themselves after contracting COVID-19,” she says. Jai Adithiyan Pugazhendhi, 22, manages to serve the homeless and those down with COVID-19 by raising funds through his friends. “We provide simple food like idli, dosa, idiyappam, chapathi and meals to deliver it to areas like Red Hills, Kolathur, Retteri, Vinayakapuram, Perambur, Purasawalkam, Washermenpet, Saidapet, Sithalpakkam and Medavakkam. Some of them who wish to pay do so, but we don’t ask or charge,” he adds.  A bunch of volunteers has now compiled a food directory https://www.foodhelpchennai.in which has information about where people can find home cooked food in the city.  Shyam Sundar, one of the members, says, “The directory will show in which areas which cloud kitchen, home kitchen or caterers are available for service, their contact number, delivery options and on how many days they serve. Since many are in home isolation and weak, they may not be able to cook and we wanted to put together options to help them choose what they like.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteers-resume-free-food-supply-for-covid-19-patients/article64949176.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||City youth stages abduction in Secunderabad to get ransom, reunited with parents||The police have nabbed a youth in Secunderabad, who staged an abduction, to get ransom from his father. He was reunited with his family after a warning by police. According to the police, Pensilaya, 54, a businessman of Ram Nagar, Triplicane, claimed that his son Krishna Prasad, who had gone to a mall, did not return home last Thursday. The next day, he lodged a complaint with the police that his son could have been kidnapped. The investigation was taken up by Vadapalani police inspector Praveen Rajesh. His team found that Mr. Pensilaya had received a WhatsApp message on his mobile phone from his son’s number saying that he had been abducted and that he should pay a ransom of Rs. 30 lakh for his release. The police analysed the call records and traced him to Secunderabad, Telangana. A team reached the spot and secured Krishna Prasad with the help of the local police. On interrogation, Krishna Prasad told the police that he was jobless and needed money to meet his personal expenses and make a short film. He had staged the abduction to get money from his father.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-youth-stages-abduction-in-secunderabad-to-get-ransom-reunited-with-parents/article38284946.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||A service that shines through the pandemic||R. Kalaivani works long hours in the COVID care facility at the Chennai Trade Centre. For the transgender who went from shop to shop asking for money, the pandemic destroyed her source of livelihood as shops were shut during the lockdown. Her childhood friend, also a transgender, was diagnosed with cancer. “She died despite treatment and I managed to repay her debt. I had no job and no livelihood. I approached three companies but they said they would not appoint a transgender. It was at this point that a company, Sumu, offered me a job in housekeeping,” recalled Ms. Kalaivani. The company placed her in the COVID care centre in Guru Nanak College. Here, apart from her housekeeping work, she assisted the nursing staff in changing diapers for patients; feeding the very sick elderly; and helping people visit the washroom. Her sincere work fetched her a promotion as supervisor. During the second wave of COVID-19, she was transferred to the facility at the Chennai Trade Centre where she was made in-charge of eight supervisors. She has benefitted from the government’s scheme of free housing in Kannagi Nagar, Thoraipakkam, but owing to the long-distance travel,the 36-year-old stays in Mandaveli. “I left home at the age of 13 and since then I have been on my own. At that time, there were no schemes for transgender persons. I would like to lead a peaceful life with the help of a government job,” says Ms. Kalaivani. Since her young age, she has been doing odd jobs at Billroth Hospital and later at the Institute of Mental Health. “I have handled even patients who required oxygen support. I have been vaccinated fully,” she says. As for being accepted by strangers, she says patients find it easier to ask her than men or women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-service-that-shines-through-the-pandemic/article64949146.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow movement of dummy weapons for films’||The South Indian Movies Dummy Effects Association (SIMDEA) has moved the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the police to devise a procedure for hassle-free movement of dummy weapons offered on hire by members of the association for shooting of movies.  The association claimed the police seized two dummy guns from assistant director Victor when he was transporting them to Karaikudi for the shooting of Suriya starrer Etharkkum Thunindavan on August 7. Subsequently, 150 more guns were seized from a godown in Chennai.  In an affidavit filed through its counsel M. Balaji, the association stated it had made a representation to the Police Department way back in 2014 for issuance of identity cards to its members and also to issue licences for each and every dummy weapon after verifying its details. Subsequently, it was followed up with an application under the Right to Information Act in 2017 to know the status of the 2014 representation. Yet, till date, no steps had been taken to verify the dummy weapons and assign identification numbers, the association complained. In the meantime, based on the orders passed by the Bombay High Court on a writ petition filed by Movies Action Dummy Effects Association, the Greater Mumbai Police had devised an elaborate procedure for transportation of dummy weapons, the SIMDEA said. According to the procedure put in place in Mumbai, all dummy weapons were numbered and marked for identification after being produced before the arms and ammunition branch of the Police Department. It had been made mandatory to carry the original licence or pass while transporting the dummy weapons along with the identity cards. Any new addition to the collection of dummy weapons must also be produced before the police for assigning identification numbers. A similar procedure could be adopted by the Greater Chennai Police too, the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-movement-of-dummy-weapons-for-films/article64949179.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tambaram civic officials to meet for resolving row over funerals||In the wake of Sunday’s incident where the cremation of a woman’s body was disallowed at the burial ground in Jameen Pallavaram by the locals citing pollution, Tambaram Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan plans to hold a meeting with the senior Revenue and the police officials to find a solution. Mr. Elangovan said the Chengalpattu Collector had been informed of this incident and an inspection was ordered to survey the burial ground to identify and remove encroachments at the site. The demand to upgrade the burial ground to an electric crematorium would be looked into, he said. The burial ground at Vathiyar Manickam Street of Jameen Pallavaram has been in use for several decades. Over a period of time, a few families settled down in the area around the site. On Sunday, a family, which wanted to cremate the body of a 64-year-old woman was denied entry by the residents who parked vehicles blocking the way to the burial ground. Mr. Elangovan alerted the police, who appealed to the mourners to make alternative arrangements to cremate the body. Social activist V. Santhanam wanted the Tambaram Corporation to take strong action against the encroachers so that such incidents did not recur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tambaram-civic-officials-to-meet-for-resolving-row-over-funerals/article38284961.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rehabilitation process of rescued child labourers hit for want of funds||The identification of child labourers and rehabilitation process of over 3,800 children rescued from child labour, who are studying in over 200 special schools under the National Child Labour Project (NCLP) in Tamil Nadu has been severely affected, for want of funds from the Union Labour Ministry. As of last month, a total of 3,861 children rescued from child labour across the State were studying in 213 special schools serving as ‘bridge schools’ and for many of these children in various districts, and the monthly stipend of Rs. 400 have not been paid to many of them. A total of 724 staff, including educational instructors and others, have been working, but have not been paid for many months now. “The special schools are in a critical stage now without funds and the rehabilitation process is severely affected because field staff and building owners want their salaries and rent pending for many months now. In many schools, parents are questioning the instructors about the stipend and suspect whether we have taken the money,” said a Project Director requesting anonymity. The project is being implemented in 15 districts in the State. ‘At least pay salaries’ Flagging the hardship being faced by the staff, he said: "If the Centre is not sanctioning funds, the State government should at least pay our salaries and adjust with the funds when they come from the Centre.” A report titled ‘Reversing the Situation of Child Labour - A Rapid Survey in Tamil Nadu’ by Campaign Against Child Labour (CACL) Tamil Nadu & Puducherry published last year said that child labour had increased nearly 280% among the vulnerable communities. Child rights activist R. Vidyasagar said that the pandemic that is continuing for almost three years now has impacted the lives of most people in many ways, he said. “In this situation NCLP schools assume greater importance to provide bridge courses for the children who have become child workers and to mainstream them back in formal schools,” contended the former child protection specialist with UNICEF. When contacted, a senior official in the State government said that the NCLP was being 100% funded by the Government of India, which periodically sanctions funds. “We have also written to the Government of India in this regard, three months ago. There were certain issues from our side such as production of audit and utilisation certificates, which we have produced now.” Despite multiple attempts, officials in the Union Labour Ministry in Delhi looking after the NCLP were not available for a comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rehabilitation-process-of-rescued-child-labourers-hit-for-want-of-funds/article38284959.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Northern districts ahead in readmitting ‘out of school children’||Northern districts of Tamil Nadu account for about 40% of 1.77 lakh children who have been brought back to the system of schooling. In what is billed as the first of its intervention, an exercise is under way to take back those who have fallen into the category of “out of school children (OoSC).” In the School Education Department’s initiative of readmitting the children, Tiruvallur district topped in the State with 14,526 children, followed by Chennai — 9,833 and Chengalpattu — 9,359. Totally, the northern districts, encompassing Kancheepuram, Ranipet, Vellore, Tirupattur, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Kallakurichi and Cuddalore, took back 70,241 students out of a total of 1,77,320, as on January 10. All the children have been enrolled in age-appropriate classes from Standard I to XII. Of them, 1,02,714 are boys, 74,606 girls and the third gender, two. An official of the department hopes that the last set of 48,663 students will also be covered in a month. The annual OoSC survey carried out five months ago covered 5,37,587 children, of whom around 2.65 lakh children were identified as non-target group, given that they were studying in institutions such as ITI and polytechnics, in addition to 10,900 children with special needs. Of the remaining 84,035 children, 35,372 were said to have migrated out of Tamil Nadu. This year’s survey was markedly different from the previous ones, as it focussed on the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the education of the students during the past one year. The authorities’ job does not end with the enrollment, observes the official. As the students get acclimatised themselves with the schooling again, the idea is to provide them with more caring and enabling environment in the schools than otherwise. Efforts are also being made to ensure that the students, depending on their circumstances and requirements, are given the necessary linkage with the departments concerned for schemes and facilities. Special educators are providing support to the children with special needs in a concerted exercise across the State, the official says.  To ensure the students sustain their interest, teachers are adopting an “active approach.” Also, volunteers of the Illam Thedi Kalvi are working with the teachers at the habitation level to ensure “smooth and harmonious integration” of the children in the school.  In addition, there are focussed efforts and on-ground campaigns to strengthen the School Management Committees and village panchayats so that the children have a comfortable and enriching learning experience in schools, the official adds.  In the initiative of readmitting the children, Tiruvallur district topped in the State with 14,526 children||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/northern-districts-ahead-in-readmitting-out-of-school-children/article64948945.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM asks Home Minister to release NDRF funds||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah reiterating his request to urgently release the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) assistance for the damages caused by the recent floods. The State government had submitted three memoranda seeking Rs. 6,230.45 crore from the Government of India towards relief and restoration. “The State government has disbursed compensation from its funds to the victims of the flood and farmers whose crops were affected in the floods. It will be of immense help to the people of Tamil Nadu if NDRF assistance for the flood damages is released urgently,” Mr. Stalin said in his letter dated January 16, a copy of which was circulated to the media on Monday. The third wave of COVID-19 has arrived, and the State government has fully geared up to fight it, he said. “While the resource commitment required for managing the third wave of COVID-19 is daunting and is causing severe stress on the State’s finances, lockdown conditions will only add to the distress of people, who have only recently suffered in the aftermath of the floods,” Mr. Stalin added.  While the resource commitment required to manage the third wave of COVID-19 is daunting and is causing severe stress on the State finances, lockdown conditions will only add to distress of people M.K. Stalin Tamil Nadu Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-asks-home-minister-to-release-ndrf-aid/article38284929.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:29 IST,TAMIL NADU||As cases surge, air traffic drops in State capital||With the surge in the number of COIVD-19 cases, the air passenger traffic has been on the decline in Chennai. There has been a significant dip in the number of flights operated and passenger traffic in domestic flights for more than a week now. For the last five months, air traffic was recovering with the Chennai airport registering nearly 20% increase in December with thousands of people flying out for vacation and to meet friends and family. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said the number of domestic flights had dropped.Last month, the airport recorded a maximum of 250 flights a day with about 35,000-40,000 travellers. This number fell to 200 flights and 22,000-23,000 passengers. “The flight schedules have changed with airlines reducing the number of flights as there are very few takers for some flights. Ever since the COVID-19 cases began to be on an upward trajectory early this month, we started noticing a dip. It is not clear how long this is likely to last as it depends on the increase or decrease in the number of cases.,” an official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-cases-surge-air-traffic-drops-in-state-capital/article38285071.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID to probe custodial death of disabled man||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday ordered the transfer of probe into the death of a man with disability while in judicial custody to the Crime Branch-Crime Investigation Department (CB-CID). He also announced that a solatium of Rs. 10 lakh would be given to the bereaved family from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. Kumar, a resident of Kottapatti village near Harur in Dharmapuri district, was arrested by the police recently on charges of stealing gold ornaments at Senthamangalam in Namakkal district in November. Subsequently, the police also arrested Prabhakaran, a man with disability, and his wife Hamsa on January 11 and they were remanded in judicial custody in Namakkal sub-jail. On January 12, Prabhakaran complained he was unwell and was taken to Namakkal Government Hospital where he died in the night. “In this connection, two Sub-Inspectors and one head constable attached to the Senthamangalam police station were placed under suspension by the Salem Range DIG (in-charge),” an official release pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-to-probe-custodial-death-of-disabled-man/article38284938.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||New passage at airport||A new passage has been created in the domestic terminal of Chennai airport for passengers who inadvertently place any restricted items in check-in baggage and called-in for their removal. This has been done to ensure that such passengers are not delayed or miss the flight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-passage-at-airport/article38284951.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister condoles death of Kathak dancer||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday condoled the death of legendary Kathak dancer Pandit Birju Maharaj. In a social media post, the Chief Minister said he was saddened by the legend’s death. “He was a great ambassador of the art and has left behind him a rich legacy. His passing away is a great loss for the nation and the art. I extend my deep condolences to his bereaved family and fans,” Mr. Stalin said. In a tweet, DMK MP K. Kanimozhi also condoled the death of the legendary Kathak dancer. Mr. Stalin also condoled the death of veteran journalist Sam Rajappa. Rajappa was was close to former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi, and was known for his political analysis and investigative journalism, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-condoles-death-of-kathak-dancer/article38284960.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Invoke Goondas Act against caste fanatics’||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Monday condemned the attack at an Arundhathiyar colony by “caste fanatics” in Veeralur village, Tiruvannamalai on Sunday, and urged the law enforcement authorities to arrest the accused under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. In a tweet, Mr. Thirumavalavan said the Arundhathiyars living in the colony were prevented from taking a dead body through the common road. “I also urge the authorities to arrest those involved in the violence under the Goondas Act,” he said. Mr. Thirumavalavan also echoed the voice of other political parties in Tamil Nadu and urged the Centre to include in the tableau, Tamil Nadu’s freedom fighters in the Republic Day parade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/invoke-goondas-act-against-caste-fanatics/article38285319.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gold worth Rs. 37 lakh seized||About 852 g of gold worth Rs. 37.88 lakh was seized by the Chennai Air Customs and one passenger has been arrested. Three persons who arrived from Colombo at 5 a.m. were detained and officials found four bundles of gold paste, weighing 852 g, concealed in their rectum, according to a press release. One passenger was arrested. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-worth-rs-37-lakh-seized/article38284947.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||643 cases of lockdown violation||The Greater Chennai Police booked 643 cases against people who were seen on the road in violation of the COVID-19 complete lockdown guidelines, on Sunday. The police had deployed “special mask enforcement” teams and 312 temporary check-posts were set up across the city. From 6 a.m. on Sunday till 5 a.m. on Monday, police kept vigil and checked vehicles at more than 300 places. As many as 643 cases were booked for violation of the lockdown guidelines and 877 two-wheelers, 27 autorickshaws and 45 light motor vehicles (929 vehicles in all) were seized by the police on January 16 alone, for violations. Separately, 3,947 cases were booked against people who failed to wear masks and Rs. 7.8 lakh was collected in fines from them. The police have appealed to the public not to venture out unnecessarily during night curfew on weekdays and during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/643-cases-of-lockdown-violation/article38284941.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. MPs meet Amit Shah over NEET Bill||A delegation of all-party MPs from Tamil Nadu on Monday met Home Minister Amit Shah and urged him to direct Governor R.N. Ravi to forward the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, 2021, to the President for his consideration. The team led by DMK Parliamentary Party Leader T.R. Baalu urged Mr. Shah to take necessary steps to obtain the President’s assent for the Bill adopted by the Assembly. Alleging that the Governor failed to adhere to Constitutional morality and exercise by inordinately delaying the forwarding of the Bill to the President, the delegation said the delay had resulted in a Constitutional deadlock, causing hardship to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-mps-meet-amit-shah-over-neet-bill/article38284940.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Leopard takes shelter in unused warehouse in Coimbatore||The Forest Department is taking efforts to capture a leopard that sought shelter in an unused warehouse at B.K. Pudur in Coimbatore on Monday. Forest Department officials said that the leopard was sighted in the warehouse in Sathya Nagar, B.K. Pudur, on the side of the busy Coimbatore - Palakkad Road, around 10 km away from Coimbatore city. Residents in the locality said that a guest worker spotted the leopard entering the warehouse housing old sanitaryware items when he entered it to attend to the nature’s call. The worker alerted others, and the Forest Department was informed about the presence of the carnivore. Staff from Madukarai forest range rushed to the spot and set up cages and nets to capture the animal. Two cages were placed at the two openings of the building. Other gaps were covered with nets. District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar, who camped at the place, said that the focus was to capture the animal in a safe manner. A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division, said that the warehouse had six rooms that are interconnected. Meat has been kept inside the cages that have been placed on the two openings of the old building. “We expect that the leopard will come out after sunset. If the trapping with cages does not work, we will seek the permission of the Chief Wildlife Warden to tranquillise and capture the animal on Tuesday. Darting the animal is also a challenging task as sanitaryware items are kept inside the building and the big cat can move to any of the six rooms. The tiled roof of the building is very weak and it is very difficult to dart the animal from above by climbing on the roof. Also, there is a possibility of the animal jumping out through the gap if we remove the tiles,” he said. Dr. Sukumar said that Rajesh Kumar, veterinarian from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve would join the operation late on Monday. N.I. Jalaluddin, president of Nature Conservation Society, said that two night vision cameras were also placed at the cages to track the movement of the leopard. Residents of Sugunapuram, another neighbourhood, had recently sighted a leopard and a cage was placed to capture the animal. B.K. Pudur and Sugunapuram are close to the reserve forest areas of Madukkarai forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division. The Fire and Rescue Services team led by Kovaipudur station house officer V. Ravichandran was camping at the place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-takes-shelter-in-unused-warehouse-in-coimbatore/article64949159.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Coimbatore Unlimited’ to showcase city’s potential to attract investments||Coimbatore’s property sector is seeing a fresh surge in demand as it emerges as a hub for warehouses and with an increasing number of “Coimbatore-made” Information Technology (IT) companies. Gugan Ilango, president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), Coimbatore, says the Coimbatore-Palakkad road, especially the Coimbatore bypass, is becoming the preferred destination for warehouses. Since many jobs are generated at the warehouses, there is a huge demand for affordable housing in this area. Further, with many Coimbatore-based IT companies growing, there is a demand for residential units. Apart from these, even large brands are aiming at developing co-working spaces in Coimbatore. N. Eshwar, CEO of G Square, says Coimbatore has been an important destination for corporate companies and industries to set up operations. This is evident from the initiatives the government has taken to invest over Rs. 2,000 crore in various infrastructure developments in the city. The projects include airport expansion, road development, drainage facilities, defence industrial corridor, beautification of public places, and healthcare. Saravanampatti, Vellalur and Coimbatore bypass road are likely to become major hubs with confirmed industrial developments. The Coimbatore bypass has been a very significant zone from an economic development perspective. With the proposed airport expansion, an upcoming new bus stand, road expansion plans and the defence corridor coming in the zone, and plans to widen the bypass into a four-lane road, this location is set to become the next Old Mahabalipuram Road, he said.  A panel discussion, to be held in Coimbatore on January 21, will showcase the potential of Coimbatore bypass as the next big investment destination here. G Square presents “Coimbatore Unlimited: Collaborate, Co-create and Celebrate,” powered by The Hindu, a four-part panel discussion to be held on four Fridays from January 21. The event will be held at Taj Vivanta from 4 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. and the topic for January 21 is “Coimbatore bypass: The Next Big Investment Destination.”   The Coimbatore bypass has been a very significant zone from an economic development perspective||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-unlimited-to-showcase-citys-potential-to-attract-investments/article64948930.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. to open COVID-19 Care Centre at GCT||Coimbatore Corporation would in a day or two open the COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) at the Government College of Technology, what with the rise in number of COVID-19 positive cases in the city. At present, the Corporation that had established a CCC at the CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex was accommodating COVID-19 positive persons there in a hall. The civic body had a hall with 330 beds at the complex and of those only 100 was unoccupied. Given the rise in cases, the Corporation would place beds in more hall in the complex and then move over to the Government College of Technology, where it had planned to establish a CCC with around 200 beds. If the COVID-19 case count were to rise, the Corporation would place more beds at the GCT to take the total beds at the CCC to around 400, said the Corporation sources, adding that the civic body was also looking at setting up CCCs at the Bharathiar University and a private college in Saravanampatti. The Corporation decision to increase beds at CCCs and open more CCCs had to do with the rise in the positive cases in the city, the sources said and pointed out that the daily new cases that was around 300 around January 10 had risen to over 600 in the last few days with the city recording 722 cases on January 15 and 689 on January 16. There was an increase in positivity rate as well – it had gone up from around 6 on January 10 to 15.53 on January 16. And, as of January 16 the positive cases stood at 3,942. The sources said the Corporation did not want to leave anything to chance, wanted to be fully prepared to handle sudden spike in cases, as predicted, and that was the reason it had increased the number of beds. The Corporation continued to encourage those with mild symptoms to remain in home isolation. Of the 3,942 persons, 3,059 were in home isolation. The Corporation was in touch with those people through the personnel manning the control room, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-to-open-covid-19-care-centre-at-gct/article38284973.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to resume collecting user charges for waste collection||The Coimbatore Corporation has decided to resume collection of user fee for waste generation and disposal. It has also decided to collect arrears for garbage collection. The Corporation Council in a resolution dated November 30, 2021 said it would start collecting user fee for waste generation as per the Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and by-laws it had enacted based on it. Though it was to collect the user fee from the 2017-18 financial year, it could not due to administrative reasons and because it had to discontinue the UTIS software in administration. Now, the Corporation had resumed use of the UTIS software from August 2021 and therefore, had decided to revive the user fee collection. The Corporation would collect user fee as a part of property tax for residential buildings and D&O Licence for non-residential establishments, the Council resolution said. A senior Corporation official said the civic body that would collect user fee from the 2017-18 financial year to the current one and would do so in nine instalments. From the 2022-23 financial year it would levy the fee as a part of either property tax or D&O Licence. The arrears to be collected totalled Rs. 13 crore a year. The Corporation sources here said that the civic body had first made a commitment to collect user fee for waste collection to the Central Government after it had received funds under the then Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission. After missing out on the commitment, the civic body once again resolved to collect charges after the Central Government framed the 2016 rules. But due to opposition from political parties the Corporation gave up the move in 2017. For the 2017-18 financial year the Corporation had estimated collection of around Rs. 20 crore but it collected less than Rs. 1 crore, the sources pointed out and added that the poor collection was due to the opposition from political parties. The recent move to revive the user fee collection comes a few days after the Corporation asked bulk waste generators like apartments and commercial establishments to make their own arrangements to process waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-resume-collecting-user-charges-for-waste-collection/article64949161.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dt. sees steady rise in cases||Coimbatore district is witnessing a steady increase in fresh cases of COVID-19 as witnessed during the second wave of the pandemic last year. It took only four days for the district to cross the 2,000-mark on Monday from the 1,000 mark it had crossed on January 13. The test positivity rate increased from 11.5 % on January 13 to 19.9 % on January 16. The Health Department attributes a combination of reasons for the steady increase in daily caseload. “Negligence of the public in following safety measures is the main reason behind the current spike in COVID-19 cases in all districts in the State. Flouting safety norms in public places, busy markets,on public transport facilitiesand ingatherings like marriage functions could worsen the current situation,” said a health official. Coimbatore Corporation and other local bodies were continuing to demarcate micro containment zones when more cases are reported from a particular area. The Health Department has ruled out the possibility of the presence of Omicron variant of the COVID-19 spreading virus as a reason for the current spike in the number of daily caseload. According to the Department, all the four persons who were found infected with the fast-spreading variant in the district have recovered. Sources said that the District Collector has instructed local bodies to ensure compliance to COVID-appropriate behaviour by the public, shopkeepers, industries and other establishments.Coimbatore city and rural police have also stepped up action against those who violate safety norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dt-sees-steady-rise-in-cases/article64949160.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur garment exporters down shutters||The garment units in Tiruppur that cater to export and domestic markets downed shutters on Monday demanding action from the government to control cotton and yarn prices. Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, said the units in Tiruppur cluster produce goods worth Rs. 200 crore a day. The manufacturing units decided to remain shut on Monday and Tuesday (January 17 and 18) to demand action against increasing cotton and yarn prices. Yarn prices increased almost 80 % in the last two years (pre-COVID times to now), he said. The price of 40s count hosiery yarn was Rs. 230 a kg before the pandemic and it is Rs. 400 a kg now. This is the trend for other counts of yarn, he added. Tiruppur consumes approximately 30 lakh kg of yarn a day. The hike in raw material prices has hit production at the garment units, he said. The units are demanding withdrawal of 10 % import duty on cotton and measures to control yarn prices. All the manufacturing units stopped production on Monday and will remain shut on Tuesday too, he added. Exodus of workers Denying exodus of workers in Tiruppur because of the third wave of COVID-19, Mr. Shanmugham said local workers usually go home for Pongal and migrant workers have also started doing so. They visit their home towns either during Deepavali or Pongal and return after a few days, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-garment-exporters-down-shutters/article38285058.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special teams on the lookout for men who impersonated I-T sleuths||Three teams formed by Coimbatore rural police are on the lookout for five men who posed as Income Taxsleuths and tookaway Rs. 20 lakh from a quarry owner at Kinathukadavu on January 15.The special teams have expanded the search for the imposters to other districts. A senior police officer said the vehicle in which the five men came to the house of K. Panchalingam (55) at Kinathukadavu did not have a registration number on the rear side. The front side number plate was covered by a garland. Though the police got visuals of the vehicle from road-facing surveillance cameras, they were yet to trace the vehicle. The men had grabbed the mobile phone of Mr. Panchalingam before the ‘raid’ and showed fake identification cards. They had taken away the digital video recorder of surveillance cameras at the house. The officer said someone who knew that Mr. Panchalingam had money at his house could have been involved in the plotting of the theft. The police were planning to do a tower dump analysis with the help of the cyber cell to find out mobile numbers that were active at the location at the time of the theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-teams-formed-to-probe-theft-case/article38284981.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||92% PDS card holders get Pongal gift||As much as 92% of the 10.78 lakh public distribution system card holders in the district had received Pongal gift, said a release from the district administration. As of Monday, 9.92 lakh card holders had received the 20-item Pongal gift that the State Government had announced. The administration had distributed the gift worth Rs. 58.02 crore through 1,428 fair price shops. The administration would do so until the month-end, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/92-pds-card-holders-get-pongal-gift/article38284969.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault||The All Women Police Station (AWPS), Thudiyalur, on Monday arrested a 21-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting a girl from Coimbatore by promising to marry her. The arrested has been identified as Sudhakar of Kempanaickenpalayam who had been working as a tractor driver. The police said he befriended a 15-year-old girl while working for Somaiyampalayam panchayat. According to the police, the class X student had left home on the pretext of going to a temple on January 14 and she did not return. Sudhakar's sister telephoned the girl's parents on Sunday and said that the girl was with them. The Periyanaickenpalayam police were informed about the incident and they brought the man and the girl to the station. The man was arrested for offences under Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article38284980.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation suspends paid parking plan||Coimbatore Corporation has suspended the plan to charge parking fee on 30 city roads. In a release issued here on Monday, the civic body said it had suspended the plan to collect parking fee as it did not receive expression of interest from qualified contractors. The Corporation, had by way of a Council resolution in November 2021, had proposed to collect parking fee on select stretch of the 30 roads as on-street parking fee and at select locations as off-street parking fee. It was to hand over the select locations for five years to chosen contractors, who would collect the fee. This had drawn widespread opposition from consumer organisations and elected representatives, who had not only questioned the rationale behind the decision but also said the Corporation should have taken the decision when there was no elected council in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-suspends-paid-parking-plan/article38284972.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||81 booked for violating lockdown rules||The Cuddalore police have booked cases against 81 persons for violating prohibitory orders, issued as part of the complete lockdown on Sunday. The police booked cases against 81 people under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and Section 269 (negligent act, likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code, and seized nine two-wheelers from the violators. The police also imposed fine on 742 persons for not wearing masks. An amount of Rs. 1.60 lakh was collected from them. The police said as many as 14,529 cases were booked from January 1 to January 16 for violation of prohibitory orders. A total of Rs. 29.19 lakh was collected from the violators so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/81-booked-for-violating-lockdown-rules/article38285267.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 613 new cases||Erode district on Monday reported 613 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,11,506. While 168 persons were discharged, 2,827 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 715. Salem district reported 466 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 1,06,236. While 186 persons were discharged, 2,871 persons continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 290 cases, taking the tally to 56,403. While 87 persons were discharged, 1,420 persons continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri district reported 298 cases, taking the tally to 46,449. While 127 persons were discharged, 1,853 persons continue to be under treatment. Dharmapuri district reported 158 cases, taking the tally to 30,146. While 48 persons were discharged, 882 persons continue to be under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-613-new-cases/article64949136.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kathirimalai tribal hamlet to get motorable road soon||People of Kathirimalai remote hamlet have a reason to smile as instead of traversing the rough terrain for 9 km on foot to reach the foothills, they could soon use a motorable road. Official sources said the hamlet in Bargur Panchayat Union in Anthiyur taluk is located at an elevation of 1,200 metres inside the reserve forest of Chennampatti forest range in Erode Forest Division. There are 80 tribal families, comprising 294 members, belonging to Solaga community living there for generations who cultivate crops for their consumption and rear livestock. The hamlet can be reached only on foot from Kathiripatti at Kolathur in Salem district. Donkeys continue to ferry poll materials during elections. Solar panels light up the households, while pregnant women and patients are still carried in cloth cradles to the hospital in Kolathur. A motorable road was a long-pending demand of the people as they had to walk for three hours to reach Kathiripatti and proceed 13 km on the road to reach Kolathur to purchase essentials. Collector H. Krishnanunni in September 2021 sent a team of officials from various departments to the hilltop to study the issues and implement projects for the overall development of the people. It was found that motorable roads are the priority for development and the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) was asked to submit a proposal for laying roads. Forest clearance was obtained and Mr. Krishnanunni sanctioned the road for the hamlet.  L.Madhubalan,Additional Collector (Development) /ProjectOfficer, DRDA, told The Hindu that a single layer water bound macadam (WBM) road would be laid for 8 km at a total cost of Rs. 147.29 lakh under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) from Kathiripatti to Esalankadu in the hilltop.  Chief Minister M.K. Stalin laid the foundation stone for the project through video conferencing on January 10. The work would begin after Pongal holidays and completed in six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kathirimalai-tribal-hamlet-to-get-motorable-road-soon/article64949135.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Piled-up garbage at Sampath Nagar a concern for residents||Piling up of garbage on many streets of Sampath Nagar continues to be a concern for the residents. They urged the Corporation to carryout door-to-door solid waste collection regularly. The Corporation is on a mission to make the city free of garbage and has removed all the bins placed on the roads and streets in all the 60 wards. It has inducted battery operated vehicles for door-to-door solid waste collection by conservancy workers. It segregates the waste and transports it to micro composting centres for processing. But residents in Sampath Nagar where housing board tenements are present in large numbers claim that workers are collecting garbage only once a week, forcing them to dump the waste on roads. A few residents said that earlier three garbage collection bins were kept on the streets. As the bins were removed and the workers collected garbage once a week, they dumped it at the road corner. Over 80% waste comprised plastic materials that were banned by the State government. “Since community dogs get attracted to the garbage dumped here, their menace is high,” said a resident. The residents wanted the garbage collected every day by the workers so that dumping in the open could be stopped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/piled-up-garbage-at-sampath-nagar-a-concern-for-residents/article64949132.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Kavindapadi sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on January 19 at Kavindapadi, Kolathupalayam, Odathurai, Pethampalayam, Ellispettai, Singanallur, Perundalaiyur, Vellankovil, Appakudal, Krishnapuram, Dharmapuri, K. Pudur, Marappampalayam, Ayyampalayam, Velampalayam, Chandirapuram, Perumapalayam, Thannachipatti, Pandiyampalayam, Kunjaramadai, Odamedu, Karukkampalayam, Kannadipudur, Manickavalasu, Ayyanvalasu, Manipuram, Viralimedu, Thangamedu, Sevacoundanur, Alandur, Kavundampalayam, Kuttipalayam and Serayampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article38285068.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Online faculty development programme begins||It is essential for faculty members to update their knowledge with cutting edge tools and techniques to motivate younger minds towards science and technology, said N. Kalaiselvi, Director, CSIR – CECRI, here on Monday. She was presiding over a five-day online Faculty Development Programme (FDP) organised by the Departments of Physics, Biotechnology and Microbiology & CLT of Dr. Umayal Ramanathan College for Women (URCW) in association with CSIR – CECRI, Karaikudi, on ‘Tools and Techniques in Characterization of Compounds.’ S. Jeyashree, Principal, URCW, welcomed the gathering. S. M. Rajendran, Senior Principal Scientist, Principal Investigator, CSIR-Integrated Skill Initiative CSIR- CECRI, briefed about the FDP. On the first day, D. Vasudevan, Scientist, CSIR – CECRI, handled chromatography techniques. S. Radhakrishnan, Chief Scientist & Head, CIF, CSIR-CECRI, J. Jeyakanthan, Professor & Head, Department of Bioinformatics, Alagappa University, K. Jeyadheepan, Assistant Professor, School of Electrical & Electronics Engineering, Sastra Deemed University, Thanjavur, would enlighten the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-faculty-development-programme-begins/article38285045.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea to revive famous cattle shandy at Muthulapuram||A famous mattuthavan i (cattle shandy) that functioned at Muthulapuram near Ettayapuram till 1984 must be revived, say villagers in Kovilpatti region of Thoothukudi district.   People here depend on agriculture and allied activities. The Muthulapuram mattuthavan i functioned on 66 acres. There is a 16th century Bhavaneeswarar Temple, where a car festival was conducted during Adi tabasu every year, coinciding with the month-long cattle shandy.   A similar shandy of the same duration was conducted during Masi magam . The biannual event attracted farmers and merchants from across the State.   Also, there were lakhs of palmyra trees in the region and palm jaggery ( karuppatti ) was sold in a big way during the shandy days.   Famous cattle breeds such as Kangeyam, Umbalacheri, Bargur, Theni, Darapuram, Kannayiram, among others, were brought for sale. Importantly, the ‘small’ Poonchittu bulls and the ‘big’ bulls — cattle breeds used for rekhla race — were brought and the Muthulapuram cattle shandy was famous for this line of business. During the shandy days, veterinary special camps were conducted.  Closed down in 1984  Gradually, the arrival of cattle heads dwindled over the years, so did the palmyra trees in the region. And the shandy stopped functioning in 1984, much to the disappointment of farmers in the region. Sheds in ruins, dilapidated buildings that housed veterinary teams, stone grinders ( ural ) used for grinding punnakku (oil cakes) stand as mute witnesses to a place that bustled with people in its hey days  Vilathikulam DMK MLA G.V. Markandeyan has stressed that it would be fitting to establish a veterinary college at the place.  Muthulapuram panchayat president M. Muniyasamy says, “Everybody in this trade in the State knows this mattuthavan i. But the present generation does not even know that a flourishing cattle trade was happening here Only in this shandy did people get the kaaram breed of cattle. Buffaloes were sold on the western side and the other breeds on the eastern side. Buffaloes were sold only here and nowhere else in Tamil Nadu.”  They have sent a representation to the Chief Minister seeking revival of the weekly shandy for cattle and sheep. Even the Joint Director of Animal Husbandry has recommended that Muthulapuram is apt for setting up a veterinary college. All the facilities will be benefit the agrarian economy and the people in the region, Mr. Muniyasamy adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-revive-famous-cattle-shandy-at-muthulapuram/article64948951.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||International award for Evidence||Vincent Raj Arokiasamy, also known as A. Kathir, founder of Evidence, an NGO based from Madurai, has been awarded the Council of Europe’s Raoul Wallenberg Prize, a release from the Council said on Monday. The award recognises his determination in bringing a meaningful change in the lives of the Dalits. “Vincent Raj Arokiasamy has risked his life to help an exceptionally disadvantaged part of the Indian population whose plight is often ignored by national and international communities. In defending human rights with incredible commitment and resilience, his courageous actions for the so-called “untouchables” fully reflect the spirit and values of the Raoul Wallenberg prize”, said Marija Pejčinović Burić, the Secretary General of the Council of Europe. Mr. Arokiasamy has rescued some 25,000 victims in 3,000 incidents of human rights violations, sheadded. The award ceremony will take place on Wednesday and will be live streamed. January 17 marks the anniversary of Raoul Wallenberg’s arrest in Budapest in 1945. The Swedish diplomat used his status to save tens of thousands of Jews from the Holocaust. His actions show that one person’s courage and ability can really make a difference. Starting in 2014, as an initiative of the Swedish Government and the Hungarian Parliament, the Council of Europe has created the Raoul Wallenberg Prize to keep the memory of his achievements alive. The Prize, worth €10,000, is awarded every two years in recognition of extraordinary humanitarian achievements by a single individual, a group of individuals or an organisation, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/international-award-for-ngo/article64949095.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:29 IST,TAMIL NADU||MP wants Hindi to be dropped as ‘desirable qualification’||Madurai MP, Su. Venkatesan has questioned the notification of Prasar Bharathi that prescribed Hindi as the “desirable qualification” for multi-media journalists to be recruited for Doordarshan Kendra and All India Radio in Tamil Nadu. The recruitment of journalists on full-time annual contract basis is for the districts of Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruchi, Madurai and Tirunelveli. The duties of the recruits is confined to those districts in Tamil Nadu. “I don’t understand why knowledge of Hindi is sought as ‘desirable qualification’ that too without mentioning whether additional marks or what weightage would be given for candidates knowing Hindi,” he said. The candidates, particularly from rural areas, have genuine apprehensions this “desirable qualification” would be a disadvantage in their selection. Besides, the MP wanted to know whether this present post of MMJ is new one .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-wants-hindi-to-be-dropped-as-desirable-qualification/article38284988.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three drown in check dam||A 17-year-old girl and two women drowned in the Kallaar check dam on Monday afternoon.The incident occurred when they went to take bath in the check dam. The deceased were: R. Padmavathy, 44, U. Renuka, 22, and S. Soundarya, 17, all from Inam Agaram. Padmavathy, who had ventured into the water, was apparently stuck in slush. The other two who rushed to rescue her also drowned. Another woman, S. Radhika, 24, who was with them was rescued by villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-drown-in-check-dam/article38285031.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Central assistance sought for development of infra in U.T.||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday appealed to the Centre for extending support to develop infrastructure and improve multimodal connectivity in the region. Addressing the virtual conference of the PM Gati Shakti for south zone, chaired by Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari, the Lieutenant Governor said the Union Territory was looking to develop an outer ring road in Puducherry, SEZ clusters in Puducherry and Karaikal, and National Highways to improve connectivity across the region. The other infrastructure expansion initiatives include development of air, rail and port connectivity, apart from coastal mapping and marine spatial planning, she said. Infrastructure was key to development of tourism, including spiritual and medical tourism in Puducherry, the Lieutenant Governor noted, and hailed the Centre's support in creating an institutional framework for Puducherry for time-bound implementation of projects under the PM Gati Shakti national master plan for multimodal connectivity. CM seeks assistance Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, who participated in the conference, sought Central help for the proposed expansion of the Puducherry airport runway, to a length of 3,330 m, for fulfilling its the long-term needs. Stating that airport now had a runway length of only 1,502 m, Mr. Rangasamy appealed to the Centre for expediting the land acquisition process for sustainable development of the airport. ‘Elevated Corridor’ The Chief Minister also pitched for an ‘Elevated Corridor’ from Marapalam Junction up to the State border, at Mullodai, to ease congestion on the route to Cuddalore. He also sought an extension of the railway route, linking Karaikal and Cuddalore via Tharangambadi and Sirkazhi, to facilitate connectivity between Puducherry and Karaikal. Additionally, the Chief Minister wanted the Ministry to explore the feasibility of providing a helipad service and airport infrastructure to the pilgrim town of Karaikal, and a ferry service between Karaikal and Puducherry. Expressing appreciation for Central clearance of the Rs. 450-crore ‘Elevated Corridor Project’ between Indira Gandhi square to Rajiv Gandhi Square, Mr. Rangasamy said the project, after completion, would not only minimise the traffic congestion being experienced on a day-to-day routine, but also relieve the public from having to wait for more than two to three signal rotations, while crossing vulnerable junctions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-support-sought-for-infra-development/article64948935.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Auroville partners with a video streaming entity for film festival||Auroville has teamed up with a New Zealand-based video streaming service for hosting the 2022 edition of the Auroville Film Festival(AVFF), as an online event from Tuesday. The global flavour of the seventh AVFF (January 18-23) will manifest through over 70 films from 18 countries.This edition features films in two categories– the international category of films that develop the theme of ‘human unity’, which contains 35 films from 18 different countries, and the Aurovilian section having 36 films from 14 Aurovilians and residents of the bioregion, including one student. The films that develop the theme of human unity include award-winning ones like “Barricade” (German/David Klammer) and “Body and Soul” (French/Magali Chapelan), “Aarambh” (Sandeep Kumar Verma), “Amuka” (Congo/Antonio Spano), “The Awakening of the Goddess” (Debjani Mukherjee). According to the hosts, the hope that an in-person event could be possible at the Town Hall, as done during previous editions, faded with a renewed spread of COVID-19 cases in the recent weeks. With the support of the Auroville International-U.S.A., the film fete has been shifted to an entirely virtual mode, in partnership with the online video-on-demand entertainment portal, Shift72. Most films in the Human Unity category and all those made by Aurovilians, can be accessed from around the world. The works of those creators, who have not given worldwide streaming permission, are only available within India. Free of cost As in previous years, all films are made available completely free. To participate, one can visit https://auroville.shift72.com, create an account by clicking on the top right icon, and enter email and password as a one-time measure and log in. Participants can choose their films and click “Buy $0.00” for each film. All “bought” films appear in your Library (top right, under your account symbol) All films will only be available for streaming from January 18. Participants can buy films until January 23. The chosen films will remain in the library section until February 8. The Auroville musicians have also rallied behind the film festival and will present live streaming concerts, hosts said. Garnering attention Meanwhile, Hamilton-based Shift72 said with Omicron cases surging, the platform was seeing an influx in enquiries from global film festivals, seeking alternative formats to deliver their brand of cinema to a locked-in world. Among the high-patronage marquee events to have switched to an online avenue was the Sundance Film Festival, which had cancelled its in-person program, choosing live streaming. “Festivals launching in the next 90 days are scrambling to find an online alternative to an in-person festival that may be at risk of low attendance or cancellation due to emerging variants,” said David White, founder and CEO of Shift72 in a release to media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auroville-partners-with-a-video-streaming-entity-for-film-festival/article64948936.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||TPR exceeds 57% as U.T. records 907 fresh cases||The Union Territory recorded three COVID-19 deaths and 907 fresh cases from 1,579 tests at a test positivity rate (TPR) of 57.44% on Monday. Puducherry recorded two deaths and Karaikal one, taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,890. Of these, Puducherry accounted for 1,474, Karaikal 253, Yanam 109 and Mahe 54. Puducherry logged 801 of the fresh infections, followed by Karaikal, which reported 77, Mahe 21 and Yanam eight. The case fatality rate was 1.36% and the recovery rate was 92.46%. With 147 recoveries from the virus in the last 24 hours, the tally of active cases in the Union territory stood at 8,359. Of these, 130 were in hospital and 8,229 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,38,617 cases and 1,28,168 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 20.97 lakh tests conducted to date, over 17.77 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 607 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered a total of 14,97,771 doses to date.  Puducherry logged 801 of the fresh infections, followed by Karaikal, which reported 77, Mahe 21 and Yanam eight||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tpr-exceeds-57-as-ut-records-907-fresh-cases/article38285272.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power tariff to see revision from April 1||The Puducherry Electricity Department has decided to increase power tariffs for domestic, high tension (commercial) and industrial categories of consumers. The revised tariff structure for 2022-23, to come into effect from April 1, has been sent for approval to the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) for the State of Goa and Union Territories. The revised tariff will have an impact on the monthly bills of over 3.5 lakh domestic consumers in the Union Territory of Puducherry as the average power tariff is expected to be broadly in the range of 35 paise a unit. The maximum hit would be those consuming above 100 units a month, sources say. In order to meet the revenue gap projection of about Rs. 478.04 crore for 2022-23, the Department has proposed the tariff hike, while retaining the regulatory surcharge at 5%. For domestic and cottage sector consumers in the 0-100 units slab, the fixed monthly charge is unchanged at Rs. 40 while the energy charge has been raised from Rs. 1.50 per kWh to Rs. 1.90 per kWh. In the commercial category, the fixed monthly charge remains unchanged at Rs. 75 per month in the 0-100, 101-250, and above 250 units per month consumption categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-tariff-to-see-revision-from-april-1/article38285271.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:42 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister opens new police booth||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Monday inaugurated a police booth near the Beach Road on Monday. The ‘Beach Police Booth’, set up with financial assistance from Achariya World Class Education would render help to tourists. Home Minister A. Namassivayam and Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan were also present. Talking to reporters after the inauguration, Mr. Namassivayam said such booths would be established at more places after assessing the needs. Police would have to play a more active role in helping tourists, he said, adding that private participation would be sought for rendering more assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-opens-new-police-booth/article38285270.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||66 injured in jallikattu||Sixty six persons were injured in the jallikattu held at Vanniyanviduthi near Alangudi in the district on Monday. As many as 665 bulls were released through the ‘vaadivasal’ during the event which lasted a little over seven hours. Veterinary teams screened the bulls while health officials screened the tamers. Although 250 tamers had registered for the event, only 190 of them were allowed after ascertaining that they had taken double dose vaccination, and that they were armed with COVID-19 negative certificates.Police sources said that 53 among the injured were treated at the spot while 13 others were referred to Pudukottai Medical College Hospital and Alangudi Government Hospital. Fifteen among the injured were tamers and 37 others were spectators. Fourteen bull owners also sustainedinjury in the event for which therewas a substantial turnout of spectators. Meanwhile, 20 persons were injured in a ‘manjuvirattu’held at K. Rayavaram in the district on Monday. Twelve among the injured were referred to Aranthangi Government Hospital for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/66-injured-in-jallikattu/article64948969.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen to intensify protest from January 21||The all fishermen’ associations representatives have planned to conduct a series of agitations beginning January 21 to draw the attention of both the Central and State governments in connection with the release of the 56 fishermen jailed in Sri Lanka since December 20, 2021. Passing the resolutions at a meeting convened at Rameswaram on Monday, senior fishermen leader Jesu Raja, who presided, said that when the Union and Tamil Nadu governments promised to hold talks and bring the jailed fishermen safely back home, the Sri Lankan court extended the judicial custody till January 27. The members said the court order came as a big shock to the fishermen community. At a time, when the entire fishermen were pushed down to poverty due to very many reasons, such arrests under baseless charges had only caused mental agony. The meeting decided to intensify the demonstrations until the fishermen returned home safely. Though the government had initiated dialogue with their counterpart in the island nation,which paved the way for release of 13 fishermen, the members urged the governments to get the remaining people also back home with their seized vessels. The agitations would be held in Rameswaram, Thangachimadam, Mandapam and Ramanathapuram, the meeting resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-resolve-to-intensify-protest-from-january-21/article38285046.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 300 tamers, 600 bulls take part in jallikattu at Koolamedu||Over 300 tamers from various districts took part to tame 600 bulls during the jallikattu held at Koolamedu village in Attur taluk here on Monday. The traditional sport, held as part of Pongal celebrations, was flagged off by District Collector S. Karmegam in the presence of Attur Revenue Divisional Officer S. Saranya, former MLA S.R. Sivalingam and other government officials. Bulls from Salem, Tiruchi, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Thanjavur, Pudukottai, Namakkal, Karur and Madurai and other districts ran through the Vaadivasal while the tamers tried to tame them. Bulls were checked by veterinarians before entering the arena. Due to COVID-19 norms, only 150 spectators, mostly local people, were allowed and they encouraged the tamers during the sport. Those who tamed bulls were given prizes, including household items, while owners whose bulls were not tamed were also given prizes. Earlier, Mr. Karmegam administered the oath to the tamers before the start of the event. Tamers, who had received their two doses of vaccine and tested COVID-19 negative, were allowed to participate. Over 300 police personnel were deployed in Koolamedu besides personnel from Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services. Also, medical teams and ambulances were kept ready to treat the injured or to transport them to hospitals. The event ended without major incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-300-tamers-600-bulls-take-part-in-jallikattu-at-koolamedu/article64949134.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||People throng rly. station, bus stand to return to workplace after holidays||Trains bound for Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai witnessed heavy crowd on Monday as people who had travelled to Salem to celebrate Pongal started returning to their places of work. While Pongal was celebrated from January 14 to 16, Thaipusam will celebrated on January 18. Since January 17 falls in between the holidays, a local holiday was declared for government departments and education institutions on Monday. With companies all set to reopen after Pongal, people who had come to celebrate the festival started returning to their places of work. Trains from Kerala and Coimbatore heading towards Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai witnessed heavy crowd as IT professionals, those working in private companies and others boarded at Salem Railway Junction. Likewise, commuters in large numbers thronged the New Bus Stand and boarded buses bound for Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruchi, Villupuram and other districts. Right from the morning, the crowd was heavy at the bus stand. Most of the special buses operated for Pongal were jam-packed. TNSTC officials said that special buses would be operated from January 17 to 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-throng-rly-station-bus-stand-to-return-to-workplace-after-holidays/article64949130.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||PDS cardholders receive Pongal gift hampers in Salem||Staff Reporter Public distribution system rice card holders who were yet to receive Pongal gift hampers collected their kits as the ration shops opened on Monday after holidays. The distribution of kits for 10,57,143 card holders and 886 families at the rehabilitation camps for Sri Lankan Tamils began on January 4 across the district. Card holders were given coupons and they received the hampers containing 21 items. However, many card holders did not receive their hampers before the festival. Collector S. Karmegam said that except for a few, most of them had received their hampers. Hence, card holders who are yet to receive their hampers were asked to collect from their respective ration shops that will function on Monday. Ration shops were opened at 7 a.m. on Monday and gift hampers were distributed while essentials were also sold. Officials said that steps were taken to ensure that all the card holders received the Pongal hampers and nobody was left out. Complaints regarding distribution of gift hampers could be conveyed to the District Supply and Consumer Protection Officer on mobile number 94450-00311 or the Special Tahsildar (Flying Squad) on 94450-45622, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pds-cardholders-receive-pongal-gift-hampers-in-salem/article38285065.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 50 injured at Siravayal jallikattu||Over 50 people including spectators and tamers were injured in the jallikattu held at Siravayal near Tirupattur in Sivaganga district on Monday. Minister for Rural Development K. R. Periyakaruppan launched the event in the presence of Collector P Madhusudhan Reddy and MP Karti P. Chidambaram. Hundreds of bulls brought from neighbouring districts were permitted to take part in the event after mandatory tests. Nearly 100 tamers were also screened before they were allowed to participate in the programme. Those injured were shifted to Government Hospitals at Tirupattur, Sivaganga, Karaikudi and Madurai. The injured include four policemen when a watch tower collapsed. Gold coins were given to those who tamed bulls and to owners whose bulls evaded tamers on behalf of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Prizes such as silver coins, anklets, TVs, cookers, suitcases, cot and brass lamps, sponsored by the minister, MP and others, were also given. Superintendent of Police Senthilkumar oversaw the security arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-50-injured-at-siravayal-jallikattu/article64949147.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK leaders meet Rajenthra Bhalaji||Senior AIADMK leaders, including former Ministers S.P. Velumani, and P. Thangamani, on Monday visited their former cabinet colleague, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, who was recently released on bail in a job scam case. The leaders, including former Ministers, C.V. Shanmugam, R.B. Udhayakumar and MLAs, V.V. Rajan Chellappa, met him at his residence in Tiruthangal. The leaders’ visit is seen as morale-boosting for the party Virudhunagar West District secretary, Mr. Rajenthra Bhalaji, who was arrested and let on bail in a job-related scam. Reports were doing the rounds that Mr. Bhalaji, felt he was let down by the party when Tamil Nadu police were looking for him after he went underground. “We were here to tell him that the party stood with him,” one of the senior leaders said. After being closeted for nearly one hour, the leaders left his house. Earlier, another former Minister, Ma. Foi. Pandiarajan, met Mr. Bhalaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-leaders-meet-rajenthra-bhalaji/article38285047.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Thai Poosam’ car festival held||The annual ‘Thai Poosam’ car festival was celebrated with religious fervour and gaiety at Sri Mahalingaswamy Temple, Thiruvidaimaruthur on Monday. Decorated idols of Sri Mahalingaswamy, Goddess Brahath Sundarakusambigai and others would be placed on the wooden cars on the penultimate day of the 10-day festival and would be drawn along the four Mada Streets. The festival was suspended last year in view of the pandemic. This year, the idols were mounted on the five wooden cars on Monday morning and drawn by devotees led by Thiruvavaduthurai Aadheenam Sri-la-Sri Ambalavana Desikar. The festival, which commenced on January 9 ,would conclude with ‘theerthavari’ at the Cauvery riverbank on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thai-poosam-car-festival-held/article64949150.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two MLAs test positive||The Thiruvaiyaru and Peravurani MLAs, Durai Chandrasekaran and N. Ashok Kumar, respectively, have tested positive for COVID-19. Both of them reportedly had symptoms of COVID 19 last week and the test results confirmed that both of them had contracted the infection. Mr. Durai Chandrasekaran has been admitted to a private hospital for treatment. Mr.Ashok Kumar has isolated himself at his residence at Peravurani, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-mlas-test-positive/article38285032.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Include Tamil Nadu tableau in Republic Day parade’||The president, Thamizh Desiya Periaykkam, P.Maniarasan and the president, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi, M.H.Jawahirullah have condemned the exclusion of the Tamil Nadu government tableau in the Republic Day parade. They have called upon the union government to include the tableau in the parade as a mark of honouring the feelings of Tamil Nadu people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/include-tamil-nadu-tableau-in-republic-day-parade/article38285035.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Smart City projects reviewed in Thoothukudi||Secretary, Municipal Administration and Water Supply, Shiv Das Meena and Director of Municipal Administration P. Ponniah on Monday inspected the ongoing development works in the town under the Smart City programme. Infrastructure development projects including floodwater mitigating structure (Rs. 83.87 crore) near Thoothukudi Bypass – Tiruchendur Road Traffic Island, floodwater channel (Rs. 69.66 crore), Buckle Channel Development Project (Rs. 78.88 crore), Si. Va. Irrigation Tank restoration project (Rs. 11.17 crore), multilevel car parking facility (Rs. 7 crore) near Flower Market, old bus-stand construction (Rs. 53 crore) and a few more projectsare being implemented under the ‘Smart City’ project in Thoothukudi. Corporation Commissioner T. Charusree, who accompanied the officials during the inspection, explained in detail about the progress achieved so far in each of the projects implemented in the port town with Central assistance. The civic body chief also detailed the steps taken to drain the stagnant rainwater in low-lying areas of the town. Ms. Charushree’s power-point presentation highlighted the infrastructure being created within the Corporation limits to avert flooding in future. After the inspection, Mr. Shiv Das Meena asked the officials to complete the projects without compromising on the quality within this fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-city-projects-reviewed-in-thoothukudi/article64948950.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sale of COVID-19 test kits goes unchecked in Tiruchi||Brisk sale of self-test kits of COVID-19 in pharmacies has largely gone unchecked in Tiruchi. Though rapid antigen kits have been available in pharmacies since last June, shortly after the second wave of COVID-19, it is said that sales has gained momentum since the rapid spread of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 in the first week of January. People with mild fever, sore throat, fatigue, headache and running nose, visit the pharmacies to get rapid antigen kits, available for Rs. 250. One of the kits marketed by a leading company claims the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approved kits will reveal the results within 15 minutes. It contains a user manual that details four steps to find the results. The people who buy the kits use them similar to pregnancy test cards. Nearly 60% of the medical stores in Tiruchi are said to have stocks of rapid antigen kits.  “Pharmacies witness brisk sale of self-test kits since the first week of January. There is a huge demand for the kits in the market. Sensing heavy demand, the pharmacies have placed fresh orders of the kits, a dealer in Tiruchi told The Hindu .  He said that a section of pharmacies, which had procured the kits during the second wave of COVID-19, could not clear the stock due to a decline in new cases in the latter part of 2021. Hence, several of them sent return notes to their respective dealers. They had reservations in supplying the test kits to the pharmacies again. The patients, who were tested positive for the virus by the rapid antigen kits, invariably opt for self-medication. While some manage to contact the doctors by telemedicine, others get medicine at the pharmacies for common cold and fever. What is causing concern is that those testing positive through rapid antigen tests fail to inform the officials. Moreover, the patients with mild symptoms do their routine as usual. “We strongly recommend the people not to use rapid antigen test as it may not be accurate. Sometimes it may mislead the patients. We go by the RT-PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test, for which sample is being taken at all government hospitals for free,’ says Subramani, Deputy Director, Health Services, Tiruchi. No pharmacies in the district should sell rapid antigen kits. A circular would be sent through the competent authorities to the pharmacies to stop selling them. Action would be taken against those selling them, he added. Dr. Subramani said that it had been observed that fresh cases of COVID-19 had been spreading at a lightning pace. However, most of them required medication for three to five days. Only 10% of the positive cases required hospitalisation and there was no cause for alarm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-covid-19-test-kits-goes-unchecked-in-tiruchi/article38285030.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Now, need for hospitalisation is less’||The number of admissions of patients to hospitals seem to be markedly low compared to the previous wave of COVID-19. Only unvaccinated people and those with pre-existing ailments require admission, doctors said.  When Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts had reported around 400 cases during the second wave of COVID-19 in May 2021, at least 60-70% of the patients required hospitalisation. This time, however, less than 20% are admitted in wards, with an even lesser percentage requiring oxygen and admission to Intensive Care Units (ICU), a senior health official in Tiruchi told The Hindu .  Describing the triage and admission process, the official said that the State government protocol is being followed. If a patient reports positive, only symptomatic contacts or those over the age of 60 with comorbidities are traced and tested. The positive patients are sent to triage centres, present at all government hospitals in the district, and in each of the 14 blocks. “The vitals of the patient is checked and if they are vaccinated and do not have any comorbidities, they are sent to home quarantine or to the COVID Care Centres,” the official said. If the patient requires medical attention, they are sent to be admitted. Even with a positivity rate of around 10%, the number of deaths reported is markedly low compared to last year, the official added. In Thanjavur  In Thanjavur district too a similar pattern is emerging. "We have only six to eight patients in ICU and emergency care for COVID-19. This is a dramatic difference compared to last year," S. Ravikumar, Dean, Thanjavur Medical College Hospital told The Hindu .  The difference is vaccination, he added. "We are seeing only unvaccinated or people with already existing complications being admitted to hospitals," he said. In Thanjavur, only about 50 patients are admitted in the general COVID wards, and less than 10 in ICU care. Nearly 140 of them are being monitored at the COVID Care Centre in Vallam.  Less than 20% of patienets are admitted; even lesser percentage require oxygen and ICU support Health official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-need-for-hospitalisation-is-less/article38285306.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Revamp of farmers’ markets in Tiruchi to begin soon||Work on establishing a new Uzhavar Sandhai at Manachanallur and renovation of the existing ones at K.K. Nagar and Manapparai is set to begin soon.   According to sources in the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, tenders for the establishment of 10 new uzhavar sandhai s and renovatoin of 100 existing ones in the State had been awarded and the works were expected to begin within the next few days. The uzhavar sandhai at Manachanallur, to be established at a cost of Rs. 60 lakh, will come up in the Regulated Market complex. Initially it will have 17 shops.   S. Natarajan, Director, Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, recently inspected the regulated market and the site for the new uzhavar sandhai . Earlier, he inspected the uzhavar sandhai s at K.K. Nagar and Anna Nagar in Tiruchi. He instructed the officials to expedite the renovation work at K.K. Nagar uzhavar sandhai , sanctioned at a cost of Rs. 35 lakh.   The department plans to develop the uzhavar sandhai at K.K. Nagar as a model facility in the State. The renovation envisages improvements to basic amenities, including toilets. As the uzhavar sandhai turns slushy during rain, paver block pavements will be laid. The damaged compound wall will be rebuilt to prevent flow of water into the premises which is located in a low-lying area.  Mr. Natarajan, who also inspected the Primary Processing Centre for banana at Thottiyam, instructed officials to take steps to ensure that farmers utilised the facility accredited by Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revamp-of-farmers-markets-in-tiruchi-to-begin-soon/article38285307.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman rescues two boys||Timely act of a 60-year-old woman resulted in the rescue of two boys, both aged 13 years, from drowningin a Thanjavur village recently. Three boys entered into the Cauvery river at Gangadharapuramin Kabisthalam police station limits on January13 evening and were having a bath when they began to sink as they reached the deeper parts.S. Saroja, 60, of Alavanthipuramwho was grazing goats nearby saw this and swung into action immediately to rescue the boys. She removed her saree and threw it towards the boys and managed to rescue two of them.Another boy aged 14 years, however, drowned and his body was retrievedthe next day at a place under Swamimalai police station limits.In appreciation of the timely action which saved the lives of two boys, Inspector General of Police - Central Zone V. Balakrishnan invited the woman to his office here and honoured the woman with a reward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-rescues-two-boys/article64948960.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sub-Inspector attacked by villagers in Tiruchi||The Kallakudi police have booked a case against 10 persons after they allegedly assaulted, abused and attempted to murder a police sub-inspector. The SI had gone to Keezha Arasur village on Sunday upon getting information that some villagers had released bulls without permission in an open place, as part of Pongal festivities. The incident occurred at around 5 p.m. on Sunday. Sub-inspector Elangovan, serving at Kallakudi police station, received information that some villagers had released bulls in an open place in a manner in which the animals are released during jallikattu events, without obtaining any permission. Police sources said the sub-inspector, with a team, went to the village and asked the villagers to stop releasing the bulls. The residents allegedly abused and assaulted him by throwing sticks at his head and forehead. Based on his complaint, the Kallakudi police registered a case against 10 persons under various IPC sections, including 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) read with 307 (attempt to murder). The injured police officer was admitted to a private hospital near here. The accused are yet to be arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/si-attacked-by-villagers/article38285028.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,500 cases in delta||The central districts on Monday reported 1,530 fresh COVID-19 cases. One death was reported in the region - in Tiruchi, according to information from the State Health Department. Tiruchi and Thanjavur continue to report a majority of the cases in the central region. On Monday, Tiruchi reported 495 and Thanjavur 409 fresh cases. Karur and Tiruvarur reported a spike in the number of cases. While Tiruvarur reported 151 fresh cases, Karur reported 132. Eighty-six persons tested positive in Ariyalur, and 79 in Pudukottai. In Nagapattinam, 71 patients reported positive, and in Mayiladuthurai, 65. Perambalur district registered 42 COVID-19 cases- the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1500-cases-in-delta/article64948965.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festival held without temple car being drawn||The ‘Thai Ther’ festival at Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple was held on Monday without the temple car being drawn around the veedhis in view of the COVID-19 restrictions. The 11-day ‘Bhoopathi Thirunal’ event commenced on January 9.On the ninth day was the car festival. The temple car opposite the Sri Renga Renga gopuram was decked up for the occasion. The processional deities, Sri Namperumal and ‘Ubhaya Nachiyars,’ were taken in separate palanquins from the sanctum sanctorum in the early hours to the temple car and pujas performed. However, due to COVID-19 restrictions there was no ‘therottam,’ said the temple authorities. ‘Bhoopathi Thirunal’ event concludes on January 19 with ‘AalumPallakku.’ Thanjavur The annual ‘Thai Poosam’ car festival was celebrated with gaiety at Sri Mahalingaswamy Temple at Thiruvidaimaruthur. The idols were mounted on the five wooden cars on Monday morning and drawn by devotees led by Thiruvavaduthurai Aadheenam Sri-la-Sri Ambalavana Desikar. The festival would conclude with ‘theerthavari’ at the Cauvery riverbank on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festival-held-without-temple-car-being-drawn/article38285023.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at the Mettur dam on Monday stood at 113.27 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,069 cusecs and the discharge 8,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article64948967.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamirabharani Waterbird Count to begin on Jan. 21||The 12th edition of Tamirabharani Waterbird Count (TWC), an annual exercise jointly conducted by environmental outfits in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi district after the end of the northeast monsoon, will begin on January 21. Thanks to the active northeast monsoon, the brimming irrigation tanks, including Koonthankulam, Kazhuvurkulam and Nainarkulam in Tirunelveli, Vaagaikulam in Tenkasi and Chettikulam in Thoothukudi have attracted thousands of winged visitors, which have started nesting. ATREE’s Agasthyamalai Community Conservation Centre, Pearl City Nature Society, Thoothukudi, and Nellai Nature Club, Tirunelveli, have organised TWC 2022 under the guidance of the Tamil Nadu Forest Department, Tirunelveli circle, this year. “The Western Ghats forests that capture the rain and release the water into the streams and rivers such as the Tamirabharani feed a larger network of irrigation tanks in Tirunelveli and Thoothkudi districts. These wetlands support over 100 species of water birds, many of which are migratory species. Since we should have comprehensive data about the domestic and migratory birds in the water bodies in our vicinity, we are doing this exercise with the help of students and volunteers this year from January 21. Moreover, the survey will also study the threat looming large over these water bodies like encroachment, pollution, poaching of birds, if any, etc.,” says M. Mathivanan, coordinator, TWC 2022. The important water bodies such as Koonthankulam, Thirupudaimaruthur, Vijayanarayanam, Nainarkulam and Gangaikondankulam in Tirunelveli, Vaagaikulam in Tenkasi and Kadambakulam, Perunkulam, Arumugamangalamkulam, Vellurkulam and Melputhukudi Sunai in Thoothukudi attract a large number of waterbirds during the northeast monsoon and the subsequent winter season. The birds play an important role in the ecosystem and people have strong cultural links associated with their arrival. “Unfortunately, many of the wetlands are threatened by encroachment, pollution and urbanisation and there is no concern for local biodiversity found in these places. With an increasing demand for water both for developmental needs and human use, these wetlands are further threatened. The local communities around the wetlands should be aware of the precious natural resources and protect them against such changes for the benefit of both people and biodiversity. The TWC is an effort to bring attention to these wetlands to the local citizens,” Mr. Mathivanan says. Bird experts and volunteers are invited to participate in the TWC 2022. Interested people can register their names in the online registration form https://forms.gle/NPF2eiWvQ25ivF6WA. They can also contact A. Saravanan by email: twbc2020@gmail.com and phone 99947 66473. Registration will close on January 19. Tentative programme of the TWC 2022: January 20 (3 p.m.) Orientation to volunteers through a virtual platform; January 21 and 22 (7 a.m. to 5 p.m.) Waterbird Census in Tenkasi, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamirabharani-waterbird-count-to-begin-on-jan-21/article64948954.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||New Commissioner of Police takes charge in Tirunelveli||Top priority will be accorded to maintaining law and order and ensuring hassle-free vehicular traffic in the city, Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli City, A.T. Duraikumar said on Monday. Speaking to reporters after assuming office here, Mr. Duraikumar said he was gathering information about the city, a new place for him, and he would give top priority to maintenance of rule of law and effective traffic regulation. Deputy Commissioners of Police T.P. Suresh Kumar (Tirunelveli West) and Suresh Kumar (Tirunelveli East), Assistant Commissioner (Intelligence) Nagasankar and Inspector of Police (Intelligence) Piraichandran were present. Following the transfer of his predecessor, N.K. Senthamaraikannan, as Commissioner, Social Justice and Human Rights, Chennai, Mr. Duraikumar, who was the Joint Commissioner of Law and Order, North Chennai, assumed office here on Monday. After joining Tamil Nadu Police in 1997 as Deputy Superintendent of Police, Vellore, he served in Tiruchi district also. On being promoted as Superintendent of Police in 2006, he served in Tiruchi and Coimbatore districts and in the Central Bureau of Investigation’s Economic Offences Wing in Mumbai between 2013 and 2016. In 2017, Mr. Duraikumar was promoted as Deputy Inspector of General of Police and served in various positions in Chennai including Joint Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), North Chennai.  Top priority to maintenance of rule of law and effective traffic regulationA.T. DuraikumarCommissioner of Police Tirunelveli City||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-commissioner-of-police-takes-charge-in-tirunelveli/article64948952.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||A.G. Babu takes charge as Tiruppur CoP||Inspector General of Police A.G. Babu took charge as the 12th Commissioner of Tiruppur City Police on Monday. A 2004-batch IPS officer, he served as the Deputy Inspector General of Police – Vellore range for seven months from June 2021 and was promoted as the Inspector General of Police and was posted as Tiruppur City Commissioner of Police by the State government on January 8.  Mr. Babu told The Hindu that his focus would be on preventing murders, accidents and suicides, cracking down on anti-social elements and maintenance of cordial relations between police personnel and the public. Special attention will be provided for identifying Bangladeshi nationals residing in Tiruppur without valid documents and creating awareness on sexual offences against children, Mr. Babu said. Enforcement of the standard operating procedures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 will be ensured in the city, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ag-babu-takes-charge-as-tiruppur-cop/article64949158.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Arrests of functionaries in Tiruppur will be beneficial to BJP: Annamalai||The recent arrests of two functionaries from BJP’s youth wing in connection with the assault on a fruit vendor at Palladam in Tiruppur district will be beneficial to the party, said party State president K. Annamalai on Monday. He visited the residences of BJP’s district youth wing secretary Ramesh and Palladam South union youth wing secretary Rajkumar, who were arrested and remanded in judicial custody on January 13 by the Palladam police. “I am happy in a way because after this incident, our party is going to get two important leaders,” he told mediapersons. These arrests would improve the “political maturity and experience” of the two functionaries, Mr. Annamalai claimed and alleged that the arrests were made to “please somebody.” The two functionaries were arrested following a physical altercation between a few BJP members and a fruit vendor, who allegedly made derogatory remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the party’s demonstration held at Palladam on January 12. The BJP would conduct a demonstration on January 21 in Tiruppur demanding the State government to take steps to reduce yarn prices, he said. “The Central government will take all possible steps [to reduce yarn prices],” he said. Arrangements would also be made for the industrialists from Tiruppur district to meet Textiles Minister Piyush Goyal regarding the yarn prices, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrests-of-functionaries-in-tiruppur-will-be-beneficial-to-bjp-annamalai/article38284970.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Road divides residents on community lines||The usual silence in Veeralur, a sleepy village on the foothills of Jawadhu Hills near Tiruvannamalai town, was disturbed on Monday, by the sound of marching boots of a large contingent of police personnel, who were called in after residents were divided among themselves, on community lines, about allowing the dead from a marginalised community to be carried on the village’s main road to the graveyard. Anger simmered among majority of the residents, including caste Hindus, since January 11 (Tuesday), when a person from Arundhathiyar caste died in their colony within the village. The Arundhathiyars wanted to carry the body through the one-km-long main road instead of travelling through 1.5-km-long traditional route that is away from the village. As their traditional route is in a bad shape due to heavy rain last year, Arundhathiyars sought the permission of police and revenue officials for using the main road. They were allowed to do so after holding a series of peace meetings with other residents. The rest of the village remained quiet as they thought it was a one-time affair. Also, the residents gave their nod in an effort to get police permission for organising a bull race in the village during Pongal.  “Their (Arundhathiyars’) traditional route to carry the dead will be repaired. Until then, they can use the main road of the village for all purposes. Residents from other communities have also agreed to it,” R.K. Kavitha, Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO), Arani, told The Hindu. On January 16, a Arundhathiyar woman from the village passed away at the Government District Headquarters Hospital in Tiruvannamalai town. The Arundhathiyars decided to carry the dead again on the main road of the village. Police said this angered the other residents. The videos of one caste group, with a section of the other residents, allegedly damaging 13 vehicles, mostly two-wheelers and a few houses in the Arunthathiyar Colony on Sunday, went viral. Subsequently, 830 police personnel from Tiruvannamalai, Vellore and Ranipet, led by Z. Annie Vijaya, DIG (Vellore Range) was deployed in the village. Accompanied by SPs, A. Pavan Kumar Reddy (Tiruvannamalai) and Dr. Deepa Satyan (Ranipet), Ms. Vijaya (DIG) and Ms. Kavitha (RDO) had a series of peace meetings with residents of all communities in the village on Monday to allow Arundhathiyars to carry the dead on the main road. A truce was reached on Monday. Interestingly, this is the fifth such incident involving Arundhathiyars in the village, since May 2021. Social fabric of the Veeralur village comprises Vanniyars, Chettiars, Yadavas, Muslims, Arundhathiyars and dalits with a population of 5,900 persons, of which 350 belong to the Arundhathiyar community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-divides-residents-on-community-lines/article64948933.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Procure paddy immediately: former Food Minister||Former Food Minister R. Kamaraj on Monday exhorted the State government to initiate steps for immediate procurement of paddy at the Direct Purchase centres (DPCs). Addressing reporters after paying floral tributes to former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran on his 105th birth anniversary at Tiruvarur, Mr .Kamaraj said that more than one lakh paddy bags brought to the sites where direct procurement centres used to function in the delta districts have been stocked in the open by the farmers. Compensation Alleging that the insistence of online registration for measuring paddy at the DPCs was impeding smooth procurement, he also demanded that the farmers should be compensated for crop loss due to heavy and unseasonsal rains during the two monsoons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/procure-paddy-immediately-former-food-minister/article38285029.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Resident tiger population in Nilgiris division believed to be on the rise||A resident population of tigers could be thriving in the high-altitude Shola forests in the Nilgiris forest division, rather than simply be using the landscape as a corridor to move between different traditional tiger habitats as was previously believed, argue researchers. They recently published their findings on “Factors influencing survival of tiger and leopard in high-altitude ecosystem of the Nilgiris” in Zoology and Ecology (Acta Zoologica Lituanica).The researchers analysed 182 scat samples of tigers and leopards in the Nilgiris forest division, with molecular analysis showing that 67 samples belonged to tigers and 95 to leopards. The remaining samples could not be identified as belonging to either species. Based on analysis of the scat of the two main carnivores in the Western Ghats, researchers observed that tigers and leopards both seemed to rely heavily on a diet of Sambar deer and wild boar. Tigers also had been recorded to have preyed on buffalo, black-naped hare, barking deer, gaur, spotted deer and mouse deer, though in much lesser proportion than when compared to their reliance on Sambar deer and gaur.  G. Mohan, one of the lead authors of the paper, told The Hindu that previously it was believed by researchers that tigers only used the Nilgiris forest division as a corridor to move between Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, Mukurthi National Park and Silent Valley in Kerala. “Recent evidence through camera traps indicates that this might no longer be the case, and that a breeding population of tigers could have become established in this division,” he said.  Camera traps placed in the Nilgiris division indicate that there may be around 34 tigers in the division, with another four tigers in the Mukurthi National Park. R. Sanil, Associate Professor, Molecular Biodiversity Lab, Government Arts College (GAC) in Udhagamandalam, and another co-author of the paper, said that the overlap between tigers and leopards using patches of forest in the division is quite high, with leopards preferring to stray out of reserve forests into tea estates in search of prey. “This could indicate competition from tigers in the Shola forests, forcing leopards out in search of food into tea estates, which in recent years has led to a number of deaths of leopards getting entangled in snares laid to trap wild herbivores” he said. Mr. Sanil also added that the photographic record of a pair of leucistic tigers in the division could point to a population that is in-breeding. B. Ramakrishnan, assistant professor at the Department of Zoology and Wildlife Biology at the GAC in Udhagamandalam, said the study pointed to a healthy tiger population in the upper Nilgiris, necessitating more research and understanding to ensure their long-term protection. “We must identify the corridors being used by tigers to move between habitats and ensure there is contiguity so that different populations mix and breed, while in the long-term, the government could consider announcing the Nilgiris division as a high-altitude tiger reserve,” he said. J. Yogesh, T.T. Shameer, Nittu George and J.B. Sulekha are the other co-authors of the paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resident-tiger-population-in-nilgiris-division-believed-to-be-on-the-rise/article64949144.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:29 IST,TAMIL NADU||A banyan tree near prison is home to over 1,500 fruit bats||Thickly wooded Bagayam Road connects Vellore town with its outskirts towards Arani. The road has limited users, mostly highway travelers and goods laden lorries, and has more police checkpoints than shops as the Central Prison is located on it.  The secluded nature of the stretch makes it an ideal hunting ground for short-nosed fruit bats ( Cynopterus brachyotis ), which have been roosting on the decades-old banyan tree growing along the Central Prison’s high walls. More than 1,500 fruit bats occupy the branches of the giant tree.   “These bats are found mainly in the banyan tree near the prison complex. They are not found anywhere else in the district in such large numbers. We have to study them,” Prince Kumar, District Forest Office (DFO), Vellore, told The Hindu .  Villagers near Bagayam, a reserve forest, said these fruit bats were found mainly in that particular banyan tree despite the tree being found in many areas within the forest. A few year ago, only a few hundred bats were spotted in the tree. They then multiplied fast, occupying most of the huge tree. During festivals, including Deepavali, residents near the reserve forest area do not burst crackers to avoid harming the bats that roost in the banyan tree. Tracing the possible reasons for the fruit bats to settle in the banyan tree, biologists said these animals usually prefer tall fruit trees. The thick foliage in these trees also helps them roost without disturbances, prevents them from being spotted by predators, including humans, and provides them with much-needed shade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-banyan-tree-near-prison-is-home-to-over-1500-fruit-bats/article64949141.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 301 fresh COVID cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 54,003 with 301 fresh cases reported on Sunday. While 50,715 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stood at 2,138, and the overall toll is 1,150. In Ranipet district, 275 fresh infections were reported and the total cases at 46,612, while Tirupattur logged 151 cases on Sunday. Tiruvannamalai district logged 328 fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-301-fresh-covid-cases/article38285316.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Job scam: AIADMK functionary grilled for second day||Former AIADMK Vembakottai union secretary K. Vijaya Nallathambi, who was nabbed on Sunday, was questioned in connection with Rs. 30 lakh job scam for the second day. A police officer, privy to investigation, said Mr. Nallathambi was not formally arrested as his anticipatory bail petition was pending before the Supreme Court. The apex court came down heavily on the State police for showing haste in the arrest of another accused in the cheating case, former Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji. Besides, Mr. Nallathambi had health-related issues, the police official said. Mr. Nallathambi, who was questioned till late on Sunday at the District Crime Branch office, was allowed to go home. Based on a summon, he reappeared before Inspector of Police S. Ganesadoss at the DCB for enquiry on Monday. After the day-long interrogation, Mr. Nallathambi promised to cooperate with the police and said that he would submit documents in connection with the job scam. S. Ravindran of Sattur had complained that he gave Rs. 30 lakh through Mr. Nallathambi to the former Minister for a job in Aavin. Mr. Nallathambi in his complaint had alleged that he gave Rs. 1.60 crore collected from various job aspirants to Rajenthra Bhalaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-scam-former-aiadmk-functionary-grilled/article38285043.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||6 boys drown in Amaravathi||Around 4 p.m., the boys stopped the vehicle near Athupalam and eight of them decided to take a dip in the Amaravathi. However, soon after getting into the river, they screamed for help. The other boys managed to rescue two of them, Jeeva and Saran. The six others had gone far into the river and eventually drowned, the police said. “None of the boys knew swimming and the river’s depth was around 15 feet at that spot,” said S. Jayachandran, Station Officer of Dharapuram Fire Station who led the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6-boys-drown-in-amaravathi/article38284928.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||2,042 new cases in Coimbatore||A total of 2,042 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Monday. The Health Department said that 657 persons recovered from the disease on Monday and the district had 10,147 active cases. A 57-year-old man from Coimbatore died of COVID-19 on January 15, taking the toll in the district to 2,531. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 19.9 % on Sunday. The daily caseload in Tiruppur district continued to decrease for the third consecutive day as 605 new cases were reported on Monday, which was marginally lower than Saturday’s 667 cases and Sunday’s 619 cases.No new deaths were reported and the district’s toll remained at 1,031. While 256 patients recovered, 3,237 were active cases. Based on Sunday’s caseload, the total positivity rate was 16.9%. In the Nilgiris, 235 persons tested positive. The total number of cases recorded in the district stands at 3,262. The number of deaths in the district increased from 220 to 221 on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2042-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article38284968.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect||Coinciding with National Youth Day celebrations, Bharathidasan University deliberated on contributions of three eminent personalities: Swami Vivekananda, Tirupur Kumaran and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shasthri, as part of the nation's celebration of 75 years of Independence. Taking part in the 159th birth anniversary celebration of Swami Vivekandanda, student orators spoke on his courage, and capacity to transform people, and prevailing upon leaders to respect plurality of cultures. Vice-Chancellor M. Selvam said in his keynote address that Swami Vivekananda believed and established that ‘every human is potentially divine with infinite power.’ Referring to the central theme of the National Youth Day - 2022: It’s all in the mind, Prof. Selvam said, quoting Swami Vivekananda: ‘Controlling mind is not a one day job; it needs a regular and systematic practice.’ Paying homage to freedom fighter Tirupur Kumaran, the VC said the leader's act of holding on tightly to the mast with national flag while succumbing to the injuries caused by the brutal assault by the police of the repressive British regime portrayed to the world the great respect that the tri-colour commanded. As second Prime Minister succeeding Pandit Nehru, the late leader Lal Bhadur Shasthri was one of the simplest and noblest persons India ever had who had dedicated his life to the nation through his vision expressed through a slogan ‘Jai jawan, Jai Kisan,’ Prof. Selvam recounted.   J J College of Education, a unit of Sowdambika Group of Institutions, initiated measures, under the aegis of Tamil Nadu Teachers Education University, for adopting 32 schools by as many colleges of education in Tiruchi district. At a function organised by TNTEU at the college earlier this month, M.Soundharajan, Registrar, emphasised the need for colleges to do their part for betterment of the future of poor students in rural schools. S. Ramamoorthy, Chairman, J.J group of institutions, presided over. Heads of colleges of education and government schools took part.   An online faculty development programme on 'Reflections in current trends in language, literature and society' that got off to a start at National Institute of Technology - Puducherry (NITPY), Karaikal, on Monday attracted 60 participants from across Tamil Nadu and elsewhere in the country including cities such as Pune, Aligarh, Ahmedabad, and Lucknow. Inaugurating the five-day FDP, Director of NITPY K. Sankaranarayanasamy spoke on transformations in language in the era of digital media. Registrar in charge G. Aghila laid emphasis on the importance of language for Research and Development and contributing content for international publications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect/article38285022.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect - Madurai||The Department of Zoology of Lady Doak College conducted a virtual training programme on ‘DNA barcoding’ on January 11 and 12. Christianna Singh, Principal, released a training manual and delivered the introductory remarks. Priyatharsini Rajendran, Head, Department of Zoology, welcomed the gathering. R. Shenbagarathai, former Associate Professor and Coordinator, Department of Biotechnology, gave the introductory address. Shantanu Kundu, Senior Research Associate at ZSI, Kolkata, laid emphasis on interpretation of sequencing chromatogram and criteria to be followed for species recognition. A. Vanniarajan, Scientist, Aravind Medical Research Foundation, spoke on history of genomic sequencing, and on Sanger Sequencing, Next Generations Sequencing and their applications. Reginald Victor, retired biology professor of Sultan Qaboos University, Oman, underlined the importance of collaborative work between classical taxonomists and scientists, and on identification of cryptic species of cyprinid Garrafish species.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect-madurai/article38285204.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||South Western Railway gears up to face challenges of COVID-19 third wave||South Western Railway is taking steps to face the third wave of COVID-19. Across the three divisions, officers are taking several steps to prepare for the challenge. Covid Care Centres have been established at Hubballi, Bengaluru, and Mysuru. The Central Hospital at Hubballi has 100 beds, the Divisional Railway Hospital (DRH) in Bengaluru has 149, and the DRH in Mysuru has 74 beds earmarked for COVID-19 cases. All the three hospitals’ fever clinics are functioning around-the-clock and for suspected cases, RAT and RT-PCR tests are being conducted. Medicines are also being dispensed at these clinics to those not requiring hospitalisation. All the ICU beds have ventilator support. As of now active cases are around 300 in South Western Railway. These not only include employees, but their eligible family members, retired staff, and their family members. Provision of medical oxygen has been made at all the three hospitals. All three hospitals are equipped with 500 Ipm PSA oxygen generator plants and beds are provided with piped oxygen supply. Further two tanks of 1 kl each at DRH Bengaluru have been commissioned and one 5 kl tank at Central Railway Hospital, Hubballi, will be commissioned by the end of January. The supply contracts of oxygen re-filling of cylinders are in place. Adequate number of oxygen concentrators are also in place in these hospitals. Besides radiographers, lab technicians and paramedical staff are being engaged on contract basis, as per additional requirement. Due training has been provided in the operation of ventilators, PSA oxygen plants, liquid medical oxygen (LMO) units etc. Nearly 99.5 9% of railway staff have been vaccinated with the first dose and over 97.04% employees of SWR have got the second dose. The administration of the precaution dose to frontline workers is under way. Special care and attention have been bestowed by the railway administration to ensure that the frontline workers, crew and guard, maintenance staff are vaccinated and taken care of. Sanjeev Kishore, General Manager, South Western Railway, said that the medical department is all geared up to tackle the scenario.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/south-western-railway-gears-up-to-face-challenges-of-covid-19-third-wave/article38285086.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||‘One in five children has tested positive for virus’||One in five children in the district has tested positive for COVID-19, officers said in Belagavi on Monday. As much as 18-20% of children who have undergone RT-PCR tests in Belagavi district have tested positive, District Health and Family Welfare Officer S.V. Muniyal told journalists. Most of these positives were found in January. However most were non symptomatic or had mild symptoms. No one of them has been admitted to hospitals and all were being treated at home. As many as 324 children have tested positive in the district till now. Though the number of positives remain high, there are very few hospitalised patients. As of now, only 52 patients are admitted in government or private hospitals. All other 2,277 cases are being treated at home. Meanwhile there was a fall in the number of positives in the district to 294 on Monday from the 468 on Sunday. The pace of vaccination picked up too. Monday saw 15,989 vaccinations as against 238 doses on Sunday. As per the Government’s proclaimed target of vaccinating the whole district by March-end, over 13,000 doses have to be given everyday. However, the number of doses given keeps fluctuating. It is low in the weekends and higher during weekdays, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-in-five-children-has-tested-positive-for-virus/article38285087.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||DC visits hospital in Vijayapura||A team led by Deputy commissioner P. Sunil Kumar inspected Banjara Hospital in Vijayapura on Monday, following reports of the death of a pregnant woman. He noted down all the details of the case and asked the hospital to keep in touch with the Department of Health’s team for all future cases. He asked hospital authorities to issue a detailed statement on triage administration or treatment of patients on priorities of various parametres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-visits-hospital-in-vijayapura/article38285078.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Civic body owes contractors over Rs. 3,200 crore in pending bills||With pending bills to contractors mounting to Rs. 3,229 crore, the fiscal health of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is once again under scrutiny. Senior civic officials said these are bills for various development work taken up by the BBMP. The civic body has also taken up projects that were sanctioned by the current and previous State Governments under various schemes. Most of these are on-going and are estimated to cost around Rs. 9,000 crore. The State Government is yet to sanction funds to the BBMP for the same, officials admitted. Where is the tax payers’ money going? The civic body’s main revenue source is property tax. But so far, the BBMP has been able to collect Rs. 2,635 crore, as against a target of Rs. 4,000 crore. This is just around 66% of its target. Though it has been able to garner more property tax this year than before, much of the revenue generated is going towards administrative expenses and solid waste management, said senior officials. A small portion of the tax payers’ money goes towards COVID-19 management, as a large part is being funded by the State Government.  A senior official told The Hindu that BBMP has implemented the 7th Pay Commission. Monthly administrative expenses, including payment of salaries and pensions, come up to around Rs. 350 crore. “We are barely managing to scrape through each month,” the official admitted.  SWM expenditure Solid waste management is a major expenditure for the civic body. The BBMP spends nearly Rs. 1,000 crore a year on solid waste management alone. “Contractors were hoping for some bills to be cleared at least ahead of the Sankranthi festival,” said G.M. Ravindra, general secretary, BBMP Contractors’ Association. He said their bills were pending for 28 months now. “We have written several times seeking payment of pending bills on seniority basis, to no avail. We even met with the Chief Commissioner last week,” he said. Mr. Ravindra alleged that the BBMP was not maintaining seniority in bill payments. “Though the order by the High Court of Karnataka states that only 20% bills may be cleared on an emergency basis and the rest paid on seniority basis, the civic body is not following this. That apart, to avoid floating tenders, the BBMP has also been diverting works to KRIDL (Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd.),” he claimed and said the association had planned to strike work and protest. “However, given the spike in COVID-19 cases, we have put it off, for now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-body-owes-contractors-over-rs-3200-crore-in-pending-bills/article64949180.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Cases in Bengaluru drop, but rise in districts||As the third wave of COVID-19 continues to see cases mounting, the numbers in districts other than Bengaluru Urban are showing a worrying upward trend. Mysuru, Hassan and Tumakuru have started reporting over a 1,000 cases a day even as Karnataka has been recording upward of 30,000 cases daily. Though the capital city has stayed true to earlier trends, accounting for much of the overall numbers, other districts are now significant contributors. Acknowledging this, Health Minister K. Sudhakar, on Monday, tweeted, “Caseload of Bengaluru, which accounted for about 75% of the caseload of the State for the last two weeks, falls below 68% as cases in districts rise.” On Monday, while Bengaluru Urban reported 15,947 new cases, Mysuru had 1,770 new cases, Tumakuru 1,147, and Hassan 1,050. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force and member of State’s Clinical Expert Committee, said this has been the usual sequence of the spread. “We have seen the same pattern in the first and second waves; there is a gap of two to three weeks between Bengaluru and the rest of the state. It surges in the capital and then starts moving to rural and semi urban areas. This is also the usual trend in the rest of the country. Contributory factors include people moving between the city and districts, village festivals, religious activities, weddings and elections,” he explained. With a full lockdown ruled out for now, what can be done to contain the spread? Dr. Manjunath pointed out that wearing a mask is important, but people have become complacent. “In the city, at least 30-40% of people are wearing masks. In the villages, it is almost not there. In marriages and local functions, there are group dinners. The most important thing is, people should cooperate. Control or containment is not just the government’s job. People should follow guidelines.” He also pointed out that there is testing hesitancy, more so in villages. “District authorities should regulate gatherings - whether social, political or religious,” he said, also discouraging people from travelling between districts for the next few weeks. Though hospital and treatment infrastructure have been augmented and equipped in the districts as well, and hospitalisation - especially ICU - is significantly less as of now, those with a subset of comorbidities are at risk and infection could be fatal, Dr. Manjunath warned. “Lung involvement is spared in most patients by this variant. Those with chronic kidney, liver or heart diseases, people who are obese, or with malignencies should be more careful. They should be protected with masks and from gatherings. Though mortality is low, among these subset of people with comorbidities, it can be fatal,” he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-cases-in-bengaluru-drop-but-rise-in-districts/article64949032.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||‘State will go to any extent to house Tesla’s new ventures’||The Karnataka Government is willing to go to “any extent” to accommodate Elon Musk and his future plans to start Tesla’s electric car production activities in India, said C.N Ashwath Narayan, Minister for Science and Technology, Higher Education & Information Technology, Biotechnology.  The Minister told The Hindu: “Whenever Mr. Musk is ready to set up a manufacturing facility in India, Karnataka will be happy and keen to offer him our fullest cooperation and support.’‘ The Minister further said, Bengaluru already has Tesla, the EV major’s maiden address in the country, with it setting up a research and development facility here, in January last year.  Tesla had earlier requested the Union Government to withdraw the social welfare surcharge of 10% on electric cars, seeking a cut in import duty.Mr. Musk also put out tweets suggesting taxation changes to clear Tesla’s import way to India. Tesla chief had tweeted that he was still working through a lot of challenges with the Government for setting up manufacturing unit for his Tesla electric cars in India. Telangana Industry and Commerce Minister K.T. Rama Rao was quick to respond and sent out an invitation toMr. Musk tweeting: “Will be happy to partner with Tesla in working through the challenges to set shop in India/Telangana.’‘Interestingly, senior Ministers from Maharashtra, Punjab, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu too have extended invitations to Mr. Musk on Twitter to set up Tesla manufacturing plant in their States. Karnataka, the tech flagbearer of the country, seemed to have joined the list offline. “Karnataka is home-away-from-home for most American companies already. Bengaluru is a hub ofFortune 500 companies. Companies like Tesla, probably, will not look anywhere else, but Bengaluru,” Mr. Narayan hoped, adding, “More so, Karnataka’s industrial policies are the most attractive and best in the country.”Karnataka is the first State in the country to have an electric vehicle policy and subsequently an EV ecosystem is nowgetting developed in the State, as per Mr. Narayan.  Karnataka is home-away-from-home for most American companies already. Bengaluru is a hub of Fortune 500 companies. Companies like Tesla, probably, will not look anywhere else, but Bengaluru.C.N Ashwath NarayanMinister for Science and Technology, Higher Education & Information Technology, Biotechnology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-will-go-to-any-extent-to-house-teslas-new-ventures/article38284925.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Decision on weekend curfew on Friday||The State Government has decided to take a final decision on relaxing weekend curfew/ lockdown on Friday after monitoring the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the next four days. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai chaired a meeting with some of his Cabinet colleagues, members of Technical Advisory Committee, health and senior officials on Monday and decided to wait for some more days before taking a final call on relaxing weekend curfew. Revenue Minister R. Ashok, who attended the meeting, told presspersons that the Government would take a decision on continuation or relaxation of weekend curfew on Friday. The Government would hold another round of meeting on Friday and take a decision based on suggestions given by health experts. On January 4, the Government has decided to impose State-wide night curfew and weekend curfew till January 19. Following rise in cases, on January 11, it has decided to extend weekend and night curfew till end of January. However, owners of hotels, tourism and other industries and trade have started opposing the weekend lockdown since they have been incurring huge financial losses. They demanded immediate removal of weekend curfew. Mr. Ashok said the Government would not succumb to any lobby while taking a decision on relaxation of weekend lockdown. Taking into consideration of health of the people of the State, the Government would a take a decision. “Certainly, the Government is not interested in giving trouble to any section of people. The government is against the lockdown,” he said. A few days ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi too suggested the State Governments to find out alternative methods to lockdown to contain the spread of the pandemic. Decline soon The Minister said that health experts informed to the Government that COVID-19 cases are expected to reach peak on January 25 or January 26 and would start decline thereafter. During the meeting, the Chief Minister suggested to senior officials to give more attention to increase OPD beds by deploying more personnel for treating patients in Bengaluru. The Chief Minister suggested officers to control the number of people getting admitted for triaging. To remove fear among home isolation patients, the Health Department officials have been told to make arrangement to make telephonic calls to such patients and take steps to distribute health kits to them by roping in NGOs. People with comorbidities Officials have been told to contact patients with comorbidities at least once in a day and enquire about their health to instil a sense of confidence in them. He also told officials to involve local doctors for consultation. Officials have been instructed to give special attention to kids infected with virus in rural areas by distributing separate health kits to them. Parents of children shouldbe counselled for removing fears about the virus, said Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar. The Chief Minister instructed officials to create awareness about the benefits wearing masks and following COVID-appropriate behaviour by utilising both print and electronic media. It was also decided that tests would be increased as per the ICMR rules and speed up vaccination drive in eight-nine districts which were lagging in the coverage second dose. The Chief Minister would hold video conference with deputy commissioners and instruct them to increase the vaccination drive, Mr. Sudhakar said. The meeting decided to intensify vaccination drive for children in the age group of 15-18 years.  Certainly, the Government is not interested in giving trouble to any section of people. The government is against the lockdown R. Ashok Revenue Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-weekend-curfew-on-friday/article38284906.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli violence: High Court refuses bail to SDPI president||The High Court of Karnataka has refused to grant bail to Imran Ahmed, president of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), K.G. Halli ward, in one of the cases taken up by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) into the large-scale violence in D.J. Halli-K.G. Halli localities in Bengaluru on August 11, 2020. “The acts committed by the accused along with other accused persons on August 11, 2020, as stated in the charge sheet, discloses the conspiracy to commit acts of violence, destruction of public properties, and to create a fear psychosis in the mind of law-abiding citizens… By his activity, the accused has attempted to create fear and panic amongst the public in general,” the court observed. A Division Bench comprising Justice Alok Aradhe and Anant Ramanath Hegde passed the order while dismissing a petition filed by 38-year-old Imran Ahmed alias Imran Khan, who was arrested in August 2021. He has been accused of rioting and arson in front of K.G. Halli police station and setting some parked vehicles on fire using petrol. “Section 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 would take within its view the persons who abet, incite, knowingly facilitate the commission of terrorist act. Section 15 of the Act provides that usage of inflammable substance to cause injuries to a person or damage property with an intention to strike terror amounts to a terrorist act. From the chargesheet, it is evident that petrol was used while attacking police personnel and damaging public property,” the Bench observed. The court also said that the accused, being president of SDPI, K.G. Halli ward, “the possibility of interfering with a fair trial by influencing or threatening witnesses cannot be ruled out.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dj-halli-violence-high-court-refuses-bail-to-sdpi-president/article38284919.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||BDA under the scanner for online auction of corner sites||The Bangalore Development Authority, which was raided by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) last year, is once again battling charges of corruption, this time for its online auction of corner sites. The Sheshadripuram police are investigating three cases where BDA staff in collusion with middlemen allegedly helped rig the sale of sites and faked documents to favour some buyers. In one complaint lodged with the Seshadripuram police, the vigilance squad of the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) Special Task force claimed that one buyer, identified as Manju Naik K., colluded with BDA employees. The development authority had recently issued an e-notification for the auction of sites at Sir M. Visvesvaraya Layout 7th and 8th block. To perpetuate the illegal sale, the site number was changed and fake documents were created with forged signatures and a BDA seal. The documents were then submitted at the office of the Deputy Secretary, BDA, for approval. In this way, the registration was done in the name of Manju Naik. In his complaint, Srinivas V.T., an officer with the vigilance squad who conducted the initial probe, said that this was executed with the help of BDA staff and middlemen working at the office on T Chowdaiah Road. A similar complaint was filed by another vigilance officer, Lakshmaiah M.B., against a person identified as Ramesh Babu T. Documents were allegedly forged and submitted to register the site in his name. Though this the BDA has incurred losses to the tune of crores of rupees, Mr. Lakshmaiah said. The police have initiated a probe, but no arrest has been made so far, a senior police officer said. The police are also investigating a third complaint lodged by Indramani H, an officer with the Vigilance squad of the BDA special task Force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-under-the-scanner-for-online-auction-of-corner-sites/article64949187.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:56 IST,KARNATAKA||City restaurants demand relaxation of curfew||The Bengaluru chapter of the National Restaurant Association of India has sought a relaxation of weekend curfew and longer operating hours to provide relief to restaurants, bars, pubs and micro-breweries in the city. In a letter to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Mukesh Tolani, head of NRAI’s Bengaluru chapter, pointed out that the food service industry was already battling challenges. More than 25% of the industry had shut down permanently, leading to loss of jobs for over 25 lakh people, he stated. Further claiming that the food service industry seems to have been singled out in light of the stringent restrictions, he sought lifting of the weekend curfew since the industry survives mainly on business on weekends. The association has also sought permission for longer operating hours from the existing 10 p.m. to 11.30 p.m. on all days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-restaurants-demand-relaxation-of-curfew/article64949184.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||287 new Omicron cases in Bengaluru||As many as 287 new Omicron cases were reported in Bengaluru on Monday, even though the overall number of new COVID-19 cases dipped below 30,000. Health Minister K. Sudhakar tweeted on Monday, “287 new Omicron cases confirmed in Bengaluru today taking the overall tally in the State to 766.” The bulletin from the Health and Family Welfare Department said 27,156 new COVID-19 cases had been reported along with 14 deaths - five in Bengaluru Urban and three in Dakshina Kannada. There were over 2.17 lakh active cases. The positivity rate for the day was 12.45%, while the case fatality rate was 0.05%. There were also 7,827 discharges. Over 2.17 lakh tests were conducted on Monday. On Sunday, the number of cases reported was 34,047, and the positivity rate, 19.29%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/287-new-omicron-cases-in-bengaluru-state-tally-up-to-766/article38284901.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Miners’ body seeks removal of ban on iron ore export||The Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (FIMI), Southern Region, has expressed concern over the ban on export of iron ore from the State and said “Karnataka is the only State in the country where export is not permitted”. “After 10 years of mining ban, which was imposed in 2011, and eight years of the final order of the Supreme Court, there has been significant changes in the situation on the ground, making these restrictions redundant and requiring review of the policy framework,” FIMI said in a letter to Minister for Mines and Geology Achar Halappa Basappa. It said the inflow of iron ore within Karnataka is such that the buyers can bring ore anywhere from the neighbouring States, even imports from other countries. But iron ore which remained unsold in the Karnataka market does not have any alternative avenue to be sold as the export market is banned. Ore production Karnataka produces 43 million tonnes of iron ore against the demand of 37 million tonnes per year by various dependent industries. FIMI said Karnataka has more than adequate supply of iron ore against the demand. “At times, there are deliberate imports of iron ore into the State despite surplus availability, creating unsold stocks. This disadvantages the domestic mining industry and under such undue pressure, prices are reduced to achieve sale targets,” it said. Double whammy Noting that the distorted price reduction was a double whammy since it not only reduced rightful contribution to the State exchequer — in the form of royalty and DMF among others — which was around 30% of the sales price, FIMI said it also impacts the bid premium contribution by ‘C’ category miners and auctioned miners since bid premium was directly proportionate to the sale price. Any artificial reduction of sale price directly affects bid premium. It said: “Karnataka is the only State in the country where the entire quantity of iron ore produced has been sold through e-auction platform”. A total of 4.25 million tonnes of iron ore remained unsolddue to oversupply created by imports from Odisha. Moreover, FIMI said “70% of the offered quantity is controlled by one dominant buyer and hence it led to subdued prices, rather than right price discovery”. Intervention sought The miners’ body has urged the Minister to intervene urgently and facilitate a level playing field to the State’s iron ore mining sector by allowing free market forces to operate.  After 10 years of mining ban, which was imposed in 2011, and eight years of the final order of the Supreme Court, there has been significant changes in the situation on the ground, making these restrictions redundant and requiring review of the policy framework.Federation of Indian Mineral Industries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/miners-body-seeks-removal-of-ban-on-iron-ore-export/article38284922.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Two jewellers robbed||In the last week, two jewellers were robbed of valuables and cash amounting to over Rs. 63 lakh in Nagarpete area. The police are yet to ascertain if the same gang is behind both the incidents. In one case, an employee of a jewellery store who had 1.6 kg of gold jewellery and Rs. 60 lakh cash on him was attacked on near Avenue Road. Two men confronted the victim, Prabhuram, dragged him to an isolated location and escaped with his bag of jewellery. “He was on his way to get the jewellery hallmarked when the incident took place,” said the police. In the second incident, a jeweller was robbed of 28 gram of gold and Rs. 3.5 lakh cash on S.P. Road. The jeweller was on his way to buy a gold bar when unidentified miscreants cut his bag with a blade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-jewellers-robbed/article38284911.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||KAS exam results: Ex-Minister’s plea to CM||In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, former Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party MLA for Rajajinagar S. Suresh Kumar has sought the State Government’s intervention in the announcement of the main exam results of the Karnataka AdministrativeServices (KAS) posts. The examinations were conducted by the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) in February2021. In the letter to the Chief Minister, Mr. Suresh Kumar said that KPSC had not taken any measures to evaluate the main exam answersheets. He urged the Government to direct the KPSC to announce the results within the next few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kas-exam-results-ex-ministers-plea-to-cm/article38284921.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Government seeks details of home testing kits||With the popularity of home and self-testing kits for COVID-19 worrying authorities about difficulties in tracking positive cases, the Drugs Control Department has stepped in and put in place reporting mechanisms. In a circular issued on Sunday, the Drugs Controller said that the Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, had spoken about consumers purchasing RT-PCR, RAT and home kits and testing themselves, resulting in a dearth of information related to the number of kits sold and positive cases. The Drugs Controller has now sought details from manufacturers, distributors, chemists, pharmacies and dispensaries of the number of kits sold and details of the purchaser, including those who bought home antigen testing kits. Officials have also been asked to submit daily and weekly reports on the same. Sales of such kits had reportedly gone up since December amidst the Omicron scare. Health and civic officials had acknowledged the difficulties this posed to track, isolate and treat those who have tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/government-seeks-details-of-home-testing-kits/article38284907.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Police open fire on rowdy who attacked them||The Hanumanth Nagar police opened fire on a rowdy who allegedly attacked a constable with a dagger in a bid to evade arrest. The incident took place in the early hours of January 17 in Konanakunte. According to the police, the accused, Rahul, iswanted in a drug peddling case and is named in over 20 criminal cases. “He recently uploaded a video clip on social media declaring that no policeman could catch him. He also announced that he was going to kill his rival, Raghu,” said a police officer. A special team was formed to track him down. They learnt that he was hiding in Narayana Nagar, Konanakunte. The police team surrounded the area and asked Rahul to surrender. “In an attempt to escape, Rahul attacked Head Constable Ningappa. As Rahul was fleeing, Police Sub-Inspector Basavaraj Patil fired in the air. When Rahul did not stop, the SI shot at Rahul’s legs,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-open-fire-on-rowdy-who-attacked-them/article38284912.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Case against recruiting firm for issuing fake offer letters||The Sampigehalli police have registered a case of cheating against a consultancy firm that allegedly issued job seekers fake offer letters from IBM for a fee. It was only when the ‘new recruits’ walked into the premises of IBM India in Manyata Tech Park last week with their offer letters seeking a meeting with HR personnel that the scam came to light. “Upon inquiry it was revealed that a job consultancy firm by name of Easy Recruit India Pvt Ltd, was charging job aspirants and misusing the logo and name of IBM by issuing offer letters,” said a police officer. One aspirant paid Rs. 75,000, and another was asked to shell out Rs. 15,000, while a third victim had to pay Rs. 25,000. All three were asked to report to work on January 13. According to the police, the firm gave them specific instructions to meet with an HR manager by name of M.R. Pradeep. “However, there is no HR manager by that name,” said the police officer. He added that the people running the job consultancy firm are absconding. “We have details of their financial transactions and are tracking them down,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-against-recruiting-firm-for-issuing-fake-offer-letters/article38284918.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Prohibitory orders extended||Police Commissioner Kamal Pant extended prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC n the city till January 31, 5 a.m. The order was extended on January 17 after a meeting by the Chief Secretary on the spread of COVID-19 in Bengaluru. As per the order, gathering of four or more persons is prohibited. Any violation shall be liable for prosecution under the Disaster Management Act, and under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, Mr. Pant said after reviewing the situation and directing the police to enforce COVID-19 guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prohibitory-orders-extended/article38284900.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:56 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Triaging must before admission’||The BBMP has made physical triaging mandatory before any hospital admission. In a circular issued on Sunday, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that the review of COVID-19 admissions in hospitals had shown that many patients were allocated general beds though their vital statistics were stable. All zonal health teams (triage teams, COVID-19 Hospital Booking Management System teams, COVID-19 doctors, medical officers of health, health officers) and nodal officers of control rooms have been directed to ensure efficient triaging of cases requiring admission to either hospitals or CCCs. Violation would warrant stringent action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and other legal provisions. Zonal commissioners and coordinators have been authorized to review triaging and hospitalisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/triaging-must-before-admission/article38284910.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||DC to decide on closure of Shiradi Ghat stretch after spot inspection||The Hassan district administration has resolved to decide on the closure of Shiradi Ghat stretch of NH 75, as requested by National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), after a spot inspection on January 20. This was decided at a meeting with people’s representatives in Hassan on Monday. The NHAI, in its letter to the Hassan DC on January 6, had sought the closure for the construction of a four-lane road between Donigal and Maranahalli, about 10 km in Sakleshpur taluk. Hassan DC R. Girish said an inspection of the actual progress of the road work between Hassan and Maranahalli, taken up by NHAI, would be inspected in the presence of the Hassan Lok Sabha member, legislators and representatives of organisations in Sakleshpur on January 20. The administration will consider the opinion of all concerned before taking a decision. “The road work has been going on at a slow pace. The public is angry with the delay in completing the work. However, the widening of roads is also important. We have to take a decision only after verifying all factors involved,” he said. The NHAI took the project to develop a four-lane highway between Hassan and Maranahalli in Sakleshpur taluk in May 2016. Isolux Corson, the construction company had bagged the contract, and the work was scheduled to be completed in three years. However, even 5.5 years after the work started, only 31% of the progress has been achieved so far. Now it has decided to take up the stretch between Donigal and Maranahalli by closing the Shiradi Ghat stretch. The people’s representatives and residents of Sakleshpur have opposed the idea of closing the road. Sakleshpur MLA H.K. Kumraswamy, who attended the meeting, told presspersons, “The travel from Sakleshpur to Hassan (40 km) takes more than one-and-half-an-hour time, because of incomplete work. People are fed up with the delay in completing the project. Hence, we want the NHAI to finish at least two-lane road connecting Hassan and Sakleshpur by April, before seeking the closure of the ghat-stretch.” Lok Sabha member Prajwal Revanna is also angry with the slow pace. “The highway is major connectivity between Bengaluru and port city Mangaluru. There is a movement of goods between the two cities. If the road is closed, it affects the transportation of goods. Let there be an inspection of the actual position of the road, before taking a decision on road closure,” he said. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra had also also joined the meeting through video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-closure-of-stretch-to-be-taken-after-a-spot-visit/article64949040.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Vaccination drive in Hassan successful, despite negative campaign by Opposition parties’||Hassan district unit of the BJP has said the Union Government successfully completed one year of COVID-19 vaccination, despite negative campaign against the vaccine by opposition parties. The party unit has congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers, doctors and scientists. In a media conference in Hassan on January 17, party’s district spokesperson H.M. Suresh Kumar said the vaccination campaign under the leadership of the Prime Minister had been successful despite tough circumstances. When the vaccine was launched, many people spoke against it and doubted its efficacy. But, the campaign had been successful. “Within a year, 66 crore people had taken two doses, and 91 crore people had taken the first dose. Among children between the age of 15 and 17, more than 3.31 crore had taken the vaccine,” he said. During the Congress rule, he said it took several years for India to get vaccination against polio. However, India got its own vaccine within a year of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. In Hassan district, more than 14 lakh people had taken the first dose and 11.70 lakh people had taken two doses of vaccine, he said. BJP district treasurer Prasanna Kumar, general secretary Praveen and city block president Venugopal were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-drive-in-hassan-successful-despite-negative-campaign-by-opposition-parties/article64949034.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Test positivity in Hassan up to 26.22%||The COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) has been on the rise in Hassan district. On Sunday, the rate stood at 26.22%, the highest so far. The district administration had collected 6,617 samples on the day and of them, 1,735 tested positive. Of these, 836 samples had undergone the antigen test. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, on Monday, told presspersons that considering the TPR rise, the district administration would take a call on declaring holidays for schools and colleges. As of now, the administration declared holiday for institutes where the students were infected. “In a couple of days, Hassan may report 4,000 fresh cases daily. As of now, more than 4,000 people are under home isolation and 377 infected people are undergoing treatment at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. COVID-19 care centres have been opened at all taluk centres and oxygen plants have been installed,” he said. Among the infected were 383 students, below the age of 18. Many of them were studying in rural areas. “With the increase in the cases, Hassan stands third in the state in terms of test positivity rate,” the DC said. Among the children infected include students of high school, primary school, colleges, HIMS and SDM Ayurveda College in Hassan. The DC said that Hassan recorded 100% coverage in the first dose of vaccination. About 88% of eligible people had got two doses. Among the children between the age of 15 and 17, 49,000 had been covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/test-positivity-in-hassan-up-to-2622/article38285243.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||1,169 new cases in Hassan||Hassan reported 1,169 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday. With this, the total number of active cases increased to 5,070. Six people are undergoing treatment at intensive care units. There were no reports of death due to the infection on the day. Of the fresh cases Hassan taluk reported 648, Channarayapatna, 187, Holenarasipur, 116, Arsikere, 77, Sakleshpur, 60, Belur, 41, Alur, 15, Arkalgud, 24, and one more case from other district. So far 1,385 people have died in the district due to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1169-new-cases-in-hassan/article38285227.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||Khuba unhappy over the delay in implementing works||Union Minister of State for New and Renewable Energy, and Chemicals and Fertilizers Bhagwanth Khuba has expressed anguish over the pace of work and expressed serious displeasure at the officers for the delay in implementing State and Central Government programmes. He also reprimanded officials, who presented incomplete information about the development works in the district and came unprepared for a meeting of the district development coordination and monitoring committee in Kalaburagi city on Monday. The meeting was chaired by Mr . Khuba and co-chaired by Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav Reviewing the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), Mr. Khuba directed the officials of the Rural Drinking water and Supply to implement the JJM in a time-bound manner. “It is a flagship programme of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which aims at providing tap connections to every household in rural areas across the country by 2024,” he added. Of the total 514 works taken up under JJM in the district, 136 works were completed and 378 works are at different stages. In Phase-I, around 67,395 functional household tap connections were provided against the target of 1,63,894 household tap connections, anofficer explained. Mr. Khuba also instructed officials to create awareness about the SVAMITVA (Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised technology in Village Areas) Scheme. The scheme aimed at conducting surveys through drone cameras to map records of land ownership. Of the 922 villages in the district, the survey has been conducted for 47,648 properties across 108 villages and around 10,537 property cards were generated, anofficer explained. The Minister also reviewed the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, in which nearly 4.62 cards were issued in the district and 1.60 lakh beneficiaries got treated and claimed Rs. 90 crore . Mr. Khuba lashed out at officials from Health and Family Welfare Department for not being able to provide an accurate number of wellness centres set up across the district and the total number of Dialysis machines available in the District and taluk hospitals. The officials were pulled up for not completing the works of Pradhan Mantri Adarsh Gram Yojana (PMAGY) in the Kalaburagi district. Mr.Khuba andMr. Jadhav asked the officials to provide the tender details and the appropriate reason for the delay in work. Mr. Khuba directed the Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company (GESCOM) to encourage the private sectors for the installation of rooftop solar power units on their buildings. Legislators Basavaraj Mattimod and B.G.Patil, Deputy Commissioner V.V.Jyothsna, Chief Executive officer of the Zilla Panchayat Dilesh Sasi, and Deputy Commissioner of Police Adduru Srinivasalu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/khuba-unhappy-over-the-delay-in-implementing-works/article64949058.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||CPI(M) symbolically protests against anti-conversion Bill||Keeping the COVID-19 pandemic and the Government’s guidelines for its containment in mind, district leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) symbolically staged a demonstration against the anti-conversion Bill outside the district administrative complex in Kalaburagi on Monday. CPI(M) district secretary K. Neela and members M.B. Sajjan, Sudhama Dhanni, Nagayyaswamy, and others raised slogans against the Government for introducing the Bill and demanded for its withdrawal. “The Bill in question is introduced with a malicious intention of dividing the working communities along communal lines and giving a legal justification to moral policing being carried out by communal forces. We too oppose any efforts of forcible conversions and reconversions. But the present Bill makes government permission mandatory to opt for a willful choice of faith. It is a violation of one’s right to choose a faith of one’s like guaranteed by the Constitution. It also encourages right-wing forces to unleash attacks on the people and religious institutions in the name of stopping conversions,” Ms. Neela said. The leaders later submitted a memorandum, addressed to the Chief Minister, to the office of Deputy Commissioner demanding immediate withdrawal of the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cpim-symbolically-protests-against-anti-conversion-bill/article64949061.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Kalaburagi, Ballari see more cases||Ballari-Vijayanagara and Kalaburagi districts continued to report high number of new cases of COVID-19 on Monday though the daily new cases saw a small decline. Ballari and Vijayanagara districts have jointly reported 560 new cases (Ballari-350 and Vijayanagara 210) on Monday, a small dip from 566 cases reported a previous day. With the new cases and the 75 people discharged after the recovery, the total number of active cases stood at 2,681 at 7 p.m. on Monday. Kalaburagi reported 479 new cases, a fall from 562 cases reported a day before. The district also reported a death taking the total number of COVID-19 deaths in the district to 828. As many as 21 patients were discharged from the recovery. With the new cases and discharges, the total number of active cases in the district stood at 2,317.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-kalaburagi-ballari-see-more-cases/article38285075.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||Lok Adalats in all courts on March 12||As per the directions of the Karnataka High Court and Karnataka State Legal Services Authority, Lok Adalats have been planned to be held in all the courts of the district on March 12. In a media note released on Monday, president and secretary of Kalaburagi District Legal Services Authority said that the cases related to civil disputes, cheque bounce, compensation in motor vehicle accident, family disputes except the divorce, telephone bill pending, labour disputes, land acquisition, bank and others would be taken up for disposal through compromise and reconciliation. They said that each Bench would have a judge and a non-judicial member to facilitate the disposal of cases. They added that the court fee paid by the parties should completely be refunded if the cases are disposed in the Lok Adalat. “The settlement of cases through mutual discussion and agreement would save a lot of time and money parties involved in the cases,” they said appealing to the people to make use of the opportunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lok-adalats-in-all-courts-on-march-12/article38285082.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||Rangayana Rangotsava postponed||The three-day Rangayana Rangotsava, a theatre festival, which was jointly planned by Kalaburagi Rangayana and the Karnataka Border Area Development Authority and scheduled to be held at Chandapur village in Sedam taluk has been postponed. Prabhakar Joshi, director of Kalaburagi Rangayana, said that the decision was taken after the district began reporting high number of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rangayana-rangotsava-postponed/article38285085.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:05 IST,KARNATAKA||Paryaya: Only a customary procession to be taken out||Udupi MLA and working president of Udupi Paryaya Mahotsava committee K. Raghupathi Bhat said on Monday that only a customary procession will be taken out in Udupi as part of the paryaya celebrations on Tuesday. The committee has cancelled 40 tableaux which were supposed to take part in the procession in view of COVID-19, Mr. Bhat said in a statement. He appealed to devotees to watch the mahotsava on TV channels and on social media platforms as pandemic restrictions are in place. Devotees can visit Sri Krishna Mutt in the coming days and seek the paryaya seer’s blessings, but the devotees should avoid the rush on Tuesday, he said. “Paryaya seer Vidyasagara Tirtha’s wish is that this time it should be a simple paryaya and let us all follow the guidelines,” he added. The 251st paryaya mahotsava is being held without much fanfare due to a fear of COVID-19 spread as cases are increasing in the district. The biennial paryaya system began in 1522 after Vadiraja Tirtha changed it from a two month-paryaya. Earlier, Dvaita philosopher Madhwacharya, had given the rights to worship the presiding deity to his eight disciples for two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/paryaya-only-a-customary-procession-to-be-taken-out/article64949084.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:05 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Disability, smart cards for endosulfan victims should be issued in a month’||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Monday directed officials to issue disability and smart cards within a month to all recognised endosulfan victims in the district. Reviewing the welfare measures implemented for 4,432 endosulfan victims identified in Dakshina Kannada, Dr. Rajendra directed the District Disability Welfare Officer to involve multipurpose rehabilitation workers and village rehabilitation workers for a drive to issue disability cards to the disabled persons, including the endosulfan victims. “Tahsildar should also be involved in this drive. Make village-wise list of endosulfan victims and ensure that all victims get the disability card within a month. If there are problems in getting victims to the office because of their disability, send the technical team to their houses and complete the necessary formalities for issuance of the card,” he said. When Endo Virodhi Horata Samiti president Sridhar Gowda pointed out at the delay in issuance of smart cards by the Health Department to some victims from Belthangady, Dr. Rajendra expressed his dismay over the delay and directed the Belthangady Taluk Health Officer to complete the process at the earliest. “I do not want to hear any excuses. The process should be completed when I hold the next review meeting on the issue on February 17,” he said. District Endosulfan Nodal Officer Naveenchandra Kulal said the State Government was paying monthly stipend to 3,606 victims, who have disability of more than 25%. While 2,685 victims, who have disability of more than 60%, are eligible for monthly stipend of Rs. 4,000, 921 victims, whose disability is between 25 and 60%, are eligible for monthly stipend of Rs. 2,000. Dr. Kulal said 3,599 victims are regularly getting the stipend, while seven victims are not getting it because of technical issues. Dr. Rajendra asked District Treasury Officer to resolve the issue at the earliest to ensure prompt payment of monthly stipend. To a grievance that a vehicle of a daycare centre in Kokkada in Belthangady taluk, which is managed by the district administration, was not picking up six endosulfan-affected physically-challenged children since past four months, Dr. Rajendra directed officials to cancel services of the said vehicle and start a new vehicle from Tuesday. He also directed officials to procure adult diapers for use of victims coming to the day care centre. When two parents of endosulfan victims and endosulfan activist Peer Mohammed complained about the services at the daycare centre in Koila, which is managed by Seon Ashram, Dr. Rajendra directed District Health and Family Welfare Officer M. Kishore Kumar and Puttur Assistant Commissioner Yatish Ullal to inquire into the allegations. “See whether the ashram can be allowed to continue for the remaining six months of its term or change has to made forthwith,” he said. Dr. Rajendra asked officials to make use of funds available under development schemes for building compound wall and meeting other infrastructure needs of the skill development-cum-day care centre in Ujire. He said buildings of three more daycare centres in Kaniyoor, Vitla and Panaje were ready and that he was writing to the State Government for grant of maintenance funds for running these centres. Construction of building for the day care centre in Bellare is yet to be taken up, Dr. Rajendra said. When activist Ravindranath Shanbhag pointed out on the need for nutritious food for endosulfan victims, Dr. Rajendra said he will propose to the Government for issuing “Pusti” food kits to the victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-issue-disability-smart-cards-for-endosulfan-victims-within-a-month/article64949086.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Proposals sent to Centre for approval’||Minister for Ports and Fisheries S. Angara on Monday said the departments have sent 28 proposals for ports and 98 proposals for the fisheries sectors for their overall improvement to the Centre for necessary approval. Speaking after the inauguration of new office at the Marine Bunglow near State Bank here, Mr. Angara said the proposals pertain to different projects and schemes of the departments, including improving and upgrading facilities at the existing ports and schemes for the fisheries sector. Expressing hope that they would be cleared shortly, the Minister said the clearance would herald new era in the marine sector in the State. Mr. Angara said he chose the new premises to hear in detail grievances of fishermen of the Karnataka coast without there being any disturbance. The new premises was chosen to render a distinct identity to the ports and fisheries department. The British-era building was in a dilapidated condition and the same was renovated with the concurrence of the Chief Minister, he said. He would be present in the office every Monday from morning till evening to lend ears to fishermen and other stakeholders in the marine sector. The Minister said he would also regularly visit Udupi and Uttara Kannada district headquarters and fisheries centres in those districts to address issues concerned with the sector. Mr. Angara said the Central and the State Governments were committed to the welfare of people and solicited cooperation from the general public for development. Mangaluru South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath, Mayor Premananda Shetty, Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation Chairman Nithin Kumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proposals-sent-to-centre-for-approval/article64949056.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||Rs. 18 cr. released to restore nine landslip stretches on Charmadi Ghat: Minister||Minister for Public Works Department C.C. Patil said on Monday that the Government has released Rs. 18 crore to fix/restore landslip stretches at nine locations on the Charmadi Ghat. Speaking to presspersons in Dharmasthala, the Minister said that the Government is yet to select an agency to award the project. It will be done soon. Referring to the landslip-affected stretches of the river valley on the Shiradi Ghat, the Minister said that soil nailing technology will be used to prevent the further slips. The Government will take up the project at a cost of Rs. 32 crore. “The agency to take up the project has been selected. The project will be awarded in a few days,” he said. The Minister said that a detailed project report (DPR) on the proposed Shiradi Ghat tunnel is being prepared. The National Highways Authority of India (NHA) will examine its viability and will take a call on taking up the project. Referring to the move to close down the 10-km stretch between Donigal and Maranahalli on the Mangaluru-Bengaluru National Highway 75 for six months to facilitate the highway widening project, the Minister said that he is not aware of it. He said that he will discuss the matter with the NHAI and take all steps to avoid inconvenience to commuters while implementing the project. All measures will be taken to complete the widening project at the earliest, he said. He said that he has also requested the Union Government to ensure that the particular stretch which is in bad condition is made motorable now. The Minister was in Dharmasthala to attend the Maha Mrityunjaya Yaga organised by Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja wishing long life to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-18-cr-released-to-restore-nine-landslip-stretches-on-charmadi-ghat-minister/article38285079.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:05 IST,KARNATAKA||Three deaths, 932 new COVID-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported three COVID-19 deaths and 490 new cases on Monday. With discharge of 317 patients, the active cases are at 4,181. The test positivity rate 5.84 %. Among the new cases include 41 students from private engineering college in Belthangady taluk where a total of 227 samples were tested. With jabbing of 7,650 persons on Monday, a total of 31.18 lakh have been vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada so far of which 17.21 lakh have received the first dose, 13.8 lakh received second dose and 16,308 received precautionary dose. In Udupi district, 442 new cases were reported. With discharge of 239 patients, the active cases are at 3,595 and the overall test positivity rate of the district is at 12.29%. The Udupi taluk had 2,588 new cases (TPR 14.97%), Kundapura taluk had 122 new cases (TPR 11.07%) and Karkala taluk had 62 new cases (TPR 8.06%). As many as 414 new patients are in home isolatin, 15 in Covid care centres, two in designated covid hospital and 11 patients in designated covid health hospital. There are 95 patients in general ward, 23 in high dependency unit, 11 in ICU without ventilator and eight patients in ICU with ventilator. With jabbing of 6,096 persons on Monday, a total of 19.01 lakh people have been vaccinated in Udupi district so far of which 10.27 lakh received first dose, 8.62 lakh received second dose and 11,202 people received precautionary dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-deaths-932-new-covid-19-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi/article38285230.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:05 IST,KARNATAKA||Foundation stone for Nitte rural clinic to be laid today||Nitte (Deemed to be University) will commence construction of a building to house its 22nd rural health centre at Ira village in Bantwal taluk on Tuesday. Nitte Chancellor N. Vinay Hegde will lay the foundation stone for the project on the land donated by Vice-Chancellor Satheesh Kumar Bhandary in memory of his mother Gopi S. Bhandary, former Ira gram panchayat chairperson. The university is providing rural healthcare services through 21 rural health centres in four districts of coastal and Malnad Karnataka. The one coming up at Bavabeedu in Ira would be the 22nd centre with facilities for outpatient, inpatient, laboratory, delivery, emergency treatment and immunisation services, said a release. This centre is being built as per the National Medical Council guidelines with state-of-the-art facilities to provide preventive, promotive and curative health care of the Ira and neighbouring villages through the Community Health department of K.S. Hegde Medical Academy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foundation-stone-for-nitte-rural-clinic-to-be-laid-today/article38285225.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:05 IST,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Some areas in the city will have no power supply on January 19 from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Derebail, Konchady, Kuntikana, Prashanthnagara, Mullakadu, Malemar, Lohitnagara, Malady, Jalligudda, Kavoor, Nehru Maidan third and fourth cross, Bibi Alabi Road, and Rao and Rao Circle.   Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner and the chairman of Regional Transport Authority K.V. Rajendra has asked people to submit in writing complaints on such buses which are not operating after obtaining route permits. The complaints should be submitted to the Regional Transport Officer.   There will be no power supply to some areas in Udupi district on January 20 from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. The areas are Adamar, Palimar, Yellur, Nandikur, Paniyoor, Santhur, Kutyar, Adve, Balkunje, Inna and Hejmady. It is for maintenance works.   Karnataka Rajya Vignana Parishat has postponed its district level young scientist award competition scheduled on January 21. It is in view of increasing cases of COVID-19. The rescheduled date will be intimated later, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article38285224.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Amidst spike, health workers in Mysuru eye 100% vaccination||The bigger task before the health workers is to persuade the unvaccinated and partially vaccinated populations in Mysuru to take the shots and safeguard themselves from the virus which is spreading at a hurried pace. Though there have been cases of vaccinated populations also getting infected, the severity of infection in such persons was low, the health officials here claim, advising those missing or delaying the jabs to rush to the nearest vaccination centers for getting themselves inoculated. A week ago, the district administration had stated that Mysuru district has about 4.6 lakh persons due for their second dose and 90,000 eligible for the first dose but delaying the immunization. “The unvaccinated are at higher risk of getting infected since the current variant of Coronavirus is said to be highly contagious. As a doctor too, I am urging those who are yet to take the jabs or delaying the second dose, get themselves administered with the vaccines at the earliest,” according to Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham. At a time when booster doses are being administered, the vaccine hesitancy was still a concern amid the big jump in cases since the people, despite completing 84-day intervals from the first dose, are unnecessarily delaying the shots, risking their health with the onset of the third wave. The district administration has clarified that there will be no force on anyone for taking the shots. But, the health workers will go to the doorsteps of everyone to ensure that the eligible populations in Mysuru district are fully vaccinated. “So far, the progress in vaccination is good and the district is very close to achieving the target in vaccination coverage. The unvaccinated and partially vaccinated people must understand the urgency and take the shots,” the officials said. Sources in the Health Department said adequate vaccine doses are available in the district and efforts to vaccinate the remaining persons will be stepped up as the priority is now to keep the population safe with at least one dose of vaccine with an exponential spike in infection rate ahead of the peak. One of the key priorities before the district administration is 100% vaccination as a strategy for tackling the third wave. Once this is achieved, it plans to focus on testing, with priority of getting the symptomatic compulsorily tested and ensuring that everybody wears the face mask for their safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amidst-spike-health-workers-in-mysuru-eye-100-vaccination/article64949041.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Don’t hike water tariff, Simha urges Mayor||Even as drinking water dues continue to mount and appeals from the cash-strapped Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) for clearing the same remain ignored, Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha has urged Mayor Sunanda Palanetra not to hike tariff for drinking water and to waive off interest accrued on the principal amount of water tax for one-time settlement of dues. In a letter to the Mayor, the MP said he would personally appeal to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai for the waiver of interest on the water dues if the MCC does not have powers to waive off interest accumulated on the bills. A proposal was sent to the State government for suitable after a decision on the waiver in the MCC council meeting. The MP said he has learnt that the MCC is mulling over increasing the tariff on drinking water distribution. Instead of going for revision of rates, the MCC should consider installing meters to every connection in the city and taking strict steps so that the consumers pay bills regularly. Besides bringing revenue to the MCC, it also reduces burden on those who are regularly paying bills, he opined. The MP said the unpaid water bills have accrued to the tune of Rs. 219 crore, including Rs. 146 crore of principal amount and Rs. 73.6 crore interest accrued on the principal amount. In one of the meetings of MCC council, it was told that Rs. 88 crore was carried forward to the MCC’s account after the Vani Vilas Water Works (VVWW), an arm of KUWSDB, was identified to manage water distribution here on behalf of MCC. The same meeting was told that the government institutions alone owe Rs. 39.32 crore of water bill dues to the MCC besides Rs. 19 crore water dues by Gram Panchayats abutting Mysuru city and the localities coming under the MCC. The MCC had earlier written to the State government seeking its nod to waive off interest accrued on the principal amount of water tax for one-time settlement of dues. Besides helping the MCC get more revenue, the consumers would be getting relief from paying the interest, the MCC had argued. However, the government did not consider its request.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-hike-water-tariff-simha-urges-mayor/article64949037.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru to host IT conference tomorrow||CII Mysuru, IT/ITES Panel, is hosting the Annual IT Conference 2022 on the theme ‘Accelerated Digital Transformation’, on January 19 at 10 a.m. through virtual platform. The objective of the conference is to help companies understand the impact of the accelerated digital transformation and how the government and industry are playing their roles to use the digital transformation in the post-pandemic new normal. The discussions will focus on how policymakers from the governments are playing a critical role in shaping policies which affect IT sector and to understand the role of ‘Cloud in the digital transformation’ besides the impact of cyber security in the ‘digital transformed world’ from the leading IT industry experts. It will also look into creating and scaling up the digital talent supply chain through a panel of experts. The conference will analyse how large-scale the government digital transformation projects such as Cowin, Bhoomi, etc., planned and delivered large scale digital population based transformation projects. Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, the scion of Mysuru royal family; Kris Gopalakrishnan, Past President, CII and Chairman, Axilor Ventures and Co-Founder, Infosys Ltd; Meena Nagaraj C.N., MD, KITS and KTECH and Director - IT/BT, Department of IT/BT and Science and Technology, Government of Karnataka; R. Balasubramaniam, author and founder and chairman, GRAAM and SVYM; M.S. Vijayaraghavan, Former Advisor to PMO, Government of India; Sanjeev Gupta, CEO and MD of LAHARI & CEO, KDEM; Shaji Mathew, Past Chairman, CII Mysore and EVP and Head of Mysore Development Center and Global Head Delivery – FSHIL, Infosys, and Pavan G. Ranga, Chairman, CII Mysuru and CEO, Rangsons LLP; Supriya Salian, Vice Chairperson, CII Mysuru and MD, Plansee India HPM Pvt Ltd, and Rajesh Kutnikar, Convenor, IT/ITES Panel and CEO, IT Champs Software Pvt Ltd, are the key speakers at the conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-to-host-it-conference-tomorrow/article38285242.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Dinesh Kumar is new MUDA Commissioner||G.T. Dinesh Kumar has assumed charge as the new commissioner of Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) in Mysuru on Monday. A KAS officer, Mr. Kumar, who had earlier served as the Administrative Officer of Malaprabha Catchment Area Development Authority in Belagavi, was appointed by the State Government as the new Commissioner of MUDA in the place of D.B. Natesh. Mr. Natesh, who was MUDA Commissioner since May 2020, has been transferred to Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Company (CESC). Speaking to reporters after assuming charge, Mr. Kumar said he too had aspired to serve in Mysuru like any other Government official. He said his aspiration for working in Mysuru has been realised with the Government posting him as the Commissioner of MUDA. He assured to work in co-ordination with other officials and elected representatives, besides the general public while addressing the challenges of MUDA in Mysuru, which is a fast-growing city with a number of private layouts coming up. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev and other officials were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dinesh-kumar-is-new-muda-commissioner/article64949039.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru DC tests positive||Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham has tested positive for COVID-19.  Confirming this to The Hindu on Monday, he said some family members tested positive. The DC, in the last few days, was touring Mysuru inspecting healthcare infrastructure. He visited hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centers, examining preparations for handling the increasing number of infected patients amidst the surge.  Meanwhile, Mysuru continues to be one of the major districts hit by the third wave after Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-dc-tests-positive/article38285089.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:05 IST,KARNATAKA||Four ‘muhurtas’ significant beforeParyayafestival||Though theParyayafestivalisheldonceintwoyears,four ‘muhurtas’ are significant before the commencement of the ‘transfer of management’ to each of the Asha Mutts. Baale Muhurta It takes place on an auspicious day a year before theParyaya. Plantain groves and tulasi saplings are planted on this day. TheParyayaseer requires tulasi for various rituals at the Krishna Mutt/ Temple. The plantain leaves are basically used for serving food during various feasts at the temple. The plantains are oﬀered to the Lord. During the Baale Muhurta, the priests pray to the “navagrahas”. The workers then carry the seedlings of both plantain and tulasi, which are to be planted. The processiongoes towards the Sri Chandramouleshwara and Sri Anantheshwara Temples, then enters the Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple where prayers are oﬀered to Lord Krishna, Lord Mukhyaprana (Hanuman) and Sri Madhwacharya. The saplings and plantain groves are then planted at the designated spot. Akki Muhurta It is performed within two months of the Baale Muhurta. Udupi is known as “Annabrahma Kshetra”. More than 10,000 persons have to be fed during special festivals. All this requires theParyayaMutt to have a steady supply of rice. Prayers are oﬀered to the “navagrahas”. The procession starts from the mutt concerned. A pack of rice is kept in a palanquin and covered with a silk cloth. Prayers are oﬀered at the Sri Chandramouleshwara, Sri Anantheshwara Temples and Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple. Kattige Muhurta It is held six months before theParyaya. After collecting rice, the mutt has to collect firewood for cooking during itsParyayaperiod. One of the specialities of this ritual is the artistic manner in which the firewood is arranged to look like a chariot (“ratha”) near the Madhwa Sarovar pond. After oﬀering prayers to the “navagrahas”, the procession begins with the workers carrying loads of firewood. They oﬀer prayers at the temples in the Car Street and finally reach the place near the Madhwa Sarovar, where the firewood chariot is to be constructed. The work is taken up after rituals are performed at the place. Bhatta Muhurta It is held about two months before theParyayafestival. Here paddy from the new crop is gathered. The procession starts from the mutt concerned after oﬀering prayers. A bag or “murra” of paddy is placed in a palanquin covered with silk cloth. After oﬀering prayers at the temples in the Car Street, the procession goes to the “Badagu Maalige”. The bag of paddy is kept on a platform and the priests oﬀer prayers. By this time the construction of the firewood chariot is completed. A dome is brought in a procession and placed on the top of the firewood chariot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-muhurtas-significant-beforeparyayafestival/article38285232.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:05 IST,KARNATAKA||DC to decide on closure of Shiradi Ghat stretch after spot inspection||However, even 5.5 years after the work started, only 31% of the progress has been achieved so far. Now it has decided to take up the stretch between Donigal and Maranahalli by closing the Shiradi Ghat stretch. The people’s representatives and residents of Sakleshpur have opposed the idea of closing the road. Sakleshpur MLA H.K. Kumraswamy, who attended the meeting, told presspersons, “The travel from Sakleshpur to Hassan (40 km) takes more than one-and-half-an-hour time, because of incomplete work. People are fed up with the delay in completing the project. Hence, we want the NHAI to finish at least two-lane road connecting Hassan and Sakleshpur by April, before seeking the closure of the ghat-stretch.” Lok Sabha member Prajwal Revanna is also angry with the slow pace. “The highway is major connectivity between Bengaluru and port city Mangaluru. There is a movement of goods between the two cities. If the road is closed, it affects the transportation of goods. Let there be an inspection of the actual position of the road, before taking a decision on road closure,” he said. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra had also also joined the meeting through video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-to-decide-on-closure-of-shiradi-ghat-stretch-after-spot-inspection/article38285231.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Probe begins into death of infants||This could have happened owing to several reasons. One, the doctors and the paramedical staff in village hospitals do not stay in the same villages. They go to the PHC, collect the vials, but do not come back to the PHC to return them. This is clearly against the vaccination protocol, where each vial is tested for temperature, before and after the delivery and the return. Secondly, most villages have power only for 5-6 hours a day. This affects the cold chain. Only taluk hospitals and community health centres have generators and uninterrupted power supply systems. Most PHCs lack them. What is more, the huge staff scarcity forces the department to appoint just one pharmacist for 3-4 PHCs. Of the 506 gram panchayats, there are only 120 PHCs. The 40 pharmacists in the district take charge of these 120 PHCs. These further complicate issues, said a department officer. A member of the district pharmacist association argued that the Government was being unfair in keeping the pharmacist under suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-begins-into-death-of-infants/article38285090.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Food for the hungry||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/food-for-the-hungry/article64949048.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:53 IST,KERALA||Olive Ridleys skip Thottappally this time||The Olive Ridley sea turtles nesting season has a late start in Alappuzha. Environmentalists, last week, stumbled upon two clutches with a total of 270 eggs on Pallana beach near Thottappally. The eggs were relocated to a hatchery of Green Roots Nature Conservation Forum, a Thottappally-based conservation group, for incubation. The Olive Ridley turtles, which are legally protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, nesting season in the State stretches from August to March. Female sea turtles come ashore at night to lay eggs. Fewer landings The Thottappally coast, which has long been considered as one of the prime locations for the egg-laying turtles, was witnessing fewer Olive Ridley landings in recent years. Turtle conservation groups fear the turtles have started to give Thottappally coast a miss due to reasons ranging from human interference, mineral sand-mining to stray dog menace. “The late start to the nesting season was likely due to discrepancies in climatic condition. But, of late, there has been a decline in the number of Olive Ridley arrivals on the shore. We have found only two nests so far this season, which is a worrying sign. The shore is disturbed and it is forcing the turtles to skip the place,” says Saji Jayamohan, secretary, Green Roots Nature Conservation Forum. Last year The previous season, the forum found six nests along the coast with around 1,000 eggs. Some 600 hatchlings were let into the sea. The highest number of nests recorded in a season was in 2016-17 when turtle conservationists discovered 12 clutches along the 3-km coastline. The number has been declining since then. One of the reasons for fewer arrivals, according to turtle conservation groups, is the illuminations gleaming from high mast and other artificial light sources in the area. Olive Ridley turtles prefer quite dark sandy beaches for nesting. The place is also a paradise for stray dogs, which attack the turtles arriving on the shore. An Olive Ridley turtle had returned to sea without laying eggs after being attacked by strays in the last breeding season. Mining activities “The shore from Thottappally to Pallana is no more be considered a natural nesting habitat of Olive Ridley. The mining activities have resulted in severe coastal erosion and caused the coastline to shrink. The width has been reduced from 45 metres to 30 metres. In some places, the width has decreased to five metres,” Mr. Jayamohan adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/olive-ridleys-skip-thottappally-this-time/article64949111.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:56 IST,KERALA||Alappuzha municipality sets up 20 drinking water kiosks||In a bid to address the drinking water woes in the Alappuzha municipal area, the civic body has set up 20 water kiosks in 19 wards. They were inaugurated by Agriculture Minister P. Prasad on Sunday. The kiosks were installed at Alissery, Vadackal, Eravukadu, Thumpoly, municipal office, Mangalam, Kalath, Mannathu, Valiyakulam, Lajaneth, Vadacanal, Karalakam, Asramam, Civil Station, Housing Colony, railway station, Thiruvampady, Punnamada and Pallathuruthy wards. At Rs. 2.15 crore The project is implemented utilising funds sanctioned under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). A total of Rs. 2.15 crore was spent on the project. Officials said the kiosks would distribute water from the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) networks after treating it through the reverse osmosis process. A nominal rate would be collected for the water. While the municipality would maintain the kiosks, Kudumbashree women had been entrusted with operating them, they said. H. Salam, MLA, presided. P.P. Chitharanjan, MLA, Alappuzha municipal chairperson Soumya Raj, KWA project manager S.L. Jayaraj and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-municipality-sets-up-20-drinking-water-kiosks/article38285184.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:56 IST,KERALA||Alappuzha reports 835 cases||The number of daily COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Alappuzha with the district logging 835 fresh infections on Monday. The test positivity rate for the day was 25.24%. Of the new cases, 812 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 16 remains unknown. Seven health-care staff also tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, 336 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district jumped to 4,299.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-reports-835-cases/article64949101.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:56 IST,KERALA||BJP worker’s murder: one more held||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party OBC Morcha State secretary Ranjith Sreenivas arrested one more Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) activist on Monday. The arrested has been identified as Shernas (39) of Municipal Office ward, Alappuzha. He is the president of SDPI Alappuzha municipal area. The police said that Shernas was one of the conspirators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-workers-murder-one-more-held/article38285187.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Hyderabad bids to host Formula E championship||Hyderabad officially bid as a candidate to host the Formula E World championship exclusively for electric cars, scheduled to be held between November 2022 and February 2023. A formal letter of intent was signed by the three parties to the bid — Arvind Kumar, Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration and Urban Development, and Commissioner, Information and Public Relations Departments, Greenko Chief Executive and Managing Director Anil Kumar Chalamasetty, and the Formula E Chief Championship Officer Albert Longo — here on Monday in the presence of Telangana IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao. The race could be held on the 2.37-km track in and around the Secretariat Complex encompassing the Lumbini Park Road. Hyderabad will be one of the 60 cities across the world bidding to host this championship.Mr. Rama Rao expressed hope and confidence in bagging the event, which he felt would also showcase the emerging brand of Hyderabad city itself. “We have redefined the 3Ds in functioning amongst the various Departments of the State government — digitalise, decarbonise and decentralise. This is the new mantra for us in ensuring that Hyderabad earns a unique place in every aspect of administration,” Mr. Rama Rao said. “In fact, the concept of Formula E racing aptly suits the huge importance given by our Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao for the environment. In sever-and-a-half-years, the State government has successfully planted two billion saplings, 85% of them surviving, and more importantly the green cover has increased by 632 sq km across the State. So, we believe Hyderabad will be the natural choice to host this race,” he said. “It is our endeavour to ensure around the race the city’s image to get a huge fillip. In fact, we are hosting a three-day Electronic Vehicles summit soon,” he said. “So, I am sure, if and when Hyderabad gets the chance to host it, it will be a mix of rich history, heritage and new age vibes of the City,” he concluded. Mr. Albert Longo appreciated the rapid response of the government in pitching Hyderabad as one of the strongest candidates. “I have never seen such quick responses in taking decisions, in the space of 29 days after the whole idea of the City being a candidate was mooted,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hyderabad-bids-to-host-formula-e-world/article64948973.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Expert panel moots steps to conserve Edakkal petroglyphs||The first meeting of the nine-member expert committee constituted for the conservation, preservation and management of Edakkal rock shelters has mooted steps to conserve the precious petroglyphs on them.  The number of visitors to the neolithic monument has been restricted to 1,920 per day day but such a decision was made without conducting any carrying capacity studies of the site, notable historian M.R. Raghava Varier told The Hindu . “So we suggested that a specific carrying capacity study be conducted considering the rate of weathering and moss development on the walls that may be accelerated by inhalation and exhalation,” Dr. Varier , who is also the chairman of the committee, said.  The meet suggested organising awareness programmes for the public to sensitise them to the historical and cultural significance of the centuries-old monument and the need to conserve it. It mooted petrographic studies of the rocks on which the engravings are made; the rock that form the Edakkal rock shelter; the withered materials and the major rocks that support the shelter complex. A geographical study on the inside of the shelters and immediate surroundings was also suggested to know which rocks are disjointed boulders and which are protrusions of the parent rock. A quantification of the weathering rates of the rocks will have to be studied. It also suggested to set up an automated weather station outside the upper shelter; temperature, humidity, and pressure monitoring instrumentation inside the shelters; seismometers in both the shelters to continuously monitor tremors and background vibrations; setting up continuous Lidar monitoring, also called 3-D laser scanning, of the major rocks and fractures in both shelters and the pathway; and continuous CCTV monitoring of the shelters and the pathway. The panel suggested setting up of an interpretation centre with the images of the petroglyphs and trained staff at the downhill to explain the details of each petroglyph. Dr. Varier said the final recommendations of the committee would be submitted to the government by the end of March. Two experts could not attend the meet owing to COVID-19 restrictions. Other members of the committee, including G. Sankar, former scientist of the Centre for Earth Sciences Studies; Professor K.P. Sudheer, Ex Officio Principal Secretary, Science, and Technology department; Dr.V. Selvakumar, Associate Professor, Department of Archaeology, Tamil Nadu University, Tanjavur; Dr. Sekhar Kuriakose, member secretary, Disaster Management; E. Dinesan, Director, Department of Archaeology and S.Jaikumar, Conservation officer, Department of Archaeology attended the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expert-panel-moots-steps-to-conserve-edakkal-petroglyphs/article38285138.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Tender for first of four sewage plants to be floated in March||Tenders are set to be invited in March for the first of four sewage treatment plants (STPs) envisaged in the city, as part of the Rs. 1,528-crore Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System (IURWTS) project. The first STP will be readied on the three-acre premises of the STP set up half a century ago at Elamkulam in the city, within two years of the completion of the tender process. The others were mooted at Vennala, Muttar and on one end of Perandoor, all located away from populated areas, said official sources. The plants will have a capacity to treat 31 million litres per day (mld) of sewage, covering over 40% of Kochi city. “Their DPR has been handed over to the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board [KIIFB] for funding. The Kerala Water Authority [KWA], which was selected as the nodal agency, will implement the projects, while Kochi Metro Rail Limited [KMRL], which is spearheading the IURWTS, will step in with help whenever needed. The extent of areas that will be brought under the STP cover might be increased, as sought by the KWA. The focus for now is on the catchment areas of the canals that will be regenerated as part of IURWTS,” sources said. The decision to set up four decentralised STPs comes in the wake of problems associated with a centralised plant like at Elamkulam and the one in Thiruvananthapuram, which were not functioning to their capacity. They would operate using the gravity-based conventional system, with sequential back reactor technology. The Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-Madras) was slated to review the project, the sources said. The advantages of the STPs are manifold. Houses and other buildings in areas with STP network can do away with septic tanks. This will, in turn, improve hygiene, by alleviating problems like flooded or overflowing septic tanks. It will lessen chances of unscrupulous tanker lorry operators emptying septic tank waste into canals and other public spaces under the cover of darkness. A CCTV network has been proposed as part of this. The measures would also lessen mosquito menace and health problems associated with contaminated water and air, they added. The decision to set up STPs comes in the wake of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directing local bodies to prevent the pollution of waterbodies. The NGT also warned of penalising local bodies that failed to adhere to its directions. The proliferation of water hyacinth in Kochi’s canals too has been attributed to their high nitrogen content due to unchecked dumping of sewage. Expressing concern over 80% of Kochi’s groundwater getting contaminated, former Mayor K.J. Sohan said the Kochi Corporation had the prime responsibility to step in with mitigation measures. “The State government must provide the body with adequate skilled workforce and engineers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tender-for-first-of-four-sewage-plants-to-be-floated-in-march/article38285162.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Focus on vulnerability mapping, bio-shields to protect coasts||A study of the coastal protection requirements of vulnerable segments like Chellanam by the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS) has said that an issue-based management plan must be developed rather than a resource-based plan. The study on coastal protection and social perspectives also emphasised protection of morphology while adopting coastal protection measures. Among the suggestions that evolved during a meeting of stakeholders on social and environmental issues was the need for mapping of land use, land form, assets and people’s requirements. The suggestions will be submitted to the government. Climate change Conservation and vulnerability mapping must be carried out to develop a comprehensive coastal protection strategy in view of the conditions caused by the effects of climate change even as monitoring of the existing system should be done to suggest sustainable development protocols. The study also said a coast-specific management approach was needed in most of the segments while seawall alternative could be developed in the Chellanam area using mangrove planting. Developing a bio-shield of a 30-metre-wide mangrove line along the coast could help Chellanam. Stakeholder and community participation at the base level should be ensured for the sustainability of such measures, the study said. Chellanam is among the most vulnerable coastal segments in the State and the government has announced a series of measures to protect the coast. Chellanam’s sea erosion problems, though in the news for long, came into prominence after Cyclone Ockhi hit the coast in December 2017. Periodic sea water incursion and flooding of homes have made lives of the coastal population difficult, prompting the government to announce rehabilitation programmes such as ‘Punargeham’. Model fishing village Meanwhile, KUFOS is expected to submit its final report for turning Chellanam into a model fishing village soon after a final round of studies. The government had announced a Rs. 344-crore programme to strengthen seawalls, erect geotextile tube barriers and build breakwaters to protect the coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-vulnerability-mapping-bio-shields-to-protect-coasts/article38285155.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Logo for CPI(M) State meet released||The logo of the State conference of the CPI(M) was released here on Monday. M.C. Josephine, the central committee of the party, released the logo. C. M. Dinesh Mani, State committee member of the party presided over the event. Sebastian Paul, M.C. Surendran, John Fernandez, M.P. Pathrose, C.K. Pareeth, P. R. Muraleedharan, K. S. Arun Kumar and K. M. Riyad attended. The party has been conducting meetings of its local units as a run-up to the 23rd Party Congress set to take place in Kannur in April 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/logo-for-cpim-state-meet-released/article64949118.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Airport official moves HC in rape case||Giri Madhusoodana Rao, suspended Chief Airport Operator (CAO) of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport, on Monday filed an anticipatory bail petition before the High Court in a rape case registered by the Thumba police. The allegation of the prosecution against him was that he had seduced a woman employee working under him to come to his flat and had sexual intercourse with her without her consent and thus committed rape. He said in his petition that he had earlier worked at the Thiruvananthapuram airport in various posts and also worked as airport director of the Vijayawada international airport. He joined the Adani group after his superannuation in July 2021. ‘Took money’ The petitioner said that the woman had worked out an emotional attachment with him by telling that she belonged to a very poor family and had a debt of Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 40 lakh. She also took money from the petitioner in cash on several occasions. ‘False complaint’ After seeing the petitioner’s flat, she turned greedy and asked for Rs. 20 lakh as loan but the petitioner did not give it. Since the plans of extorting money from the petitioner did not work out, she filed a false complaint alleging rape against him.  The official says he has been accused of rape by woman employee after her plans to extort money from him failed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/airport-official-moves-hc-in-rape-case/article38285152.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Monson’s Sabarimala copper inscription not antique: ASI||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has submitted a report to the Crime Branch team that is probing, among other aspects, the veracity of alleged conman Monson Mavunkal’s claim that he had a huge collection of antiques in his possession, that the Sabarimala ‘chempola’ (copper inscription) and the Nataraja idol that he had portrayed as rare antiques, were not genuine. The ASI report says only two of the 10 items that it inspected fell under the ambit of antiques. They include a Roman coin and an iron spearhead. The State Archaeology Department had inspected about three dozen items – including what was claimed as the throne of Tipu Sulthan. All of them were found to be non-antiques, since they were not over 100 years old, official sources said. Among them, the Tipu throne is less than 15 years old and was crafted by a Kerala artisan. The probe team would hand over the ASI report to the court shortly. It would also launch a probe into how the ‘chempola’, which was portrayed as an antique, surfaced at a time when the issue of women’s entry to Sabarimala was at its peak. The probe will cover whether it was fake and the conspiracy angle if any in the case, it is learnt. 2018 protests The copper inscription had assumed widespread attention during the 2018 Sabarimala protests, when a couple of media outlets highlighted it as an authentic document on the rituals and customs of ancient Sabarimala. The probe team is, in the meantime, awaiting a detailed examination report from the ASI on the items that were reportedly passed off as antiques by Monson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-chempola-not-antique-asi-report/article38285139.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||TPR touches 36.65% in Ernakulam||A total of 4,100 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Monday. The test positivity rate is 36.65%. As many as 4,087 persons got infected through contact while the source of infection was not confirmed in nine cases. A total of 25,970 people are in home isolation. The number of active cases in the district is 25,970. As many as 11,187 samples were sent for testing on Monday. A meeting convened by Industries Minister P. Rajeeve to review the situation decided to increase the number of COVID-19 tests. A decision on whether further restrictions were needed will be taken after a meeting of elected representatives and local body members. Programmes held in religious places will be curtailed as there was increased chance of overcrowding. The Health department has been told to step up surveillance as COVID-19 clusters have formed in government and educational institutions. The services of NSS volunteers in educational institutions could be utilised for programmes being initiated to check the spread of the disease. Mr. Rajeeve urged infected people not to venture out and to follow quarantine norms. The district administration has urged the public to strictly comply with the health protocol in view of the rising number of cases. Local bodies have been told to step up measures to set up domiciliary care centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-touches-3665-in-ernakulam/article38285157.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||A celebration of colours in Munnar||A national artists’ camp called ‘Deep Hues’, organised by the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi and the Thanchavur South Zone Cultural Centre, got under way in Munnar on Monday. There are 12 artists from Kerala and eight from Tamil Nadu participating in the camp, says a press release. It was inaugurated by artist Murali Cheeroth. Cultural centre programme officer G.M. Nadhan presided. The camp will end on January 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-celebration-of-colours-in-munnar/article64949120.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Dileep moves HC||Actor Dileep, one of theaccused in the case related to the sexual assault on an actor, on Monday filed a petition before the Kerala High Court seeking to restrain the media from printing or telecasting matters relating to the case till the trial is concluded. His petition alleged that though the Ernakulam Additional Sessions Court had made the proceedings in-camera, the media were reporting the proceedings.Besides, the investigating officer had been leaking out to the media false and concocted storiessince the start of the investigation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dileep-moves-hc/article38285191.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Bishops visit protesters on indefinite fast||Faridabad Archbishop Kuriakose Bharanikulangara visited Prakash P. John, N.O. Thomas Keecheri and Father Babu Kalathil, who are on an indefinite fast at Lisie Hospital in Kochi demanding that the Synod of Bishops of the Syro-Malabar Church should permanently accord its sanction to the Archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly for a fully congregation-facing Mass celebration. There is a difference of opinion between the Syro-Malabar Church authorities and a group of priests and lay people about the way the Mass should be celebrated. While the Synod says that the Mass should be celebrated with the celebrant (priest) facing the congregation for the first half and face away from the people for the second half, the archdiocesan members have demanded a fully congregation-facing Mass celebration. The Bishop of Chanda diocese, Ephreim Narikulam, visited Father Tom Mullanchira, who is on a fast in front of the Cardinal’s residence in the city demanding permission for a fully congregation-facing Mass, said a communication issued here on Monday. Cardinal briefed Meanwhile, Metropolitan Vicar Antony Kairiyil of the archdiocese met Cardinal George Alencherry on Monday to brief him on the developments in the archdiocese following the demand for permission to continue with the fully congregation-facing Mass celebration. Members of the permanent Synod had said they would meet with the Metropolitan Vicar online to discuss the issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bishop-visits-fasting-priest/article38285156.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:56 IST,KERALA||Strike plan||The All India Container Carriers Owners’ Association, representing more than a thousand container carriers, that mostly serve the Vallarpadam Container Transshipment Terminal, has said that the association will stop services indefintiely from February 4 if the demand for revised rates of payment for their services are not approved . An association spokesman said container carriers were receiving the rate fixed 10 years ago when diesel price was Rs. 43 a litre. The price of the fuel had gone up to around Rs. 100 and it would be difficult to continue the services at the present rates. As a token of protest, the container carrier owners went on strike for 24 hours from 8 a.m. on Monday. However, if the demand for revised rates was not approved, they would be forced to launch an indefinite strike, said P.A. Najeeb, joint secretary of the association. He said they had approached the government, seeking revision in the rental rates for container carriers, and the former Left Democratic Front government had appointed the National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC) to study the situation and to fix the rates. The NATPAC report was presented at a meeting of stakeholders in the presence of the Chief Minister on August 9, 2018. However, nothing had moved forward since that meeting even as the price of diesel had more than doubled over the period, he said. The container carrier owners are demanding that the NATPAC-fixed rates should be approved so that the services could be continued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/container-carrier-owners-threaten-indefinite-stir/article38285150.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Professor attacked||The police arrested a youth, who hails from Changanassery, on the charge of attacking an associate professor of the Government Law College on Monday. Muhammed Arshad, 26, has been charged with attacking S.S. Girisankar, who had been vested with additional charge of hostel warden. Mr. Girisankar reportedly visited the hostel following reports that a few students had not vacated the hostel despite its closure on January 13 due to the COVID situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/professor-attacked/article38285159.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Kochi wins two challenges||Kochi is one of the 10 cities selected from among the 100 Smart Cities in the ‘Nurturing Neighbourhood’ and ‘Street for People’ challenges organised by the Union Ministry for Housing and Urban Affairs. The civic administration had announced the ‘Nurturing Neighbourhood’ programme in its annual budget covering the anganwadies in Eraveli and Karippalam in West Kochi, a communication issued by Mayor M. Anilkumar said. Cochin Smart Mission Limited and WRI India are the partners of the civic body in the programme. Re-routing of traffic and developing cycle tracks and footpaths have begun in Fort Kochi as part of ‘Street for People’, implemented in association with CSML and the German agency, GIZ India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-wins-two-challenges/article38285158.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||Youth bludgeoned to death||A 19-year-old from Muttambalam was bludgeoned to death early on Monday morning by a man who later dumped the body in front of the Kottayam East police station, the police said. The deceased was identified as Shan Babu, a resident of Muttambalam near here. The murder came to light in the early hours of the day when a person, identified as Jomon K. Jose, 40, carried the body to the police station and claimed he had committed the murder. Following this, a police team took Jose into custody and later recorded his arrest. The victim was declared brought dead at a hospital nearby. Preliminary investigations indicated that a rivalry between drug rackets in Kottayam town was behind the murder. According to the police, a gang led by Jose had picked up Babu from his residence on Sunday midnight. As he did not return home after an hour, his mother lodged a complaint with the Kottayam East police. By the time the police launched a search operation, the accused had brought the body to the police station around 3 a.m. “He carried the body on his shoulders and unloaded it in front of the station. A preliminary examination revealed that the youngster was bludgeoned with a blunt instrument,” said an officer. The accused is a history-sheeter and had been banned from entering the district after being booked under the provisions of the Kerala Anti-social Activities Prevention Act (KAAPA) in November last year. He was apparently engaged in a turf war with a drug racket headed by an Arpookkara native over the sale of ganja in the town. During preliminary interrogation, Jose said he had no intention of killing the youth, but had assaulted him to trace the rival gang members. “It seems the person, who was deported from the district a couple of months ago, was eager to restore his influence among the criminal networks in the town,” said Shilpa Devaiah, District Police Chief. Official sources said one more person, yet to be identified, had been taken into custody in connection with the case. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan said the youth’s murder was telling on the State’s law enforcement. He said gangsterism was on the ascendance in Kerala. The police were inert and, in some cases, hand-in-glove with the criminals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-bludgeoned-to-death-in-kerala-drug-rivalry-suspected/article64948974.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Applications invited for best teacher award||St. Berchmans College, Changanassery, has invited nominations/applications for the Berchmans Best Teacher Award. Teachers serving in colleges affiliated to the universities in Kerala with at least 14 years of experience are eligible to apply. The award, which carries a purse of Rs. 25,001, citation and memento, has been instituted by the Kuwait chapter of the college alumni association. Candidates who submitted applications during the previous years may update their achievements. The candidates will be evaluated on the basis of their teaching excellence, academic achievements and community involvement on the campus and outside. The application form can be downloaded from the college website (www.sbcollege.ac.in) and sent to Siby K. Joseph, secretary, Berchmans Award Committee, St. Berchmans College, Changanassery —686 101 by February 14. For details, contact: 94472 49214 or berchmansaward@sbcollege.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-best-teacher-award/article38285133.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||UAE labour laws to benefit NRIs||The new labour laws that will take effect from February 2 in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) are expected to be beneficial to thousands of Non Resident Indian (NRI) workers as some of the provisions will provide greater protection to employees and more flexibility at work places. Employees both in government and private sectors will have a similar working environment. Some of the salient features of the new labours laws are protection against discrimination and harassment, equal pay for women, fixed-term employment contracts, provisions for employees to undertake full-time, part-time, temporary or flexible work, notice period and reasons for termination.  Abu Dhabi-based legal consultant M.R. Rajesh described the new labour enactments as a new magna carta in the UAE. “The formation of a supreme arbitration committee for collective labour disputes shows the UAE government’s responsibility and commitment towards dealing with workplace irregularities,” he said.  However, many NRIs are sceptical about how some of the provisions would operate. “The new laws look very attractive. But it remains to be seen how many of them will be implemented,” social critic and observer of Arab policies, Mohammed Hashim, based in Dubai, said. Many believe that executive regulations are required to clarify certain provisions. Certainly, the changes will be made to employment contracts, policies and practices. “The restrictions on working hours may adversely affect a project span. The clients should allow more time to contractors to avoid fines,” Binu Sankarankutty, MEP Project Head, in UAE, said. An Indian investor and CEO of ATC Group of companies, Salahuddin Hassan, has raised concerns about some clauses defining categories in the unskilled workers when they apply for job visas to the UAE. An estimated 34.25 lakh Indian expatriates are residing in the UAE. Of this, 7.74 lakh constitute the Kerala diaspora. The UAE ranks number one in the NRIs population in the world. For non-residents, especially the majority of Indians, Suresh Kumar, an IT advisor in Abu Dhabi, said these positive changes were great blessings. The UAE for the first time, recognises part-time working where an employee may be employed with two or more employers in private sector. “These reforms will improve the morale of the people and give more time for their personal and mental wellness. Additional maternity and paternity leaves also help in caring for their newborn,” he said. The UAE has seen a flurry of reforms in recent times. These include ending the licensing system for alcohol purchases, bringing in 21-plus age rating of movies in theatres, decriminalising consensual relationship out of wedlock, introducing a two-and-a-half-day weekend as well as long-term residency options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-labour-laws-in-uae-to-benefit-nris/article38285137.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||KSRTC tour packages gaining popularity in Kozhikode||The affordable sightseeing packages introduced by the Thamarassery depot of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) by connecting prominent ecotourism spots have started attracting a large number of domestic tourists, especially families and the elderly. “We have so far organised five special trips in just four weeks to various destinations including Munnar and Nelliyampathy. The total number of our participants till date is 255,” says K. Baiju, general control inspector with the Thamarassery depot. He also points out that 75 more persons have already reserved their seats for the next trips to Munnar and Nelliyampathy. The Thamarassery depot came up with the long-distance tour packages following the success of its one-day trips organised to various local tourism attractions in Kozhikode and Wayanad districts. The main attraction for families is the affordable package of Rs. 1,750 for Munnar and Rs. 1,050 package for Nelliyampathy. “We are in a situation to keep many in the waiting list with the flooding number of enquiries and bookings. A team of officers is now working to coordinate the trips and take care of passengers,” said Mr. Baiju. According to him, more customised packages based on passengers’ request could be introduced in the coming days in consultation with the higher authorities. Some of the participants in the trips said the comfort and security offered by a government-supported venture mainly prompted them to be a part of it. Many of them also noted that the trips were well organised by meeting the expectations of passengers who belonged to different age groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-tour-packages-gaining-popularity-in-kozhikode/article64949126.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:55 IST,KERALA||Change in pattern baffles students||Students and teachers in aided and government schools are concerned over the drastic changes in the question paper pattern for SSLC and Plus Two examinations. Since last year, students have been told to study only from the ‘focus area’, which are selected portions from the syllabus, as regular classes had not been held owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. As questions were prepared only from the selected portions, those who studied them well were able to score high marks. The same system was expected to continue this year as well. However, just two-and-a-half months ahead of the exams, Education department authorities have said question papers would have questions from the ‘non-focus area’ as well. Teachers point out that this is problematic since only half of the total chapters in the syllabus have been finished so far through offline and online modes. It would be difficult to finish the rest in such a short time, they have said. Teachers’ unions affiliated to Opposition parties, such as the Kerala School Teachers’ Union, have termed this pattern unscientific. A higher secondary teacher in Kozhikode district said the department officials had not clarified about the question paper pattern till recently. Only now, it had been revealed that 70% of the questions would be from the ‘focus area’ and the rest would be from ‘non-focus area’. If the students were told that they would have to study all chapters for exams, they would not have been under pressure, it was pointed out. Most affected The most affected are apparently Plus Two students, whose Plus One improvement exams begin on January 30. Evaluation of answer scripts will be begin soon after, and most of the teachers will be busy with that duty, which would go on in the first two weeks of February. Practical final exams will begin on February 15 and another two weeks will be required for this. If classes resume on March 1, model exams will begin on March 16 and another 10 days will be utilised for this. That means the students may be able to attend classes only for four weeks in total from now as the final exams will start on March 31. The ‘focus area’ chosen for this year for Plus Two students contained chapters connected to certain portions in Plus One classes. Hence the teachers had to spend some days for that this time. However, there is lack of clarity regarding practical exams for science students, at least some of whom are not familiar with the experiments. Though the authorities claim that the portions would be covered on time through online classes, teachers are not too sure how practical this would be. According to some teachers, there is a drastic fall in the number of students attending online classes after offline classes resumed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/change-in-pattern-baffles-students/article38285196.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Public events banned in Kozhikode as daily TPR rises to 32.67%||The district administration has prohibited public events in Kozhikode in the wake of the daily test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19 going above 30% for three consecutive days. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy told the media that sectoral magistrates had been told to control crowding in public places, vehicles, and restaurants. The ban would be applicable to religious events as well. Self regulation would be mandatory. Officials from the Regional Transport Office would inspect crowded vehicles. Standing passengers would not be allowed in buses and vehicle owners should ensure that, Mr. Reddy said. As many as 2,043 people tested positive for the virus on Monday and the daily TPR was 32.67%. All government, semi-government, and cooperative institutions, public sector undertakings, and autonomous bodies would have to hold meetings and events online. The District Police Chief has been asked to take steps to control the flow of visitors to beaches, eateries, restaurants, and shopping malls. Hotels and restaurants would not be allowed to take in more than 50% of their seating capacity. The Kozhikode city police had on Sunday begun regulating visitors to shopping malls and to the beach to control crowding. Meanwhile, a three-fold rise was seen in the official number of infected persons in the district in a week. Only 740 and 561 people, respectively, had tested positive for the virus on January 9 and January 10. In a week, it has now gone up beyond 2,000. The daily TPR, which was 13.33% on January 10, too has gone up. District Medical Officer V. Ummer Farooq urged the people to ensure social distancing, proper wearing of face masks and sanitisation of hands to keep away from the infection. Those aged above 15 should mandatorily vaccinate themselves. Crowding should be avoided at any cost, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-events-banned-in-kozhikode-as-daily-tpr-rises-to-3267/article64949124.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Senate nod for rotation of dept. heads||The Senate of the University of Calicut on Monday approved an amendment proposal that will pave the way for rotation of the post of heads of departments for a two-year term in affiliated aided colleges. Sources said that 14. A, a newstatute,has been introduced after theStatute14 of the Chapter 2 (Conditions of Service of Teachers in Private Colleges) of the Calicut University FirstStatutes, 1979, in tune with theStatute18 of the Chapter 3 of the Calicut University FirstStatutes, 1977. There were some differences of opinion between the Senate members over who has the powers to nominate the heads of departments. The initial amendment proposals were to give that right to “the college council led by the principal” or an “educational agency”. ‘For managements’ Senate members affiliated to the Kerala Private College Teachers Association argued that managements should be given the powers as they were the appointing authorities. P. Rasheed Ahammed, another member, favoured an order issued by the UDF government in 2014 that said the post should automatically go to the senior most Professor or Associate Professor. After discussions, the Senate decided to give the powers to the college council headed by the principal as the decision is academic and does not involve additional financial commitments. TheStatute18 (Head of a Department) in the Chapter 3 (Teachers of the University) of the Calicut University FirstStatutes, 1977, has a sentence “… The Syndicate shall nominate the senior most Professor as the Head of the Department for a period of two years and at the end of two years, the next senior most Professor shall be nominated…” The amendment is to change it as “…The College Council shall nominate the senior most professor as the Head of the Department for a period of two years or retirement of the incumbent, whichever is earlier, and after expiry of the term, the next senior most Professor shall be nominated…” In departments which have no Professor or Associate Professor, the senior most Assistant Professor (in-charge) shall be nominated. Why the amendment This would now be forwarded to the Syndicate. It was a representation by K.V. Arun, Senate member, which led to the amendment. Mr. Arun had earlier raised this issue with the Syndicate and the Academic Council and got a favourable order from the High Court. Mr. Arun had pointed out that the post of Head of the Department is an important administrative one in a college or university. Affiliated private colleges, however, still follow a system based on seniority as there is nostatutoryprovision, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/senate-nod-for-rotation-of-headship-in-calicut-varsity-aided-colleges/article38285140.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Taluk office fire: Officials confident of resolving complaints||Revenue Department officials have exuded confidence about addressing all the major complaints received from the public to recreate documents and files which were gutted in a recent fire at Vadakara taluk office building. Of the 152 complaints received so far through the special help desks, only below 20 were found difficult to be cleared within a short time. “We have closed the help desks and opened a separate helpline at the temporary office to deal with fresh enquiries.We may not need any taluk-level or district-level adalat for addressing grievances related to the file loss alone,” said tahsildarAshique Thotton. He also said the usable files recovered from the gutted building had been categorised for quick reference. Officials who worked with the special help desks said the recovery of destroyed files related to various types of title deeds could be a slightly difficult task as related files from various village offices and the Land Records Department were needed to complete the process. They said the certification by the taluk-level authorities for clearing applications in these cases would be done on completion of the verification of such files. At the same time, they pointed out that such a time-consuming work would be needed only in the case of title deeds which were not digitalised. Applications to secure the copy of digitalised title deeds would be an easy task because of the availability of e-files for reference, they said. It was on December 17 last year that a massive fire destroyed the taluk office building at Vadakara. Several valuable office files, computers and office accessories had been destroyed in the incident. Satheesh Narayanana, an Andhra Pradesh native, had been arrested in connection with the arson case. According to the special investigation squad, the renovated building was set on fire by the man who was mentally unstable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taluk-office-fire-officials-confident-of-resolving-complaints/article38285144.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Surendran, BJP activists booked for flouting norms||The Kasaba police have booked Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran and about 1,500 other BJP workers who took part in a mass protest against the Popular Front of India in Kozhikode on Sunday violating the COVID-19 protocol. Cases were registered against them under various sections of the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act. Police sources said no permission had been granted to hold the event in the wake of the pandemic threat. Meanwhile, BJP leaders, including M.T. Ramesh, said the incident exposed the partiality of the Left Democratic Front government in implementing rules. They alleged that no action was taken against Communist Party of India (Marxist) workers and their leaders who flouted COVID-19 norms during a party conference held recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surendran-bjp-activists-booked-for-flouting-norms/article38285143.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:55 IST,KERALA||Jamaat seeks law against partner swapping||The Kerala Muslim Jamaat (KMJ) has demanded that the State legislate against society’s moral degradation taking place in the name of ‘mutual understanding and partner swapping’. The KMJ district committee, in a resolution here on Monday, asked the State government to make laws to prevent such immoral acts being perpetrated in the name of neo-liberal ideas. “The police say they can’t take action against those involved in this hideous act. It can be prevented only through legislation,” said the KMJ.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jamaat-seeks-law-against-partner-swapping/article38285198.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||They run to help a river flow||The Friends of Bharathapuzha, an organisation working towards the conservation of the Bharathapuzha in Palakkad district, organised a mass run on Sunday to spread awareness among the public about the importance of protecting the river. The Palakkad chapter of the forum joined hands with the Fort Runners of Palakkad and staged the event named Run for Bharatapuzha. Areas covered The run began on the premises of the main temple of Kalpathy and covered areas such as Old Kalpathy, Silverline Colony, Sai Hospital Junction, Neelikadu, Andimadom, Kadukkankummam, Mattumantha, Valiyapadam, Manalmantha, Vaidyanathapuram, and Govindarajapuram. Support from Muscat As three dozen conservationists from different walks of life came together spreading awareness about the importance of conserving the Bharathapuzha, Malayalis belonging to a running group named KTMMR took out a run in Muscat to express solidarity with the cause. “The Bharathapuzha is the lifeline of Palakkad, Malappuram and Thrissur districts. The region’s water requirement is met largely by the Bharathapuzha. So the conservation of the river has become the need of the hour,” said V.L. Natarajan, a senior member of the Friends of Bharathapuzha. C.D. Sreenivasan, Dy.SP (Narcotics wing), flagged off the run. The Friends of Bharathapuzha is functioning under the patronage of E. Sreedharan, former Principal Advisor to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. He has been leading the conservation activities of the river under the banner of the forum since he gave shape to it in 2019. Steady decline “There has been a steady degradation of the river with encroachments on both sides, uncontrolled dumping of waste, flow of drainage and waste water, unauthorized sand-mining and growth of trees, bushes, weeds, algae and hyacinth,” said Mr. Natarajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/they-run-to-help-a-river-flow/article64948979.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Nutrition kits distributed||The district wing of the Art of Living group distributed nutrition and medicine kits to those affected by pesticides used in farms, including the mango orchards of Muthalamada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nutrition-kits-distributed/article38285303.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:53 IST,KERALA||Master plan to tap Konni’s ecotourism potential||Known for its scenic beauty, remote villages and rich wildlife, Konni has long been tipped as the next big destination in the State. Despite this, the region has always lain in the shadow of the more famous destinations in its neighbourhood. Things, however, have finally begun to move here with the authorities all set to unveil a master plan for developing Konni as a major ecotourism destination later this month. The plan, which comprises several ambitious projects and activities structured towards positioning Konni as a must-see destination where the public and private sector can confidently invest. 5,000 jobs The plan, to be implemented within a period of 10 years, focusses on creating a series of interconnected but distinct precincts that seek to cash in on the natural heritage of Konni and turn it into a year-round tourist destination. On completion, it is expected to generate as many as 5,000 jobs to the local community. According to K.U. Janeesh Kumar, Konni MLA, the project takes a cue from the State government's policy of developing at least two tourism projects in a local body and will be implemented with public and private investment through various government departments, the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) and tourism societies. “The key destinations of Sanchayath Kadavu in Konni, Nedumpara in Pramadam, Rakshasan Para in Koodal and the Tourism circuit in Seethathodu will be implemented through the DTPC. A draft plan for these projects has already been presented before the stakeholders and government officers, including the District Collector, and the final plan will be prepared based on their suggestions,” he said. In each local body Among the 11 local bodies here, Chittar will get the Manpilavu trekking and Chathura-Kallipara tourism projects while in Thannithodu, a project for the Manneera waterfalls will be taken up along with the Adavi development project. In Malayalappuzha, a tourism project and a pilgrim tourism circuit around the Kadavupuzha Bungalow will come up while Aruvapulam will get a crafts village at Kokkadthodu and the Chelikkuzhy waterfalls project. The Enadimangalam grama panchayat, meanwhile, will get a tourism project for the Anchumalapara hilltop along with a wellness zone. These are in addition to the project proposals for the Mylapra and Vallikodu panchayats, added Mr. Kumar. District Collector Divya S. Iyer has extended the wholehearted supported of the district administration as well as the DTPC for the project. As part of preparing the master plan, an expert team led by travel documentary filmmaker Santosh George Kulangara carried out a preliminary inspection of the various local attractions six months ago. Following the visit, the team suggested to develop tourism circuits by dividing the Konni and Gavi regions into two different segments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/master-plan-to-tap-konnis-ecotourism-potential/article64949112.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:56 IST,KERALA||CPI(M) workers attack house of dissident at Angadikkal||A tense situation prevailed in Angadikkal village, near Kodumon, on Monday after a gang of alleged Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] workers attacked a few houses in the area on Sunday midnight. According to the police, the residence of Sahadevan Unnithan, a former CPI(M) leader who had recently switched to the Communist Party of India (CPI), was attacked by a group of assailants. They also barged into the residences of a few other CPI workers, including that of All India Youth Federation (AIYF) local secretary Jithin. The attacks are suspected to be the continuation of a raging turf war between the Left parties in connection with an election to the administrative council of the Angadikkal Cooperative Bank. Several people, including police personnel, had sustained injury in a clash on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-workers-attack-house-of-dissident-at-angadikkal/article38285188.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:55 IST,KERALA||Fourfold rise in cases in 10 days, hospitalisation goes up||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph continued its exponential rise on Monday, logging 22,946 new cases when 69,373 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The graph which began rising on January 3 has not shown any signs of slowing down. During the second wave, new cases reported daily in the State had come as far down as 1,824 cases on December 26. Large-scale social interactions and family gatherings during Christmas and New Year contributed significantly to the rise in cases during the first week of January. Fourfold rise Daily new cases which rose to over 5,000 on January 7 quickly shot up in the subsequent days and have risen fourfold in a space of just 10 days. The State’s active case pool which had just 19,021 cases on January 2 shot up to 1,21,458 cases on Monday in a space of just 15 days. The speed of disease transmission indicates that the virus has the capacity to affect a chunk of the population within a short time before it slows down, the emerging picture similar to that in South Africa or the U.K. where Omicron virus variant triggered a huge wave of COVID cases. The Health department’s data say that from January 10 to 16, the average active cases were 67,495, out of which an average of around 0.8 % were admitted in oxygen beds and 0.9% in ICUs. New cases increased by 182% (60,161 cases), while active cases increased by 160% during this period, in comparison to the previous week. Hospitalisations increased by 41% and ICU occupancy by 21%. A total of 5,280 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on Sunday. Hospitalisation is rising and on Monday the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID showed a significant jump to 711. The case fatality stands at 50,904 with the State adding 72 deaths to the official toll on Monday. These include 18 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 54 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths as per the new guidelines. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 54,01,777 cases. Among the districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 5,863, followed by Ernakulam 4,100, Kozhikode 2,043, Thrissur 1,861, Kottayam 1,476, Kollam 1,264, Palakkad 1,191, Kannur 1,100, Malappuram 935, Pathanamthitta 872, Alappuzha 835, Idukki 605, Kasaragod 574 and Wayanad 227 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fourfold-rise-in-cases-in-10-days-hospitalisation-goes-up/article64949110.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Tribal settlements to see intensified surveillance||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police will intensify surveillance in the tribal areas of the district in view of the recent spate of suicides that were reported in the region. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) Divya V. Gopinath visited various settlements colonies including Idinjar, Iyakode, and Vettikavu as part of the ongoing investigation on Monday. The tribal areas of Vithura and Peringamala are reported to have witnessed at least five suicides among girls, including minors, since September last. Two minor girls had allegedly committed suicide recently. Two youths were subsequently arrested for abetting the suicides. There have been allegations of children being enticed using narcotic substances and subjected to sexual abuse. Dr. Gopinath interacted with the families of the deceased as well as the ‘ooru moopans’ (tribal leaders) of the settlements. She received complaints regarding purported instances of outsiders frequenting the tribal areas for nefarious activities. The residents also shared their concerns regarding the youngsters falling prey to the evil designs of the drug and the liquor mafia. According to the senior officer, criminal cases were registered under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) in connection with the recent deaths of the two minor girls. The investigations were in its final stages and the charge-sheets would be submitted to the court in a time-bound manner. She pointed out the police had taken cognizance of outsiders “aged around 23 and 24 years” engaging in shady activities in connivance with local youngsters. Such movements would be constantly monitored through a surveillance mechanism that would include CCTV cameras. Counselling and sensitisation programmes would also be conducted for youngsters to prevent them from becoming gullible victims to illegal activities. Welfare measures would also be undertaken for the tribespeople. Excise and Forest officials also accompanied the District Police Chief and other police officers. Health and Woman and Child Development Minister Veena George had ordered an inquiry into the suicides two days ago.  Tribal areas of Vithura and Peringamala have witnessed at least five suicides among girls, including minors, since September last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-settlements-to-see-intensified-surveillance/article38285300.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Parents resigned to an online shift||While the government decision to return to online classes for students from Classes I to IX for two weeks from January 21 has sparked calls from a section for a rollback, parents are resigned to it, and feel there is no other remedy in the wake of a spike in COVID-19 cases, fuelled by the Omicron variant. The president of the parent-teacher association of a prominent aided school says the government machinery could not have taken any other decision. In any case, schools were following the blended learning mode, with only 50% students attending school on a given day, and the rest attending online classes. Vaccination Hopefully, the decision to cancel in-person learning for younger students would not extend beyond two or three weeks. The vaccination for students in the 15-18 age group that is under way would also help keep older students safe. The decision was needed, says the president of the parent-teacher association of a government school who is also a teacher. Students, he says, are getting COVID-19 from teachers and other staff and then taking it back home to their families. Quite a few COVID-19 cases are being reported in schools, especially as activities are on in full swing. Remote online learning, despite its limitations, is a better option at this juncture, though he would have preferred that the decision was taken a few days down the line. A parent of a Class 3 student of the same school says there has been a positive change in her child since she began attending school, and would have preferred in-person learning to continue, but with the case graph increasing, especially in Thiruvananthapuram, a switchover to online classes is better at this stage. Though young children do not get infected easily, some parents remain anxious, especially those who have wards with low immunity, she points out. Not to be ignored The number of COVID-19 cases being reported among teachers and students in schools cannot be ignored, says the headmaster of a girls’ school in the city. Nor the fact that many other States too have resorted to the same strategy. The government decision is apt to control the spread. The number of students coming to school had started tapering even before the government announcement, indicating parents’ apprehension. Despite the many benefits of offline classes, there was need to adapt to the evolving situation. A school Principal says she has not heard any opposition to the decision from parents of her students. Parents of younger children, she feels, remain apprehensive about sending them to school. Even before Omicron, the same set of students, more or less, turned up for offline classes. There were many students who had not attended physical classes even once since November. While the numbers were better for students set to appear for Class 10 and 12 examinations, the attendance for offline classes was poor among many grades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parents-resigned-to-shift-to-online-mode-of-classes/article64948981.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:02 IST,KERALA||Wood-boring mollusc found in Arabian Sea||A team of researchers from Kerala and Brazil have identified a new species of a rare, deep-sea mollusc belonging to the family Xylophagaidae from the eastern Arabian Sea.  The wood-boring, tiny mollusc species has been named Xylophaga nandani after Prof. Bijoy Nandan, dean, faculty of Marine Sciences, Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat).  The discovery is also significant in that this is the first time that a member of the genus Xylophaga is being recorded from the Arabian Sea, according to the researchers.  A paper on the findings by Jayachandran P. R. and Jima M. from the Department of Marine Biology, Microbiology and Biochemistry, CUSAT, and Marcel Velasquez from the University of Sao Paulo, Brazil, has been published in the scientific journal Marine Biodiversity .   The mollusc was spotted off the Karwar coast. Specimens of Xylophaga nandani analysed by the team are tiny - with shell valve length of around 2.2 mm.  It is quite possible that they are juveniles, Dr. Jayachandran said. Members of the family Xylophagaidae are deep-sea dwellers, their presence recorded even at depths of 7,000 metres. Commonly found on wood that plunge to great depths, rarely they are also found on wood drifting on the ocean. As such, much of their lifestyle habits remain a mystery. Name of the word However, what is known is that they use their shells to cut wood into tiny grains and use it as a source of energy. ''The word 'xylophaga' itself denotes 'wood eating','' said Dr. Jayachandran. They are also close relatives to members of the family Teredinidae, a common species of wood-boring clams (shipworms) found in coastal waters. Specimens of the newly identified species are kept at the Marine Biology Museum at CUSAT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wood-boring-mollusc-found-in-arabian-sea/article64948999.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||RGCB findings to help reduce heart disease risk in diabetics||Researchers at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) here have published findings that could help reduce the risk of heart disease in patients with diabetes. The researchers have pinpointed Cyclophilin A, a protein that plays a role in several diseases in humans, as a potential drug target for reducing heart disease risk in such patients. Heart attacks result from the rupture of cholesterol plaque deposited on artery walls. A tear or rupture activates a repairing mechanism resulting in a blood clot. Such clots can block blood flow to the heart muscle, causing a heart attack. "Patients with diabetes mellitus have increased risk of vascular disease and are prone to such ruptures. Our research has shown that Cyclophilin A plays a major role in increasing the risk," Dr. Surya Ramachandran, a programme scientist with the Cardiovascular Diseases and Diabetes Biology lab, RGCB, was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the RGCB. Inhibitors of Cyclophilin A would have potential use in reducing a person’s vulnerability to heart attacks induced by plaque rupture, she said. RGCB director Prof. Chandrabhas Narayana said the research findings with regard to the role played by Cyclophilin A will provide a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying cardiovascular diseases. It will help in risk detection and development of novel pharmacological therapies, he said.  The findings have been published in Cells , an international journal on cell biology. Cyclophilin A impairs the process of prompt and efficient clearance of cells that have been programmed to die, resulting in rapid plaque formation in patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus, said Dr. Ramachandran. Clearing the dead cells is critical for inflammation resolution in patients with cardiovascular risks.  'Eat-me' signals The dying cells express ‘eat-me’ signals on their surface to attract macrophages, a type of white blood cell that removes dead cells. Cyclophilin A can induce programmed cell death of macrophages, which interferes with the natural process of “burying’‘ of the dead cells. Dr. Ramachandran said the research findings can lead to a reduction in the risk of heart disease in patients with diabetes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rgcb-findings-to-help-reduce-heart-disease-risk-in-diabetics/article38285295.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:55 IST,KERALA||Ward-level activities to be stepped up||Ward-level activities will be strengthened for the effective management of COVID-19 against the background of the alarming rise in the case graph in the State. A joint meeting called by Health Minister Veena George and Local Self-Government Minister M. V. Govindan here on Monday decided to set up rapid response teams in all districts and revive the volunteer brigade. It has also been decided to set up more COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTC) under local bodies in locations suggested by district disaster management authorities. More hostels would be taken over for the purpose. The Health department will update the local bodies on the disease trends in each locality for coordinated action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ward-level-activities-to-be-stepped-up/article38285195.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Corporation launches drive to enforce plastic ban||The city Corporation’s health squad on Monday seized 156 kilograms of banned plastic materials from various commercial establishments on the first day of enforcement of plastic ban. The use of plastic materials up to 120 microns has been banned. The checks were carried out across 125 commercial establishments by teams led by four health inspectors and consisting of 16 junior health inspectors (JHIs). Plastic carry bags, cups, plates and spoons were seized in the inspection. Prior to the enforcement of the ban, the Corporation had held meetings with Vyapari Vyavasayi organisations. The health inspectors had held awareness campaigns in various areas. The squads will carry out checks in shops and other commercial establishments in the coming days too. A special council meeting also laid out an action plan for the drive to control the use of single-use plastics. A massive non-biodegradable waste collection and clean-up campaign is being planned. The ward councillors have to convene meetings, along with the JHIs, to decide on the local-level collection plan. Old clothes, bags and footwear have to be collected at the local collection centres on January 22. Glass waste will be similarly collected on January 29. On February 5, CFL bulbs and tubes will be collected at the ward-level collection centres. On January 30, a cleaning campaign will be organised to remove all the plastic waste from public spaces in the 100 wards. The cleaning programmes will be held from 7 a.m. onwards. Residents’ associations, NCC, NSS, Scout and Guide, youth clubs, NGOs, political and youth organisations, and other volunteers, will be part of it. The meeting also decided to step up the functioning of the Haritha Karma Senas for local-level waste management in all the 100 wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-launches-drive-to-enforce-plastic-ban/article38285298.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||New process to treat well water contaminated with perchlorate||The CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) here has come up with a hybrid process for treating well water contaminated with perchlorate. Perchlorate contamination poses health risks, as it can affect the thyroid gland leading to hypothyroidism and associated physiological disorders. The NIIST has established a demonstration plant at Keezhmad panchayat in Aluva, which is capable of treating contaminated well water and generating 2,000 litres of potable water a day. The treatment process was developed by a team led by Krishnakumar B., Senior Principal Scientist with the NIIST’s Environmental Technology Division. A strong oxidising agent, perchlorate salts find wide use in many industries, including the strategic sector and space research and development units. The NIIST developed the hybrid process (bio-physical) as conventional treatment methods scarcely work. The project was funded by the Jal Jeevan Mission, Ministry of Jal Shakti. How it works The contaminated water is initially treated in a bioreactor with a specially developed bacterial system. It then passes through a combination of custom-designed ultrafiltration (UF) and reverse osmosis (RO) units for removing residual contaminants. It’s also a zero-discharge process as the UF and RO rejects too get treated in the bioreactor. According to the NIIST, studies carried out by it during 2009-2015 had revealed high levels of perchlorate in well water samples around the Ammonium Perchlorate Experimental Plant, Aluva. Contamination was observed in the Keezhmad and Edathala panchayats. In the community wells at Kulakkad in Keezhmad panchayat, perchlorate levels up to 45,000 micrograms per litre had been observed. Later studies by the Health department also showed elevated TSH levels (indicating hypothyroidism) among Keezhmad residents who use the contaminated well water. “’Three of the contaminated community wells in the panchayat were permanently closed, and people in the affected Kulakkad region were supplied piped water by the Kerala Water Authority,” Dr. Krishnakumar said. Recent NIIST studies also found that even after 10 years, the level of perchlorate in the closed community wells was in the range of 9,090 to 1,490 micrograms per litre, which is several magnitudes higher than the existing WHO guideline for perchlorate in drinking water, which is 70 microgram per litre. For the project, NIIST had selected one of the abandoned wells. The capital cost of the 2,000 litre-a-day plant is Rs. 3 lakh. Pure water production cost is just 20 paise per litre, the NIIST said. The plant has been installed with the support of the Keezhmad grama panchayat and the residents of Kulakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/niist-develops-hybrid-process-to-treat-well-water/article38285151.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:55 IST,KERALA||Cong. accuses CPI(M) of vitiating politics||Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan has accused CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan of interpreting politics through a prism of brazen communalism. His comment comes against the backdrop of Mr. Balakrishnan’s statement that the Congress had no mentionable leaders from the minority community. The CPI(M) State secretary made the controversial observation in his valedictory speech marking the conclusion of the party's Thiruvananthapuram district conference recently. Mr. Balakrishnan pointed out that the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president and Leader of the Opposition hailed from the majority community. He suggested that the Congress appeared reluctant to elevate minority community members to top leadership positions. Earlier, inaugurating the district conference, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had equated the Congress with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He had alleged that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi himself toed a brazen Hindutva line. “Mr. Gandhi is trying to outdo the BJP by pitiably attempting to gratify Hindutva forces. It is no surprise that the BJP is the default destination of disgruntled Congress leaders. Both parties are birds of the same feather,” Mr. Vijayan had said. Mr. Satheesan said on Monday that Mr. Balakrishnan and Mr. Vijayan should take a hard look at the current CPI(M) leadership line-up before attacking the Congress. The Congress in Kerala was making a solid comeback. The CPI(M) feared KPCC president K. Sudhakaran's leadership. Mr. Balakrishnan and Mr. Vijayan were petrified. The fear had prompted them to hurl communal insinuations against Congress, he said. Expansive tent Mr. Balakrishnan's allegation would put communal parties to shame. The Congress was an expansive tent. It accommodated people of all religions and castes, he said. All India Forward Bloc secretary G. Devarajan said it was unbecoming of a communist leader to read religion and caste into politics. Mr. Balakrishnan's comment would only serve to exacerbate the communal divide. Mr. Devarajan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-accuses-cpim-of-vitiating-politics/article38285197.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:02 IST,KERALA||Capital logs highest-ever daily caseload at 5,863||The third wave is finding the COVID-19 graph scaling uncharted peaks in Thiruvananthapuram. The district recorded its highest-ever daily caseload when 5,863 people tested positive for the infection on Monday. Test positivity rate (TPR) too reached alarming levels as it touched 44.2%, a grim indicator that nearly half of those who were tested were diagnosed with the infection. The previous highest count had been reported on May 14, 2021, when 4,567 cases were reported. With 579 people recovering from the illness during the last 24 hours, the active caseload stood at 30,149 in the capital district. Unknown source The source of infection was unknown in 91 cases. As many as 41 health-care workers were among those newly diagnosed with the disease. According to official statistics, the district’s COVID-19 death toll stood at 6,645 while the case fatality ratio is 1.23. Three recent deaths—those of people aged 78, 70 and 60—were attributed to the disease on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-logs-highest-ever-daily-caseload-at-5863/article38285289.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||It’s online grama sabhas where TPR is above 30%||The Local Self-Government has directed that development seminars and grama sabhas in local bodies in districts with test positivity rates (TPR) above 30% have to be held online. In areas with test positivity rate above 20%, meetings of more than 50 persons should not be held, Minister for Local Self-Government M.V. Govindan said here on Monday. In such cases, meetings can be held partially online. The local bodies would have to complete the annual plan formulation before January 22. The plans for Centrally funded projects would also have to be completed before January 28, to ensure that funds did not lapse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-online-grama-sabhas-where-tpr-is-above-30/article38285296.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Elected to KU Senate||M.S. Latha, principal of S.N. College, Chathannur, was been elected to the Kerala University (KU) Senate from the Principals’ constituency on Monday. The All Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association (AKPCTA) felicitated her, a press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elected-to-ku-senate/article38285294.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||Two youths killed in road accident||Two youths were killed in Kuttichal late Sunday after their motorcycle rammed timber logs that were carelessly abandoned on the road side by a mill owner. The deceased were identified as Achu, 20, of Azhangal in Neyyar, and Sreejith, 19, of Kallikkad. The incident occurred along the hill highway when the two youngsters were passing through a road stretch that was very dimly lit. According to the police officers, the two-wheeler the youngsters were travelling in rammed the wood logs. Thrown off the vehicle Both of them were then thrown off the vehicle. Due to the impact, Achu died on the spot. Sreejith, who was grieviously injured, was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. He died during the early hours of Monday, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-youths-killed-in-road-accident/article38285297.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:03 IST,KERALA||POCSO case accused sentenced to 5-year RI||A Fast Track Special Court in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday sentenced a 54-year-old man to rigorous imprisonment for five years for sexually harassing a minor boy two years ago. Special Judge R. Jayakrishnan found Vijayakumar of Kalady, near Manacaud, guilty of the crime that had taken place under the Thumba police stations on November 26, 2020. The court also imposed a fine of Rs. 25,000. Vijayakumar was found to be guilty under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. According to the prosecution, the convict had been hired by the survivor’s father for a work in their house. The nine-year-old boy was molested when he was standing on the verandah in the absence of his parents. While Vijayakumar ran away on seeing another person approaching, he fled from the house after the survivor complained to his parents on being subjected to ‘bad touch’ by the worker. The boy, who claimed to have been learnt lessons on ‘good touch and bad touch’ in his school, appealed the court during trial to punish the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pocso-case-accused-sentenced-to-5-year-ri/article38285299.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:02 IST,KERALA||Ban on entry to Ponmudi, Agasthyar peak||The Forest department has banned entry for visitors to the Ponmudi ecotourism centre and the Agasthyarkoodam peak in view of the surge in COVID-19 and Omicron variant cases in the district. The move comes on the basis of directions issued by District Collector Navjot Khosa a day ago. According to a press note, the payment made while booking slots for entry to the destinations will be refunded through the online mode. Details Further details regarding the cancellations to Ponmudi can be obtained by contacting 8547601005. The department has been prompted to suspend bookings for the annual Agasthyarkoodam trekking season that was set to commence on Tuesday and continue until February 26. All bookings that have been made will be cancelled and the payments refunded. Visitors have also been reminded that requests for offline bookings will not be entertained. The updated schedule for bookings will be announced later. Further details can be obtained by contacting 0471 2360762.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-entry-to-ponmudi-agasthyarkoodam-banned/article38285179.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:55 IST,KERALA||WCC strives to make Hema panel report public||The Women in Cinema Collective (WCC) is planning to continue knocking on all possible doors to ensure that the Hema commission report to address issues of sexual harassment and gender inequality in the Malayalam film industry is placed in the public sphere for discussion.  A day after meeting Kerala Women’s Commission chairperson P. Satheedevi in Kozhikode, WCC member and screenwriter Deedi Damodaran said on Monday the collective will meet Ministers to put forward their demands. She ruled out any legal moves at present. “We communicated with Kerala Women’s Commission officials on Monday too and our understanding is that they are moving towards what we have demanded. They have said that they will cross-check the government order regarding the Hema commission and see how its contents can be brought to the discussion table. The commission will also check whether an internal complaints committee is in place whenever a new film production begins,” Ms. Damodaran told The Hindu. She said the WCC had also in the last few days consulted with other committees to know the nature of the reports submitted by them in the past. It is clear that most of these reports have been treated in a transparent manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wcc-strives-to-make-hema-panel-report-public/article38285202.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||KTU deadline to apply for revaluation||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has announced a deadline of January 19 to apply for revaluation and answer book copy of BTech sixth-semester regular and supplementary examinations, third-semester regular examinations, first-semester regular and supplementary examinations (2019 scheme), first and second-semester supplementary, FE examinations (2015 scheme), and eighth-semester supplementary examinations. Centre change The university has decided to offer an option to change centre for the upcoming BTech examinations. The facility for centre change for the examinations will be opened for BTech seventh-semester (regular and supplementary), fourth-semester (Honours), fourth-semester (Minor) and third-semester (supplementary and FE). Details The details of applying for centre change option offered to candidates appearing for the exams will be notified soon, according to a press release issued by the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-deadline-to-apply-for-revaluation-january-19/article38285134.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:55 IST,KERALA||Minister: land to be acquired after clearing concerns||The State government will initiate procedures for acquiring land for the SilverLine project only after clearing the concerns of the people, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. He was speaking at Janasamaksham SilverLine, a programme to explain about the project, here on Monday. “There are many misunderstandings about land acquisition. The stones currently are not for acquiring land. It is for identifying places to conduct a social impact study. After the study, a hearing will be held. The land will be acquired after providing compensation and a comprehensive rehabilitation package,” the Minster said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-land-to-be-acquired-after-clearing-concerns/article38285199.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:55 IST,KERALA||Vaccination for students at 967 schools||Principals of schools selected as vaccination centres should convene meetings of the parent-teacher association (PTA) on Tuesday morning. Representatives of local self-government institutions, political parties, and those working in the education sector should participate in these meetings to decide on the arrangements. The same afternoon, the Deputy Directors of Education, District Education Officers, and officials of the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, will meet to decide and entrust responsibility for each school. On January 22 and 23, mass cleaning, as per the detailed guidelines issued earlier for school reopening, would be held in schools where students of Classes 10 to 12 would continue in-person learning. The cleaning would be held with the support of the PTA, local people, and local self-government institutions, he said. KITE Victers would bring out a new timetable for digital learning for Classes 1 to 9 from Friday. The syllabus for students in Class 10 and 12 would be completed before the year-end examinations either offline or online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-for-students-at-967-schools/article38285203.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Success code?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/success-code/article64948986.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:08 IST,KERALA||‘Party’ time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/party-time/article64948977.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Rendezvous with nature||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rendezvous-with-nature/article64949127.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||Rounding off trials||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rounding-off-trials/article64949121.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Way to go||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/way-to-go/article64949114.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bridge on Tungabhadra HLC collapses||A 55-year-old bridge on the Tungabhadra High-Level Canal, located 115.2 km from the TB Dam at Uddehal village in Bommanahal mandal of the district, collapsed on Monday afternoon. An auto-rickshaw and a van that were crossing the bridge at the time of the mishap plunged into the water, with a woman passenger being swept away. Bommanahal police said that the old structure was unable to bear the combined weight of the van and the auto-rickshaw which was overloaded with farm labourers. Villagers to the rescue As the bridge collapsed, villagers rushed to the spot and managed to bring 29 people to safety. However, one woman, identiifed as Savitri (30), was swept away in the river and could not be saved, according to police officials. Tungabhadra HLC Superintendending Engineer Nayakanti Rajasekhar said that the structure was to be replaced with a new one a few metres away during the modernisation works taken up from 2008. However, the project was stalled midway after the tenders were cancelled, and the new bridge remained half-built with only the pillars laid, the Superintending Engineer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bridge-on-tungabhadra-hlc-collapses/article64948917.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Standoff between Dalits, upper castes at Gunjepalli over temple entry||Tension prevailed at Gunjepalli village of Narpala mandal in the district after a group of Dalit villagers, reportedly denied entry into a temple, engaged in a standoff with upper-caste villagers here on Monday afternoon. Police personnel along with Revenue Department officials had to intervene to defuse the situation. Tension flared The standoff between the upper-caste villagers and the Dalits began on Monday when the Dalits were not allowed to enter the temple allegedly at the request of the temple priests that the shrine be ‘protected’ for some time as it was consecrated only two days ago. The groups had been at loggerheads for the past few days over the issue, and tension flared up after some women reportedly prevented the Dalits from entering the temple on Monday. Amicable understanding When the standoff led to heated arguments, Sub-Inspector of Police U. Venkata Prasad and some Revenue officials intervened and prevented the issue from escalating. “Nobody has the right to stop anyone from entering temples. We have sorted out the differences and ensured that the villagers came to an amicable understanding,” Mr. Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/standoff-between-dalits-upper-castes-at-gunjepalli-over-temple-entry/article64948928.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sandalwood vanishes from forest office||In a bizarre incident, 92 bags of sandalwood stored at the Penukonda Forest Department office, along with 14 kg of sandalwood oil — all valued at Rs. 70.3 lakh — was found missing by officials on Sunday night. A complaint to this effect was lodged with the Penukonda police on Monday morning. The Anantapur police and Department of Forests officials had on August 15 unearthed a large stock of illegally procured sandalwood in the United Oil Industry located at Basavanapalli village in Amarapuram mandal, along with sandalwood oil valued at Rs. 1.27 crore. Some of the stock was stockpiled at the Penukonda office. District Forest Officer Sandeep Krupakar Gundala said an inquiry was in progress, and that there were no clues as of now as to when the incident occurred and who was behind it. The Penukonda Forest Range Officer had retired two months ago and the Kalyandurg Forest Range Officer Ram Singh, who is the current in-charge Penukonda FRO, lodged the complaint with the police. Penukonda DSP N. Ramya began an investigation with Circle Inspector of Police Venkateswarlu leading the team. Mr. Venkateswarlu said that while the front door of the godown was locked and a sentry was on duty, the room had a window at the back. Offiicals suspect that the intruders might have entered through this window.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sandalwood-vanishes-from-forest-office/article38285258.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revisit Water Disputes Act, Bommai tells Centre||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said irrigation projects in Karnataka are bogged down by inter-State river water disputes and asked the Centre to “revisit the Inter-State River Water Disputes Act since the law is creating more disputes than resolving them.” “There are some legal interventions that are necessary. Our irrigation projects are delayed, bogged down by the Inter-State River Water Disputes Act. In fact, it creates more disputes than resolve them. Time has come to revisit this,” said Mr. Bommai during a virtual event related to the inauguration of ‘PM Gati Shakti’ South Zone Conference, chaired by Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari. The Chief Minister’s comments assume significance as Karnataka has been pushing for environment and other clearances for the Mekedatu project that Tamil Nadu is opposing. The execution of many irrigation projects in Karnataka have been delayed due to inter-State river water disputes with neighbouring Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Goa, and Andhra Pradesh. The Chief Minister wants the Centre to revisit the Inter-State River Water Disputes Act to expedite the execution of irrigation projects in different States on win-win formula on the basis of merit by utilising technology. He called for removal of multi-fold levels of dispute resolution, especially on the basis of maximum utility of a river basin capacity, and use of technology, disregarding all political considerations, which would be a win-win situation for all riparian States. Mr. Bommai said laws relating to environment, forest, investment, inter-State river water dispute and CRZ need to be revisited to accelerate the speed of infrastructure development, and development of tourism. The Chief Minister informed the Centre that a common set of Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) rules should be formulated instead of different CRZ rules for different States. “This is necessary for all-round development of India’s coastline.” Relaxing rules in the Finance Department at the Centre for early clearance of investments is necessary for attracting more investment to infrastructure development. The delay in execution of projects would cost the State heavily, he said. Upgrading highways The Chief Minister asked the Centre to clear the project to upgrade 6,433 km of State highways into national highways, and sought approval for a 453-km high-speed corridor on the Mysuru-Bengaluru-Hyderabad rail line. He apprised Mr. Gadkari of various airport, tourism and road projects taken up by Karnataka and sought the Centre’s support for their early completion. The Centre has initiated PM Gati Shakti plan, a Rs. 100 lakh crore national infrastructure master plan to lay the foundation for holistic infrastructure development and give an integrated pathway to the economy.  Laws relating to environment, forest, investment, inter-State river water dispute, and CRZ need to be revisited to accelerate the speed of infrastructure development, and development of tourism.Basavaraj BommaiChief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revisit-water-disputes-act-bommai-tells-centre/article64948834.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Concern over rising infections in Chittoor city||Chittoor Municipal Commissioner P. Viswanath has expressed serious concern at the increasing COVID-19 infections under the corporation limits in the last three days. He told the media that the corporation had registered 50 cases on January 15, followed by 83 on Sunday and 85 on Monday, taking the active cases to 458. “The field staff on COVID duties are informed to strictly enforce the COVID-appropriate behaviour at all public places. Home isolation for COVID-19 cases, including primary and secondary contacts, would be ensured. We appeal to people to take COVID tests in case of experiencing any signs of the virus,” he said. ‘Go for booster dose’ He said that all eligible persons should take the precaution dose of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/concern-over-rising-infections-in-chittoor-city/article38284870.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth ‘beheaded by mistake’ at sacrifice ritual||A youth was beheaded allegedly by mistake during a ritual where sheep were sacrificed at a village festival at Valasapalle hamlet near Madanapalle on Monday. A youth, identified as Talari Chalapati, reportedly in an inebriated condition, was sacrificing sheep one after the other on the village temple premises. Another youth, identified as Suresh (25), was on his knees holding a sheep for slaughter when his turn came. However, Chalapati accidentally cut off the head of Suresh. The victim’s traumatised family took Suresh to the government hospital at Madanapalle, where he was declared brought dead, with the head almost separated from the torso. The Madanapalle taluq police took Chalapati into custody and registered a case under Section 302 IPC. The police said whether the act was intentional or accidental would be probed. The deceased is survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-beheaded-by-mistake-at-sacrifice-ritual/article38285262.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TNSF demands extension of holidays to schools||Telugu Nadu Students Federation (TNSF)‘s Chittoor unit president Prabhu Teja on Monday demanded that the State government immediately initiate steps to extend school holidays till January end in the interest of students and parents. Speaking to the media here, the TNSF leader said that the daily COVID tally had crossed the 10,000-mark in the State and more than 2,000 cases were reported from Chittoor district during the last 48 hours. “Without taking precautionary measures at the schools against the spread and an action plan in place, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government is going ahead with the regular functioning of schools, posing a serious risk to students,” he said, adding that the neighbouring States, including Telangana, had extended vacation to schoolchildren. ‘Risk of infection high’ Prabhu Teja alleged that Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy and Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh had ignored the ground realities and were playing havoc with the lives of students. “A majority of the students below the age of 15 face the risk of infections as they are still unvaccinated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tnsf-demands-extension-of-holidays-to-schools/article38284876.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,000 cockfight organisers held||Nearly 2,000 organisers of cockfights have been arrested during the three-day Sankranti festival across East Godavari district. More than 25% of the organisers are from the Konaseema region that shares a border with West Godavari district. SP M. Raveendranath Babu said that 554 organisers were arrested in the Konaseema region alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2000-cockfight-organisers-held/article38285273.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:46 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three CCCs to be opened in East Godavari||The East Godavari authorities are preparing to open three COVID Care Centres (CCC), including one on the JNTU-Kakinada campus, to tackle the rising COVID-19 cases. The CCC at Bodasakkurru will cover the patients from the Konaseema region while the one at Bommuru will cater to Rajamahendravaram city and other areas. On Monday, Collector Ch. Hari Kiran announced that at least 50,000 isolation kits have been made ready and would be supplied to the Primary and Community Health Centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-cccs-to-be-opened-in-east-godavari/article38285282.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Noted environmentalist M.K. Prasad passes away||Noted ecologist M. K. Prasad, 89, passed away here on Monday. He was earlier infected with COVID-19. Prof. Prasad, who had served as Pro-Vice Chancellor of Calicut University, was in the forefront of environment protection activities in the State. He had played a crucial role in creating public awareness across the State for protecting the verdant forests of the Silent Valley during the early 70s. He had played a leadership role in the Save Silent Valley campaign, considered the first popular campaign for protecting a forest ecosystem in the State. Scrapping of project It was the green campaign led by Mr. Prasad and others highlighting the ecological significance of the evergreen forest of the area that eventually led to the scrapping of the hydel power project proposed by the Kerala State Electricity Board in the area. Later, the Silent Valley was notified as a national park. Mr. Prasad, who hailed from Cherayi in Vypeen, had led the popular science movement Kerala Sastra Sahithya Parishad, which had undertaken campaigns for popularisation of science in everyday life, as its president. He had also played a key role in the development of the Integrated Rural Technology Centre in Palakkad. He was also involved in the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment Board of the United Nations and was associated with the activities of the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, the Kerala State Biodiversity Board. He had also served as executive chairman and director of the Information Kerala Mission. Biodiversity registry He had also led the preparation of the People’s Biodiversity Registry in local bodies of Ernakulam district much before the Kerala State Biodiversity Board taking up the initiative. The funeral was held at the Ravipuram crematorium at 11.35 a.m. Prof. Prasad is survived by his wife Sherly, former Principal of the Ernakulam Maharaja’s College, and two children, Amal and Anjana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/noted-environmentalist-mk-prasad-passes-away/article64948833.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Actor assault case: 5 more to be examined||The Kerala High Court on Monday allowed the prosecution to examine five additional witnesses in the case relating to the sexual assault on a woman actor in which actor Dileep is an accused. Justice Kauser Edappagath also directed the State government to ensure that a new special public prosecutor is appointed or make some alternative arrangements to conduct the case and see to it that examination of the additional witnesses and production of other documents were done within 10 days. The court allowed the prosecution’s plea for summoning nodal officers of telecom service providers to produce the original of customer applications forms submitted by the accused and the call detail records (CDRs) of the phones allegedly used by the accused. The High Court, however, declined the plea of the prosecution to re-examine three witnesses. The court passed the verdict on the appeals filed by the prosecution challenging the orders of the Ernakulam Additional Special Sessions Court rejecting the prosecution’s applications seeking to recall three witnesses and summon additional witnesses for examination. According to the prosecution's petition, its plea for issuing summons under Section 311 of Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC) to 16 witnesses for taking further evidence was rejected by the special court. Of the 16 witnesses, nine were additional witnesses and the special court allowed summoning of only four. In fact, some of the witnesses had to be recalled to identify the accused persons, the prosecution contended. Crime Branch raids A team of Crime Branch raided the house of Dileep’s friend and hotelier Sarath Nair and of his brother-in-law Sooraj on Monday evening. The raid was continuing into the night. This was in connection with the case registered against Dileep, Sooraj and three others following the statement given by film director Balachandrakumar that they spoke of endangering the life of the police personnel who probed the case. Meanwhile, Dileep filed a petition before the Kerala High Court seeking to restrain the media from printing or telecasting matters relating to the case, including that ofwitnesses or accused, till the trial is concluded. His petition alleged that though the Ernakulam Additional Sessions Court had made the proceedings in-camera, the media were reporting the proceedings.Besides, the investigating officer had been leaking out to the media false and concocted stories in order to prejudice the public against the petitioner since the start of the investigation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-assault-case-5-more-to-be-examined/article38284814.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gati Shakti: Gadkari meets southern leaders||At a meeting of Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari with southern States, Telangana Minister K.T. Rama Rao took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s slogan “ Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas ” and accused the Centre of overlooking Telangana.  Mr. Gadkari was chairing the inaugural session of a conference on PM Gati Shakti — a digital platform for integrated planning and implementation of infrastructure connectivity projects across the country. It was attended by Chief Minister of Karnataka Basavaraj Bommai, Lt. Governor of Puducherry Tamilisai Soundarajan, Chief Minister of Puducherry N. Rangasamy, Minister for Industries, Commerce and IT in Andhra Pradesh Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Kerala Minister P.A. Mohamad Riyas and Telangana’s K.T. Rama Rao. Support in Budget  “The PM often says Team India, Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas . But Telangana is also a part of India. We are the fourth largest contributor to the country’s economy, but we are being overlooked, be it Railways, defence industrial corridor, Expressways... Our appeal is for more support. We also hope for relief and support in the upcoming Budget,” Mr. Rao said making an impassioned appeal in Hindi, the only speaker to speak in the language.  “Hyderabad is a popular destination for defence. We have DRDO, DRDL, DMRL, RCI. On the other hand, there is Bengaluru which has HAL and other labs. A very logical defence corridor would have been between Bengaluru and Hyderabad. But, unfortunately, when we demanded a Defence Industrial Production Corridor for Hyderabad, it was given to Bundelkhand where there is nothing,” said Mr. Rao. He also sought an improved rail network, especially more frequency to various ports such as Krishnapatnam. Improved connectivity Puducherry’s Chief Minister said that expansion work at the UT’s airport was an emergency need. “The present runway length is 1,200 metres, and an additional 1,800 metres is required. Assistance in land acquisition process is an emergency need for the UT. Karaikal is a pilgrimage town and devotees come here not just from all over the country, but from around the world. But no airport facility is available,” Mr. Rangasamy said. He also sought heliports and aid in setting up ferry services. Improved rail connectivity between Puducherry and neighbouring districts as well as a rail link with Chennai were his other demands. “Connectivity from Chennai, Madhavaram and Puducherry is only through road. It is an important thoroughfare for industrial purposes. Development of a rail connectivity to this industrial corridor will be beneficial for the logistics growth of Puducherry,” the Chief Minister said. Karanakta Chief Minister said there was a need for a legal intervention to avoid delays in irrigation projects in the State The Chief Minister also said that different States had different rules for coastal regulation zones and there was a need to have a common set of rules. Mr. Gadkari sought to address Mr. Rao’s concerns and said that the government’s policy was to ensure development of all parts of the country, particularly of backward areas. He emphasised that the Prime Minister Gati Shakti programme would ensure that States were able to attract industries and investment and generate employment. While Tamil Nadu was absent from the inaugural session, a State government official said on the condition of anonymity that it was well represented at the the full-day conference. (With inputs from Dennis S. Jesudasan in Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gati-shakti-gadkari-meets-southern-leaders/article64948832.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||People oppose flyover construction at Ranasthalam||Many public representatives and a majority of the people opposed the construction of a flyover as part of the expansion of national highway at JR Puram, which is popularly known as Ranasthalam, a major business centre of Srikakulam district. Ranasthalam, which was a small town two decades ago, gained importance with its unprecedented development within no time, owing to the establishment of pharmaceutical companies and other industries in its vicinity. It has gained international prominence due to the proposed nuclear power plant at Kovvada in the mandal. The locals fear that the town will lose its significance with the proposed construction of the flyover as part of six-laning of the highway. Over 10,000 people depending on business activities are also worried about the likely loss of their livelihood if the 3 km long flyover with 45 metre width was constructed in the heart of the town. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) could construct a bypass road along with a flyover in the nearby Etcherla town but could not do so in Ranasthalam due to a deadlock over fixing of compensation for the land to be acquired for the construction of a bypass road. The farmers reportedly sought up to Rs. 2 crore per acre, citing the compensation paid during land acquisition at Etcherla town, which is said to be the reason for the NHAI to opt for a flyover from the town itself. Over Rs. 100 crore will be needed to get the required land from farmers and property owners. Flyover Vyatireka Porata Samiti leaders E.T. Raju, Behara Srinivasa Patnaiak and others have already met NHAI authorities, Vizianagaram MP Bellana Chandrasekhar and Etcherla MLA Gorle Kiran Kumar urging them to stop the construction of the flyover.  Srikakulam Collector Shrikesh B. Lathkar told The Hindu that the bypass road could not be taken up with the impasse over the finalisation of compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-oppose-flyover-construction-at-ranasthalam/article38285274.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Annual event at Tirumala a private affair||The annual Ramakrishna Theertha Mukkoti was observed on Monday in ekantham (private) at Tirumala. The event, normally coinciding with Pournami(Full Moon day) in the month of Pushya, attracts several thousands of devotees from across the State as well as the bordering districts of the neighboring States. But in view of the increase in COVID-19 cases, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) decided to observe it in private. A team of priests and temple staff trekked along the hilly terrains of the dense Seshachalam forests and ceremoniously carried out special pujas to the deities existing at the theertham. The TTD also dispensed with the performance of monthly Pournami Garuda seva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/annual-event-at-tirumala-a-private-affair/article38284874.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete infra works in Sri City, founder urges govt.||Sri City Founder and Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy has appealed to the government to complete the pending infrastructure projects in and around the industrial city under the ‘Gati Shakti’ project. Discussion on ‘Gati Shakti’ project As a panel member, he took part in the discussion on the implementation of ‘Gati Shakti’ on Monday, when he highlighted the opportunities for Sri City, lying at the centre of Chennai-Tirupati-Nellore tri-city growth corridor. “The tri-city industrial hub falls under the influence zone of two major industrial corridors viz., Chennai Bengaluru Industrial Corridor and Visakhapatnam Chennai Industrial Corridor. It has emerged as the largest industrial park in South India, with the presence of nearly 200 brands representing 28 countries,” he recalled. At the panel discussion following the preliminary session of the virtual conference of Ministers of Southern India on ‘PM Gati Shakti Southern Zone’ organised by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Mr. Sannareddy invited attention of the authorities on the widening of the National Highway 16 and the connecting road, six-lining between Chennai and Tada, completion of works on all flyovers, upgradation of Tada railhead to a container zone with national connectivity, enhanced passenger rail/ local EMU connectivity between Chennai and Nellore, improvement of efficiency and container handling capacity in Chennai, Ennore and Krishnapatnam ports, natural gas pipeline for Sri City to enable green manufacturing, optical fiber, IoT and 4G network improvement in the industrial clusters through capital incentive to telecom operators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-infra-works-in-sri-city-founder-urges-govt/article38284875.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Threat to CM: Tirupati police register case||A case has been registered in the Tirupati East police station on Monday, pertaining to a death threat issued to the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy by an unidentified person on Twitter. The person not only made derogatory comments against the Chief Minister and his family members, but also threatened to become a ‘suicide bomber’ to kill him. Based on the directions of the Member of Parliament (Tirupati) M. Gurumoorthy, the complainant Mylam Srikanth Reddy filed a written complaint against the person hiding behind the seemingly-fake identity.  When contacted by The Hindu , Dr. Gurumoorthy confirmed having filed a complaint and expressed pain over such ‘misguided’ people making comments ‘that are bad in taste’. “Criticism is welcome, but there is a line of decency,” he cautioned.  The Tirupati East police registered a case under sections 153A, 505 (2), 507 of IPC, 66 r/w 43 of IT Act 2000-2008.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/threat-to-cm-tirupati-police-register-case/article38285261.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 boys drown in T.N. river||In a tragic incident, six boys, including five school students, drowned while bathing in River Amaravathi at Dharapuram in Tiruppur district on Monday. According to the police, the victims M. Amirtha Krishnan, 18, R. Sridhar, 17, R. Ranjith, 20, T. Yuvan, 19, T. Mohan, 17, and M. Chakkaravarman, 18, hailing from Annamalai Garden locality in Iduvai near Tiruppur, were part of a group on pilgrimage to the Muniyappan temple in Mambarai near Oddanchatram in Dindigul district. Around 30 residents of the locality had gone to the temple in two vehicles on Monday. While returning from the temple, 13 boys from the group travelled in a vehicle and the remaining 17 elders boarded the second vehicle. Around 4 p.m., the boys stopped the vehicle near Athupalam and eight of them — Ranjith, a college student, and the rest studying in various classes — decided to take a dip in the Amaravathi. Screamed for help However, soon after getting into the river, they screamed for help. The other boys, who were inside the parked vehicle, managed to rescue two of them, Jeeva and Saran. The six others had gone far into the river and eventually drowned, the police said. “None of the boys knew swimming and the depth was around 15 feet at that spot,” said S. Jayachandran, Station Officer of Dharapuram Fire Station who led the operation to retrieve the bodies following an alert from the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services control room in Chennai at around 4.20 p.m. Around 10 fire service personnel from Dharapuram Fire Station were involved in the operation. The effort lasted for around an hour and six bodies were recovered by around 5.30 p.m., he said. The bodies were handed over to the Dharapuram police, who sent them to the local Government Hospital for autopsy. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Dharapuram Sub-division) R. Dhanarasu, who visited the spot, told The Hindu that the Tiruppur District Police will take steps to prevent such deaths in coordination with the Public Works Department.  None of the boys knew swimming and the depth was around 15 feet. S. Jayachandran Station Officer of Dharapuram Fire Station||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-drown-in-amaravathi/article38284917.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:25 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positivity rate on a steady climb||The State reported 4,108 fresh cases of COVID-19 in the 24 hours ending Monday morning even as only 22,882 samples were tested. The test positivity rate was at 17.95%, the highest in the past 233 days since May 30, 2021. No death was reported in the past day. Only five COVID-19 deaths were reported in the past week. The cumulative tally increased to 21,10,388 and the death toll remains at 14,510. The number of active cases increased to 30,182, tripling in just six days as an average of 4,500 cases were reported in the past five days. Visakhapatnam and Chittoor continued to report over a thousand new cases each. Visakhapatnam reported 1,018 cases in the past day, followed by Chittoor (1,004), Guntur (345), Kadapa (295), East Godavari (263), Nellore (261), Prakasam (176), Krishna (170), Vizianagaram (169), Anantapur (162), Srikakulam (114), Kurnool (85) and West Godavari (46). Chittoor and Visakhapatnam together have over 44% of the State's active cases. District tallies The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,97,333), Chittoor (2,56,106), Guntur (1,81,963), West Godavari (1,80,784), Visakhapatnam (1,65,923), Anantapur (1,60,235), Nellore (1,49,416), Prakasam (1,39,882), Srikakulam (1,25,521), Kurnool (1,25,442), Krishna (1,22,767), Kadapa (1,17,455) and Vizianagaram (84,666).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/positivity-rate-on-a-steady-climb/article64948918.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,200 cases booked against cockfight organisers in Eluru range||Police registered more than 2,200 cases in total against cockfight organisers and gamblers and seized about Rs. 30 lakh from their possession during raids conducted in Eluru Range, comprising West Godavari, Krishna and East Godavari districts. “In West Godavari district, police registered 452 cases against organisers and punters and arrested 1,085 of them. Police seized Rs. 6.67 lakh cash, 582 fowls and 669 knives from them during raids,” said Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma. Gamblers held  As many as 670 gamblers were arrested and about Rs. 13.70 lakh cash was recovered from them during raids at Jangareddygudem, Kovvur, Narsapuram and other places, the SP told The Hindu on Monday.  Knives seized In East Godavari, police booked 422 cases under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Ac, 1960, against 939 persons and seized Rs. 3.79 lakh from their possession. In all, 838 roosters and 858 knives were seized from the arenas from various divisions in the district, said SP M. Ravindranath Babu. Cases were registered against 248 persons under Section 9 (1) of Gaming Act, while 592 gamblers were arrested. Police seized Rs. 3.65 lakh fromthem, Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. “In Krishna district, the Joint Action Teams and the Special Party Police conducted raids in Avanigadda, Nagayalanka, Nandigama, Jaggaiahpeta, Gudivada, Kaikalur, Machilipatnam, Pedana, Nuzvid, Tiruvuru and other places and booked more than 400 cases against the cockfight organisers and the punters,” said SP Siddharth Kaushal. Hundreds of people were arrested for playing ‘gundata’ and other banned games in West Godavari district, and police seized about Rs. 8.5 lakh cash from them, Mr. Rahul Dev said. The accused, along with the seized material, would be produced in the court, Mr. Siddharth Kaushal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-arrest-cockfight-organisers-gamblers/article64948924.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temples told to limit entry of devotees to 1,000 per hour||Temple managements across the State have been directed to scale down the number of devotees arriving for darshan to 1,000 per hour and halve the issuance of seva tickets in the wake of a spurt in COVID-19 cases. Announcing the restrictions on Monday, Endowments Department Commissioner M. Hari Jawaharlal asked temple managements to ensure that all COVID-19 protocols and standard operating procedures (SOPs) were adhered to strictly. The department also suggests to the temples to perform special prayers seeking the eradication of the pandemic, Mr. Jawaharlal said. “All outside processions are banned. Processions will be conducted within the temple compound (Prakaram) and on a lesser scale,” he said, adding that antaralaya darshan, theertham, free prasadam shall not be offered to devotees,” the Commissioner said. The Commissioner added that Annaprasadam in the dining halls was not permitted. Distribution of food in packets is also banned keeping in view the safety of employees, Mr. Jawaharlal said. “Prasadam sales can be continued but on a lesser scale. The staff working there shall follow all COVID-19 SOPs,” he said. Special prayers Seeking the eradication of the pandemic, all Category-A temples shall perform any of the following prayers — Mrityunjaya Homam, Dhanvantari Homam, Seetala Homam, Ayushya Homam, Viratha Parva Parayanam, or the Sundarakanda Parayanam on a daily basis apart from their regular sevas and homams. In the B and C category temples, Sahasra Naama Parayanams shall be conducted as per their budget limits, he said. Mr. Jawaharlal asked the temples to monitor pilgrims entering queue lines. If a devotee is found without a mask, the temple shall arrange for one on a ‘no-profit, no loss’ basis. “’No Mask- No Entry’ shall be the fundamental rule. The entire premises of the temple should be frequently sanitised with 1% sodium hypochlorite thrice a day, with focus on frequently touched places,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temples-told-to-limit-entry-of-devotees-to-1000-per-hour/article64948913.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyber cells to be set up across State||The State government will set up social media laboratories and cyber cells at district and State-level to prevent and detect cybercrime cases, said Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. The new cells and laboratories would be established with disk forensic tools, crime and cyber investigation equipment, mobile forensic and password recovery equipment, call data recording, proxy server and other techniques, the DGP said. Cases pertaining to OTP frauds, cyber bullying, online crime against children and women, fraud mails and messages, matrimonial frauds and other cases would be probed in the newly-proposed labs. 1,551 cyber bully sheets opened in A.P. Training inaugurated Mr. Sawang, who inaugurated the online training for SIs, ASIs and other staff on Monday, said that the staff will operate the cyber cells and social media laboratories in the districts and at State headquarters. “Training is being imparted to 300 qualified staff at Anantapur, Ongole and Vizianagaram Police Training Colleges (PTCs) and about 20,000 staff would be trained in a phased manner to improve the investigation building capacity of police stations and special police units in the next few years,” the DGP said. The trained staff will focus on enlightening the public on cybercrimes, reacting to the complaints, preliminary investigation, collecting digital evidence, prevention of further loss and monitoring of cyber bully sheeters. “As per the directions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, focus is being laid on cyber frauds. Superintendents of Police (SPs), Additional SPs (ASPs), Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) and other officers would be provided training on dealing and investigating cyber crime cases and different types of cyber frauds,” Mr. Sawang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cyber-cells-to-be-set-up-across-state/article38284872.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. determined to complete academic year on time: Suresh||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh has nearly ruled out the possibility of declaring holidays for schools in view of the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Online education is limited to a certain level, and it cannot be an alternative to offline (physical) classes,” the Minister asserted. Talking to reporters at the Secretariat on Monday, the Education Minister said that the scenario in Andhra Pradesh cannot be compared to other States. “Schools are being run according to the conditions in the State. The schools were opened here in August, much before other States. Andhra Pradesh conducted Intermediate examinations last year even as neighbouring States were unable to,” the Minister said. The government was determined to complete the academic year as per schedule. All necessary steps were being taken to ensure that there was no loss of academic year. The schools were being run in adherence to COVID-19 guidelines, he said. Mr. Suresh said that the schools were opened with the permission of the parents, and 61% of attendance was registered in schools across the State soon after the Sankranti holidays. Anantapur recorded 70% attendance, while 67% attendance was registered in Kadapa, Guntur and Prakasam districts, he said. “It is unfortunate that Opposition parties are demanding the closure of schools on the premise that vaccination has not been completed. The Rt-PCR tests are being conducted regularly. The government is prepared to face any kind of exigency. The guidelines clearly state that reopening schools has nothing to do with the spread of COVID. The government has set up control rooms at Commissionerates to get feedback on COVID-19. The control room for school education can be called on 7833888555. Another control room (9440816025) has been set up for Intermediate education,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-determined-to-complete-academic-year-on-time-suresh/article64948915.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Financial hardship cannot be ground to avoid payment, argue power companies||A Division Bench of the High Court led by Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and comprising Justice N. Jayasurya heard the petitions that challenged the State government’s decision to review the Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) on Monday. Representing the power companies, senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan and counsels Basava Prabhu Patil, Sajan Poovaiah, Aniket Prasun and Challa Gunaranjan argued that the review of PPAs was apolicy initiated after the change in government in 2019 and such regime changes can’t be the basis for such decisions of the government. They insisted that financial hardship could not be a ground for the DISCOMs to avoid payment obligations under a PPA and observed that the government was responsible for their woes as it did not pay their subsidy grants and receivables amounting to nearly Rs. 25,000 crore. The government can’t do charity with the monies of power producers, they said. Further, the petitioners’ advocates said that having found the relevant G.O and the show cause notice to be bad, the High Court could not have granted interim relief of payments at Rs. 2.43 per unit. Advocate General S. Sriram said it was not a case of ‘regime revenge’ as alleged and maintained that the process of seeking amendment of the tariff began in 2015 itself and a case was filed with the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) in 2018. He contended that there were lawful grounds for the review of PPAs as disclosed by the DISCOMs but for some reason, the power producers appear to be wanting to evade scrutiny by the APERC withregard to the viability of the pricingmechanism. The DISCOMs areenabled by law and the APERC is alsoempowered to undertake a revision of tariffs, he asserted. The matters were adjourned for further hearing on January 18||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/financial-hardship-cannot-be-ground-to-avoid-payment-argue-power-companies/article38285255.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Academic audit to give fillip to welfare schools’||To usher in quality, the State government has introduced the concept of ‘academic audit’ in the 192 institutes run by the Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare Residential Educational Society, that works under the Department of Social Welfare. The objective is to assess the performance of the schools by identifying the gaps and initiate effective measures to rectify them. Academic Audit Teams (AAT) nominated by the Secretary, Social Welfare Department, visit schools and assess their performance for 200 marks by focussing on key aspects such as administrative capabilities, teacher assessment, student learning assessment and sports and co-curricular activities in the institutes. Proformas with benchmarks and key performance indicators have been designed under the guidance of experts from the Collegiate Education. In phase-I, 31 of the 192 institutes have been audited in the last three days and the remaining ones will be audited after Sankranthi holidays. The schools will be ranked based on the marks obtained and the low-performing ones would be constantly monitored by the State academic monitoring unit. The concept of Academic and Administrative Audits (AAA) for Degree colleges was formulated by the Principal Secretary, Social Welfare Department K. Suneetha when she was Commissioner of the College Education. She felt the need to extend it to the social welfare schools to fill the gaps and thus the first ever school-level comprehensive academic audit in the country was initiated in the State. Besides a State-level Academic Audit (AA) committee comprising an Academic Monitoring Officer/ Joint Secretary (Academics)-Academic Audit Officer, District Coordinating Officer-Deputy Academic Audit Officer, a Junior Lecturer/ Post-Graduate teacher- Subject Matter Experts (one for languages, one for Science, one for Humanities and one for Mathematics), the district-level committee includes a District Coordinating Officer-Academic Audit Officer, Principal- Deputy Academic Audit Officer, one Junior Lecturer and one Post Graduate teacher. The State panel not only nominates the Deputy Academic Audit Officer and subject matter experts for district committees, but also randomly allocates the schools to the district academic audit teams, following the policy of “no academic committee will audit its own district.” It collects the audit reports from the districts panels and verifies them and if there is a lapse, it asks for a fresh report from the district AA team within 10 days with an explanation. It then consolidates all the audit reports and gives the schools rankings based on the marks given to them and the list should be posted on the department website. “The AA reports will help the schools introspect and strive to better their performance in future,” said Minister for Social Welfare P. Viswaroop, at a Board meeting recently. Secretary K. Harshavardhan said the initiative would help the schools identify their weak points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/academic-audit-to-give-fillip-to-welfare-schools/article38285263.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:25 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Logistics sector a top priority for govt.: Mekapati||Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy on Monday said that the Andhra Pradesh (AP) government has accorded top priority to strengthening the logistics network by investing heavily in road infrastructure, new and renewable energy, Fibernet connectivity and development of industrial nodes and connecting them with high-quality external infrastructure in order to improve competitiveness and reduce costs. Participating in a virtual south zonal conference on the Prime Minister’s Gati Shakti National Masterplan organised by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on Monday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said that the government was working towards integrated logistics-based infrastructure development. It was aimed at achieving port-led industrialisation with ultra-modern multi-purpose ports and developing road and rail-based economic corridors having large industrial hubs, fishing harbours, and processing zones. The government was ensuring that airports had road, rail and possible sea connectivity to maximise their potential of becoming multi-modal cargo hubs.  Besides, the government was expanding natural gas distribution through the AP Gas Distribution Corporation (APGDC).  The Roads and Buildings Department undertook double-laning of all roads connecting mandal headquarters to district headquarters at a cost of Rs. 6,400 crore with financial assistance from the New Development Bank, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/logistics-sector-a-top-priority-for-govt-mekapati/article38285250.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Prevent crime against women’||Andhra Pradesh Women’s Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma has thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for absorbing Mahila Police into the Police Department, by issuing a special GO. The government has recently issued an order recognising Mahila Police as a special unit in the Police Department and issued guidelines for giving promotions and transfers. Ms. Padma, in a statement here on Monday, said that Andhra Pradesh is the only State which introduced the Mahila Police system to prevent crime against women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prevent-crime-against-women/article38285320.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Concerns over pollution in One Town raised at Spandana||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation(VMC) received 13 grievances at the redressal programme Spandana on Monday. Construction of retaining wall alongside the Gollapalem Gattu, control of air pollution in One-Town area were among the appeals made by the public in the programme. Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi asked the officials concerned to take up the grievances and resolve them at the earliest. The programme, conducted by the Sub-Collector’s office, received 59 grievances from the public. Vijayawada Sub-Collector G.S.S. Praveen Chand said that of the total grievances, 24 are related to the revenue department, 9 are related to VMC and 26 are related to other departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/concerns-over-pollution-in-one-town-raised-at-spandana/article38284871.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen war room to be set up||Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy has said that a district-level oxygen war room will be set up in the Collectorate to monitor the oxygen need in the hospitals and its transportation here. The Joint Collector was addressing a meeting on COVID preparedness here on Monday. GPS trackers Joint Collector (Revenue & Civil Supplies), Transport Department official, an Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) rank officer, Deputy Director (Industries), District Coordinator of Health Services (DCHS), Assistant Director (Drug Control), District IMA president, and some others will act as nodal officers in the war room, he said. G.P.S. trackers should be affixed to the oxygen supply tankers and their movement should be monitored, Mr. Venugopal Reddy said. ‘Oxygen Savers’ He instructed the officials to arrange teams under the banner ‘Oxygen Savers’ in every hospital, and the team would monitor the status of the oxygen usage in the hospital. The Joint Collector also asked the District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO-i/c) S Vijaya Lakshmi, to take stock of occupied beds, including the ICU beds and ventilators from all the hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in the district. He said that the officials should estimate the oxygen need and must ensure that there is no shortage in the hospitals by making all arrangements in advance. He enquired about the availability of oxygen concentrators, LMO tanks, D-type cylinders and oxygen refillers in the district. DCHS Lakshmana Rao, District Revenue Officer P. Kishore, representatives from the Transport Department, IMA and the Industries Department attended the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-level-oxygen-war-room-to-be-set-up-in-collectorate/article64948842.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 victims recall traumatic memories||The 27-year-old P. Dinakar lost his father P.J Ravi Kumar (57), who used to work as an ASI at Nakkapalle Police Station, due to COVID-19 in June 2021. Completely destroyed after losing their beloved, family members of Ravi Kumar are adjusting to the new normal. Yet again, the news of third wave is giving them a scare. “His loss cannot be replaced. He was physically fit, double vaccinated, provided medication on time, but was not able to make it,” recalls Dinakar. For several months, the family had experienced the trauma and it was very tough to come out of the tragic incident and start a new life, he said. “Yes, there is a small sense of panic as cases started to rise again. But, we have also understood that these variants keep on coming. Such waves should be never neglected and we should never let the guard down.,” he said. As the third wave seems to be a reality, affected families, recall the painful memories. While some are in a state of panic, they caution others to take situation seriously and not to let the guard down. B.J.V. Mahesh, a resident of Madhavadhara, recalls how he ran from one hospital to another shifting his COVID-19 affected uncle, for oxygen during April 2021. Despite strenuous efforts for almost two days, he had lost a member in his family. “The scenes at hospital and Gnanapuram crematorium still haunt us. I have seen some denizens expressing sadness and making fun in social media for postponement of movies and imposing of restrictions. COVID-19 should be taken seriously. The mask we wear is not only for us, but also for others,” he said. K. Sirisha (name changed), a resident of Seethammadhara, had lost her father in the second wave. Since then, her family had stopped going to public places. ”After returning home, we are sanitising every item . We are taking more precautions after the cases have started to rise,” she said. “We have seen some medical experts advising people not to panic claiming Omicron may be mild compared to Delta . But now, many are ignoring even basic precautions, like wearing masks,” says K. Govinda Rao, who works as a Multi-Purpose Health Assistant in Health Department, Ananthagiri mandal. “People need to realise that variant may be mild, but they should strictly follow COVID-19 protocol, without neglecting. One should come forward for vaccination and also test immediately, if they have symptoms,” he added. Mr, Govinda Rao, who conducts COVID-19 tests for tribals in the Agency, was affected by COVID-19 during the first wave. He was treated on ventilator, for some days at King George Hospital, after experiencing severe respiratory problems. “During a night on ventilator, I felt that, I may not see a new morning again. But, may be because of vaccination, I have survived,” he recalls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-victims-recall-traumatic-memories/article38285326.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Team of doctors inspects Rudakota for the second time||A team of experts from King George Hospital (KGH) visited Patha Rudakota, also known as P. Rudakota village, in Pedabayulu mandal to investigate the case of mysterious deaths of infants for the past two years in Visakhapatnam Agency. This is for the second time in the last two months, the medical officials have visited the village. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna said that the team had visited the village on January 12, conducted screening of the women from the village who have lost their children, interacted with them and checked the surroundings of the village. He said that the team is yet to give a report. There are about 138 households in the village with different tribal communities such as Bagatha, Kondadora and a few others inhabiting it. The village has been reporting infant deaths since the last two years. In the last two years, 14 deaths were reported, including eight in the last nine months. During the month of December, a team of doctors from KGH had visited the village and conducted investigation. The doctors in their report stated that respiratory issues led to the deaths. It was due to the lack of awareness on how to feed milk to the infants and the care to be given immediately after feeding, resulted in the deaths, the report stated. However, a number of villagers, especially some mothers who have lost their children, have expressed dissatisfaction on the report. Latha (Name changed), a resident of the village, said that they know how to feed children. “Apart from learning it from the doctors while delivery, our mothers also tell us about it. We are not convinced with the health team investigation,” she said. About 10 days ago, Governor, Biswa Bhushan Harichandan had expressed concern over the death of infants and ordered the Tribal Welfare Department to obtain a detailed investigation report. ‘Calcium deficiency in mothers’ The Department in their report attributed the deaths to the calcium deficiency in the mothers and drinking water contamination due to rusting of pipelines which were laid long time ago. Further inquiry was also ordered to contain the deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctors-team-inspects-rudakota-for-the-second-time/article38285280.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||IGNOU offering M.A. course on CSR||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has launched a Post-graduate programme in Corporate Social Responsibility (MACSR) from January 2022 session. It is available in Open and Distance Learning (ODL) mode across the country. This programme is meant for the CSR professionals and for graduates/Post Graduates who are interested to have a career in CSR. According to Dharmarao Gonipati, Regional Director, IGNOU, India is the first country to make Corporate Social Responsibility mandatory for select categories of companies under the Companies Act 2013. Eligibility Any graduate from a recognised university/institution is eligible to take admission into this programme and the programme fee will be Rs. 14,000. This is a two-year duration course and can be completed in a maximum span of four years. Online admissions Admissions will be only through online mode and can be taken from the following link: https://ignouadmission.samarth.edu.in/ or from IGNOU Study Centres situated in Dr. L. Bullayya College, Visakhapatnam and Government Autonomous College, Rajahmundry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ignou-offering-ma-course-on-corporate-social-responsibility/article38285281.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ensure implementation of COVID protocols’||The Naval Armament Depot Civil Employees Union has appealed to the District Collector to implement the COVID-19 protocols as directed by the Union Government at the workplace. Handing over a memorandum to the District Collector here on Monday, the union alleged that the management of NAD was not implementing the COVID control measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-implementation-of-covid-protocols/article38285328.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||105 more arrested for ‘taking part’ in rooster fights||The district police on Monday continued their drive and arrested another 105 persons and booked about 36 cases for allegedly being involved in cockfighting, gambling and a few other sports as part of Sankranti. Rs. 1.26 lakh seized On Monday, six cases were reported in Payakaraopeta Police Station limits, S. Rayavaram reported four cases, Yelamanchali and Anakapalle (Rural) police stations reported three cases each. The police have seized Rs. 1.26 lakh and 76 roosters from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/105-more-arrested-for-taking-part-in-rooster-fights/article38285323.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah Naidu to visit district from tomorrow||Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy held a meeting here on Monday with officials to discuss about the arrangements for the upcoming visit of Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu scheduled from January 19 to 22. He said that officers from various departments have been allotted various works to organise the programmes in a smooth manner. He has asked the King George Hospital officials to arrange doctors during the visit and the Transport Department officials to depute vehicles. He also enquired about the arrangements made at the airport and the Port Guest House where the Vice-President would be staying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiah-naidu-to-visit-district-from-tomorrow/article38285329.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 3,149 new infections in 72 hours||For the third day in a row, the single-day COVID-19 tally in the district has crossed the 1,000-mark. In the last 24 hours, the district saw 1,018 new infections, taking the cumulative tally to 1,66,443. The total number of new cases recorded in the last three days were 3,149. No deaths were recorded and 193 persons who were undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered, in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries and death toll stands at 1,58,887 and 1,112 respectively. The active cases stand at 6,444. Most of the positive cases are being treated under home isolation, it was learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3149-covid-cases-in-72-hours-in-vizag/article38285279.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||FORTO plans agitation for 30% fitment||The Forum of Registered Teachers’ Organisations’ State president Karanam Harikrishna and general secretary Samala Simhachalam on Monday announced that FORTO would take up a three-phased agitation to achieve 30% fitment and continuation of HRA slabs. All the teachers will wear black badges on January 19 and 20 as part of the agitation. The association members will give representations to officials on January 24. Protests have been planned at all 13 district collectors’ offices on January 29, Mr. Simhachalam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forto-plans-agitation-for-30-fitment/article38285275.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:25 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan for reducing gap for precaution dose to six months||He expressed satisfaction that the vaccination for those in 15-18 age group had been completed (100%) in Nellore and West Godavari, and reached 90% in five districts and 80% in four districts. The Chief Minister told the officials to make adequate quantities of oxygen and medicines available to cope with the third wave of the pandemic. Over 50,000 beds ready across State Officials said they were ready to face any situation arising from the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases and that 53,184 beds were arranged across the State to treat the patients. They said only 1,100 people were hospitalised out of 27,000 active cases and only 600 of them were on oxygen support. Patients used to take 14 days to get discharged earlier and it came down to seven days. CCC in every district The government had set up one COVID care centre (CCC) in each constituency and arranged a total of 28,000 beds in them, the officials said, adding that as per the fresh guidelines of ICMR, people with no COVID symptoms need not be tested and only those in the high risk category are required to be diagnosed. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma, Principal Secretary (Health & Family Welfare) Anil Kumar Singhal, Principal Secretary (COVID management and vaccination) M. Ravi Chandra and other senior officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-for-reducing-gap-for-precaution-dose-to-six-months/article38285249.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back to business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/back-to-business/article64948927.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:29 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Taking no chances||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/taking-no-chances/article64948845.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||Strings attached to Sankranti joy||The ubiquitous presence of abandoned kites and manjas (threads) in public places is posing grave danger and problems to city residents, ranging between power interruptions and severe injuries. Despite the Forest department’s assurance of effective control on sale and purchase of synthetic manja during this festive season, the nylon threads rolling about on the roads speak for their unbridled use. Post the Sankranthi festival, the tangled manja is found lying on the roads and hanging from electrical poles almost everywhere. Almost invisible to walkers and vehicle riders, it is causing them to inadvertently trip over it or get seriously injured. A number of persons were injured, some of them severely, due to manja cuts on hands and necks. Two bike riders from the city, who sustained serious injuries from kite manja, survived after undergoing complicated surgical procedures at two different corporate hospitals. Several other instances have not yet been reported. “I had a close brush with the killer manja when I went jogging. Thankfully, I noticed it before the thread could cut my throat, and stopped it with my hands,” Ramakrishna, a regular jogger at LB Stadium, said. The nylon thread poses another problem in its non-breakability, rendering it very difficult to dispose of or destroy. “Usually, when we find kite manja on the roads, we try to break them into pieces, to ensure that no harm comes in anybody’s way. But Chinese manja does not break with bare hands. I have seen scores of people trip over the thread, and animals getting entangled in it,” said Harinarayan, a shopkeeper in L.B. Nagar. Social media platforms are abuzz with such instances and pictures of wounds caused by the Chinese manja. “Was lucky enough to be saved from throat slit due to Chinese manja on Saturday while travelling on 2 wheeler at Basheerbagh flyover, but my thumb got a deep cut in process to save my throat,” tweeted one Jeeten Agarwal, posting the picture of his bleeding thumb. In another viral tweet, a named user Syed Kamran Hussain tagged the Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao, seeking restrictions on kite-flying especially on main roads. He posted pictures of a deep gash on his throat which required multiple stitches, and said he had been injured on Shalibanda main road. The National Green Tribunal, responding to a plea by animal rights organisations, had issued orders in 2017, prohibiting the manufacture, sale, storage, purchase and use of nylon and glass coated manjas, as they proved dangerous to birds, animals, and humans alike. Other than issuing customary statements before Sankranti, urging public to report the sale of such manja, government agencies such as the police, Forest department and the Pollution Control Board have done next to nothing in enforcing the orders, as evident from the rampant use of the banned manja.  When we find kite manja on the roads, we try to break them into pieces, to ensure that no harm comes in anybody’s way. But Chinese manja does not break with bare hands. Harinarayan, Shopkeeper||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/strings-attached-to-sankranti-revelry/article64949024.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||Pontiff’s remarks create furore||Leaders of Kula Vivaksha Porata Samiti, Telangana Vidyavanthula Vedika, Inti Party, Madiga Reservation Porata Samiti, Yerukala Sangam and organisations representing SC/ST problems on Monday petitioned Nalgonda Town-II police to arrest Sri Vaishnava pontiff Chinna Jeeyar Swamy for ridiculing dietary habits of certain sections. “His comments ridiculing dietary habits of non-vegetarians, and SC/ST, BC and marginalised groups, would disturb peace and lead to disorder in society,” they said, submitting their petition to officials. TV discourse They said the pontiff’s discourse, as recorded by a devotional Telugu television channel last week, was against non-vegetarians and in the nature of ridiculing the liberties recognised by the Constitution. “He very well knows that people consume egg or meat irrespective of castes, religions and cultures. Swamy’s comments are only to divide the society, he must tender an apology to all non-vegetarians,” M. Bhiksham and Bakaram Srinivas said, who also said he should be booked under the provisions of SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. For Pandula Saidulu, “Chinna Jeeyar Swamy, who does not understand the concepts of equality, lacks the moral requirements to unveil the Statue of Equality, of Ramanujacharya, scheduled for next month.” He added that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who is a non-vegetarian, must react on the pontiff’s comments. A laughing Mr. Chinna Jeeyar Swamy, as seen in the recorded video, had said: “If you eat pork, you would only think like a pig. If you eat mutton, you would only follow the herd like a goat as your own brain stops working. If you take eggs, you would only behave like a chicken – peck in the dirt, place to place, and eat from it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pontiffs-remarks-create-furore/article64949020.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Extend crop damage costs to all farmers, CM urged||Rytu Swarajya Vedika (RSV), an NGO working for the farmers, has urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to extend crop damage losses to all the farmer who lost crop due to heavy rains in the year 2019 and 2020 as well. Responding to the statement on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s schedule on Tuesday to visit Warangal district to examine the crop loss by farmers due to heavy rains, the RSV said that the High Court has directed the State government in September 2021 to pay compensation to the farmers who lost crop. “On September 28, 2021, the High Court, based on the petition filed by RSV, directed the State government to prepare the list of farmers who lost crop and pay them compensation within one month. Already four months have passed but so far nothing has transpired so far,” said Vissa Kiran Kumar, one of the petitioners. Informing that crop loss was not limited only to Narsampet, Mr Kiran Kumar said that crop loss was reported in about 15 lakh acres in October, 2020, and though the Centre has released an amount of Rs. 185 crore, the amount has not reached farmers. Stating that crop loss was reported in 2021 also, it urged the Chief Minister to do justice to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/extend-crop-damage-costs-to-all-farmers-cm-urged/article38285288.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:38 IST,TELANGANA||Cabinet approves ‘Mana ooru, mana badi’ programme||A meeting of the Cabinet on Monday approved ‘Mana ooru, mana badi’ programme aimed at allround development and creation of effective basic infrastructure in schools across the State. The programme will be implemented in three years with a budget of Rs. 7,289 crore to benefit 19.84 lakh children of 26.065 schools. The amount will be spent on setting up digital classrooms, construction of additional classrooms and taking up repairs to schools. The meeting decided to introduce the programme in the first phase in the current academic year in 9,123 government and local body schools which had high rate of enrolment of children. The administrative sanction for all works in schools will be given by the Collectors. The execution of work will be handled by school management committees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cabinet-approves-mana-ooru-mana-badi-programme/article38285114.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||SCCL plans large-scale testing to contain COVID-19 spread||The management of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has decided to conduct COVID-19 infection tracing tests on all its employees and workers as part of measures to contain the spread of virus infection in the ongoing third wave of the pandemic. Apart from creating awareness among them on the precautionary measures to be taken by the employees and workers, they would also be distributed masks and sanitizer, directors of the company S. Chandrasekhar (Operations) and N. Balaram (Finance, Personnel, Projects and Planning), who participated from Hyderabad and Kothagudem, respectively, said on Monday. At review meeting held virtually on the Covid-19 containment measures being taken in SCCL, the Directors said they were planning to repeat the strategy implemented in the first two waves, wherein Covid-19 tests were conducted on a large scale for the employees, their family members and outsourced staff so that infected persons could be separated, kept isolation and given treatment. They stated that there are 913 active cases of COVID-19 in SCCL areas now, including 382 employees, 415 of their family members and 116 outsourced staff. As the company has completed 100% vaccination of its employees, their family members and outsourced staff, the impact (load) of virus among the infected now is very low. The officials have been instructed to keep the isolation (quarantine) centres and hospital beds ready to meet any exigency. They were told to take up awareness programmes for mine workers by involving the managers of mines on wearing of masks and maintaining social distance. General Manager (Coordination) K. Suryanarayana, who participated from Hyderabad, said they were providing rapid testing kits, medicines, home isolation kits, sanitizers to all areas. The Directors stated that those infected with COVID-19 in the third wave would be given a week’s special leave as against 14 days given in the first two waves as per the guidelines issued by the State and Central governments. Such employees and workers could rejoin duties after a week’s home isolation without even getting tested again and in case of those hospitalised the doctors attending them would take a call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-plans-large-scale-testing-to-contain-covid-19-spread/article64949008.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:59 IST,TELANGANA||Ghanapur oustees stall project work||The oustees of Ghanapur village in Toguta mandal of Siddipet district have stalled the ongoing work of Mallannasagar. They demand that complete payments must be released to them before the work starts. A large number of villagers came to the worksite and staged a protest alleging that the promises made to them were not fulfilled by officials. “Earlier, officials promised to clear pending payments before January 16. Keeping the promise in mind, we allowed the work to continue. But there was no response from officials despite repeated appeals. This forced us to stall work. When payments were cleared for oustees of other villages, why not for farmers from our village?” asked the angry villagers, stalling work. On coming to know of this, the representatives of the construction company and police rushed to the spot and held discussions with the agitators. The company representatives told the agitators that the delay was because the Collector was shifted recently and that the payments will be made shortly. Meanwhile, the company officials promised to resume work only after the government clears the pending payment and went back with the heavy machinery. It was then that the villagers returned home. “The officials and public representatives made a promise of paying Rs. 13 lakh per acre, but only a part of it was cleared. We approached officials several times for the remaining amount but there was no response, thus forcing us to stop work. Payment has to be cleared for 78 acres pertaining to about 90 farmers,” said a villager on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, Touguta sub-inspector Karunakar Reddy, who spoke with farmers, said that the construction company representatives promised not to take up work till the pending payments are cleared and that farmers need not worry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghanapur-oustees-stall-project-work/article64949011.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||Two operated on for manja cuts||Two persons, who had suffered serious manja-related neck injuries in separate incidents, had to undergo urgent surgery. One of them, a 22-year-old, sustained a deep cut caused by the manja (thread used to fly kites) while riding his bike here on Saturday evening. Several blood vessels, including external jugular, thyroid gland and neck muscles, were severed leading to profuse bleeding. A cardiovascular surgical team at Apollo Hospitals operated on him as the injuries posed threat to his life. Near-fatal injury “He was rushed to the operation theatre immediately. He seemed pale and had an abnormally rapid heart rate with reasonable blood pressure. The windpipe, too, had a cut but the injury didn’t protrude deep inside his airway. Considering the extensive internal injuries, any delay in his arrival and performing of the surgery would have proved fatal,” informed a press release. Senior consultant and chief cardiac surgeon at the hospital, K. Venkat Reddy said he and a team consisting of specialist surgeons took up a two-hour surgery on emergency basis. They sutured the vessels and stopped bleeding. Neck muscles were approximated. The patient was shifted to ICU after a few more procedures. The patient has since recovered and is on soft diet in ICU. The other person, a 45-year-old man from Uppal, suffered a deep gash in the neck which got caught up in manja while he riding his bike in Jiyaguda. He was admitted to Kamineni Hospital, LB Nagar, and underwent surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/manja-cuts-land-two-on-the-operation-table/article64949023.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||OGH doctors perform surgery on 3 children with rare disorder||Three children with a rare genetic liver disorder known as Progressive Familial Intrahepatic Cholestasis (PFIC) were operated on by specialist doctors at the Osmania General Hospital. Usually, liver transplantation is recommended to treat the disorder. However, doctors from the government hospital used ileal exclusion surgery to operate on two of the patients. This procedure is rarely performed in India. The children were discharged a few days ago. Head of Surgical Gastroenterology department at OGH, Ch. Madhusudhan said the method can be performed before the liver is damaged completely and helps avoid the need for transplantation. The disorder is more common among children born to parents in consanguineous marriages (marriage between closely relatives). Individuals with PFIC will not be able to drain bile from liver even though large bile ducts are open. This leads to liver damage, liver cancer, and deaths. The doctors said that PFIC is an inherited disease where bile acid transport gene is defective thus leading to damage, fat malabsorption, deficiency of Vitamin A,D,E and K, cirrhosis and cancer. “If PHIC is detected before developing cirrhosis, we can perform procedures such as ileal exclusion or partial external biliary drainage. Else, if detected in late stages, one will require transplantation,” said Dr Madhusudhan. Some of the symptoms of the disorder are jaundice, itching all over body, and retarded growth. Two brothers, aged 14 and 16, from Dhanavari Palem of Khammam district, were brought to OGH with the symptoms. Other hospitals had suggested liver transplantation. The parents are daily wage earners. The OGH team examined them found that their liver was not cirrhotic. Hence, they performed ileal exclusion surgery. Doctors Pandu Naik, Jyothi, Ramesh Kumar, Sudharshan, Venu, Varun were part of the team headed by Dr Madhusudan. Another year-old child from Karimnagar who suffered from PHIC was detected with liver cirrhosis. Liver transplantation was performed on him. The toddler’s mother donated a portion of her liver.  If PHIC is detected before cirrhosis stage, we can perform procedures such as ileal exclusion or partial external biliary drainage. Ch. Madhusudhan, Head of Surgical Gastroenterology, OGH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ogh-doctors-perform-surgery-on-3-children-with-rare-disorder/article64949028.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||Unique gene mutations causing heart disease identified||Mortality rate due to cardiovascular diseases is very high in India when compared to western countries. In severe cardiomyopathy, a cardiovascular disease where heart failures are common, the integral structure of the heart muscle changes, affecting blood-pumping capacity. This increases the risk of heart failure, leading to sudden cardiac deaths. A team of scientists led by K. Thangaraj at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) has found novel genetic mutations in -MYH7 or beta myosin heavy chain gene, responsible for causing dilated cardiomyopathy among Indians. This finding has been published in the Canadian Journal of Cardiology - Open on January 14 this year. -MYH7 is one of the major genes implicated in cardiac diseases globally. “However, not many genetic studies were carried out in Indian cardiomyopathy patients. Hence, we sequenced -MYH7gene of 137 dilated cardiomyopathy patients along with 167 ethnically matched healthy controls to identify the mutation(s), if any, that are associated with dilated cardiomyopathy in Indian patients”, said Mr Thangaraj, senior author of this study, and director of Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics. “Our study revealed 27 variations, of which seven mutations (8.0%) were novel, and were detected exclusively in Indian dilated cardiomyopathy patients. These included four missense mutations, each altered evolutionarily conserved amino acids in the -MYH7 protein, and were predicted to be pathogenic by bioinformatics tools. In the subsequent study using homology models of -MYH7, we demonstrated for the first time how these mutations uniquely disrupt a critical network at the molecular level, and may contribute to the development of disease phenotype,” said Deepa Selvi Rani, lead author. Each protein molecule is made up of specific amino acids. Various interactions between the amino acid residues drive the 3D structure of the protein, which determines its function. One amino acid change at a critical site can change a protein structure dramatically and lead to disease pathogenicity, the scientists explained. Gene editing “This study can help in developing gene editing methods that may rescue cardiac contractility of failing hearts among Indians with the novel mutations,” said CCMB director Vinay Kumar Nandicoori, said in an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmb-team-finds-unique-gene-mutations-causing-heart-disease/article64949022.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||SIDBI to help State in MSME development||The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) has entered into a memorandum of understanding with Telangana government for the promotion and development of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Under the MoU, a Project Management Unit (PMU) will be deployed by SIDBI to design schemes and programmes in areas of equity support, interest subvention, resolution of stressed MSMEs as well as to support entrepreneurs and facilitate other need-based intervention based on evaluation of existing status of the enterprises. The PMU will also study existing framework of schemes, interventions, initiatives and projects for MSMEs and suggest modifications, if need be, with the aim to enhance their efficacy and remove bottlenecks. The MoU, for developing the MSME ecosystem, was signed by director of Industries in the Telangana Industries and Commerce department D. Krishna Bhaskar and SIDBI deputy managing director V.S.V. Rao, the financial institution said in a release. Mr.Rao said SIDBI has initiated the process of collaborating with State governments for more focused engagement in various forms for the upliftment of MSMEs. Through this, it intended to cooperate closely with States to strengthen the enterprise eco system with thrust on micro and small enterprises. “Imbibing good practices, rejuvenating existing programmes and policies and enabling a more responsive ecosystem will be the target,” he said. The development is aligned to expectations laid down in UK Sinha Committee on MSMEs set up by RBI. The PMU will also prepare the process for handholding MSMEs in the State for their onboarding onto digital platforms such as PSBLoansIn59Minutes, Stock Exchange listing, e-commerce platforms such as government e-marketplace.  Imbibing good practices, rejuvenating existing programmes and policies and enabling a more responsive ecosystem will be the target. V.S.V. Rao, SIDBI deputy managing director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sidbi-to-help-state-in-msme-development/article38285097.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||Two feared drowned in Krishna backwaters in Suryapet||Two persons, including a 12-year-old boy, are feared drowned in the River Krishna backwaters at Adluru village of Chintalapalem mandal in Suryapet on Monday. A day-long search was launched by the police and locals, but their efforts were in vain as “the scene of the accident could not be located.” Chintalapalem police said locals of Adluru village alerted them, after two persons 25-year-old Chandrasekhar, a fisherman, and the boy Gopi, who went to the water body went missing. The incident is suspected to have taken place between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. Revenge murder The murder of auto-rickshaw driver Chiluka Rajesh at Arya Nagar of Lallaguda last week was for revenge, the police said on Monday. According to the police, three cousins of Radapaka family along with three others stabbed and bludgeoned 39-year-old Rajesh to death on Thursday evening. The killing was to avenge the murder of their uncle Radapaka Nagabhushanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-feared-drowned-in-krishna-backwaters-in-suryapet/article38285113.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||214 kg ganja seized by Cyberabad police||The special operation team of Shamshabad along with Kothur police in Cyberabad commissionerate nabbed five inter-State drug peddlers and seized 214 kg of ganja from them on Monday. Police said the contraband was purchased at Sileru, Andhra Pradesh, and was being smuggled to Maharashtra via Hyderabad. A total of 10 persons, including four seekers from Ahmednagar district of the neighbouring State, were involved in the network and plan execution. It was said that the four persons from Ahmednagar, to avoid police surveillance, were waiting in their two cars at Thimmapur cross roads on the NH-44, where the material brought by two other persons was to be transferred. It was reported that the ganja was purchased at R Rs. 3,000 per kilogram and its final sale was for Rs. 20, 000. Police arrested the Ahmednagar residents – Baba Sow Chandekar, Phukmali Tirumali Balu, Ganesh Nolari and Rajendra. A Suryapet resident Maloth Vinod, who was one of the transporters from Bhadrachalam to Hyderabad outskirts too was nabbed. Ravi, supplier and networker in the deal, hailing from Warangal, other drivers Balaraj, Nagaraju and Ganesh are yet to be arrested. In all, the police seized 107 two-kg packets of ganja, Rs. 2.10 lakh cash and other material. The accused were booked under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/214-kg-ganja-seized-by-cyberabad-police/article38285105.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||Recognition for Sports Coaching Foundation||K. Sai Baba, general secretary of Sports Coaching Foundation (Masab Tank), was presented the ‘Go The Distance Hero Award’ by Apollo Tyres for promoting sports over the last three decades. Sai, who was a former Andhra Ranji cricketer and established the SCF three decades ago to provide a platform to the different sections of the society with emphasis on economically weaker sections had earlier received the prestigious Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Award from the President of India, and many other international awards The SCF, which is an NGO, is being run in association with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and strives to empower the underprivileged through sports by conducting various events in multi-disciplines and also coaching camps right through the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/recognition-for-sports-coaching-foundation/article64949017.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||State records 2,447 new COVID cases||The State added 2,447 fresh cases to its COVID-19 tally on Monday, pushing up the cumulative total to 7,11,656. While 80,138 samples were tested, results of 10732 were awaited. Three more COVID patients died, taking the death toll to 4,060. The 2,447 new infections included 1,112 from Greater Hyderabad region, 235 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 183 from Rangareddy. Of the total cases, 22,197 were active as of Monday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-2447-new-covid-cases/article38285098.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||LPG refill in two hours for Rs. 25 extra||National oil marketing company Indian Oil Corporation has launched Indane Tatkal Seva in the city, a facility under which it will supply cooking gas refill to single bottle connection customers within two hours of the booking on an additional payment of Rs. 25. All single bottle (cylinder) connection customers of the 62 Indane distributors of Secunderabad Indane Divisional Office under Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits can avail themselves of this service, IOC Telangana and Andhra Pradesh State Office said. The refill will be supplied within two hours of booking on an additional payment of Rs. 25. The service can be accessed through IVRS and on IndianOil One App as well as cx.indianoil.in website. The facility will be available for customers who make the refill booking from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., on all working days. Hyderabad is the first city in India where Indane Tatkal Seva is being rolled out. The SBC customers or in other words, households having single cylinder connection, number around 6.5 lakh in the GHMC area, for the 62 distributors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lpg-refill-in-two-hours-for-rs-25-extra/article38285096.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Democracy doesn’t mean just protests for months’||The S. Jaipal Reddy Memorial Foundation on Sunday organised a national webinar on‘Celebrating Democracy’to mark the 80th birth anniversary of former Union Minister S. Jaipal Reddy. Speaking on the occasion, former Chief Justice of Sikkim High Court Permod Kohli asked whether fundamental duties were not as important as fundamental rights. He also said democracy did not mean just protests for months together. “Doesn’t this go against the spirit of democracy,” he asked. He questioned legalisation of the pre-election freebie distribution concept and called for it to be regulated.“Political parties are legally buying votes in the disguise of freebies. Is it not political corruption,” he questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/democracy-doesnt-mean-just-protests-for-months/article38285287.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||Two held for cricket betting||Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) officials on Monday arrested two persons in Chilkalguda police limits for organised cricket betting. V. Ramakrishna, the organiser, and A. Suresh, the punter, were accepting online and offline payments for betting of an ongoing Big Bash League match in Australia, it said. The police recovered Rs. 1.10 lakh cash and cell phones. Bookie Vora, a resident of Secunderabad, is at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-for-cricket-betting/article38285109.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Bhatti Vikramarka, Maheswar Reddy test COVID positive||Congress Legislator Party (CLP) leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka and All India Congress Committee (AICC) programme implementation committee chairman Maheswar Reddy tested Corona positive. On Sunday night, Mr. Vikramarka was admitted in a corporate hospital, where doctors performed all the necessary tests. His health was stable. Meanwhile, Mr. Vikramarka urged party activists not to come to Hyderabad to meet him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhatti-vikramarka-maheswar-reddy-test-covid-positive/article64949003.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:59 IST,TELANGANA||KCR to visit Parkal today||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will visit Nadikuda mandal of Parkal constituency in Hanamkonda district to see for himself damaged crop on account of unseasonal rains recently. The damage to the crop was taken to his notice by Minister E. Dayakar Rao and Parkal and Narsampet MLAs Ch. Dharma Reddy and Mr. Peddi Sudarshan Reddy today. Mr. Rao took the decision on the field visit at Monday’s Cabinet meeting. He will be accompanied by Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other senior officials, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-for-parkal-today/article64949009.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||HMDA cracks its whip against illegal structures||HMDA, in coordination with the District Task Force and the Polilce, has begun a special drive to pull down illegal structures in the peripheral municipalities outside GHMC purview. The drive has been initiated upon instructions by the Special Chief Secretary and HMDA Commissioner Arvind Kumar who has constituted four special teams for conducting a survey on the structures being raised without permission in the HMDA limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hmda-cracks-its-whip-against-illegal-structures/article38285110.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Three boys feared drowned||Three boys, including an Intermediate student and two SSC students, were feared drowned in Pranahita river at Alugaon village in Kotapalli mandal on Monday afternoon. The missing boys were identified as A Vamshi, 18, A Sai, 15, and G Rakesh, 15, of Alugaon village, police said. The trio along with three others had gone to the riverfront to celebrate the holiday at the scenic spot. Four of them ventured into the river for a swim and three of them were swept away by the strong undercurrent and one boy was rescued by a local fisherman, sources added. Alerted by the local youths, the Kotapalli police rushed to the riverfront and launched a search operation by deploying swimmers. However, the trio remained untraceable till late in the evening when the search operation was halted due to darkness. Sources said the search operation will be resumed early on Tuesday morning. Gloom engulfed the families of the three missing boys, who hails from same village, following the tragic incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-boys-feared-drowned/article38285122.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:59 IST,TELANGANA||Medaram jatara: a big challenge for Health Dept.||A daunting task awaits the Health department to prevent spread of coronavirus infections during the three-day Sammakka-Sarakka Jatara, billed as the country’s largest tribal congregation, scheduled to be held in Medaram village in the tribal dominated Mulugu district from February 16 to 19. The biennial jatara draws lakhs of devotees, including tribals and non-tribals from within the State and also neighbouring States, to Medaram during the mega tribal fair. Anticipating a large turnout of devotee during the next month’s jatara, the Health department chalked out an elaborate plan to deploy more than 1300 staff, including doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and healthcare workers, in and around the jatara site. The different government departments involved in the organisation and conduct of the jatara are bracing up for the tough task of ensuring strict compliance with the COVID-19 safety precautions such as wearing of masks, maintaining physical distance, and other prescribed guidelines by devotees at the three-day event. Awareness programmes With less than a month left for the jatara, the health authorities have intensified awareness programmes on vaccination and COVID appropriate behaviour to effectively prevent the spread of coronavirus infections at the gathering. Amid reports of post-festival surge in cases of coronavirus infection in some parts of the State, the district authorities have scaled up vaccination drive and safety measures to stem the spread of COVID-19. According to sources, the State government has allocated a little over Rs. 1 crore for health facilities and medical services during the upcoming Sammakka-Sarakka jatara. A comprehensive action plan has been devised to organise around 18 health camps and set up a host of first-aid clinics at multiple locations in and around Medaram to provide medical services to the needy during the jatara, Mulugu District Medical and Health Officer Appayya said. He said adequate number of medical personnel and healthcare workers and additional 108 ambulances will be deployed at the jatara for prompt medical aid to the needy. Apart from conducting awareness programmes on COVID safety precautions, vaccination camps are also being organised in Medaram in view of the influx of devotees to the jatara site much ahead of the scheduled biennial festival next month. “We appeal to devotees to get fully vaccinated against COVID before coming to jatara and scrupulously follow the safety precautions during the fete,” the DM&HO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medaram-jatara-proving-to-be-a-big-challenge-for-health-dept/article64949012.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Vemulawada witnesses heavy rush of devotees||With the Sammakka-Sarakka jatara at Medaram in Mulugu district just less than a month away, the pilgrim turnout at the famous Sri Raja Rajeshwara Swamy temple in Vemulawada recorded a sudden increase on Monday. In tune with an age-old practice, many devotees visited the historic temple in Vemulawada on Monday ahead of their planned pilgrimage to Medaram next month to participate in Sammakka-Sarakka jatara, sources said. The temple has been witnessing heavy rush of pilgrims for the past few days. The temple netted a total revenue of Rs 15.03 lakh from all sources including hundi offerings and sale of “Kode Mokku” tickets on Sunday. Meanwhile, Special Grade Deputy Collector L Ramadevi took charge as Executive Officer of Sri Raja Rajeshwara Swamy temple in Vemulawada on Monday. The temple employees’ association president U Chandrasekhar and honorary president S Sriramulu, among a host of others were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vemulawada-witnesses-heavy-rush-of-devotees/article64949006.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||Kerala Police’s anti-child porn drive||A clandestine cyber-surveillance operation by the Kerala Police (Countering Child Sexual Exploitation) team resulted in at least 10 persons getting arrested on the charge of trading, peddling, storing and distributing child sexual abuse material this month. The team, led by Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham, has busted several peer-to-peer child pornography-sharing groups. Investigators used deception, fake personas and social engineering techniques to infiltrate the highly secretive cliques. Kerala Police Cyberdome aided the operation, code-named P-Hunt. It reportedly used state-of-the-art cyber-surveillance software sourced from Interpol to track the online trafficking of child pornography. Investigators and IT resource persons working voluntarily for the police prepared for weeks at the Cyberdome facility to infiltrate the child pornography-sharing networks. Using fictitious cyber identities, investigators insinuated themselves into secret groups by evincing a sexual interest in children. Software tools The Interpol-developed software reportedly helped the police track the download of digitally watermarked prurient images of children to the IP addresses of individual offenders. The police also used software tools to impose digital signatures on ‘Trojan Horse’ child abuse content to track their circulation across the Internet and allied encrypted mobile phone communication platforms. The police seized 186 devices loaded with child sex abuse material ranging from rape, incest, domestic abuse to candid photographs of local children at swimming pools, water theme parks, malls, playgrounds, shopping malls, beaches and resort hotels. Investigators said unknown child predators, equipped with mobile phones, appeared to have generated many of the images and traded them online. They also found a vast cache of videos and pictures of minors between the age of five and sixteen in various states of undress. Some suspects rarely stored the images and videos and deleted them immediately after viewing the content. Few regularly formatted their phones to scrub off incriminating evidence. An investigator said live-streaming sex sessions involving children, mostly of South-East Asian and East European origin, appeared in vogue among a few suspects. The distribution, viewing, storing of child pornography entail a punishment of up to five years imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 10 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kerala-police-launch-anti-child-porn-drive/article64949014.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||Kerala govt. postpones film festival||The 26th edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) has been postponed considering the prevailing COVID-19 situation, according to a press release from the office of Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian on Monday. The festival will be conducted when the situation improves. The revised schedule will be announced later, it said. The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy had earlier postponed the 26th edition of the IFFK, originally scheduled to be held in December, to February 4 to 11. Though the film selection process for the festival was over last year, the academy has not been able to begin ground-level preparations due to the pandemic situation. There had been speculation of postponement of the festival as the test positivity rate (TPR) in the capital crossed 30% over the past few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kerala-govt-postpones-film-festival/article38284818.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Matter of luck||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/matter-of-luck/article64949005.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||No bridging this gap||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-bridging-this-gap/article64949013.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:24 IST,||Odisha plans play classes in govt. schools||Access to playschools may no more be a privilege of children of well-off parents living in urban areas. The Odisha government has proposed to start play classes in government primary schools to help children develop a strong readiness for foundational literacy and numeracy in grade I to III. As per the proposal deliberated in a group of senior secretaries, School and Mass Education, Women and Child Development, and SC, ST Development departments will jointly identify the 5000 schools with collocated anganwadi centres. Initially, these playschools are proposed to start in urban or semi-urban areas. A comprehensive guideline and responsibility matrix will be prepared before going ahead with implementation of the play school concept. It is suggested that the children of the play class (age of 5) will attend the Anganwadi for supplementary nutrition programme from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m., then participate in the academic activities under the guidance of the school from 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. Subsequently, the children will take the mid-day meal from the anganwadi centres. Proper transition At least two teachers (preferably female) in each school will be trained on handling small children, ensuring proper transition from play class to Grade I and creating child-friendly learning situation. Teacher Education and State Council of Educational Research and Training (TE and SCERT) in collaboration with W and CD department will prepare materials, training packages and impart training through the District Institute of Educational and Training (DIET). Hand holding support As per the suggestion of Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra, initially the anganwadi workers will remain present in the class for some portion of the day with the school teachers and provide hand holding support to the children and teacher. “Gradually, once the children are acquainted with the school teacher, the AWW will be withdrawn. It was decided that the matter will be considered during preparation of the guidelines,” said the proceeding of the meeting. It was also suggested to adopt activity-based curriculum, guided nature study, use of fun activities and use of flip books in the play class. As per the decision, the activities of the play class will be in the light of the National Council for Educational Research and Training curriculum and common English words and rhymes will be followed in the Play Class. As far as tribal children are concerned, the medium of instruction in the tribal dominated areas will be in their mother tongue. Maximum enrolment The play classes proposed to be opened in the primary schools is expected to help ensure maximum enrolment of children in the government schools. The proposal is waiting for formal approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/odisha-plans-play-classes-in-govt-schools/article38285171.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:24 IST,||Police clueless in Alwar rape case; BJP stages protest||Six days after the alleged rape of a differently-abled minor girl in Rajasthan’s Alwar town, the police were still clueless about the absconding culprits. Meanwhile, Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party workers on Monday staged demonstrations at sub-divisions in all districts of the State to protest against the incident. The 15-year-old mentally challenged girl, who is unable to speak properly, was found in a distressed condition on a bridge in Alwar with injuries on her private parts on Tuesday last week. She was shifted from a hospital in Alwar to Sir Padampat Mother and Child Hospital in Jaipur, where she underwent a two-and-a-half-hour long surgery. The Congress government in the State, which has since decided to recommend a CBI probe into the incident, was caught on the back foot following conflicting claims by the police on the incident, based on the medical opinion. Alwar Superintendent of Police Tejaswini Gautam had said on Friday that though the investigation was going on, the medical reports did not suggest that the girl was raped. CCTV footage The victim received deep injuries which were apparently caused by a sharp object, but her sexual organs were intact, according to the surgeons who operated upon her. The police said they had CCTV footage of the girl’s journey to the bridge, but the incident on the bridge was under investigation. The BJP took exception to the stand of the police and raised the issue at the national level, besides dragging Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra into the controversy, as she was in Ranthambhore National Park on a personal visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/alwar-police-still-clueless-in-rape-case/article38285017.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:25 IST,||A picnic triggers panic in W.B. BJP||A section of dissenting leaders of the West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party, led by Bongaon MP and Union Minister Shantanu Thakur, organised a picnic in North 24 Parganas on Monday. The picnic, which is the third meeting of the BJP leaders who are not happy with the recent organisational changes, was aimed at passing on the message that unless their demands are met these leaders will continue with such protests. Earlier, these leaders had held a press conference at Kolkata Port Trust guest house and met at Thakurnagar, the headquarters of the Matua Mahasangha. Along with Mr. Thakur, three MLAs from the Matua community — former party vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar, Ritesh Tiwari and former general secretary Sayantan Basu — participated in the picnic. A section of Matua leaders is now demanding the implementation of The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019. A few days ago, the refugee cell of the State BJP had issued a press release demanding the rules of the Act be framed without any delay. Recently, the BJP had dissolved all its cells and departments in the wake of the protests by this section of disgruntled leaders. The demands include removal of general secretary of the State unit, Amitava Chakravorty. On Monday, posters came up in Kolkata against Mr. Chakravorty demanding his resignation. While the party leaders who participated in the picnic said the event had nothing to do with politics, the political message was hard to miss. “You can call it a meeting to discuss strategy. Our aim is to strengthen the hands of our Prime Minister and also raise voice against the way committees were set up without giving us representation,” Mr. Thakur told journalists. ‘Proper forum’ Senior State BJP leaders, including national vice-president Dilip Ghosh and State president Sukanata Chowdhury, said the leaders should raise their voice at proper forum. Trinamool Congress spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said the BJP continues to remain divided among different factions of “old, new and migrant BJP workers”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-picnic-triggers-panic-in-wb-bjp/article38285018.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:24 IST,||Kolkata book fair postponed by a month, to be held in Feb.-March||The International Kolkata Book Fair was postponed by a month due to a surge in COVID-19 cases and municipal election, and now it will start from February 28, the organisers said on Monday. The decision was made after consultation with the State government, president of the Publishers’ and Book Sellers’ Guild Tridib Chatterjee told PTI. Bangladesh theme The book fair has Bangladesh as its theme country this year. “The fair will be held for 12 days from February 28 as the COVID situation has not yet improved much and the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation election is to be held on February 12,” Mr. Chatterjee said. The book fair, an immensely popular event, will be held at the Central Park in Bidhannagar, close to Kolkata, in North 24 Parganas district. It was earlier scheduled to be held from January 31 to February 12 after failing to take off in 2021 due to the pandemic. “We hope the situation will be more conducive in end-February and March,” the Guild president said. Smaller stalls All guidelines of the State government would be complied with during the fair and each stall would be around 35% smaller for keeping more open space on the ground to avoid crowding, Mr. Chatterjee had said earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kolkata-book-fair-postponed-by-a-month-to-be-held-in-feb-march/article38285013.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:24 IST,||Need more time to decide stand on marital rape, Centre tells HC||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that it needs “reasonable time” to formulate its stand on the issue of criminalising marital rape. Its response came against remarks by a Bench of Justice Rajiv Shakdher and Justice C. Hari Shankar, while hearing a batch of petitions challenging the provision in law that makes an exception for marital rape, that the Centre has to say “yes or no”. Exception for husbands In India, marital rape is not defined in any statute or law. NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association, a man and a woman have sought striking down of the exception granted to husbands under Indian rape law. The exception says sexual intercourse by a man with his wife aged 15 or above is not rape even if it is without her consent. In October 2017, the Supreme Court increased it to 18 years. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said it will not be appropriate to place before the court a “less discussed and consulted stand” and time was needed to undertake the process of consultation. The Centre had earlier said that it was considering a “constructive approach” to the issue of criminalising marital rape and that it has sought suggestions from several stakeholders and authorities on comprehensive amendments to the criminal law. In its affidavit, the Centre had asserted that it is “already seized of the matter” and that the marital rape exception could not be struck down only at the instance of the petitioners as the principles of natural justice required a “larger hearing of all stakeholders”. Delhi govt.’s stand The Delhi government has said that marital rape was already covered as already covered as a crime of cruelty under the Indian Penal Code and that the courts have no power to legislate any new offence. Earlier this month, senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, representing a petitioner woman, had argued that courts all over the world have recognised marital rape as an offence. “Marital rape is the biggest form of sexual violence which happens in the confines of our homes. How many times does rape take place in the institution of marriage and is never reported? This figure is not reported or analysed,” the senior lawyer had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/need-more-time-to-decide-stand-on-marital-rape-centre-tells-hc/article64949069.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:13 IST,||Delhi rolls out its first electric bus||The Capital got its first electric bus here on Monday. Procured by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), the bus is the first and only addition to the public transporter’s fleet in over a decade. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal flagged off the bus at the DTC’s Indraprastha Depot. Over 300 more such vehicles will be inducted in a phased manner in the near future. According to government estimates, a fleet of around 11,000 buses is required in the city, but only about 6,900 buses, including low-floor and standard-floor ones, currently ply on the Capital’s roads. The new bus will ply on route no. E 44 and will be available from 5.30 a.m. to 8.20 p.m. from the Indraprastha Depot. It will be operated as a circular bus service. The government said it would soon induct 300 electric buses in the cluster fleet and over 2,000 new electric buses in the DTC fleet. Before Monday, no new bus had been added to the DTC fleet since 2011. “Today the Delhi government has dedicated the State’s first electric bus to the public. This marks the beginning of a new era in Delhi’s transport sector. As and when older buses are rolled out of service, new electric buses will be added,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “This is a very important step in combating the problem of pollution. This is a zero emission bus and there’s barely any noise made by it,” he said. The Opposition took the opportunity to attack the AAP government over its failure to induct even a single bus since its formation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-rolls-out-its-first-electric-bus/article64949155.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:13 IST,||CM needs to fulfil promises in Delhi first, says Congress||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal needs to fulfil promises made in Delhi where he has been a Chief Minister three times before indulging in political tourism and making promises in other States, said Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar on Monday. Mr. Kejriwal has been touring the country leaving the people of Delhi to fight the COVID-19 surge on their own, He said that . “Mr. Kejriwal has been on political tours for the past month promising unemployment allowance and Rs 1000 per month to every woman, round-the-clock free power and water and many other freebies. But in Delhi, there are over 13 lakh job seekers registered with the Delhi Government’s job portal, and 54 lakh ration card applications pending for allotment as the pandemic carries on,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that there are 22,000 guest teachers still waiting for regularisation of their services, which Mr Kejriwal promised in his election manifesto. Other government employees too are awaitingr regularisation. ‘No supervision’ “Mr. Kejriwal has been in Delhi only for 6 days in the past 30 days as he was on political tours to Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, UP and Chandigarh for 16 days after remaining on quarantine for a week due to COVID. He should have been present in Delhi to supervise the steps to control the surge in the current wave,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-needs-to-fulfil-promises-in-delhi-first-says-congress/article64949153.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:24 IST,||It’s a struggle for treatment for non-COVID patients in Delhi||With an unbearable pain in his stomach and his face turning yellow, 68-year-old Zile Singh sat on a stretcher waiting for his turn at the Emergency of All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). At the admission counter, his son Karamraj pleaded for an early slot to take his father inside for check-up. The duo had been waiting for over three hours in the long queue on a cold winter morning.  While on record there is no apparent hassle in getting admission in the designated government hospitals during the current Omicron wave, The Hindu witnessed confusion and delay in treating non-COVID patients in various hospitals.  “The Out Patient Department [OPD] is shut. They are not giving admission easily. We have been waiting since morning and the queue is moving very slowly. My father is in pain,” Mr. Karamraj told this reporter. He came to AIIMS from Jhajjar, Haryana, with his father, suspected to be suffering from Jaundice.  Mohammed Dildar, 47, was in tears waiting for his turn in the queue at AIIMS . He had been discharged barely a month ago after being treated for black fungus. But the attack of COVID-19 left him with an excruciating pain in his left leg. “What should I do now?” he asked, his patience wearing out after two hours.  Pushpa, 36, and her husband Rajesh, 39, sat on the floor outside the paediatrics ward. With two bags carrying their clothes and essentials, they reached here from Gwalior on January 11. Pushpa has been under treatment at AIIMS for over five years now. Before the pandemic hit, never did she face any problem in getting an appointment with the doctor. “This time, we have not yet been able to meet the doctor who has been treating me in the past,” Pushpa said, complaining of puking blood. A staffer told her to get some tests done, which she did. “The reports will take two days after which we’ll try again for an appointment. If we don’t get to consult the doctor, we will have to find out when to come next,” she said. Her husband, Rajesh, is a labourer. He spent Rs. 1,400 to bring his wife from Madhya Pradesh to Delhi. Going back home and again returning later is not a financially viable option for him. Similarly, Hari Krishan, 30, came from Bihar’s Siwan with his five-year-old son Aman and mother-in-law Mayapati Devi on January 10. He could not get a place in the night shelters nearby and the three have been staying on the hospital premises ever since. The situation at Safdarjung Hospital across the road was no different. There was a delay in admitting patients and that caused confusion and hardship to many. Two women, Arti and Gulshan, waited in critical stage of labour outside the gynaecology department. The security guard told them to get the RT-PCR test done first. “We have also been told there are few doctors on duty now. The doctor who is supposed to examine pregnant women will come only in the afternoon after completing his morning OPD duty,” said Jameela, Gulshan’s sister-in-law. Dwarika Prasad, a 50-year-old labourer from East Delhi, has been bringing his wife to the hospital for the last four days. She developed swollen feet and was unable to walk. “The doctor is still not available. Today, we were asked to get our COVID tests done, which is open here till 11 a.m. only. We will have to come back again tomorrow,” he said. Waiting for hours At Lok Nayak Hospital, Madhuri Kesari, 24, a private job employee, brought her husband who was vomiting blood. Both had been waiting for hours outside the OPD because the doctors had refused to see him. “We are trying to get in with the help of a known person; hope it works soon,” she said. The couple came from Greater Noida. Madhuri said she was the single earning member in her family and could not afford a private hospital near her home. Anxiety hit 26-year-old Ram Gopal as he was not able to get any information about his wife Vineeta — who had given birth to their child the previous day. He had been waiting outside the emergency to get some update but to no avail. “They have put her in the COVID ward and are not letting me meet or see her. I don’t know how she is and no one is telling me anything,” he said. Suresh Kumar, medical director at Lok Nayak Hospital said that non-COVID services are currently running at half capacity. Also, elective and non-emergency surgeries have been deferred. OPD services at AIIMS hospital and all centres will continue to function with restricted registrations limited to only prior appointment patients, said an order dated January 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/its-a-struggle-for-treatment-for-non-covid-patients-in-delhi/article64949070.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:13 IST,||‘COVID cases showing downward trend’||The daily new COVID-19 cases have reduced for the fourth consecutive day and Delhi has been showing a decreasing trend, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday. “Weekend curfews have played a significant role in the dip. This trend indicates that the number of cases in Delhi is decreasing, but the government is still alert and will take some time to understand the trend,” the Minister said. The number of new COVID-19 admissions at Lok Nayak Hospital has also come down in the last two days, authorities said. “Earlier, the number of new COVID admissions were increasing every day and it had reached 40-50 people a day. But now it is coming down. In the last two days, there have been only 35-40 new admissions a day,” said Suresh Kumar, Medical Director of Lok Nayak Hospital. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that free online yoga classes by the government was helping people, who test positive, to stay stress-free during isolation. Positivity still high With a 31.7% fall in the number of COVID-19 tests on Monday compared with a day earlier, new cases in 24 hours fell to 12,527 from 18,286 on Sunday, as per a Delhi government bulletin. A total of 44,762 tests were conducted in 24 hours, down from 65,621 tests on Sunday. Meanwhile, the test positivity rate increased slightly to 27.99% from 27.87% a day earlier. Twenty-four new deaths were reported, taking the total deaths to 25,387, as per the bulletin. Of the total 15,505 hospital beds for COVID-19, 82.04% were vacant on Monday. On Thursday, 28,867 fresh cases were reported in the city, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic. In another development, the city police on Monday said that nearly 2,500 personnel have been infected since January 1 while 767 of them have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-cases-showing-downward-trend/article38285000.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:24 IST,||I-T Dept. detects suppressed sales worth Rs. 400 crore||The Income-Tax Department has detected suppressed sales to the tune of Rs. 400 crore over the last three years by a group engaged in the manufacturing of plywood and other products in Haryana. The agency covered more than 30 premises in Yamunanagar, Ambala, Karnal and Mohali during the searches on the group which also manufactures inverters and vehicle batteries. The Department gathered documents and digital evidence revealing that the group maintained a parallel set of books of account for entries of cash purchase transactions, sales, payment of wages and other expenses in addition to the details on investments in immovable properties. The evidence indicated that the group was involved in generating cash by suppressing the sales to the extent of about 40% of the actual figure. The search team found that payment of wages and purchase of raw materials in cash aggregating to Rs. 110 crore had not been recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/i-t-dept-detects-suppressed-sales-worth-rs-400-crore/article38285174.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:13 IST,||HC notice to Adesh Gupta, North body||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Delhi government and the Lieutenant-Governor to respond to a petition alleging unauthorised construction and encroachment on public land by Delhi BJP chief and councillor of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh also issued a notice to the North Corporation, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, who is a councillor from the West Patel Nagar constituency, and chief executive officer of BSES Yamuna. The plea alleged that the councillor had failed to act in accordance with the norms of integrity and conduct which ought to be followed by public functionaries. Meanwhile, AAP has demanded that Mr. Gupta resign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-notice-to-adesh-gupta-north-body/article38284999.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:13 IST,||COVID relief: nurses’ union warns of strike||The Delhi government has not yet given the promised compensation of Rs. 1 crore each to families of two nursing officers who died due to COVID-19 during the second wave of the pandemic last year, Delhi State Hospitals’ Nurses Union said on Monday. In a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the union warned of protests if the government does not give the compensation. “It is very sad to say that even after a lapse of one year, the ex gratia amount has not been paid yet to the family of the above mentioned nursing staff. This is pure injustice towards the entire nursing cadre,” the letter read. When contacted, a Delhi government spokesperson did not offer a comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-relief-nurses-union-warns-of-strike/article38285003.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 04:13 IST,||Rift between ruling alliance partners widens in Bihar||Rift between Bihar’s ruling alliance partners appeared to have widened on Monday with the BJP issuing a stern warning to the JD(U) on its leaders’ tweets to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A day earlier, the State BJP president and party leaders had questioned the government’s liquor policy and demanded a “serious review”. “We all have to be within limits in the alliance. It cannot be one-sided any more. And, the first condition is that you [JD-U leaders] cannot play Twitter-Twitter with the country’s Prime Minister as he is the pride of every BJP worker. If you raise questions with him, then 76 lakh BJP workers in Bihar know how to respond. I do believe that we all will be careful in future,” Bihar BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal said in a long post on social media on Monday. Mr. Jaiswal was apparently targeting two JD(U) leaders Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh and Upendra Kushwaha. ‘Withdraw Padma Shri’ Mr. Singh is JD(U) MP from Munger and the party’s national president, while Mr. Kushwaha is the party’s parliamentary board chairman. Both the leaders had recently urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the Padma Shri award conferred on noted playwright Daya Shankar Sinha for drawing a parallel between King Ashoka and Mughal ruler Aurangzeb. This comparison was promptly condemned by leaders of the JD(U), RJD and BJP. Mr. Jaiswal even filed an FIR against Mr. Sinha in Patna and demanded that the Nitish Kumar government arrest him. But JD(U) leaders requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the Padma Shri award. “There can’t be anything more absurd than asking PM to take back the award as there has not been such precedent in the last 74 years. There is no clear guideline on taking back such awards,” Mr. Jaiswal said in his post. “Why are Nitish Kumar’s party leaders asking for the award to be withdrawn instead of arresting Mr Sinha?” wondered Mr Jaiswal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rift-between-ruling-alliance-partners-widens-in-bihar/article38285012.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:24 IST,||Seasonal sales||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/seasonal-sales/article64949066.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:48 IST,||Xi Jinping rejects ‘Cold War mentality’||Chinese President Xi Jinping called on Monday for greater world cooperation against COVID-19 and pledged to send an additional 1 billion doses of vaccine to other countries, while urging other powers to discard a “Cold-War mentality” at a time of rising geopolitical tensions — a veiled swipe at the U.S. The Chinese leader touted his country’s efforts to share vaccines, fight climate change and promote development at home and abroad as he delivered the opening speech of a virtual gathering hosted by the World Economic Forum. The online event is being held in place of its annual January meeting in Davos, Switzerland, because of health concerns linked to the coronavirus pandemic. He touched on standard themes from his previous talks to international audiences, including responding to complaints by China’s trading partners by promising to open its state-dominated economy wider to private and foreign competition. His comments come as tensions between the U.S. and China have simmered on dossiers as diverse as Taiwan, intellectual property, trade, human rights and the South China Sea. ‘Peaceful coexistence’ “We need to discard Cold War mentality and seek peaceful coexistence and win-win outcomes. Our world today is far from being tranquil,” said Mr. Xi, through a translator. “Protectionism and unilateralism can protect no one. They ultimately hurt the interests of others as well as one’s own. Even worse are the practices of hegemony and bullying, which run counter to the tide of history. “A zero-sum approach that enlarges one’s own gain at the expense of others will not help,” he added. “The right way forward for humanity is peaceful development and win-win cooperation.” Mr. Xi, who hasn’t left China since the coronavirus emerged in early 2020, said China had already sent abroad more than 2 billion doses of its COVID-19 vaccines and plans to provide an additional 1 billion, including a donation of 600 million doses to Africa and an extra 150 million to Southeast Asia. By comparison, managers of the UN-backed COVAX programme to ship vaccines to developing countries announced over the weekend that it has now delivered 1 billion vaccine doses. ‘Stands ready’ Mr. Xi said China “stands ready to work with” other governments on climate but announced no new initiatives and offered no resources. He said it was up to developed countries to provide money and technology. The Chinese leader repeated official promises that the Communist Party will open the state-dominated Chinese economy wider. The ruling party has taken steps over the past five years, including ending ownership restrictions in its auto industry, but business groups say foreign banks, technology and other companies still face restrictions that limit access to the most promising industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/xi-jinping-rejects-cold-war-mentality/article64949190.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:48 IST,||North Korea fires more missiles||North Korea fired two suspected ballistic missiles on Monday, Seoul said, its fourth weapons test this month as Pyongyang flexes its military muscle while ignoring offers of talks from the United States. Despite biting international sanctions, Pyongyang has conducted a string of weapons tests this year, including of hypersonic missiles, as leader Kim Jong Un pursues his avowed goal of further strengthening the military. Reeling economically from a self-imposed coronavirus blockade, impoverished North Korea has not responded to Washington’s offers of talks, while doubling down on weapons tests and vowing a “stronger and certain” response to any attempts to rein it in. The launches come at a delicate time in the region, with North Korea’s sole major ally China set to host the Winter Olympics next month and South Korea gearing up for a presidential election in March. Two suspected “short-range ballistic missiles” were fired east from an airport in Pyongyang early on Monday, the South Korean military’s Joint Chiefs of Staff said, with Japan also confirming the launch. Kim’s supervision The frequent and varied tests this year indicate North Korea “is trying to improve its technology and operational capability in terms of covert actions”, Japanese Defence Minister Nobuo Kishi told reporters. Pyongyang said it successfully tested hypersonic gliding missiles on January 5 and January 11, with the second launch personally supervised by Mr. Kim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/north-korea-fires-more-missiles/article64949195.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:47 IST,||Germany vows ‘to do all’ to guarantee Ukraine’s security||Germany will do everything in its power to guarantee Ukraine’s security, Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said on Monday on her first visit to Ukraine, amid rising fears of a Russian invasion. “We will do our all to guarantee Ukraine’s security. We will do our all to guarantee Europe’s security,” she said at a press conference following talks with her Ukrainian counterpart, a day before she is due to meet Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Moscow. Ms. Baerbock’s visit comes amid attempts to revive the so-called Normandy Format grouping of Germany, France, Russia and Ukraine whose aim is to de-escalate the conflict. Her Ukrainian counterpart, Dmytro Kuleba, told reporters following discussions that Ukraine and Germany were “committed to a diplomatic settlement of this conflict”. “Our joint goal is the effective work of the Normandy Format and the holding of a summit of leaders of the Normandy Format,” Mr. Kuleba said. He reiterated, however, Ukraine’s intention to receive weapons from the West, after Kiev in December accused Berlin of blocking the supply of NATO arms. “Our dialogue with Germany on this issue will continue,” Mr. Kuleba said. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov is due to hold his first meeting with Ms. Baerbock on Tuesday. He said in a statement ahead of the meeting that there would be “an in-depth exchange on current international issues, above all on the realisation of Russian proposals on security guarantees”. Deal inked NATO on Monday inked a deal to bolster its cyber support for Ukraine, after a sweeping hacking attack against Kiev heightened tensions amid fears that Russia could be plotting an invasion. Ukraine said on Sunday that it had evidence Moscow was behind the attack last week that knocked out government websites. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said on Friday that experts from NATO and its members were already on the ground, working with Ukraine to tackle the latest cyber attack. He said the new agreement would involve “enhanced cyber cooperation, including Ukrainian access to NATO’s malware information sharing platform.” “We have successfully worked with Ukraine for several years, delivering key capabilities and exchanging knowledge,” Ludwig Decamps, the head of the NATO Communications and Information Agency, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/germany-vows-to-do-all-to-guarantee-ukraines-security/article38284637.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:47 IST,||Anne Frank betrayal suspect identified: book||A cold case investigation led by an ex-FBI agent has identified a Jewish notary as the prime suspect in the mystery of who betrayed teenage diarist Anne Frank and her family to the Nazis, a new book claims.  Arnold van den Bergh may have revealed the Franks’ hiding place in Amsterdam in order to save his own family, according to a six-year probe detailed in “ The Betrayal of Anne Frank ” by Canadian author Rosemary Sullivan, which is published on Tuesday.  The case against Van den Bergh, who died in 1950, is supported by evidence including an anonymous note sent to Anne’s father Otto after World War II naming him as the betrayer, according to elements published in Dutch media Monday. The Anne Frank House museum said that the results of the probe, led by retired Federal Bureau of Investigation detective Vincent Pankoke, were a “fascinating hypothesis” but needed further investigation. Theories have long swirled about the Nazi raid on August 4, 1944, that uncovered the secret annexe where Anne and her family hid from the Holocaust for two years. Van den Bergh’s name had previously received little attention, but came to the fore during the investigation using modern techniques including artificial intelligence to sort through huge amounts of data. It narrowed the list of suspects to four, including Van den Bergh, who was a founding member of the Jewish Council, an administrative body the Nazis forced Jews to establish to organise deportations. Investigators found he had managed to get his family exempted from being transported, but that this was revoked around the time of the betrayal of the Franks. “We do not have a smoking gun, but we do have a hot weapon with empty casings next to it,”Mr. Pankoke was quoted as saying by Dutch public broadcaster NOS.  After the raid on the Franks’ house, the family were deported and Anne and her sister died in the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp the following year. Her father later published her “ Diary of a Young Girl ” which has since sold more than 30 million copies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/anne-frank-betrayal-suspect-identified-book/article64949199.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:48 IST,||Vaccinate whole world to end pandemic, UN chief tells Davos||UN chief Antonio Guterres told the all-virtual Davos forum on Monday that the world must vaccinate everybody against COVID-19 to ensure a way out of the pandemic. The face-to-face gathering of political and corporate power players in the Swiss Alps is online for the second year in a row due to a pandemic that shows no sign of abating. “The last two years have demonstrated a simple but brutal truth — if we leave anyone behind, we leave everyone behind,” the United Nations Secretary-General said. “If we fail to vaccinate every person, we give rise to new variants that spread across borders and bring daily life and economies to a grinding halt.” Mr. Guterres said the international community needs to “confront the pandemic with equity and fairness.” He noted that the World Health Organization unveiled a strategy last autumn to vaccinate 40% of the planet’s population by the end of 2021 and 70% by the middle of this year. “We are nowhere near these targets,” Mr. Guterres told the World Economic Forum. Jab rates “Vaccination rates in high-income countries are, shamefully, seven times higher than in African countries. We need vaccine equity, now,” he added. Mr. Guterres said pharmaceutical companies should “stand in solidarity with developing countries by sharing licenses, know-how and technology so we can all find a way out of this pandemic.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/vaccinate-whole-world-to-end-pandemic-un-chief-tells-davos/article64949191.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:48 IST,||Seven protesters killed in Sudan anti-coup rallies: medics||Sudanese forces killed seven anti-coup protesters Monday in one of the deadliest days of recent rallies against a military takeover, medics said, as security chiefs vowed to hold to account those they accused of causing “chaos”. The latest violence comes ahead of a visit by U.S. diplomats, as Washington seeks to broker an end to the months-long crisis in the northeast African nation. The deaths on Monday brings to 71 the number of protesters killed since the army’s October 25 takeover led by General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan. The military power grab triggered international condemnation, and derailed a fragile transition to civilian rule following the April 2019 ouster of longtime autocratic president Omar al-Bashir. On Monday, three protesters “were killed by live bullets” by “militias of the putschist military council”, anti-coup medics said on the Facebook page of Khartoum state’s Health Ministry. Later, four more demonstrators were killed “during the massacre by the coup authorities who were seeking to disperse the protests”, according to the independent Central Committee of Sudan Doctors. Medics also counted multiple wounds by “live rounds”. Burhan on Monday held an emergency meeting with security chiefs and agreed to form a counterterrorism force “to confront possible threats,” according to a statement by Sudan’s ruling Sovereign Council. The statement said the officials blamed the “chaos” on protesters who “deviated from legitimate peaceful demonstration”, and vowed to hold to account those involved in “violations” during protests. On Thursday, Sudanese authorities said protesters stabbed to death a police general, the first fatality among security forces. Protesters — sometimes numbering in the tens of thousands — have regularly taken to the streets despite the security clampdown and periodic cuts to communications since the coup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/three-protesters-killed-in-sudan-anti-coup-rallies-medics/article38284645.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:35 IST,||Imran hails Putin’s remark against Islamophobia||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Monday spoke to Vladimir Putin and exchanged views on bilateral cooperation as well as regional and international issues and also appreciated the Russian President’s “emphatic statement” that freedom of speech could not be a pretext to abuse the Prophet. During a telephonic conversation with Mr. Putin, Mr. Khan said he has regularly highlighted the appalling rise in Islamophobia and associated hatred in his addresses to the UN General Assembly, pointing towards its serious ramifications, the Foreign Office said in a statement. He “appreciated President’s Putin statement that insulting Holy Prophet Muhammad does not count as an expression of artistic freedom”, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/imran-hails-putins-remark-against-islamophobia/article64949200.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:48 IST,||Palestinian shot dead in West Bank stabbing bid||Israeli forces on Monday shot dead a Palestinian man who was trying to stab a soldier in the West Bank, Israel’s army said, in the latest unrest in the occupied territory. A statement from Israel’s army said the alleged assailant had arrived in a vehicle at the Gush Etzion Junction, which is part of a Jewish settlement in the West Bank. “The assailant, armed with a knife, got out of the vehicle and attempted to stab a (Israeli) soldier,” the army statement said The soldier fired towards the assailant and neutralised him,” the statement added. A military spokesperson said the suspect had been killed. The Palestinian health ministry identified the man killed as Faleh Musa Jaradat, who lived south of Hebron. Pattern of attacks Knife attacks by Palestinians targeting Israeli forces are common in the West Bank, which has been occupied by Israel’s army since the Six Day War in 1967. Nearly 4,75,000 Jewish settlers have since moved into the territory, living in communities that are widely regarded as illegal under international law. Tension and violence between settlers and Palestinians is common in the West Bank, which Palestinian claim as a key part of their future state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/palestinian-shot-dead-in-west-bank-stabbing-bid/article38284643.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:47 IST,||Diplomats back in Saudi Arabia for OIC posts: Iran||Iranian diplomats are in Saudi Arabia to start work at a global organisation representing Muslims, a first since the two rivals cut ties in 2016, Iran’s Foreign Ministry announced on Monday. “The delegation is now in Jeddah to start its work at the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC),” Saeed Khatibzadeh said in his weekly press conference. ‘Good prelude’ This “can be a good prelude for the two sides to send delegations to visit their embassies,” he added. Shiite-majority Iran and the Sunni Kingdom of Saudi Arabia are both members of the pan-Islamic body of 57 member states. The two regional rivals have so far held four rounds of talks since April aimed at improving relations. “We have given our written points of interest to the Saudi delegation at the fourth round of negotiations in Baghdad and we are awaiting the responses,” Mr. Khatibzadeh stressed. Riyadh and Tehran support opposite sides in several conflict zones across the region including in Syria and Yemen. In 2016, the kingdom’s execution of revered Shiite cleric Nimr al-Nimr saw protesters attack Saudi diplomatic missions in Iran. Riyadh responded at the time by cutting ties with Tehran. Mr. Khatibzadeh reiterated Iran’s position that Tehran is “ready to open its embassy” but that depends on what “practical steps” Saudi Arabia takes. In December, Foreign Ministry officials in both countries said the kingdom had granted visas to three Iranian diplomats to the OIC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-says-diplomats-back-in-saudi-arabia-for-oic-posts/article64949197.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:48 IST,||Taliban hold parade after protests||Taliban fighters paraded through a northwest Afghan city in a show of strength at the weekend, days after reinforcements were sent to quell unrest over the detention of a popular commander. Protests erupted last week in Maymana after an Uzbek Taliban commander was detained for alleged links to a kidnapping plot. The unrest sparked fears of tensions between Uzbek and Pashtun civilians and Taliban fighters. Sunday’s parade included masked fighters clad in matching white shalwar kameez tunics, khaki combat vests, and headscarves inscribed with the Muslim declaration of faith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-hold-parade-after-protests/article38284644.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:47 IST,||No ‘regret’, says Alexei Navalny||The Kremlin’s most prominent critic Alexei Navalny said on Monday he did not regret returning to Russia a year ago, despite his jailing and a historic crackdown on the opposition. Mr. Navalny was detained in a Moscow airport on his return to Russia from Germany on January 17 last year. “I don’t regret it for a second,” Navalny wrote in a post on Instagram from a penal colony outside Moscow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-regret-says-alexei-navalny/article38284640.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:34 IST,||India’s watchwords in a not so bright 2022||An intense debate is on among political strategists and commentators about what is in store in 2022. Most hew to the view that a rules based international order is a remote possibility. Instead, uncertainty and impermanence are likely to be the dominant aspect in world affairs. Risks in 2022 could be both domestic and geopolitical, with many precepts that the world has been accustomed to being at risk. Democracy itself could face serious headwinds this year. A paramount issue as 2022 begins, is the future of democracy. Admittedly, the world has recently seen the rise of authoritarian rulers in many countries — though by itself this can hardly be viewed as a new phenomenon. What is worrisome is that democratic tenets which have been under attack in recent years appear set to face more onslaughts this year. Adding grist to concerns about democracy’s future, is that the United States, which was widely viewed as a major bulwark for democracy, appears to have developed certain pathological infirmities. This situation does not augur well for the future of democracy worldwide. China as disruptor Equally daunting as we enter 2022 are the geopolitical challenges and risks. The role of China is possibly the most disrupting one, given the challenge it poses to the existing international order. With a GDP of $15.66 trillion in 2020, its net worth today is estimated to be higher than that of the U.S.; and, hence, it demands to be recognised as much. Militarily, China is openly challenging U.S. supremacy in many areas, including ‘state-of-the-art weaponry’ such as hyper-sonic technology. China has abandoned the ‘one country two systems’ policy, stripping Hong Kong of its freedom and inviting international opprobrium. It is now threatening Taiwan, which could well become one of the flash points of conflict in 2022. The West meanwhile does not realise what could happen if the stakes of ‘cross-strait relations’ between China and Taiwan get higher in 2022. It might well be that in order to ‘save face’ with regard to Taiwan (which China regards as its territory), China could provoke a serious conflict.  The dip in China’s economic profile in the past year and more (which China hardly acknowledges) could also lead to new tensions in the Asia-Pacific region in 2022. To outsiders, the Chinese economy has entered a period of relative uncertainty and is looking more vulnerable. Under Chinese President Xi Jinping, however, China is unlikely to acknowledge that this would entail any reduction in its military capabilities, at least as far the Asia-Pacific is concerned. Instead, it might well be tempted to demonstrate that it still has the ability to get the better of the U.S. in the Pacific region — where it holds more cards than the U.S. — and also demonstrate that it has the ability to ramp up its military capabilities, while the U.S. is reducing its forces in the Indo-Pacific region. Uncertainty per se , could constitute a serious risk.  Russia-Ukraine conflict The other major risk of a war in 2022, stems from the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine — the latter being backed by the U.S. and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces. It is difficult to discern as to which side is indulging in provocation, but what is not contested is that during the past three decades, NATO has expanded its reach almost a 1,000 miles to the east in violation of an earlier tacit understanding. Russian President Vladimir Putin appears determined that Ukraine should be the ‘last frontier’ and, if need be, ensure this through military force. The situation has grave possibilities and could result in a series of cyclical outcomes with considerable damage potential. Apart from the grave risk of a possible war or conflict, what is also evident is that ‘peace is not at hand’ across vast regions of the globe in 2022. The current unrest in Kazakhstan, which till recently was one of the more stable Central Asian nations, is perhaps symptomatic of what is in store. Whether recent events in Kazakhstan reflect a new round of ‘colour revolutions’ or not, it demonstrates a sharper cleavage between the U.S.-led West and its principal opponents, Russia and China. This bodes ill for a world already wracked by a series of coups or internecine strife as in Ethiopia, Libya and certain regions of West Asia and North Africa. Return of the Taliban Of particular significance to India is that the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan has led to a material shift in the balance of power in an already troubled region on India’s periphery. Notwithstanding the general belief that the Taliban’s return to power represents a significant victory for Pakistan, it has become evident, more lately, that this comes with a great deal of baggage — both for Pakistan and much of Asia. Developments in Afghanistan have fuelled the ambitions of quite a few ‘anti-state militant groups’ across the region. Even in Pakistan, the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has become energised and is enlarging its sphere of action to other parts of Asia, notably Kazakhstan. More important is that it is well known that the TTP is a by-product of al Qaeda jihadi politics and still has covert links with the al Qaeda. This will have an unsettling effect across large parts of Asia.  Adding to such concerns is new evidence that on India’s eastern flank, viz . Indonesia, a resurgence of radical Islamist activities is taking place. The Jemaah Islamiyah has reportedly become more active in Indonesia. All this provides fertile ground for other radical Islamist terror groups to enlarge their activities across the Asian region, providing a fillip to groups like the Islamic State, specially the Islamic State of Khorasan.  Border issues for India As 2022 dawns, India’s problems are only likely to intensify. The most serious issue that India confronts today is how to deal with a China that has become more confrontational. The transgressions across the Line of Actual Control in different sectors in Ladakh — which were till now seen as merely an attempt by China to restrict and limit India’s options — could well be expanded in 2022. India’s membership of the four nation Quad (the U.S., Japan, Australia and India) still rankles as far as China’s psyche is concerned, and during 2022, may well result in China embarking on new adventurist actions at many more points on the Sino-Indian border compelling India to react. Hence, 2022 is unlikely to see any reduction in tensions across Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh and the Middle Sector. Additionally, India will need to determine how best to respond to China’s sabre-rattling. India will need to develop a strategy on how to counter the publicity given by China to its low-yield nuclear weapons meant for battlefield use even during conventional military operations and against conventional targets. India would need to strengthen its military posture, both as a means to deter China and also to convince India’s neighbours that it can stand up to China. Simultaneously, India cannot avoid, in 2022, suitably positioning itself on how best to deter China’s naval force projection in the Indian Ocean Region and the publicity it has given to the additions made of new type nuclear power ballistic missile submarines to their existing fleet. In the battle of wits and strength, much will depend on how India responds to the situation.  Diplomatically, in 2022, India may find itself vulnerable in dealing with the turmoils which have occurred in two areas of strategic interest to it, viz. Central Asia and West Asia. Both areas are undergoing a churn — not all of it to India’s liking. In Central Asia, India will be challenged on how best to manage its traditional friendship with Russia with the pronounced tilt seen more recently in India-U.S. relations. In West Asia, the challenge for India is how to manage its membership of the Second Quad (India, Israel, the United Arab Emirates and the U.S.) with the conflicting interests of different players in the region. Membership of the Quad makes India a key player in a region which has become a quagmire of intense rivalries notwithstanding the 2020 Abraham Accords. Indian diplomacy will be under severe test to manage the extant situation in both regions.  Path to tread It is easy to say that what India and India’s foreign policy need to do is to demonstrate more flexibility to manage the contradictions that exist. However, this is hardly feasible in practical terms, in most instances. There is a limit to the kind of balancing act that India can perform, whether it be with regard to buying S-400 missile systems from Russia, risking potential sanctions from Washington under Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) or manoeuvering between the Arab States, Israel, Iran and the U.S. in West Asia. For India, the outlook is, hence, not particularly bright in 2022. No grand strategy is evident as of now but it is important that India finds rational answers to a rash of problems that it cannot keep on the back burner for much longer. What India must do is avoid blind spots that arise due to cognitive bias and take care to read the signals properly. Facing a host of unprecedented challenges, India’s leaders and diplomats must not only take stock of the dangers that exist but also be ready on how to manage the risks that are well evident. M.K. Narayanan is a former Director, Intelligence Bureau, a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indias-watchwords-in-a-not-so-bright-2022/article64949207.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:34 IST,||Still speaking to Indians today||If Annie Besant promoted the emancipation of women in a deeply patriarchal society, B.G. Horniman campaigned tirelessly for the freedom of the press. These are two of the seven “brave renegades”Ramachandra Guhaprofiles in his new book, Rebels against the Raj: Western Fighters for India’s Freedom. What unites them, writesGuha , is the courage they displayed in their personal lives, the depth of their commitment, and the timelessness of what they lived and struggled for. An excerpt: In my country, the rise of nativism and xenophobia in recent decades has been both immense and intense. National and especially religious parochialism is rife. ‘Garv se kaho Hindu ho’— Proclaim with Pride that you are a Hindu—such is the leitmotif that has accompanied the rise to power of the political movement known as Hindutva. Hindus, it is now said, are destined to be the world’s Vishwa Guru, teachers to the rest of humanity. They have apparently nothing to learn from or gain from the world in return. Although this book has not been written for the nativists and xenophobes, I hope that some members of that tribe might read it too. For here are seven quite remarkable individuals, all foreign-born, all white-skinned, who identified so completely with Indian aspirations. In the course of fighting non-violently for India’s liberation from colonial rule, all were interned or deported by the British. Yet it is not merely as ‘freedom-fighters’ that we should remember them. Quite apart from what they did in the sphere of politics, they each enriched and enhanced the life of the Indian nation in so many different ways. Remarkable achievements  Let us briefly rehearse their achievements. Annie Besant promoted the emancipation of women in a deeply patriarchal society. She co-founded one of the country’s best-known universities, and helped focus scholarly attention on the culture and civilization of ancient India. B. G. Horniman ran one of the finest and bravest newspapers in India; promoted and encouraged young journalists; and campaigned tirelessly for the freedom of the press. Samuel, later Satyanand, Stokes helped abolish forced labour in the hills before laying the foundations of a horticultural industry that has sustained the economy of the state of Himachal Pradesh for many decades now. Madeline Slade, later Mira Behn, wrote pioneering environmental tracts and, by influencing the making of Richard Attenborough’s film Gandhi , made the Mahatma’s ideas of non-violence and inter-faith harmony once more known around the world. Philip Spratt fought for the rights of workers before campaigning against the licence-permit-licence-raj that strangulated the Indian economy. Richard Ralph Keithahn helped found a rural university as well as a charitable hospital, and cultivated dignity and self-reliance among the oppressed. Catherine Mary Heilemann, later Sarala Behn, established a pioneering girls’ school in one of the most backward regions of India, training and nurturing several generations of social workers, some of whom went on to lead that most celebrated of environmental movements, the Chipko Andolan.  Of my seven rebels, two, Besant and Stokes, died when the British still ruled India, while a third, Horniman, died shortly after the British left. The four who lived on continued to struggle nobly for the values and ideals they cherished. Under colonial rule they had fought for India’s freedom; now that this had been achieved, they held the government of the day to account. Where lesser, or more insecure, people with white skins might seek to prove their ‘Indian-ness’ through fervent declarations of loyalty to the new nation, and sided with the State or the ruling Congress Party, these brave renegades stayed true to higher, universal, ideals. Till she left for Europe in 1959, Mira worked for rural renewal and environmental sustainability in India. Later, from her home in the Vienna Woods, she scolded her fellow Gandhians for jingoistically following the Government line in the country’s dispute with China. Through the 1950s and 1960s, Spratt wrote and spoke against the creeping centralisation of political power, against the Indian State’s denial of freedom to entrepreneurs, its curbs on individual liberty, and its attacks on the federal structure of the Indian Union. Through the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, Sarala devoted her energies and her intellect to empowering village women, while warning against the environmental consequences of consumerism and industrialism. All through these decades, Keithahn, in deepest South India, was working as tirelessly as Sarala in the Himalaya. Some of their concerns overlapped—village self-sufficiency and ecological renewal, for example—while others diverged, with Sarala focusing more on inequalities of gender and Keithahn more on inequalities of class. Had Besant, Stokes and Horniman lived in independent India they would have surely followed the same sort of trajectory too. Besant might have campaigned to stop violence against women; Horniman against attacks on the press and sexual minorities; Stokes against aggressive and chauvinistic tendencies in his adopted Hindu faith. Like Mira, Sarala, Keithahn and Spratt, they would have been active conscience-keepers rather than unthinking nationalists in an India which had freed itself of British rule but whose people were still constrained by myriad forms of unfreedom. These individuals came to India at different points of time, from widely varying backgrounds and with widely varying motivations. Once here, they lived in different parts of the country, and pursued different callings and obsessions. What unites them was, first, the courage and fearlessness they displayed in their personal lives; second, the depth and duration of their commitment to their new homeland; and third, the contemporaneity, indeed, timelessness, of what they lived and struggled for. So many years after the last of these rebels passed on, what they did and what they said still speaks to Indians today. If only we could listen. Excerpted with permission from Penguin Random House||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/still-speaking-to-indians-today/article64949204.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:34 IST,||Just what the doctor ordered for the livestock farmer||The twentieth livestock census indicated that India today has a livestock population of approximately 537 million; of this, 95.8% is concentrated in rural areas. Given the fact that most of the country’s livestock is in rural and remote areas, access to veterinary services is a major challenge. Livestock farmers are often compelled to travel far from their villages whenever their animals need treatment — a scenario that adversely impacts the longevity and the productivity of their livestock. The focus now To mitigate this problem, the Government has identified a slew of measures within the revised provisions of the Livestock Health and Disease Control (LH&DC) programme; here, a major focus has been on the ‘Establishment and Strengthening of Veterinary Services – Mobile Veterinary Units (MVUs)’. Until now, the Government has been providing doorstep services related to artificial insemination and vaccination for livestock. The MVUs will build on the doorstep delivery model, as stationary hospitals cannot be easily accessed by most livestock farmers. The Parliamentary Standing Committee of the Union Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying has observed that inadequate testing and treatment facilities for veterinary diseases pose a major challenge, especially now where there is a drastic rise in cases of zoonotic diseases. Most villages in the country lack testing facilities, and even when samples are collected, they need to be sent to blocks/districts nearby for test results. So, MVUs can play a major role in plugging the gap in this regard. Antibiotic resistance Quacks or untrained animal health workers have been popular in rural India as they charge less for consultations and are easily accessible. This has led to the inappropriate administration of antibiotics because of flawed prescriptions especially in cases of mastitis (inflammation of the udder in cattle). So, problems pertaining to antimicrobial resistance occur when the animal no longer responds to a drug to which it was originally responsive. And antimicrobial resistance can be caused because of factors such as high or low dosages, incorrect duration of medication, and overprescription. The World Health Organization (WHO) has listed antibiotic-resistant “priority pathogens” — a catalogue of 12 species/families of bacteria that pose the greatest threat to human health. The MVU model will mitigate the issue of antimicrobial resistance and is in alignment with the ‘One Health vision’ laid down by the Global Action Plan of WHO. A comparison The M.K. Jain Committee Report has highlighted that livestock farmers face greater challenges in comparison to traditional agricultural farmers especially while accessing credit and livestock insurance. Since a majority of livestock farmers have two to four animals per household, enhancing the longevity and the productivity of their livestock will go a long way towards alleviating rural poverty. Presently, there are an estimated 66,000 veterinary hospitals, polyclinics, dispensaries, aid centres across the country. And the LH&DC scheme seeks to plug the challenges posed by the limitations of stationary hospitals by providing veterinary diagnostic and treatment facilities at a farmer’s doorstep for ailments, diseases or any other emergency veterinary conditions by MVUs. Now, a typical MVU is a four-wheeler van, with working space for one veterinarian, one para-veterinarian and a driver-cum-attendant. It also has space for essentials such as equipment for diagnosis, treatment and minor surgery, other basic requirements for the treatment of animals, audio-visual aids for awareness creation and GPS tracking of vehicle. The LH&DC scheme envisages one MVU for one lakh animals; however, the number of vans in use could be higher in regions with difficult terrain. Milk loss As approximately 70% of India’s milk supply is sourced from farmers who own less than five animals, losses due to mastitis alone amount to a milk loss of approximately 10 litres per day per farm (this translates into approximately Rs. 300-Rs. 350 per day. So for most farmers, death of or disease in livestock could mean the difference between sustenance and starvation. The animal health issue is compounded by the growing presence of salesmen of drug distributors in rural communities. MVUs have been successfully running either on hire or on State ownership basis in several States (Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Telangana, West Bengal, etc.) with positive results and increased outreach, especially in geographically difficult terrains. The main thrust for the near future will be on focused upgradation of veterinary health-care services, disease surveillance and training (CVE), and disease reporting in real time. As a job creator Additionally, the increasing adoption of MVUs across the country will lead to a surge in employment opportunities for veterinarians and assistants. In the lockdown/s during the novel coronavirus pandemic, we witnessed innovations by start-ups that provided video consultation sessions between livestock farmers and veterinarians, along with apps that provide detailed information to farmers on livestock health and nutrition. Thus, there is a great deal of scope for innovations and intervention by the private sector in the context of animal health and MVUs. Further, with the growing prevalence of the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model, the MVU model is poised to generate higher returns on investment. Atul Chaturvedi is Secretary, Ministry of Animal Husbandry and Dairying. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/just-what-the-doctor-ordered-for-the-livestock-farmer/article64949208.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:34 IST,||A train to unite Kerala||Kerala is polarised over the proposed 530 km north-south semi-high speed standard gauge rail link costing a largely borrowed Rs. 64,000 crore. It proposes to connect metropolitan Kochi with the rest of the State in two hours, and Kasaragode in the north to Thiruvananthapuram in the south in four hours, reducing the pressure on linear Kerala’s heavily choked 1,800 km highways. Kerala suffers severe traffic stress due to its undulating topography and sensitive hydrology prone to recurrent floods, higher forest cover and ecologically fragile Western Ghats. Project positives Proponents point to the benefits of fast high quality connectivity. The new track can transport 80,000 people daily, reducing the 20,000 present passenger car trips, and 12% to 15% passenger cars sales and traffic. Kerala has a severe vehicular pressure with about 441 vehicles per 1,000 people. According to the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, the total registered vehicles in Kerala grew at a CAGR of 10.62% against the all India figure of 9.91% between 2009 and 2019. Of its 156 lakh total registered vehicles, 37 lakh are private passenger cars and SUVs, which translates to 1 private vehicle per 10 persons. Annually, 2 lakh new passenger cars/SUVs are added on the road. A vast majority of passenger cars are well over 15 years old, leading to intense pollution. The speeding traffic also causes 40,000 accidents per annum leading to 4,000 fatalities, a high for most Indian States. Even during the COVID slowdown, Keralites purchased 1.57 lakh (2020) of passenger cars. The gradual shift of 15% to 25% of the present passenger car traffic to a competitive transport system is, therefore, an imperative for Kerala. It is fundamental to Kerala’s survival as a viable economic entity as the State is 92% urbanised with few rural urban distinctions in amenities and entitlements. Growth of cities and census towns is limited geographically and Kerala is fast transforming its building regime to accommodate highrises for its residential and commercial demand. Without commuting for work and swift transport of mass-consumed items, its consumption economy will stagnate. Kerala’s bounty from its large tourism industry due to the efficient movement of visitors between destinations at economic rates assumes significance as it enhances average retention and per capita spending. The present semi high-speed railway proposals are not entirely new. A high speed version proposed at 350 km per hour by a previous regime with a proposed outlay of Rs. 1 lakh crore was abandoned in favour of a suburban train project at a lower parametric cost. Opinion is divided as to whether the present rail network speed can be enhanced through doubling, improving signalling and straightening the 600 plus curvy patches. Sceptics feel that the efforts over the last 20 years have merely improved the speed marginally to 50 km per hour. SilverLine, a project of the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd., promotes infrastructure developed jointly by the State and Central governments. Subsidised external finance guaranteed by the Governments could effectively bridge the transport infrastructure gap and provide the desired results. The concerns Critics largely cite the burden of debt financing of the project which could impact State finances substantially, potentially pressuring a variety of other investments till the project breaks even. Other worries hinge around the displacement and generous rehabilitation of about 10,000 families from the 1,200 hectares of private land it needs to acquire. Environmental concerns exist over the embankments elevating the track approximately for 300 km and availability of construction material aggregates. Kerala’s steep drainage is oriented east to west and many speculate that the embankment may enhance the intensity of ambient flooding although the project provides leeways every 500 metres. Though the project would temporarily enhance emissions in the construction phase, the green powered electric power-train is expected to replace 150 internal combustion engines, each time a train makes a trip. These deserve deeper analysis. The State’s investment in green power particularly in solar plants augmented by cheap solar power from national vendors through green corridors will power the variable cost of the track sustainability. The SilverLine is, however, exclusively insufficient to answer the State’s traffic crisis. Kerala also needs to harmoniously develop its eco-friendly waterways which can decongest the clogged highways by another 15%. If the transport of hazardous goods and consumable staples shifts to an integrated navigable system, along with the new high-speed green rail, it will reduce highway congestion by 15%. Together with this, if there is an annual 5-10% conversion of vehicular traffic to electric engines, it would arguably keep the road transport corridor as well as the rail and waterway tracks reasonably patent, efficient and carbon neutral. Integrative approach Kerala perhaps needs an integrated sectoral appraisal and synthesis of its competing traffic corridor proposals viewed simultaneously as civic amenities and investment projects. Instead of merely looking at each project as a standalone approach, an integrative approach might address the lacunae. Perhaps a lack of a sufficiently integrated and informed discourse on the potential of the multi-modal complementarities is confounding the debate. A progressive and knowledgeable society like Kerala should engage in meaningful parleys rather than take part in highly polarised debates, leaving no space for the nuances to be explored. The present discourse, therefore, needs to deepen and broaden simultaneously. B. Ashok is a civil servant and a former Vice- Chancellor. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-train-to-unite-kerala/article64949201.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:34 IST,||A mandate for Governors||The demand to constitutionally mandate Governors to act within a time frame on files including legislations sent to Raj Bhavan by an elected government is being given a consistent push by Tamil Nadu in recent months. Flagging the issue at the 82nd All India Presiding Officers Conference in Shimla last November, Legislative Assembly Speaker M. Appavu, pointed out that Governors sometimes sit on Bills without giving assent or returning it “for an indefinite period”. The underlying context was clear. The ruling DMK has been unable to fulfil its electoral promise of abolishing NEET. The T.N. Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, adopted by the Assembly in September 2021 to dispense with NEET and facilitate admissions based on Plus Two marks, remains under the consideration of Governor R.N. Ravi. As NEET comes under the Centre’s purview, it is required that the Governor forward the Bill for Presidential assent. This delay has upset Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who has argued that it was the basic principle of a democracy that when the Assembly invoked its right and enacted a law, the Governor “should respect it and give it his approval”. Governors, though heads of the State Executive, are appointed by the Union Government. “Therefore, when they stall the assent to a Bill, they are virtually overruling the will of the people of the State,” Mr. Appavu said. He called for setting a “binding time frame” within which Bills must receive assent, be returned, or reserved for the consideration of the President by the Governors. The issue echoed in the Rajya Sabha last month when DMK MP P. Wilson called for amending the Constitution to fix time limits for Governors to act on Bills. He said it should be inferred that the Constitution places a “fiduciary duty” on the Governor “to act within a reasonable time frame”. Undue delay in performance of constitutional functions is ex-facie unconstitutional. “The Governor ultimately owes a responsibility to the people on whose behalf, and for whose welfare, the Legislatures, which carry the people’s mandate, enact laws.” The NEET exemption Bill being held up is not an isolated one. The previous AIADMK government, despite being a BJP ally, could not get then Governor Banwarlilal Purohit to do its bidding. For nearly 45 days, he did not grant assent to a 2020 Bill providing for 7.5% horizontal reservation for NEET-qualified government school students in medical colleges. Pushed to a corner by the DMK, the erstwhile Edappadi K. Palaniswami government hastily took the executive route to issue a G.O. giving effect to its decision. Mr. Purohit granted assent to the Bill the next day but justified the delay saying he was awaiting the Solicitor General’s opinion. Curiously, Mr. Purohit did not adopt the same legal yardstick for another legislation of a sensitive nature. He almost instantly granted assent to a Bill providing for 10.5% internal reservation for Vanniakula Kshatriyas within the quota for the MBCs, which was adopted by the House hours before the Election Commission notified the Assembly election schedule. The quota has been quashed by the Madras High Court and is under appeal before the Supreme Court. A related aspect of this conundrum flagged by Mr. Appavu is of significance. If the President withholds the assent and returns any Bill, should he not give reasons, Mr. Appavu asked. This would enable the Assembly to enact another Bill, correcting the shortcomings. In 2017, the President had withheld consent for two NEET exemption Bills passed by the Assembly, the reasons for which remain unknown. There is a need to take T.N.’s demand forward to ensure Governors and Presidents act on legislative actions. sureshkumar.d@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-mandate-for-governors/article64949203.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:33 IST,||Chance and change||Since the last Assembly election in 2017, Punjab politics has changed considerably, though the issues that throttled the State then continue to do so even now. Unemployment, endemic drug abuse, mafias that control the liquor and sand trade, farm debts, and depleting groundwater are among the haunting problems. In 2017, led by Captain Amarinder Singh, the Congress party came to power with a thumping majority, winning 77 of the 117 Assembly seats. The election saw a triangular fight with a new entrant, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), coming into the State’s political arena. The Congress promises then included punishing the main culprits behind the sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib and police firing incidents at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in 2015, and the cancellation of ‘faulty’ power purchase agreements, but it could make only limited progress on burning issues. Captain Amarinder was accused of going ‘soft’ on the Badal family that helmed the previous government and continues to control the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). The Congress booted him out in September 2021 in an attempt to salvage its fortunes, but ended up with chaos at the top. Stomping a narcissistic trail, party State president Navjot Singh Sidhu undermines the party and the authority of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who has grown in stature, though his elevation was the result of chance circumstances.   The Congress is caught in a bind. The elevation of Mr. Channi, the first Dalit to become the State Chief Minister, has perked up its support among the community that is nearly a third of the population. But that might upset the Jat Sikhs who dominate Punjab’s power structure. The Hindus who largely voted for the Congress are also uneasy about the panthic — Sikh religious — politics being championed by Mr. Sidhu. The SAD is focusing on its panthic agenda but remains largely listless; the contraption of an alliance between Captain Amarinder’s Punjab Lok Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) and the Bharatiya Janata Party may have a tough challenge in inspiring significant support. Against the backdrop of the year-long farmers’ protest against three farm laws, as many as 22 farm unions have joined hands together to contest elections. AAP is trying to sell its ‘Delhi model of governance’, and its bid for power this time appears serious. It is showering promises, which include a monthly dole of Rs. 1,000 to all women voters above 18 if elected to power. SAD’s credibility is at a low, and the Congress is its own worst enemy in the State. All that and AAP’s ability to feel the pulse of the voters make the Punjab contest an open field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/chance-and-change/article38284618.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:34 IST,||Red lines||The European Union (EU) has found itself caught in a bind over the worsening tensions between Lithuania and China. Last week, top EU diplomats met to find a way to de-escalate tensions before a planned EU-China summit, expected in the coming weeks. After a two-day meet of Foreign Ministers in France, the EU’s Foreign Policy Chief, Josep Borrell, said the grouping expressed “solidarity” with Lithuania, which is a member of the EU and NATO. He, however, stopped short of announcing any concrete actions. The EU has watched nervously as one of its members faces the full weight of coercive Chinese diplomacy, even as the grouping keeps one eye on its substantial $828 billion annual trade with Beijing. The tensions began last year after Lithuania announced the setting up of a Taiwanese Representative Office. Such offices are hardly unusual across Europe, or in much of the world. The difference, however, was in the naming. The offices elsewhere are not called Taiwanese but are named, as in New Delhi, Taipei Economic and Cultural Centres because of the “one China policy” followed by most countries, including India, that do not have formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan. Lithuania has said the name did not change its “one China policy”, but for Beijing, the move crossed one of its most sensitive red lines. The opening of the office followed a number of developments that strained relations after the election of a coalition government that has underlined the importance of “democratic values” in the foreign policy of the first former Soviet republic that declared independence, as well as pushed closer ties with Washington.  If the rest of Europe is unlikely to similarly test Beijing’s Taiwan red lines, what has alarmed the EU is the forcefulness of China’s response, which has ranged from downgrading ties, recalling its ambassador, an effective trade blockade, and especially the moves to pressure European companies to stop sourcing from Lithuania should they wish to continue exporting to China. China’s response suggests an attempt to, as Chinese strategists like to say, “kill the chicken to scare the monkeys”, and ensure other countries do not contemplate a similar move. Beyond the Lithuania-China tensions, of particular salience to India is how the EU, as a major power, will take forward ties with China as it similarly weighs strategic considerations against a booming trading relationship. China’s use of trade as leverage and as a method of coercion, which stands in stark contrast to its declaration in October, on the 50th anniversary of its UN membership, that it eschews “power politics” and “hegemony”, is another matter of concern. Lithuania is an exception in having both a trade surplus with China and no pressing need to access the China market. How the EU assesses the benefits and costs of taking on China on a core concern — the Taiwan issue — will be closely watched in New Delhi as it continues to recalibrate its own modus vivendi with China.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/red-lines/article38284625.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:34 IST,||India May Not Return Captured Pak. Areas||PATNA, Jan. 17. The Defence Minister, Mr. Jagjivan Ram, to-day indicated that India may not return the territory captured in the recent war with Pakistan. Commenting on the Jan Sangh President, Mr. A.B. Vajpayee’s threat to launch an agitation all over the country in case the captured territory was returned to Pakistan, he said: “We are not foolish.” Addressing a Congress workers’ meeting at Sadaquat Ashram headquarters of the Bihar Pradesh Congress, the Defence Minister also recalled his speech prior to the war that this time the captured territories would not be surrendered. He said that he had ordered the abolition of the categories of “combat” and “non combat” forces in the Army. He was also trying to have only one mess for both the officers and jawans. Reiterating the Government’s decision to give full salary to the disabled Army men and to the families of those killed, he said this benefit would also be provided to those who fought in the 1962 and 1965 wars. Small houses would be constructed for jawans and officials of the Army in both rural and urban areas. — UNI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-may-not-return-captured-pak-areas/article38284632.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:34 IST,||Letters||It is unfortunate that the tableau of West Bengal has been excluded from the Republic Day parade (Inside pages, January 17). Each State in the Indian Union has its unique identity across a raft of spheres. Similarly, the contributions by leaders in all States for national causes including the freedom struggle cannot be quantified. Courtesy and protocol demand that the Central government inform the State concerned the reasons for exclusion. The Republic Day parade should encompass all States and it is their lawful right to participate in it. V. Johan Dhanakumar, Chennai   When the Tri-services Court of Inquiry (CoI) which probed the crash of the Mi-17V5 helicopter near Coonoor in the Nilgiris — which claimed the lives of the Chief of Defence Staff and his entourage — has ruled out ‘any mechanical failure, sabotage or negligence’, one fails to understand why the Tamil Nadu police should continue the probe (Page 1, January 17). The primary responsibility for the probe lies with the defence forces. What happens now? Will the defence forces accept the police findings? A. Jainulabdeen, Chennai   Tennis star Novak Djokovic’s visa cancellation and resultant deportation from Australia for being unvaccinated (Page 1 and ‘Sport’ page, January 17) has had its effect — the vital message that no one has the right to put another person’s health in jeopardy by flouting protocols. Thankfully, the entire saga will only strengthen the case for the jab. S. Sanjeevi Rao, Puducherry Djokovic’s Grand Slam record chase will have to wait. There is no doubt that the Serbian star’s dizzying drama has polarised opinion worldwide. N.J. Ravi Chander, Bengaluru It is unfortunate that a tennis star of the stature of Djokovic expressed ‘extreme disappointment’, and then added that he “respected the ruling and would cooperate with the authorities”. The star should not only have got himself vaccinated but also been seen vigorously advocating vaccination to dispel the fears of vaccine sceptics. Finally, what kind of a message is he also sending to his people in Serbia where the COVID-19 virus is raging? Kosaraju Chandramouli, Hyderabad The story from beginning to end reminded me of my experience in New Zealand. I underwent the experience of paying a $400 fine at Wellington airport for inadvertently carrying an apple in my laptop bag and forgetting to mention it in my airport entry form on arrival. Sorry, Djokovic. Rules are rules. And as a world champion, the general public expects much better from you. K. Ramachandran, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/letters/article64949206.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||China’s economy grows 8.1% to $18 tn||China’s economy grew 8.1% in 2021 and reached the $18 trillion mark, although slowing growth in the last quarter and the lowest birth rate since 1949 emerged as concerns for policymakers. Last year’s expansion was the fastest since 2011 and marked a strong recovery after growth plummeted to a 44-year-low of 2.2% in 2020 as the country dealt with the COVID-19 outbreak in Wuhan and months of lockdowns. The rebound was driven by a strong trade performance with 30% growth in imports and exports as well as recovery in domestic retail sales. Exports contributed to 20.9% of growth while consumption accounted for 65.4%, data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on Monday show. Retail sales climbed 12.5% while fixed asset assessment rose 4.9%. However, overall growth slowed in the last quarter to 4%, from 4.9% in the third quarter. A key reason for the slowdown was a sharp decline in real estate investment, which slid by close to 14% in December from the previous year, coinciding with curbs on the property market and debt troubles at several major real estate firms in the wake of government moves to put a stop to debt-fuelled expansion of the sector. Heading into the country’s new year, China, which avoided a major second wave with its strict ‘zero-COVID’ approach that enabled a domestic recovery but came at the cost of continued international isolation, is dealing with the spread of new clusters and the more transmissible Omicron variant. This has led to fresh lockdowns in several cities and could be a major concern for growth in 2022. Alarming drop Another significant — and longer-term — concern from Monday’s data was an alarming drop in China’s birth rate with the national growth rate at 0.34 per thousand, meaning the birth rate was only slightly higher than the national death rate, despite moves to relax family planning restrictions by allowing a ‘three child policy’. The NBS said 10.6 million babies were born last year, down from 12 million in 2020 and the lowest number since the founding of the People’s Republic of China in 1949 — lower even that the worst years of the famine of the early 1960s during Mao’s‘Great Leap Forward’. “The most shocking part of the data released today is that the natural growth of the population has dropped…[for] the first time below 1.0 since data become available,” the South China Morning Post quoted economist Zhang Zhiwei as saying. “The demographic challenge is well known, but the speed of population ageing is clearly faster than expected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chinas-economy-grows-81-to-18-tn/article64948894.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||‘Omicron more of a flash flood than a wave, lifting prospects’||Overall economic activity in India remains strong, with upbeat consumer and business confidence and uptick in several incoming high-frequency indicators, despite the outbreak of the Omicron variant of the virus causing COVID-19, Reserve Bank of India officials wrote in an article in the RBI Bulletin.  “As the world stepped into the new year, the path of the recovery in India as in the rest of the global economy encountered headwinds from a rapid surge in infections due to Omicron. Nonetheless, amidst upbeat consumer and business confidence and an uptick in bank credit, aggregate demand conditions stay resilient, while on the supply front, Rabi sowing has exceeded last year’s level and the normal acreage,” the article’s authors, led by deputy governor Michael Debabrata Patra, wrote.  Noting that manufacturing and several categories of services remained in expansion mode, they said, “More recently, expectations that Omicron may turn out to be more of a flash flood than a wave have brightened near-term prospects”. Recent data from the U.K. and South Africa suggested that Omicron infections were 66-80% less severe, with a lower need for hospitalisation. “This has brightened near-term prospects and financial markets reflect this optimism,” the officials wrote in the article titled ‘State of the Economy.’ Aggregate supply, as measured by gross value added (GVA) at basic prices, is set to rise 8.6% in FY22, as per the first advance estimates, as against a contraction of 6.2% the previous year. The acceleration in GVA was facilitated by robust growth in agriculture, coupled with recovery in industry and in several constituents of services, albeit on a favourable base, they observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/omicron-more-of-a-flash-flood-than-a-wave-lifting-prospects/article38284612.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||Business is in the best shape it could ever be: HCL Tech MD||HCL Technologies CEO and MD C. Vijayakumar on Monday said business was in the best shape that it could be and the company is optimistic of a good growth trajectory, especially in the medium term, driven by focus on digital transformation. On Monday, the company’s scrip fell 5.89% to Rs. 1,258.80 per share on the BSE after Friday’s results for the third quarter ended December showed a 13.6% dip in net profit.  “Our business is really doing very well. Last quarter results, we saw the highest quarterly growth in probably the last 10 years and all of that is organic growth,” Mr. Vijayakumar told The Hindu . “Margin was flat… mainly because of the investments we are making in freshers, their training and some increase in costs due to wage hikes etc,” he added. On the order flow being sustainable, he said the pipeline was close to the all-time high and “this is going to be at least a medium-term trend, given a lot of focus that clients have in modernising their technology landscape and making them more agile [with] cloud adoption and application and data transformation.”  The company’s Chief HR Officer Apparao V.V. said the firm would double its fresher hiring next fiscal year to about 40,000-45,000. To overcome the prevalent talent crunch, the industry needed to look at the bottom of the pyramid, or freshers, for scale, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/business-is-in-the-best-shape-it-could-ever-be-hcl-tech-md/article64948896.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||SEBI mulls ‘alternate dispute resolution’ tool||The Securities & Exchange Board of India (SEBI) is now examining, in consultation with regulated entities, the possibility of introducing ‘alternate dispute resolution mechanism’ in various agreements — wherever possible — between the regulated entities and their clients. “This is with a view to providing efficacious mechanism for resolving disputes between the investors and the regulated entities,” SEBI said in a statement. The regulator had published ‘Investor Charter’ for the securities market last year besides announcing several other steps towards empowerment of investors. Since then, various steps had been taken to implement the Charter, it said. Separate Investor Charters regarding investor-related activities of various intermediaries had been developed by SEBI in consultation with the respective entities. “These charters are expected to help investors to improve their ease of investing in Indian securities market,” SEBI added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-mulls-alternate-dispute-resolution-tool/article64948892.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||‘Third wave undoes last year’s resumption gains’||The fast-spreading third wave of COVID-19 has undone the gains achieved due to resumption of business since the end of the lethal second wave last year, Japanese brokerage Nomura said on Monday. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index, which compares activity against the pre-pandemic levels of March 2020, fell to 102.9 for the week ended January 16, from 107.9 in the preceding 7-day period. The index has slumped by 17.4 percentage points since the third wave struck at the cusp of the new year. The third wave — which has seen daily infections climb to more than 2.5 lakh from 1.7 lakh in the week earlier — has “undone business resumption gains since the second wave”, it said. Already, economists are estimating a dent of up to 0.4% to the GDP because of the third wave, with an increasing number of States having resorted to curbs to check the spread of infections. The Omicron variant is said to be less potent than the earlier Delta variant. The labour participation rate fell to a nine-week low of 39.7%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/third-wave-undoes-last-years-resumption-gains/article64948899.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||FADA urges GST cut for two-wheelers, used cars||The Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA) has sought a reduction in GST for two-wheelers and used cars to 18% and 5%, respectively to help spur demand. “FADA requests the Ministry to regulate and reduce GST rates on two wheelers to 18%... two-wheeler is used not as a luxury but as a necessity to travel distances by lower class and rural segments for their daily working needs,” the industry body said in Budget recommendations to the Finance Ministry. “The rationale of 28% GST + 2% cess which is for luxury/sin products does not hold good for the two-wheelers,” it said. It noted that at a time when vehicle prices were rising every 3-4 months due to a continuous increase in prices of metals, and other factors, a rate cut would counter the trend and help spur demand. It also pitched for a cut in GST rates for used cars to 5% from the current 12% for vehicles measuring 4,000 mm in length, and 18% for longer ones. “With the reduction in GST, it will help the industry to shift from unorganised segment to organised segment thus bringing in more business under the ambit of GST, helping in putting a brake on tax leakages.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fada-urges-gst-cut-for-two-wheelers-used-cars/article64948897.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||M&M unveils scheme for BS 6 CVs||Mahindra’s Truck and Bus Division (MTB), part of the Mahindra Group, has announced ‘Get More Mileage or Give Truck Back’ guarantee plan for its BS 6 range of Blazo X Heavy, Furio intermediate, and light commercial trucks. “Given the spiralling fuel prices, there wasn’t a better time to introduce this customer value proposition,” said Veejay Nakra, CEO, automotive sector, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. “I firmly believe it will reaffirm our customers’ faith in Mahindra’s ability to create technologically-advanced products and set higher standards for the CV industry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mm-unveils-scheme-for-bs-6-cvs/article38284611.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||Ultratech Q3 profit rises 8% to Rs. 1,708 crore||Ultratech Cement Ltd. consolidated net profit rose 8% year-on-year (YoY) to Rs. 1,708 crore for the third quarter ended December. The profit includes a one-time gain of Rs. 535 crore in tax for earlier years, the company said in a filing. Consolidated net sales grew to Rs. 12,710 crore from Rs. 12,144 crore. During the quarter, the company repaid loans amounting to Rs. 3,459 crore. The board, at its meeting held on Monday, approved capital expenditure of Rs. 965 crore towards modernisation and expansion of capacity at Birla White from the current 6.5 LTPA to 12.53 LTPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ultratech-q3-profit-rises-8-to-rs-1708-crore/article38284604.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||VA Tech Wabag bags $100 mn contract in UAE||VA Tech Wabag, a water technology multinational firm, has secured its first order in UAE valued at $100 million. The order relates to engineering and procurement activities in relation to 120 million gallons per day Hassyan Sea Water Reverse Osmosis in the UAE, it said in a statement. The desalination plant is planned to be commissioned in phases by March 2024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/va-tech-wabag-bags-100-mn-order-in-uae/article38284617.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:27 IST,||Tech Mahindra acquires European tech firm for EUR 310 mn||Tech Mahindra announced the acquisition of 100% stake in Europe-based Com tec Co IT (CTC) and 25% stake in two IT platforms for a total of €330 million (about Rs. 2,800 crore). The acquisitions will strengthen its digital engineering and insurance technology units . It said that it has acquired CTC for €310 million euros (about Rs. 2,628 crore).PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tech-mahindra-acquires-european-tech-firm-for-eur-310-mn/article64948900.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,||Nadal, Barty and Osaka sail through on day 1; Kenin knocked out||Rafael Nadal and Ashleigh Barty made terrific starts to their Australian Open title campaigns on Monday as the Grand Slam moved on from the Novak Djokovic visa saga. Naomi Osaka launched the defence of her women’s crown with victory but Coco Gauff was an early big-name casualty, the American 17-year-old dumped out in straight sets by Wang Qiang, who is ranked outside the top 100. Record beckons The only Australian Open champion in the men’s draw after nine-time winner Djokovic’s deportation, Nadal started his quest to become the first male to win 21 Grand Slams by sweeping aside 66th-ranked Marcos Giron 6-1, 6-4, 6-2. The draw has opened up for the Spanish great with defending champion Djokovic out of the picture and the other member of the ‘Big Three’, Roger Federer, not at Melbourne Park because of injury. But the 35-year-old Nadal said he was just relieved to be playing tennis after Djokovic’s refusal to get vaccinated against COVID overshadowed the first Grand Slam of the year right up until the last moment. The other winners in the men’s draw on day one of the so-called ‘Happy Slam’, where crowds have been capped at 50% because of the pandemic, included seventh seed Matteo Berrettini. The Italian defeated American Brandon Nakashima in four sets despite tummy trouble. Also through was third seed Alexander Zverev, but 12th-seeded Briton Cameron Norrie lost in three sets to Sebastian Korda, the son of 1998 Australian Open champion Petr Korda. In the women’s draw, top seed and World No. 1 Barty made a real statement of intent, crushing qualifier Lesia Tsurenko in 54 minutes, 6-0, 6-1. Japan’s former World No. 1 Osaka, the reigning champion, was also largely untroubled with a 6-3, 6-3 win against Colombia’s Camila Osorio. Seeded 13 after a disrupted 2021 in which she said she had suffered “long bouts of depression”, Osaka cruised home in 68 minutes. Sofia Kenin was the Australian Open champion in 2020, and made it to the final of the French Open, too, that year, when she climbed to a career-high ranking of No. 4. She's going to drop a lot closer to No. 100 after a first-round exit at Melbourne Park on Monday. The 11th-seeded Kenin was beaten by 2017 U.S. Open runner-up Madison Keys 7-6(2), 7-5 in an all-American match-up. “It’s not easy, but it’s just a number. It doesn’t change who I am. I’m still that person who everyone respects very much,” Kenin said of her WTA ranking status. “Obviously, it’s not the best news... but I don’t have a doubt I can get back there.” “Just some unforced errors and some forced errors — because Maddy forced them. I was right there. It’s disappointing,” Kenin said. There was also heartbreak for Tunisian ninth seed Ons Jabeur, who did not even make it onto court and withdrew because of injury before her match. Also out was the 18th-seeded prodigy Gauff, surprisingly losing 6-4, 6-2 to China’s Wang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-barty-and-osaka-sail-through-on-the-opening-day/article38284833.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,||McBrine stars as Ireland seals ODI series||Andy McBrine claimed four wickets and hit a half-century as Ireland beat West Indies by two wickets to win the One-Day International series 2-1 here on Sunday. McBrine took his wicket tally in the three matches to 10 as the West Indies was all out for 212 in 44.4 overs at Sabina Park. He then showed his all-round talents by hitting a top score of 59 off 100 balls with six boundaries and a six. Harry Tector also played his part in what was Ireland’s first away ODI series triumph against a fellow Test nation. The 24-year-old finished with 52, his third successive half-century and seventh in his last 10 matches. When McBrine departed in the 31st over, the 28-year-old all-rounder had taken Ireland to 152 for three, helping his team recover from losing opener William Porterfield to the first ball of the innings to Alzarri Joseph. McBrine’s second career half-century ended with a lazy swipe to Odean Smith which was gobbled up by Shai Hope behind the stumps.  The scores:   West Indies 212 in 44.4 overs (Shai Hope 53, Jason Holder 44; Andy McBrine 4/28, Craig Young 3/43) lost to Ireland 214/8 in 44.5 overs (Paul Stirling 44, Andy McBrine 59, Harry Tector 52, Paul Stirling 44; Akeal Hosein 3/59).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mcbrine-stars-as-ireland-seals-odi-series/article64948905.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,||FIH introduces new penalty corner rule||In a bid to make the sport more safer for its athletes, the International Hockey Federation (FIH) has allowed players defending penalty corners to keep their protective equipment on even after the ball goes outside the striking circle, but must remove them at the first opportunity inside the 23m area. Earlier, the players defending penalty corners were bound to remove their protective equipment immediately inside the circle once the flick was executed. But the FIH has tweaked its Rule 4.2, which relates to removal of penalty corner protective equipment. “Rule 4.2 has been changed to allow for defending players using Penalty Corner protective equipment to continue to play the ball outside the circle after an interception during the taking of a penalty corner. Players can now continue to run with the ball while keeping their protective equipment on but they must remove that same equipment immediately after, at the first opportunity to do so and always inside the 23m area,” said FIH Sport Director and double-Olympian Jon Wyatt. Focus “No player using PC protective equipment can play the ball outside the 23m area at any time. This has been introduced to protect athlete safety so that the focus can be on the ball and the play, and not on removing protective equipment during a pressurised defensive situation. “It was trialled in the FIH Odisha Hockey Men’s Junior World Cup in Bhubaneswar in December 2021, and received unanimous support from coaches, athletes and officials.” Aerial balls The FIH has also made another significant rule change, which relates to aerial balls. Previously, intercepting a falling aerial ball was considered to be illegitimate but now the FIH has granted relaxation to players in this regard. “Rule 9.10 was changed to allow for the playing of what is commonly referred to as Aerial Balls. The previous text did not cover for the possibility for players to safely intercept a falling ball, which is now seen as both legitimate and positive to the development of the game. “Aerial Balls will continue to be closely monitored by all stake-holders so that player safety can be maintained,” Wyatt, a former England international, said. Update every two years The FIH Rules of Hockey are updated every two years in January following the Olympic Games or FIH Hockey World Cups. The FIH Rules of Hockey have come into effect from January 1 at the international level. “National Associations have discretion to decide the date of their implementation at National level, based on their domestic seasons,” Wyatt said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fih-introduces-new-penalty-corner-rule/article64948903.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:04 IST,||Serena drops out of the top 50||Serena Williams has dropped out of the world’s top 50 for the first time since 2006, the US tennis great sitting 59th in the WTA rankings released on Monday. The 40-year-old played just six tournaments in 2021 and none since her tearful Wimbledon first-round exit with a leg injury ended the 23-time Grand Slam champion’s latest bid to equal Margaret Court’s all-time record. Serena has dropped 12 places in the rankings which are led by Ashleigh Barty ahead of the Australian Open in Melbourne. Badosa moves to sixth Sydney winner Paula Badosa moves up to a career-high sixth following a blistering 2021 season in which she reached the French Open quarter-finals, the 24-year-old Spaniard having started last year ranked 67th. American Madison Keys, a former World No.7, has jumped 36 places to 51st after her Adelaide victory, claiming a WTA title more than two and a half years after her last tournament win in Cincinnati.  The top 20: 1. Ashleigh Barty (Aus), 2. Aryna Sabalenka (Blr), 3. Garbine Muguruza (Esp), 4. Barbora Krejcikova (Cze), 5. Karolina Pliskova (Cze), 6. Paula Badosa (Esp), 7. Anett Kontaveit (Est), 8. Maria Sakkari (Gre), 9. Iga Swiatek (Pol), 10. Ons Jabeur (Tun), 11. Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova (Rus), 12. Elena Rybakina (Kaz), 13. Sofia Kenin (USA), 14. Naomi Osaka (Jpn), 15. Simona Halep (Rom), 16. Cori Gauff (USA), 17. Elina Svitolina (Ukr), 18. Emma Raducanu (GBr), 19. Petra Kvitova (Cze), 20. Angelique Kerber (Ger); S elected: 51. Madison Keys (USA); 59. Serena Williams (USA) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/serena-drops-out-of-the-top-50/article38285178.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:31 IST,||‘Everybody got fitter as a team’||The forthcoming ODI series in South Africa is going to witness plenty of firsts for India. Not only will it be K.L. Rahul’s maiden captaincy assignment in India’s blues, it will also be the first time since 2014 that Virat Kohli will be a part of an India team without leading it. Besides, the three-match series will also be Jasprit Bumrah’s maiden assignment of formally being a member of the team leadership group. With Kohli having stepped down as Test captain as well barely a few hours earlier, Bumrah. the ace pacer who has been appointed ODI vice-captain, insisted that he doesn’t chase leadership roles. “For me, I am ready to contribute in whatever position whatever way I can to the team. If given an opportunity, of course, you would think about it [captaincy] but that’s something that I don’t chase. I like to do my work however I can contribute. Having a post or not doesn’t really matter,” Bumrah said ahead of Wednesday’s series-opener. “Obviously if given an opportunity, it’s an honour and there is no bigger feeling than that. But I try to focus on the things that I can contribute even if I am not given a position of a leader because that’s the job of a teammate, however you can help each other in any situation that’s very important.” Despite Kohli having relinquished captaincy in all formats, Bumrah stressed Kohli will continue to be a leader in the group. “He has been the leader of the team. He is energy driven. He has brought a lot of change in cricket. He has brought the fitness culture, everybody was heading in the same direction. Everybody got fitter as a team. So his contribution has been immense, and is still immense. He is a very important player, a very important leader in the group,” Bumrah said. “He has been [the captain] for such a long period of time, so his assistance and his knowledge of the game will always be used by us as a team and his contribution will always be important. So even now, when he is there in the squad, he will obviously add inputs and he will always give a suggestion. That’s very important for all our players and we all look up to him. That’s always been the case and it will be the same going forward as well,” said Bumrah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/everybody-got-fitter-as-a-team/article64948827.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,||Harrison’s treble highlights Leeds’ victory||West Ham United squandered a chance to cement fourth spot in the Premier League as it lost 3-2 at home to Leeds United on Sunday with Jack Harrison scoring a hat-trick for the visitor. After three successive wins, West Ham had the chance to open up a five-point gap between itself and fifth-placed Arsenal. But Marcelo Bielsa’s Leeds, missing seven players had other ideas. Harrison opened the scoring after 10 minutes with a curled finish but Jarrod Bowen equalised with a header in the 34th — his fourth goal in his last three games. Harrison touched in after good work by Luke Ayling three minutes later to give Leeds the halftime lead. When Pablo Fornals levelled again seven minutes after the break it seemed West Ham would win but Leeds responded in magnificent fashion. Harrison’s deft finish after dazzling play by Raphinha restored the lead. The win lifted Leeds to 15th, nine points above the relegation zone. Inter Milan dropped points in Serie A for the first time in more than two months as Atalanta held the league leader to an entertaining 0-0 draw on Sunday to end its eight-match winning run. Atalanta goalkeeper Juan Musso produced a spectacular save in the first half, before his Inter counterpart Samir Handanovic responded with two crucial interventions of his own after the break. There were chances aplenty in a battle between two of the division’s most attacking sides, but neither team could find the breakthrough despite producing a combined 23 shots. Inter moved two points clear in first place and extended its unbeaten league run to 13 matches, while Atalanta remain fourth, sandwiched one point behind Napoli and one ahead of Juventus.  The results:   Premier League: West Ham 2 (Bowen 34, Fornals 52) lost to Leeds 3 (Harrison 10, 37, 60).   Serie A: Sassuolo 2 (Scamacca 54, Defrel 67) lost to Verona 4 (Caprari 37, Barak 44, 57-pen, 90+4); Venezia 1 (Okereke 73) drew with Empoli 1 (Zurkowski 26); Roma 1 (Oliveira 33-pen) bt Cagliari 0; Atalanta 0 drew with Inter Milan 0.   Bundesliga: Augsburg 1 (Gregoritsch 38) drew with Frankfurt 1 (Kamada 22); Arminia Bielefeld 2 (Okugawa 8, Castro 83) drew with Greuther Fuerth 2 (Leweling 35, Nielsen 67) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harrisons-treble-highlights-leeds-victory/article64948904.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,||Sportstar Aces: Sportswoman of the year nominees||Avani Lekhara (shooting): Avani was simply dazzling in Tokyo, scripting history by emerging as the first Indian woman gold medallist in the Paralympics.  In 2021: Won gold in 10m air rifle in Tokyo, won bronze in 50m rifle 3 positions in Tokyo.  Mirabai Chanu (weightlifting): She landed India’s first medal in Tokyo, taking silver in the 49kg category. Mirabai became the second Indian, after Karnam Malleswari (Sydney 2000), to win a weightlifting Olympic medal.  In 2021: Silver in Tokyo.  Lovlina Borgohain (boxing): The gritty 24-year-old from Assam was struck by a bout of COVID-19 in the run-up to Tokyo, but it didn’t stop her from becoming the second Indian woman boxer, after Mary Kom (London 2012) to win an Olympic medal.  In 2021: Won a bronze in the 69kg section in Tokyo.  The Sportstar Aces awards are presented by Byju's Classes with IDFC First Bank as the associate partner. Odisha is the Sports Destination Partner and Union Bank of India the banking partner. Nippon Paint is the Colour Partner and Life Insurance Corporation of India the Insurance Partner.  To vote, visit aces.sportstar.thehindu.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sportstar-aces-sportswoman-of-the-year-nominees/article64948831.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:31 IST,||South Africa’s magnificent tale of resurgence||They were the lambs to slaughter. Up against a powerful Indian side, the South Africans were the no-hopers even on home turf. The Proteas went down in the first Test. Next was the shock Test retirement of Quinton de Kock. Then the fightback. And, the comeback was one for the ages. A great sporting tale where heroes emerge, the script changes dramatically, and the opposition is conquered. Significance And this 2-1 series triumph is of great significance to a transitional side. South Africa found new champions in Keegan Petersen, Marco Jansen and Rassie van der Dussen. Any team draws its strength from its captain and Dean Elgar took blows to his body, never wilted and carried the fight. Seeing the captain battling through pain is a spirit-lifting sight for any team. Elgar’s all guts, match-winning unbeaten 96 on a dicey Wanderers pitch of variable bounce and seam movement, chasing a demanding 240, was a classic case of a captain leading from the front. Elgar’s man-management skills also came to the fore. He was able to rile up Kagiso Rabada into bowling a hostile game-changing spell at the Wanderers. Petersen is a special talent at No. 3. The technically correct batter’s ability to get into position underlines his footwork and balance. His 82 in the chase at Newlands was a display of responsibility and class. van der Dussen showed resilience in both the successful chases, holding his end and being judicious with his strokes. Temba Bavuma may lack the technical finesse of a Petersen but can give the ball a thump. Throughout the series he batted with aggressive intent. Wise move Eventually, bowlers win you games and South Africa made a crucial decision ahead of the second Test — an extra bowler at the expense of an all-rounder. Elgar said, “The top six have to take responsibility.” And how well they did! Even without the injured Anrich Nortje — arguably the quickest bowler in the world — South Africa had firepower in its bowling. The fast and furious Rabada let it rip, opened up games, and scalped batters. Lungi Ngidi bowled spells of controlled aggression, generating pace and giving little away. His accurate but incisive spell in the Indian second innings at Newlands was critical. Duanne Olivier, with his two-way swing, struck with the new ball. The biggest star Yet, the biggest bowling star for the Proteas was the tall left-arm seamer Marco Jansen. He finished just one behind Rabada with 19 wickets in the series, harried the batters with his left-armer’s angle, bounce and control from both over and round the wicket. Vitally, he could bring the ball into the right-hander. For South Africa, the pieces fell in place. This, indeed, was an astonishing comeback!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africas-magnificent-tale-of-resurgence/article38284842.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:30 IST,||Sindhu lone top draw after string of pullouts||As though the news of newly-crowned India Open champions Lakshya Sen and the men’s duo of Satwiksairaj Rankireddy-Chirag Shetty pulling out of the $150,000 Syed Modi International badminton tournament was not disappointing enough, K. Srikanth, Saina Nehwal and Ashwini Ponnappa joined the long list of withdrawals late on Monday. After a long managers’ meeting in Lucknow on the eve of the event, it came to light that P.V. Sindhu was the only top seed left in the draw across five events. As a result, when the tournament commences at the Babu Banarasi Das Stadium on Tuesday, most draws will resemble a National championship, with a different name. The men’s and women’s singles draws were the worst hit. With the top three seeds Srikanth, Lakshya, B. Sai Praneeth, in addition to P. Kashyap and Canada’s Brian Yang, seeded six and eight, staying away, fourth seed Sameer Verma is the favourite to regain the title. Similarly, in the women’s singles, Sindhu, Evgeniya Kosetskaya (Russia) and Supanida Katethong (Thailand), seeded one, five and six, are the survivors from the original list of seeds. Seeds two to four — Canada’s Li Michelle, Singapore’s Yeo Jia Min and Saina — along with Iris Wang (USA) and Jordan Hart (Poland), seeded seven and eight, are the main absentees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-the-only-top-seed-left-after-pullouts/article64948829.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:31 IST,||Gill powers Yoddha past Paltan||Surender Gill shone with his raids as UP Yoddha defeated Puneri Paltan 50-40 in a high-scoring match of the ProKabaddi League here on Monday. Gill (21 points) and Pardeep Narwal (10) scored Super 10s for Yoddha in a contest that witnessed too many defensive errors. Aslam Inamdar and Mohit Goyat had Super 10s for the Pune side, but they did not get any help from a stuttering defence that conceded far too many points. In the other match of the day, Bengal Warriors scripted a thrilling 28-27 win over Telugu Titans. The second phase of the league will kick off on January 20, tournament organiser Marshal Sports announced on Monday. It will have 33 matches and will go on till February 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gill-powers-yoddha-past-paltan/article64948823.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,||Aubameyang allowed to leave Gabon squad||Arsenal striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has been allowed to leave the Gabon squad at the Africa Cup of Nations and return to his club to continue his recovery from COVID-19, his national team coach said on Monday. Midfielder Mario Lemina of French side Nice has also been sent back to his club, with neither having played a minute in Gabon’s two matches so far at the Cup of Nations, against the Comoros and Ghana. “Given the medical problems that Pierre-Emerick and Mario have had, in agreement with the doctor, the president of the federation and the players, we have taken the wise decision to send them back to their clubs so they can be looked after there,” said Gabon coach Patrice Neveu at a press conference here. News of Aubameyang’s positive test, and that of Lemina, emerged on January 6, just four days before his team’s opening AFCON group game. The duo then tested negative ahead of Gabon’s second match, a 1-1 draw against Ghana on Friday, but both were again left out of the team after some residue from their infection was detected. Neveu played down reports that the players had developed heart problems following their infections, but the Gabonese Football Federation released a statement to say the pair would return to their clubs “to undergo further examinations”. Gabon plays Morocco in its last group game on Tuesday, when a draw will secure its path to the knockout phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aubameyang-allowed-to-leave-gabon-squad/article64948908.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:04 IST,||Matches will proceed as long as 13 players are available: Praful Patel||The All India Football Federation (AIFF) president Praful Patel said on Monday that the Women’s AFC Asian Cup matches, beginning here on Thursday, will not be cancelled due to positive COVID-19 cases if 13 players are available in each of the two competing teams. Praful, also the chairman of the Local Organising Committee, added in a virtual press conference that contingency plans have been put in place to deal with any situation in case participating team members are infected by the virus. “I hope not (of players testing positive for COVID-19), but in case such a situation arises, AFC has contingency plans,” he said. “The affected player or players will be isolated but the teams will be fielded as long as 13 players (in each team) are available," he said in the presence of Maharashtra Cabinet Minister Aaditya Thackeray. All the 12 participating teams have named 23-member squads for the tournament.All the teams will be staying inside a strict bio-bubble and everyone involved in the tournament, including players and officials, will undergo regular COVID-19 tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/matches-will-proceed-as-long-as-13-players-are-available-praful-patel/article38285176.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:19 IST,||Chang downs Duhan||Unseeded Woohyuk Chang of Korea surprised top-seeded Chirag Duhan of India 7-5, 6-4 in the first round of boys’ singles event in the Central Excise and CGST ITF juniors tennis (grade 2)on Monday. Second seed Aman Dahiya and others seeds held their own to progress to the next round. The girls’ section also saw all the seeds, including Vaishnavi Adkar of India, advance with contrasting wins.  The results (first round, Indians unless specified):   Boys: Woohyuk Chang (Kor) bt Chirag Duhan 7-5, 6-4; Ruslan Tiukaev (Rus) bt Anargha Ganguly 6-0, 6-3; Zach Stephens (GBr) bt Daksh Agarwal 6-3, 6-4; Saheb Sodhi bt Fadi Bidan (Lbn) 6-4, 4-6, 6-3; Manas Dhamne bt Shingo Masuda (Jpn) 6-3, 6-3.   Aryan Shah bt Kasra Rahmani (Irn) 6-1, 6-1; Yuvan Nandal bt Ilya Mukhin (Rus) 3-6, 6-4, 7-5; Dimitry Dolzhenkov (Rus) bt R. Vivekananthan 6-4, 6-1; Ronin Lotlikar bt Lucas Phanthala (Fra) 7-6(4), 6-1; Aman Dahiya bt Reiya Hattori (Jpn) 7-5, 6-1.   Girls: Jo-Leen Saw (Mas) bt Aarni Reddy 7-6(2), 1-6, 6-1.   Nandini Dixit bt Kristi Boro 6-4, 7-5; Victoria Milovanova (Rus) bt Lakshmi Gowda 6-4, 6-0; Tejasvi Dabas bt Amodini Naik 6-1, 6-1; Janani Ramesh bt Darja Suvirdjonkova (Srb) 5-7, 7-6(5), 7-5; Honoka Umeda (Jpn) 6-2, 6-4; Vaishnavi Adkar by Anya Murthy (USA) 7-6(4), 7-6(2); Pushti Laddha bt Hitakamya Narwal 6-3, 6-0; Kashish Bote bt Sharvani Shrestha (Nep) 6-3, 7-5; Daria Shadchneva (Rus) bt Saumrita Jagatdeo Verma 6-2, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chang-downs-duhan/article38284991.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,||Corfe Castle prevails in a thriller||Trainer L D’Silva’s Corfe Castle, ridden by C.S. Jodha, won the Kakatiya Million, the feature event of Monday’s (Jan. 17) races here, in a nail-biting finish. The winner is owned by Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt Ltd, Mr. M. Ramakrishna Reddy & Mr. Tinder S. Ahluwalia. ABERADER PLATE (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): ALMAS (R. Ajinkya) 1, Star Medal (Nakhat Singh) 2, Carlisle (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Carnival Lady (B. Nikhil) 4. 4, 3 and 4. 1m 8.29s. Rs. 12 (w), 10, 12 and 11 (p). SHP: 56, THP: 45, SHW: 10 and 108, FP: 74, Q: 96, Tanala: 200. Favourite: Almas.  Owners: Mr. Nitin H. Jain & Mr. Jatin L. Trivedi. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji. VEGAVATHI PLATE (DIV. I) (1,100m) Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated up to 25 (Cat. III): ACADIAN ANGEL (Santosh Raj) 1, Good Tidings (Akshay Kumar) 2, Ayur Tej (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Space Time (A.A. Vikrant) 4. 3/4, Nose and 3/4. 1m 9.12s. Rs. 81 (w), 29, 13 and 19 (p). SHP: 40, THP: 70, SHW: 33 and 19, FP: 392, Q: 126, Tanala: 4,700. Favourite: Good Tidings.  Owner: Mr. Shaik Kassam. Trainer: Sk. Waseem Ahmed. WISHFUL THINKING PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): MIREYA (Kuldeep Singh) 1, Battle Ready (B.R. Kumar) 2, Top Diamond (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Baudelaire (Mukesh Kumar) 4. Nk, Nk and 3/4. 1m 28.34s. Rs. 543 (w), 43, 55 and 10 (p). SHP: 198, THP: 36, SHW: 97 and 101, FP: 12,402, Q: 4,626, Tanala: 80,038 (c/o). Favourite: Baudelaire.  Owner: Mr. Subodh Kumar Ananthula. Trainer: Magan Singh. HOVERCRAFT PLATE (DIV. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): GARNET (A.A. Vikrant) 1, Silk (B.R. Kumar) 2, Indie (Abhay Singh) 3 and Pedro Planet (Md. Ismail) 4. 3, 3/4 and 2-1/2. 1m 13.71s. Rs. 120 (w) 23, 16 and 13 (p). SHP: 54, THP: 53, SHW: 43 and 23, FP: 1,180, Q: 501, Tanala: 2,231. Favourite: Indie.  Owners: Mr. Prakash Babu & Mr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: D. Netto. KAKATIYA MILLION (1,200m) (Terms), 4-y-o & upward: CORFE CASTLE (C.S. Jodha) 1, Ashwa Bravo (P.S. Chouhan) 2 and Smashing Blue (Akshay Kumar) 3. Nk and Nk. 1m 13. 10s. Rs. 18 (w), SHP: 24, FP: 23. Favourite: Ashwa Bravo.  Owners: Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt Ltd, Mr. M. Ramakrishna Reddy & Mr. Tinder S. Ahluwalia. Trainer: L D’Silva.  HOVERCRAFT PLATE (DIV. II), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): UNMATCHED (Akshay Kumar) 1, Royal Pal (Abhay Singh) 2, Star Cruise (A.A. Vikrant) 3 and Explosive (Afroz Khan) 4. 1-1/4, Nk and 2-1/4. 1m 14.19s. Rs. 44 (w), 13, 19 and 32 (p). SHP: 58, THP: 94, SHW: 28 and 47, FP: 343, Q: 188, Tanala: 3,058. Favourite: Above The Law.  Owner: Col. K.S. Garcha. Trainer: S.A. Shehzad Abbas. GAJASIMHA RAO MEMORIAL CUP (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): RED SNAPER (Nikhil Naidu) 1, Mirana (Santosh Raj) 2, Aerial Combat (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Mark My Day (Nakhat Singh) 4. 1-1/4, 1/2 and 1. 1m 26.81s. Rs. 347 (w), 58, 14 and 15 (p). SHP: 40, THP: 54, SHW: 145 and 22, FP: 3,505, Q: 690, Tanala: 18,002. Favourite: Mirana.  Owners: Ms. Meka Ahalya & Mrs. Rajini Meka. Trainer: L D’Silva. VEGAVATHI PLATE (DIV. II) (1,100m) Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated up to 25 (Cat. III): BLUE LABEL (R.S. Jodha) 1, Wild Card (Mukesh Kumar) 2, Stark (Surya Prakash) 3 and That’s My Way (Afroz Khan) 4. 1/2, 4 and 1. 1m 07.77s. Rs. 63 (w), 25, 14 and 19 (p). SHP: 43, THP: 28, SHW: 48 and 22, FP: 383, Q: 183, Tanala: 2,128. Favourite: Princess Shania.  Owners: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar Of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: K. Satheesh. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 3,99,942 (c/o), 30%: Rs. 42,850 (4 tkts.). Treble (i): 6,809 (5 tkts.), (ii): 30,628 (1 tkt), (iii): 15,246 (5 tkts.). Mini jackpot (i): 44,403 (c/o), (ii): 53,305 (3 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/corfe-castle-prevails-in-a-thriller/article38284892.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,||Telengana govt. signs LoI with Formula E||The State Government of Telangana has signed a Letter of Intent on Monday with the Formula E as part of the efforts to bring the all-electric car racing championship to India for the first time. The proposed route for the Formula E race is about 2.40km with eight turns in and around the Telangana Secretariat in the heart of the City. Formula E Chief Championship Officer Albert Longo signed the LoI in the presence of Telangana IT, Industries and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao. “We are just announcing Hyderabad as a candidate city but is soon to be an official city in the calendar of Formula E,” Longo said. The race, if Hyderabad wins the bid from a list of 60 cities, will be held between November this year and February next year. “We are excited about our potential entry to India. It has always been our desire to come to India as it is a major automotive market quickly adopting electric vehicles. We hope Formula E can accelerate this change,” Longo said. Anil Chalamalasetty of Greenko, promoter of the event, said it everything goes as planned, then Hyderabad would enter into the final agreement with Formula E in the next three months. Rama Rao expressed hope and confidence that Hyderabad would get the chance to host the race given the kind of infrastructure and other related facilities available in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/telengana-govt-signs-loi-with-formula-e/article38284877.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,||Obsidian primed to deliver in Indian Army Day Trophy||Obsidian, who has been well prepared, is expected to score in the Indian Army Day Trophy (1,200m), the main event of the races to be held here on Tuesday (Jan 18) postponed from Saturday (Jan 15). False rails (average width of 7m from 1,600m to the winning post) will be in position. Jockeys for the Don’s Den and Memorable Time (5th race) will be declared later. NAGARJUNA SAGAR PLATE (Div. III) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25, 2-00 p.m.: 1. Flying Bolt (8) M. Prabhakaran 60.5, 2. Elite Agent (7) Rajesh Kumar 58, 3. Rainbow Rising (2) Tauseef 57.5, 4. Florencia (1) Saddam H 57, 5. Sand Castles (11) D. Patel 57, 6. Stunning Beauty (12) Arvind Kumar 57, 7. Altair (9) P. Sai Kumar 56.5, 8. Perfect Halo (10) Jagadeesh 56, 9. Ultimate Power (3) S. Saqlain 56, 10. Happy Dancing (4) P. Siddaraju 55.5, 11. Iconic Princess (5) P.P. Dhebe 54.5 and 12. He’s The One (6) Darshan 54.  1. ALTAIR, 2. ICONIC PRINCESS, 3. HE’S THE ONE ARKAVATI PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45, 5-y-o & over, 2-30: 1. Jack Ryan (1) Vishal Bunde 60, 2. Marco Polo (5) L.A. Rozario 57.5, 3. See My Heels (11) Darshan 57, 4. Capable (7) P. Sai Kumar 56.5, 5. Kalyan (2) S. Shareef 55, 6. Tenali (6) Dhanu Singh 54, 7. Tyto Alba (4) Rajesh Kumar 54, 8. Hope Island (3) Antony Raj 53.5, 9.Southern Power (9) Arshad 53.5, 10. Blue Fire (10) Kiran Rai 53, 11. Secret Source (8) Jagadeesh 52.5 and 12. Impeccable (12) Saddam H 51.5.  1. HOPE ISLAND, 2. JACK RYAN, 3. SEE MY HEELS BECKET PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-00: 1. Ashwa Yudhvir (7) Darshan 56, 2. Cyrenius (9) Shane Gray 56, 3. Disruptor (1) P.S. Chouhan 56, 4. Flaming Falcon (5) P. Trevor 56, 5. Last Wish (2) Dhanu Singh 56, 6. Ooh La La (3) Naveen Kumar 56, 7. Star Admiral (6) Kiran Rai 56, 8. Star Comet (8) Ashok Kumar 54.5 and 9. Stars Above (4) Antony 54.5.  1. DISRUPTOR, 2. FLAMING FALCON, 3. STARS ABOVE NAGARJUNA SAGAR PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25, 3-30: 1. Star Domination (5) Darshan 62.5, 2. Chandra Kanta (9) Naveen Kumar 61, 3. Divya Shakthi (3) Vishal Bunde 61, 4. Perfect Justice (8) A. Quershi 61, 5. Aerospeed (12) Ikram Ahmed 60.5, 6. Cinco De Mayo (2) Mark 60.5, 7. Country’s Jewel (1) M. Prabhakaran 60.5, 8. Flaming Orange (4) M. Naveen 60.5, 9. Arathorn (10) S. John 60, 10. Striking Point (7) Md. Habeeb 59.5, 11. Infinite Spirit (11) Jagadeesh 58 and 12. Eco Friendly (6) P. Sai Kumar 57.  1. PERFECT JUSTICE, 2. ECO FRIENDLY, 3. ARATHORN CHUNCHANAKATTE FALLS PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 4-00: 1. Kimera (2) H.M. Akshay 60, 2. Tactical Command (10) Chandrashekar 55.5, 3. Palm Reader (12) Saddam H 53.5, 4. Star Cavalry (4) L.A. Rozario 53, 5. Aircraft (7) Likith Appu 52.5, 6. Lucky Again (11) S. Saqlain 52.5, 7. Don’s Den (6) (JWDL) 51, 8. Jacaranda (8) S. Shareef 51, 9. Memorable Time (1) (JWDL) 51, 10. Planetary Joy (5) Vishal Bunde 51, 11. Twilight Fame (9) P. Siddaraju 51 and 12. Immaculate (3) Ikram Ahmed 50.  1. LUCKY AGAIN, 2. TACTICAL COMMAND, 3. JACARANDA INDIAN ARMY DAY TROPHY (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 4-30: 1. Regal Music (7) Ikram Ahmed 61.5, 2. Obsidian (2) Dhanu Singh 56.5, 3. Alberetta (3) L.A. Rozario 56, 4. De Villiers (6) P.S. Chouhan 56, 5. Donna Bella (8) Antony 53.5, 6. Rule Of Engagement (4) P. Trevor 52.5, 7. Perfect Rendition (5) S. Shareef 51.5 and 8. TheStrength (1) Ajeet Kumar 50.5.  1. OBSIDIAN, 2. DE VILLIERS, 3. RULE OF ENGAGEMENT SRIHARIKOTA PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 5-00: 1. Own Legacy (7) Neeraj 60, 2. Twinkle Feet (3) Darshan 59.5, 3. Perfect Empress (12) Jagadeesh 56, 4. Mega Success (6) Vivek 55.5, 5. Mitsuro (5) Dhanu Singh 55.5, 6. Divine Masculine (4) Rajesh Kumar 55, 7. Enrichment (9) Vishal Bunde 55, 8. Lords Of Legend (8) Akshay Kumar 55, 9. Perfect Hella (11) Saddam H 55, 10. Remontoir (2) P. Trevor 55, 11. Analect (1) Antony 54.5 and 12. Sea Blush (10) P.P. Dhebe 53.5.  1. LORD OF LEGEND, 2. PERFECT EMPRESS, 3. ANALECT NAGARJUNA SAGAR PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25, 5-30: 1. Baba Voss (11) Mark 62.5, 2. Chiraag (12) P. Siddaraju 62.5, 3. Elite Crown (8) Vishal Naidu 62.5, 4. Fun And Laughter (1) S. John 62.5, 5. Peya ( 7) Darshan 62.5, 6. The Adviser (2) Arvind Kumar 62.5, 7. Defining Power (6) Akshay Kumar 62, 8. Princess Jasmine (9) S. Saqlain 62, 9. The Inheritor (5) M. Naveen 61.5, 10. Air Display (4) Vivek 61, 12. Dawn Rising (3) L.A. Rozario 61 and 12. Encounter (10) R. Marshall 58.5.  1. DEFINING POWER, 2. THE INHERITOR, 3. PRINCESS JASMINE  Days best: HOPE ISLAND  Double: OBSIDIAN — DEFINING POWER Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Treble (i); 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/obsidian-primed-to-deliver-in-indian-army-day-trophy/article38284878.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,||Vidit holds Caruana, stays in joint lead||Vidit Gujrathi drew with World No. 4 and second seed Fabiano Caruana to stay in joint lead after two rounds of the Masters section of the prestigious Tata Steel chess tournament at Wijk aan Zee, near Amsterdam, on Sunday. The 23-move draw following a three-fold repetition of moves saw Vidit in the company of World champion Magnus Carlsen (Norway) and Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Poland) at 1.5 points. R. Praggnanandhaa (1) followed his first-round draw with Anish Giri with another impressive draw against Duda. In this 40-move deadlock, the Indian youngster matched his much stronger rival move for move. Carlsen outwits Anish Carlsen nailed Anish in 36 moves after establishing a two-pawn advantage on the kings’ side. In the other decisive game, Hungary’s Richard Rapport defeated defending champion Jorden van Foreest. In the Challengers section, top seed Arjun Erigaisi (1.5) punished local Max Warmerdam for a tactical blunder in the middle game. Surya Shekhar Ganguly (1.5) drew with Lucas van Foreest. Both Indians were part of a three-way tie for second place, half a point behind 15-year-old Russian talent Volodar Murzin.  Second round results (Indians unless stated): Masters: Vidit Gujrathi (1.5) drew with Fabiano Caruana (USA, 1); R.Praggnanandhaa (1) drew with Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 1.5); Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 1.5) bt Anish Giri (Ned, 0.5); Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze, 1) drew with Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 1).   Richard Rapport (Hun, 1) bt Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 1); Sergey Karjakin (Rus, 1) drew with Daniil Dubov (Rus, 1); Sam Shankland (USA, 0.5) drew with Nils Grandelius (Swe, 0.5).   Challengers (involving Indians): Lucas van Foreest (Ned, 1) drew with Surya Shekhar Ganguly (1.5); Max Warmerdam (Ned, 0.5) lost to Arjun Erigaisi (1.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-holds-caruana-stays-in-joint-lead/article38284879.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:31 IST,||Djokovic could be barred from French Open||Novak Djokovic could be barred from playing at Roland Garros under current rules after the sports ministry said on Monday that elite sportspeople would need to be vaccinated to perform in France. The ministry said a new vaccine pass, approved by the French parliament on Sunday, "applies to everyone, to volunteers and to elite sportspeople, including those coming from abroad, until further notice." The French move appeared to contradict Sports Minister Roxana Maracineanu's assertion last week that certain events like the French Open had a special exemption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-could-be-barred-from-french-open/article64948828.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:31 IST,||Algeria stunned by Equatorial Guinea||Reigning champion Algeria is in danger of an early exit from the Africa Cup of Nations after a shock 0-1 defeat at the hands of outsider Equatorial Guinea in Douala on Sunday.  The results: Group F: Tunisia 4 (Mathlouthi 4, Khazri 9, 64, Jaziri 66) bt Mauritania 0.   Group E: Ivory Coast 2 (Haller 25, Pepe 65) drew with Sierra Leone 2 (Musa Kamara 55, A. Kamara 90+3); Equatorial Guinea 1 (Obiang 70) bt Algeria 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/algeria-stunned-by-equatorial-guinea/article38284843.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:31 IST,||Under-19 WC: England rolls over Bangladesh||Defending champion Bangladesh suffered a seven-wicket defeat to England in a lop-sided contest at the ICC Under-19 World Cup here on Sunday. Opting to bat, Bangladesh was bundled out for 97 and England returned to overhaul the target in 25.1 overs. Bangladesh was reduced to 51 for nine by the 25th over and has to thank No. 11 Ripon Mondol for his 33 not out in a spirited last-wicket stand of 46 with Naimur Rohman (11). Left-arm pacer Joshua Boyden was the pick of the English bowlers with four for 16, while right-arm fast bowler Thomas Aspinwall scalped two for 18. In reply, England lost opener George Thomas (15) and captain Tom Prest (4) but Jacob Bethell (44) and James Rew (26 not out) put on 65 before the former was run out just shy of the finish line.  The scores: Bangladesh 97 in 35.2 overs (Ripon Mondol 33 n.o.; Joshua Boyden 4/16) lost to England 98/3 in 25.1 overs (Jacob Bethell 44, James Rew 26 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-rolls-over-bangladesh/article38284841.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:07 IST,||New partnership for CAN||Cricket Association of Nepal (CAN) has signed a three-year partnership deal with CricHQ, a digital cricket platform, for all its online activities. The tie-up will include handling CAN’s digitisation plans, live streaming and coach education programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-partnership-for-can/article38285233.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:04 IST,||Harmilan hat-trick lifts Kerala United||Harmilan Kaur scored a hat-trick as Kerala United FC thrashed Luca SC 6-1 in the Kerala Women’s League football at the Corporation Stadium here on Monday. Kerala United, which now has three wins and a draw for 10 points from seven matches, led 3-1 at half-time.  The result: Kerala United FC 6 (Harmilan Kaur 7, 13 & 55; K. Santhra 40, Anannya Rajesh 62, C.A. Pristy 65) bt Luca SC 1 (K. Jyothika 24) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harmilan-hat-trick-lifts-kerala-united/article38285177.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 06:26 IST,||HFC, JFC ISL game postponed||The Hero Indian Super League (ISL) match between Hyderabad FC and Jamshedpur FC scheduled for Monday at Bambolim, was postponed. The decision was taken in consultation with the League’s medical team taking into account the inability of Jamshedpur to field a team. The League will look to rearrange the fixture to a later date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hfc-jfc-isl-game-postponed/article38284891.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 10:15 IST,||Adherence to Truth||The Sastras speak of adherence to Truth or Satya, as the highest dharma. The Ramayana shows how Truth is Supreme in all the worlds.  It is this commitment to truth that is exemplified by the devotee Nam Paduvan, whose story is related in the Varaha Purana with reference to the observance of the Kaisika Ekadasi vrata, pointed out Sri B. Damodhara Dikshitar in a discourse. The main purpose of the vrata — abstaining from eating during Ekadasi — is to discipline the mind and body so that the jivatma contemplates on God. The Bhagavata Purana extols the benefits of the Ekadasi vrata when narrating the Ambarisha episode. The king observes this vrata for a year and when it is completed the Durvasa incident takes place.  In the Nam Paduvan story, this staunch devotee observes this vrata regularly. Once, in the month of Karthigai during the vrata period, he stays awake at night and goes to the temple in Tirukkurungudi to sing the Lord’s praises. On the way, a ‘brahma rakshasa,’ catches him and wants to eat him. Nam Paduvan agrees to be its prey but requests the rakshasa to allow him to complete the vrata . After getting the promise from him, the rakshasa allows him to go to the temple. On his way back, it is said that the Lord in the guise of a Brahmana warned him of the rakshasa in that path and asked him to avoid it. But Nam Paduvan keeps his promise and shows that there is no greater dharma than truth. When the brahma rakshasa seeks to be relieved from its cursed state, he does not hesitate to give up the fruits of his worship, thereby proving to be a true model of the ideal of karma phala tyaga as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/adherence-to-truth/article38284807.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:32 IST,||Teen flies solo around the world||Avoid typhoon in the Philippines. Check. Steer clear of massive California wildfires. Check. Keep away from test missiles in North Korea. What? Wait. As teenage pilot Zara Rutherford flew ever onward in a record-challenging global odyssey, she met little as strange or scary as when she tried to squeeze in between North Korean airspace and a massive cloud threatening to cut off passage for her ultralight plane. “Well, they test missiles once in a while without warning,” Rutherford said. More importantly, she was just 15 minutes from flying over one of the last places one should enter uninvited. So she radioed her control team to ask if she could cut the corner over North Korea to get to Seoul. “Straight away they said: Whatever you do, do not go into North Korean airspace!'” Fortunately the clouds cooperated enough and she didn't have to continue the crash course in applied geopolitics. At the age of 19, she finally landed her single-seater Shark sport aircraft in Kortrijk, Belgium, on Monday, more than 150 days after setting out to become the youngest woman to circumnavigate the world solo. American aviator Shaesta Waiz was 30 when she set the previous benchmark. Flying runs in her blood since both her parents are pilots and she has been travelling in small planes since she was 6. At 14, she started flying herself and about 130 hours of solo flights prepped her for the record attempt, which she hopes will also have a bigger meaning. With the final touchdown in a plane that looks like a fly among the giants parked at an airport like New York's JFK, the Belgian-British teenager wants to infuse young women and girls worldwide with the spirit of aviation — and an enthusiasm for studies in the exact sciences, mathematics, engineering and technology. Two mathematical statistics stand out for her — only 5% of commercial pilots and 15% of computer scientists are women. “The gender gap is huge," she said. Yet once the canopy closed over her cockpit and another six- to eight-hour flight began, lofty thoughts of global outreach receded as she concentrated on one lonely individual — herself.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/teen-flies-solo-around-the-world/article64949216.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:32 IST,||Osaka bounces back after turbulent year||Naomi Osaka said Monday she is “more comfortable in my skin” after a difficult year in which she revealed she had suffered depression, and vowed to have more fun and challenge herself on court in 2022. The Japanese former world number one opened the defence of her Australian Open title with a battling 6-3, 6-3 win against Colombia's Camila Osorio, remaining calm even through a mid-match stumble. Four-time major champion Osaka beat American Jennifer Brady in last year's Melbourne Park final, but then withdrew from the French Open and Wimbledon over personal issues. She said her problems were exacerbated by speaking to the media after matches and she made a tearful early exit at the US Open in September, then took an indefinite break. But the 24-year-old says that she is in a better place now and determined to adopt a more positive mindset. “I would say I feel more comfortable in my skin, if that makes sense. Like there's always the human nature to feel uneasy, to want to please everyone and stuff like that. I feel like there was a time after the French Open where I felt like everyone was judging me and I couldn't go outside without thinking that everyone around me was... I don't know. It feels a bit weird when you go into a stadium to play and you're kind of concerned what everyone's gaze means. Basically right now I'm trying to learn how to be more selfish, but in a positive way.”AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/osaka-bounces-back-after-turbulent-year/article38284595.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:32 IST,||Space odyssey||1. What is an exoplanet? 2. In 2009, NASA launched a spacecraft specifically to look for and detect exoplanets. Name it. 3. Which is the closest star system and closest planetary system to the solar system? 4. The first planet discovered orbiting around a Sun-like star was .................................... 5. Most exoplanets orbit their stars, but there are also those that are free-floating. These planets are called ..........................................||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/space-odyssey/article64949215.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:32 IST,||Fun fact||The wandering albatross, which is adept at gliding, has the largest wingspan of any bird in the world, reaching up to 3.5 metres or 11 feet. Weighing between 17 and 25 pounds, this seabird can travel long distances for years without touching land. The species is known to circumnavigate the Southern Ocean thrice each year. Q. The wandering albatross rarely _______ its wings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/fun-fact/article64949214.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:32 IST,||The W Corner||Answer:On January 7, 2022 during the NBA game between Brooklyn Nets and Indiana Pacers. A makeshift Bayern Munich team conceded two goals in four minutes to suffer a shock 2-1 loss to visitors Borussia Moenchengladbach when the Bundesliga resumed following a three-week winter break. Missing nine players through COVID-19 infections and more to Africa Cup of Nations duties and injuries, league leaders Bayern still easily bossed Gladbach around for some 30 minutes and took the lead through top scorer Robert Lewandowski in the 18th. But the visitors sensationally struck twice with their first two chances of the game, with a Florian Neuhaus volley in the 27th minute and Stefan Lainer's (left) glancing header shortly after turning the game around. (with REUTERS inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/the-w-corner/article38284578.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:33 IST,||This or that?||1. The crowd at the fruit and vegetable bazaar / bizarre was large. 2. I was looking for the right moment to broach / brooch the subject. 3. He just realised that the payment of the telephone bill was overdue / overdo. 4. I do not like to discuss my personal / personnel interests in front of everyone. 5. Lots of celebrities were present at the Tamil film premier / premiere. Answers:1. Bazaar, 2. Broach, 3. Overdue, 4. Personal, 5. Premiere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/this-or-that/article64949210.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:32 IST,||What is Ebola?||The Democratic Republic of Congo officially declared on December 16, 2021 the end of the 13th outbreak of Ebola Virus Disease which had resurfaced on October 8, 2021, in Beni in North Kivu province. What is Ebola Virus Disease? What causes it? Let’s find out. Deadly viral fever Ebola is a life-threatening disease caused by a virus belonging to the family Filoviridae. The viral haemorrhagic fever was first identified in central Africa in 1976. The 2014–2016 outbreak in West Africa was the largest Ebola outbreak ever since the virus was discovered, leading to over 11,000 deaths. The disease was named after the Ebola river in Congo, formerly Zaire, where it was originally identified. Ebola is a zoonotic disease, meaning it spreads from animals to humans. The virus, which badly affects the immune system as it spreads through the body, is transmitted to people from animals such as chimpanzees, gorillas, and monkeys. It is thought that fruit bats of the Pteropodidae family are natural Ebola virus hosts. It spreads among humans through contact with the bodily fluids (blood, faeces, urine, vomit, or semen) of infected people. Ebola is called a haemorrhagic fever virus as it causes problems with how our blood clots, leading to internal bleeding. What are the symptoms? The main symptoms of Ebola Viral Disease include fever, fatigue, sore throat, severe headache, muscle and joint pain, loss of appetite, vomiting, bleeding, and diarrhoea. The virus can be detected in blood within a few days of the manifestation of symptoms. Immediate medical attention, early intervention with rehydration, and symptomatic treatment are said to improve chances of survival. There are vaccines for protection against Ebola. These anti-Ebola jabs have been administered to help control the spread of Ebola outbreaks in Congo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/what-is-ebola/article64949217.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:32 IST,||Word of the day||The word corrugate implies contracting or causing to contract into wrinkles and folds. It can also be used to denote drawing or bending into folds or alternate furrows and ridges.  The word, which has been around from the 1610s, is from Latin corrugatus , past participle of corrugare “wrinkle very much”. It is arrived at by adding a prefix to rugare , which means to wrinkle.  After steady usage in the first half of the 19th Century, the word’s usage peaked in the second half before falling back to earlier levels. Its usage has steadily declined from the second half of the 20th Century. Usage: The roof of the bicycle stand is made from sheets of corrugated iron.   Activity:  Use the word of the day in a sentence of your own.  ________________________ ________________________ ________________________||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/word-of-the-day/article38284579.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 03:33 IST,||ww.magicsquarepuzzles.com(9840662780)||Fill the empty cells using numbers from 1 to 64 each only once such that 1) Each row, column and two main diagonals of each 4x4 sub square gives the magic sum of 130. 2) Each 2 x 2 square marked in the same colour gives the sum of 130. 3) The center 2 x 2 marked in black border in each 4x4 sub square gives a sum of 130. 4) Group of cells in boxes within dotted lines is a cage. Cage sum is mentioned at the top in respective colours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/wwmagicsquarepuzzlescom9840662780/article64949211.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:20 IST,||Goodness of gud||sample    For over 20 years we have been buying gud ( jaggery) from a farmer at a nearby village who visits the neighbourhood during Sankranti. Guda Mausa (gud uncle) as he is fondly called by regular customers, travels 30 km on his Luna carrying two earthen pots full of gud. . The matkas are covered with a gunny cloth for cushioning and strapped to his luna on either side. The gud in each of these containers is different. One is the slightly softer gud that is used for pithe making, while the other has the regular hard gud that has a longer shelf life. Seeing this mausa in January marks the beginning of the festival. because Sankranti is incomplete without a pithe that involves gud.  Pithe-making during Sankranti is a ritual in every home. As Sankranti draws closer, neighbourhoodsare enveloped in a sweet aroma that wafts from the various pithes made with gud and rice flour. Some common pithas are arisey, monda and gheela. Unadulterated gud of good quality can also be sourced is the Tal Guda Bhavan, a State owned outlet in Cuttack.. Rachit Keertiman is a professional freelance chef    If I don’t know the source, I won’t buy the gud. This arrogance is because, in all my growing years, I have seen gud being prepared in our house in Midnapore. We owned a few date palm trees. The siulis (jaggery makers) used to come home after collecting the nectar and make it in our compound. As the steam from the huge shaltis (the kadhais in which gud is made) (TRANSLATE PLS) rose, the area would be engulfed in a sweet aroma. After the jaggery was ready, it would be packed for home and also for relatives. This nostalgic connection stops me from buying jaggery randomly. I live in a new town, near the airport and thankfully I have discovered siulis who come to a spot to prepare gud and sell to customers. Owing to my Midnapore connection, my food has a bit of Odisha influence. The gud pithe I make has a lot of similarities with the pithas made by Oriya people; it comprises jaggery, rice flour, ginger and coconut.   Before the discovered the siulis in New Town, I would source gud from an NGO who work with farmers. I love making doodh pithey, pati shapta, choosi payesh, doulla pitha or maera pitha . I source my jhola gud from Birbhum, Shantiniketan.  Sayantani Mahapatra is a Kolkata-based influencer   My grandfather would mix gud with hot water to check for its quality; if there was no residual content at the bottom, it meant the gud is of good quality. We too follow the same method. To date even though I live in Almora, I have always depended on my mother to source the right jaggery. We don’t remember buying it from shops; it is either bought directly from a farmer or a known source. A lot of jaggery makers come to Tezpur where my parents live to make jaggery. Sugarcane farmers sell the juice to these makers or bring the juice to be made into gud. Our relatives based out of Jamugurihat in Sonitpur district, Assam have always ensured we never have to search for good jaggery.  During every Magh Bigu (Sankranti) we get to hear stories of sugarcane fields being a good hideout for Joha Maal/ Bobcats and how while making jaggery they come face to face with humans. My personal favourite snack with gud is the muri laru (puffed rice jaggery laddoo).  Irin Kashyap is an Almora-based influencer who chronicles traditional food of the Northeast and Almora    While the festival calls for pujas, family get-togethers, I look forward to the food. Sankranthi to me means snacks like chegodi, janthikalu, bellam gavvalu, ariselu, paakuundalu, chakkilalu and more. Most of the Sankranthi specials involve jaggery and we make sure the jaggery used is the best. I source my jaggery from our village in Saluru (a village on the Andhra-Orissa border). It is processed locally and called jiguru/jigata/kundabellam and has a distinctive golden brown colour, sharp sweet smell and taste.  It is unadulterated brown jaggery which is hard to break, probably needs a hammer and chisel for that. It is also more viscous, unlike the regular store-bought ones that are light and yellow-coloured. Though these snacks are now available around the year, it is seasonal snacks prepared with jaggery during winters that keep us warm from dipping temperatures. Bharath Suthapalli a Hyderabad-based blogger   As someone who has been giving Mumbai a taste of vegetarian Kerala cuisine for years, I find that my work involves not only cooking, but also sometimes educating my clientele about the names and significance of certain dishes. Appam, for example, is not just that fluffy thing you eat with chicken curry. A host of items are referred to as appams: the word essentially means ‘soft’. Another significant part of my work involves sourcing authentic, local ingredients from farms across Kerala. This includes my favourite Marayur jaggery. The Marayur region is in Kerala’s Idukki district. I source unrefined Marayur jaggery from small-scale farmers who are based there and use it in most of my sweet dishes. The jaggery comes in big clumps, and once grated and melted it has a beautifully creamy texture. It has a cloying flavour that is not overly sweet, and it blends beautifully with coconut milk. IS sarkara jaggery or sugar or sugar candy? Give translation in brackets  So many of my dishes involve Marayur sarkara (as we call it in Malayalam), not just the payasam . I use it to make sweet little uniyappam s, an important dish during Onam.  At the moment, Mumbai is preparing for Sankranti with all its treats. For people in Kerala, however, the next big celebration will be Vishu, in April. Till then, I will go on cooking what I usually cook, with plenty of jaggery from Marayur. Marina Balakrishnan is chef and founder of the experiential dining brand Oottupura .     Jaggery is associated with good tidings in Gujarat.Whenever there is auspicious news, we say gaud dhana kariye , do the Guad dhanna ritual, which is the distribution of a jaggery coriander mix among friends and family. One of my earliest memories related to jaggery is my mother’s repeated admonishment when as kids we had the Khatiawada or Kutch thali, with its delicious gaud na dephna (jaggery balls).My mother would say, “Eat something besides the gaud na dephna ; this was her constant refrain through the meal.”The jaggery balls resembled little pebbles and were broken from a freshly pounded five to ten-kilogram jaggery ball.Freshly made balls were brought to our village home in Vallabhipur, near Bhavnagar in Kathiawad, in clay pots or oil tins.   Jaggery is used in almost all our preparations from the iconic khati-meethi dal (sweet-sour lentils), which has  gaud (jaggery) and imli (tamarind), to bhakri roti (short-crust bread) slathered with ghee and sprinkled with jaggery shavings and is eaten as comfort food. Sukhdi is the Gujarati version of an energy bar made with roasted wheat, ghee and grated jaggery. “ Sukhi kare sukhdi ” meaning Sukhdi makes one happy is commonly said about this preparation, which is now part of mid-day meals at schools.   S heetal Bhatt is an Ahmedabad based social worker and has been documenting Gujarati food for two decades    I associate jaggery with Punjab’s biggest harvest festival, Lohri. It marks Uttarayan when the sun travels North and ushers in warmer days. gud or jaggery is one of the five foods on the Lohri plate, along with sesame seeds, peanuts, gajak (dry sweet) and corn.   Come winter and we have the masala gud or spiced jaggery in our homes. I have restarted the making of masala gud, a tradition that was discontinued.It is a mix of melted jaggery, ginger powder, fennel, ajwain, chironji, almonds, melon and pumpkin seeds to which is added ghee. It is set and cut into rectangular shaped burfis . An interesting jaggery recipe I came across during my research for my TV show Lost Recipes was in Puducherry that used to have a thriving French communityby virtue of being a French colony. Some of the soldiers came back from Vietnam, a French colony, with Vietnamese wives who would make a pork preparation using lots of jaggery. I met a Tamil Vietnamese woman in Puducherry who still makes the Tit -Koh, which uses fish sauce and jaggery.   S hubhra Chatterji aka Historywali, documents culinary traditions of India and hosts the TV Show‘ Lost Recipes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/goodness-of-gud/article64949076.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:08 IST,||A front row seat to the apocalypse||Early on in Shaunak Sen’s documentary, All That Breathes — while carefully examining and suturing an injured bird before them — two brothers discuss the potential ramifications of a nuclear war based on a news report one of them came across. If it wasn’t for the bird on the table, you’d have guessed it was just another Delhi basement: crammed with boxes, peeling walls, and the soot-coated bulbs illuminating just enough.   If you ask the 34-year-old director — beyond the casual references to the said nuclear obliteration — Delhi is already in the throes of an apocalypse and the brothers have front row seats to it. And he has captured this in All That Breathes , the only Indian documentary to have a world premiere at this year’s Sundance Film Festival in Utah, USA (scheduled to be held virtually from January 20).  “Essentially, the film is about the relationship of the people of Delhi with the polluted skies, through the lenses of those black dots [the silent casualty of the city’s darkening skies, the black kite] that we often see gliding through it,” he says. Through the story of the two brothers, Nadeem Shahzad (44) and Mohammad Saud (40), Sen wanted to capture the fact that “nature is not happening elsewhere but right in the heart of our urban jungles”. Black spots, dark lives The story of the brothers appealed to Sen because they were treating black kites selflessly from their basement while also running a soap dispenser business on the side. (Sen was actively looking for people who work with birds and reached out to the duo after coming across their story in various news reports.) Through their bird rehabilitation organisation, Wildlife Rescue, the brothers treat more than 2,000 raptors a year.  Shahzad and Saud are not trained veterinarians. Sen explains they both developed a “hypnotic fascination” towards black kites during their childhood in Old Delhi. “According to Islam, tossing meat to the kites is virtuous. This one time, two decades ago, when they came across an injured kite and took it to a government bird hospital in Delhi, they were turned away under the pretext that it [the bird of prey] was non-vegetarian.” The brothers had then proceeded to operate on the said kite themselves. It helped that they were into bodybuilding — poring over scores of Flex magazine issues aided them in understanding the world of wounds, tears, and fractures.  But as the documentary progresses, the birds from owls to falcons falling from the skies due to the twin effects of pollution and lethal kite-flying enthusiasts only keep increasing. Even the black kites — migratory raptors who visit Delhi from Russia during the winter months — are injured and can never go back. “The injured birds keep coming to them in cardboard boxes carted in autorickshaws, their personal relationship goes through ups and downs, and the social violence of Delhi percolates in their neighbourhood too. Yet they soldier on with a wry sense of humour.” In the documentary, as environmental toxicity and social unrest in Delhi escalates, the relationship between this Muslim family and the neglected kite forms a poetic chronicle of the city’s collapsing ecology and rising social tensions. Malaise of urban jungle The team tracked the brothers over three years to get a ringside view to their lives, and through that, the larger story of Delhi itself. “If you look at anything long enough, things are revealed to you,” says Sen. “For me, it was important to situate the good work of the brothers in a larger setting. The best books or films that I personally love touch upon the whole through the particular.” The documentary is peppered with languid shots of rats scurrying around for food in the heart of the bustling city; pigs framing the edges of an elite township; and a turtle moving over garbage bags, contemplating the endless traffic on the road. Sen and his team spent the better part of the shooting schedule patiently and painstakingly getting these shots right, as they formed the heart of the film. “The city wants to give you the impression that nature is happening elsewhere,” he says. “But we live in a time when the finger span of the lizards has increased because they now have to navigate concrete homes. So, we used the story of the brothers as a springboard to show how the social and ecological malaise of the city has truly pervaded the world of all that breathes.” Being the only Indian documentary to premiere at Sundance is an honour Sen does not take for granted. And he credits the universal appeal of the film to its themes. “The brothers provided me with an emotional crutch and then there are fewer things in life more universal than the man-animal relationship.” The Sundance Film Festival is on from January 20-30, on sundance.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-front-row-seat-to-the-apocalypse/article64949079.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:02 IST,||A splendid sight for the devout||Different chariots (“rathas”) and palanquins are used at the Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple during various festivals. These chariots add to the grandeur of the festivals. There are three wooden chariots, one golden chariot and a silver chariot. There is also a golden palanquin and a silver palanquin. The three wooden chariots are the “Mahapuja ratha”, which is the smallest of the three. The next is the “Garuda Ratha”, which is of medium size, and the last one, which is bigger in size than the other two “rathas” or chariots, is called the “Brahma Ratha”. The small chariot or the “Mahapuja Ratha” was constructed in 1962-63. The “Garuda Ratha” was constructed in 1898-99 by Lakshmi Samudra Tirtha Swamiji of Shiroor Mutt. The “Brahma Ratha” was made during the tenure of Vidyasamudra Tirtha Swamiji of Krishnapur Mutt. All the three rathas are known for their exquisite wooden carvings and make a grand spectacle when they are taken out on festival days. Normally five kinds of festivals connected to the rathas and the palanquins are held. They are the Ordinary Rathotsava-, Suvarna Pallaki Utsava, Garudotsava, Rajatha Rathotsava, and Brahma Rathotsava. Ordinary rathotsava Here the idols of Lord Krishna and Lord Mukhyaprana (Anjaneya) are put in the Mahapuja Ratha and taken around the Car Street. Suvarna Pallakki utsava Here the idol of the deity is put in the palanquin and taken around the Car Street. Garudotsava Here the idols of Lord Krishna and Lord Mukhyaprana are put in the medium-sized Garuda Ratha and taken around the Car Street. Rajatha Rathotsava In this seva, the idols of the deities are put in the silver palanquin and carried around the Car Street. Brahmotsava Here the monarch among the rathas or chariots, the “Brahma Ratha” is used. The Brahmotsava is a major festival, where the idol of Lord Krishna is kept on the highest platform and that of Lord Mukhyaprana on the platform below it. Vishwavallabha Tirtha Swamiji of Sode Mutt renovated the 300-yearold “Brahma Ratha” in 2013. It has intricate wooden sculptures of deities and other carvings on it. There are a total of 1,134 carvings on the Brahma Ratha. Besides scenes from Ramayana and Mahabharata, there are carvings of Hanuman, Sri Madhwacharya, Bheema, “Samudra Mathana”, folk-style dolls and lines of horses, elephants and lions. Carvings of fruits such as mango, grapes, apples, and bananas, can be seen in 12 corners of the Ratha. Navaratna ratha Sugunendra Tirtha Swamiji of Puthtige Mutt offered the “Navaratna Ratha”, which has nine types of precious stones engraved on it, during his third Paryaya (2008-10). The devotees can offer these and other sevas or services. But these services cannot be offered during chaturmasya. After the chaturmasya, the idol of the deities is taken out on the “Uthana Dwadashi” day in the month of Kartika. This signals the beginning of the festival activities. Sometimes “Saptotsava” and “Lakshadeepotsava” are celebrated if the devotees so desire and are able to pay for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-splendid-sight-for-the-devout/article64949091.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:02 IST,||Practices prescribed by earlier seers will continue, says Krishnapura Mutt seer||Vidyasagara Tirtha Swamji of Krishnapura Mutt is among the seers of the eight mutts in Udupi. The swamiji is ascending the ‘Sarvajna Peetha’ for the fourth time to take charge of worshiping Lord Krishna and manage the Sri Krishna Mutt for the next two years. He speaks to The Hindu on the occasion of 251st paryaya.  Excerpts of the interview: Q: How different will be your administration in Krishna Mutt in the next two years? A: The practices prescribed by Madhwacharya, Vadiraja Tirtha and other ancestors have stood the test of time. I will continue with them.  Can you further elaborate on it? All the good old practices including jnanadana, annadana, poojas and utsavas will be continued. I do not like to start any new practice but will lay more emphasis on continuing with the practices that our ancestors have followed. I will ensure that these are in consonance with the situation on hand and meet the needs of people. Would you like to continue with the entry route to Sri Krishna Temple changed during the paryaya of Admar Mutt? The fundamental matter is whether it will be useful to people. If such a darshan helps then it will be continued or else a change will be made. It all depends on what people want. I look forward for suggestions from people. I am open to making changes in traditional practices if it helps people at large. How was your pre-paryaya tour around the country? It was a very short one owing to COVID-19. Usually it is a practice to complete visits to North India before we sit for Chaturmasya. But it could not be done because of COVID. Hence after Chaturmasya I visited select places in North India, including Badri, in 12 days. I could not visit Mumbai and places in Kerala owing to COVID-19 restrictions and mandatory tests required on return. I have tried other ways to reach out to devotees in different parts of the country and invited them to Udupi. How challenging is your paryaya celebration which is being held when there is threat of spread of Omicron? Amid Omicron scare, the rituals, including those related to the paryaya utsava, will be conducted as permitted by the district administration. Any advice to devotees? I am not asking devotees to put their lives at risk and come for paryaya utsava and other events in Krishna Mutt. We will not like to hold any event that is likely to become a super-spreader of COVID-19. Devotees should take all the necessary precautions when visiting Udupi. People should cooperate and help authorities to smoothly hold paryaya and other events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/practices-prescribed-by-earlier-seers-will-continue-says-krishnapura-mutt-seer/article64949092.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:02 IST,||His fourth paryaya||The 63-year-old Vidyasagara Tirtha Swamiji of Krishnapura Mutt is taking over at the Paryaya Peeta of Sri Krishna Mutt for the fourth time. The seer took sanyaasa deeksha from Sujnanendra Tirtha Swamiji of Puthige Mutt on June 3, 1971. His poorvarshama name is Shri Ramapati Tantri. His parents were Sripati Tantri and Janaki. The seer, who is known as an authority on Madhwa philosphy, had his initial shastra study under Vishwottama Tirtha Swamiji of Sode Math. His first paryaya was in 1974-75, followed by the second in 90-91 and third in 2006-07.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/his-fourth-paryaya/article38285210.ece
18 January 2022||January 18 2022 05:02 IST,||Bond with Kanakadasa||One cannot think of Udupi and Lord Krishna without the saint-composer Kanakadasa. When one enters the Car Street in Udupi, the tall “Kanaka Gopura” catches the attention. Below it is the “Kanakana Kindi”. In front of it is the “Kanakana Mandira” or “Kanakana Gudi”, which has an idol of Sri Kanakadasa. This is the place where the saint-composer stayed in the 16th Century during his visit to Udupi. It is said that Sri Kanakadasa lived in a hut in this place. Later, a small shrine was constructed in his memory and it came to be known as “Kanakana Gudi” or “Kanakana Mandira”. It is said Sri Kanakadasa had come to Udupi as a pilgrim. Sri Vadiraja of Sode Mutt, who knew about Sri Kanakadasa’s devotion, made arrangements for his stay in the hut, in front of the gopura of the temple. But Sri Kanakadasa could not get into the temple. There was a barrier in the form of a wall between him and Lord Krishna, to whom he was totally devoted. Sri Kanakadasa sang devotional songs in praise of the Lord on his “tambura”. One night, there was a tremor, and this led to a small crack in the wall of the Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple. Thus Sri Kanakadasa could have darshan of the Lord. By doing so, the Lord sent a message to all the devotees that it is only devotion which moves Him, not the status or class or caste of the devotees. Sri Vadiraja, who witnessed this, instead of plastering the wall, got a window constructed there. Since then the window has come to be known as “Kanakana Kindi”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bond-with-kanakadasa/article64949090.ece
