19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||No one died of hunger in recent times: Centre||The Supreme Court’s questions on hunger deaths saw the Union government insist on Tuesday that no one died of starvation in recent times across the country, even during the pandemic. “Thanks to the progress made by the nation since Independence and the comprehensive policies and steps taken by both State and Central governments, there have been no starvation deaths in the country during recent times, even during adverse situations like the pandemic,” the Ministry of Consumer Affairs told the court. But the court’s insistence on specific data to back the claim of zero deaths saw a scattered response from the government. The Centre’s reply in court spanned from urging the court to ask the States for the data to making sweeping comments about malnutrition in “developing countries” and reading statistics out of a 2015 health survey report and a newspaper article. “Why are you looking at a 2015-16 report? Are you looking through that prism to say there are no starvation deaths now? So you have to look at a newspaper report?” a three-judge Bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana and Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hima Kohli asked the Centre, represented by Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal. The debate began with the Bench referring to an affidavit filed by the Centre, which said that not a single State had reported starvation deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-one-died-of-hunger-in-recent-times-centre/article38289487.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||Tableaux selection fair, says Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday conveyed to the Chief Ministers of West Bengal and Tamil Nadu that there exists a well-established system for selection of tableaux for the Republic Day Parade in the national capital. Following this, the Defence Ministry invites proposals from all States, Union Territories, Union Ministries and departments, he said. Mr. Singh was responding to letters from Chief Ministers Mamata Banerjee of West Bengal and M.K. Stalin of Tamil Nadu to the Prime Minister over the rejection of their State tableaux. In the letter to Mr. Stalin, Mr. Singh said, “For RDP-2022, a total of 29 proposals were received including the proposal from State of Tamil Nadu. The tableau from the Government of Tamil Nadu was considered in the first three rounds of meetings. After the third round, the tableau could not make it into the final list of 12 tableaux selected for RDP-2022.” Mr. Singh further stated that tableaux from Tamil Nadu had been selected during 2017, 2019, 2020 and 2021. “In view of the above, you would appreciate that the selection of tableaux is as per the prescribed guidelines,” Mr. Singh said. Display in Chennai Shortly after Mr Singh’s letter, Mr Stalin announced that the same tableau would be showcased in the Republic Day celebrations organised by the Tamil Nadu government in Chennai and taken to key places in the State. The Chief Minister expressed shock and regret that no reason was cited in Mr. Singh’s letter for rejection of the proposed tableau.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tableaux-selection-fair-says-rajnath/article38289484.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:10 IST,||Third wave tears through the State||The COVID-19 third wave believed to be spurred by various SARS-CoV-2 variants has barrelled across the State, raising the spectre of critical staff shortages in hospitals, government offices, law enforcement, emergency services and public utilities. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will chair an online meeting of the Cabinet on Thursday to recalibrate the administration response to the pandemic’s “third wave”. He is currently in the U.S. for treatment. So far, the government has ruled out weekend lockdowns, night curfew, shuttering of cinema halls, closure of gymnasiums, bars and restaurants and restricting outdoor activity. The State appeared to rest its strategy on the premise that the Omicron variant was relatively less fatal than the Delta mutation, which had ravaged the country last year. Nevertheless, an official said, a sharp increase in hospitalisations or a steep uptick in COVID-19 deaths could force the government to rethink its plans and impose further restrictions on daily life. Secretariat hit Worryingly, the government Secretariat seemed headed towards a partial lockdown, with COVID-19 clusters reportedly developing in several key departments. Several Secretariat staff organisations have demanded that the government reinstate work from home for employees below undersecretary. The administration shuttered the Secretariat central library as a precaution against the pandemic. The contagion has also reportedly affected the functioning of the offices of Ministers. General Education Minister V. Sivankutty has been hospitalised after he tested COVID-19 positive. By one account, the pandemic has also affected the functioning of Forest Minister A. K. Saseendran’s office. The State police have reportedly braced themselves for a tide of COVID-19 hospitalisations. They hoped to make up for a possible staff shortfall by mobilising officers from non-uniformed units. Transport Minister Antony Raju said the COVID-19 situation was particularly dire in the capital. “One out of every two persons in Thiruvananthapuram was testing positive”, he said. Mr. Raju said the KSRTC would distribute booster doses to employees to sustain operations. Several colleges, including Mar Ivanios, All Saints and MG College in the capital, have cancelled in-person learning to pre-empt possible COVID-19 clusters. Several schools across the State are likely to follow suit. The COVID-19 swell has also prompted religious places of worship, including Guruvayur, to limit the number of daily visitors. Sectoral magistrates The government has deployed sectoral magistrates in shopping districts to prevent crowding and enforce the physical distance and mask mandate. The government has ordered malls to admit only those who provide proof of vaccination. Public transport buses and restaurants should not allow more than 50% of the seating capacity. The police have also stepped up COVID-19 protocol enforcement. They booked the students and teachers of a Palakkad college for organising a raucous DJ dance party with more than 500 revellers. On Tuesday, the police said they booked 165 people and confiscated 141 vehicles for violating pandemic regulations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/third-wave-tears-through-the-state/article38289769.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||A.P. records 7,000 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours||The State reported 6,996 fresh infections and four deaths due to COVID-19 in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. It was the highest single-day tally in the past 220 days (since June 13). The daily test positivity rate, at 18.38%, was also the highest in the past 236 days. The total cases so far and death toll reached 21,17,384 and 14,514 respectively with a recovery rate of 97.61% and death rate of 0.69%. During the past day, 1,066 patients have recovered and the total recoveries stand at 20,66,762. In the past week that included the Sankranti festival, over 32,000 infections were reported in the State while in the week before (Jan. 5-11) only 6,732 infections were reported. Visakhapatnam reported two deaths while Chittoor and Nellore reported one each. Chittoor reported 1,534 fresh cases. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (1,263), Guntur (758), Srikakulam (573), Anantapur (462), Prakasam (424), Vizianagaram (412), Krishna (326), East Godavari (292), Nellore (246), West Godavari (245) and Kadapa (202). The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,97,625), Chittoor (2,57,640), Guntur (1,82,721), West Godavari (1,81,029), Visakhapatnam (1,67,186), Anantapur (1,60,697), Nellore (1,49,662), Prakasam (1,40,306), Srikakulam (1,26,094), Kurnool (1,25,701), Krishna (1,23,093), Kadapa (1,17,657) and Vizianagaram (85,078).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-records-7000-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours/article38289477.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:15 IST,||HC commutes death sentence of 2 sisters||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday commuted death sentence to life imprisonment of two sisters for murdering and kidnapping children between 1990 and 1996 in Kolhapur. A Division Bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and S.V. Kotwal was hearing a criminal petition filed by Renuka Shinde and Seema Gavit, lodged at Yerwada Central Jail in Pune since 2014. Their mercy petition was rejected after seven years, 10 months and 15 days. They pleaded that the delay in disposal of their mercy petitions has resulted in infringement of their fundamental rights and therefore their death sentence should be commuted to life imprisonment. Case trajectory The case dates back to the 1990s when the sisters and their mother killed nine out of 13 children kidnapped by them from June 1990 to October 1996. They were convicted and sentenced to death on June 28, 2001. Their mother died and their criminal appeal was filed before the Supreme Court in 2005 and dismissed in August 2006. The application of mercy petition made to the Governor of Maharashtra was rejected in 2013. The application to the President of India was rejected in 2014. The day that their death sentence was to be executed in August 2014, the sisters filed the present plea in the High Court seeking that their death sentence be commuted due to inordinate delay in its execution. The court held on Tuesday, “Though the procedure for deciding the mercy petitions mandates speed and expediency, the state machinery showed indifference and laxity at each stage of processing the files. That it took seven years only for the movement of files for such a grave issue is unacceptable when electronic communications were available.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-commutes-death-sentence-of-2-sisters/article38289841.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:07 IST,||Vidyasagar Tirtha begins his fourth paryaya in Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt||Vidyasagar Tirtha Swami of Udupi Sri Krishnapura Mutt ascended the sarvajna peetha of Sri Madhwacharya thereby taking charge of the two-year paryaya of Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt for the fourth time early on Tuesday.  Outgoing paryaya seer Ishapriya Tirtha Swami of Udupi Sri Adamar Mutt handed over the akshaya patra, a symbolic gesture to continue the anna daana (free meal to devotees) at the Krishna Mutt, prior to his successor ascending the sarvajna peetha.  The traditional paryaya procession in Udupi town remained a low-key affair in view of the night curfew and restrictions on public gatherings following an increase in COVID-19 cases. The Udupi City Municipal Council had urged devotees to remain indoors and watch the festivities through a live telecast. Late on Monday night, Vidyasagar took a dip in the Danda Tirtha near Kapu, a tradition being followed by seers before ascending the paryaya peetha. He then arrived at Jodukatte in Udupi early on Tuesday to perform puja to Kalingamardhana Krishna, the presiding deity of his Sri Krishnapura Mutt. This initiated the paryaya procession wherein Vidyasagar as well as seers of other seven mutts were taken in a procession on the main roads of Udupi followed by several attractive tableaux. After reaching Car Street, the seer had a darshan of Lord Krishna through the Kanakana Kindi (Kanakadasa’s window) before visiting Chandramouleshwara and Anantheshwara temples in the vicinity. The seer performed a special puja at Sri Madhwacharya’s abode in the Anantheshwara temple. On emerging out of the temple, he was welcomed by the outgoing paryaya seer Ishapriya in front of Sri Krishna Mutt. Vidyasagar took a darshan of Lord Krishna again from inside the mutt before performing another puja to his mutt’s presiding deity followed by puja, along by the seer of Adamar Mutt, at the Chandrashale. Ishapriya handed over the patra to his successor at the Bhojana Shala in front of the Mukhya Prana deity. Later, Vidyasagar ascended the peetha, said to have been occupied by Sri Madhwacharya. The process culminated with the paryaya darbar at Rajangana in the presence of the seers of the eight mutts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vidyasagar-tirtha-begins-his-fourth-paryaya-in-udupi-sri-krishna-mutt/article38289883.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:57 IST,||41,457 new COVID-19cases in Karnataka; positivity rate shoots up to 22.3%||Karnataka saw a massive spike with 41,457 new COVID-19cases reported on Tuesday. As many as 25,595 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. This was in sharp contrast to the numbers from the previous day, when the overall number of new cases dipped below 30,000 to 27,156. Districts such as Bengaluru Rural, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Mysuru, and Tumakuru too reported over 1,000 new cases. The positivity rate, too, saw a huge jump as it stood at 22.3%, according to the Health and Family Welfare Department’s bulletin. It was 12.45% on Monday. After a meeting attended by the Chief Minister and 18 Deputy Commissioners, among others, Health Minister K. Sudhakar said on Tuesday that there could be as many as 1.2 lakh cases a day as per the report submitted by theTechnical Advisory Committee (TAC). “In a good case scenario, the report says it could stop at 80,000 cases. The number of new cases per day has already crossed 40,000. The speed at which the infection is spreading in the third wave is four to five times more than that of the second wave. The number of cases could go down by the second or third week of February,” he said. Highest number of tests Adding that Karnataka is conducting the highest number of tests in the country, he also acknowledged that cases are rising in rural areas. Twenty new deaths were recorded across Karnataka, and the case fatality rate stood at 0.04%. There are currently over 2.5 lakh active cases in the State, while the number of tests conducted was 1.85 lakh. No new Omicron variant cases were reported. On Monday, Bengaluru recorded 287 new Omicron cases, taking the overall tally in the State to 766.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/41457-new-cases-positivity-rate-goes-up-to-223/article38289510.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:03 IST,||Harish Rao pitches for booster dose for all above 18||In a letter addressed to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday, Minister for Health T. Harish Rao has asked the Government of India to reduce the time gap to take the precautionary dose from existing nine months to six months and examine the feasibility of further decreasing the period to three months for all health care workers (HCW). Apart from HCWs, front line workers (FLW), the booster dose is being administered to people above 60 years with co-morbidities. Further, the Minister for Health has asked Centre to consider giving the booster dose to all citizens above 18 years of age. “This will enable us to protect the population from the severe morbidity and mortality associated with COVID-19 infection,” the Health Minister has stated in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/harish-seeks-booster-dose-for-all-above-18/article38289729.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||Forest cover in State goes up by 647 sq km||The total forest cover in Andhra Pradesh has gone up by 647 sq km, taking to the total forest cover to 29,784 sq km. This is as per the recently released the 17th India State of Forest Report. With this, Andhra Pradesh stands first in the category of increase in forest cover in the country. A.P. is followed by Telangana (632 sq km), Odisha (537 sq km), Karnataka (155 sq km) and Jharkhand (110 sq km.) In the State, East Godavari leads with the maximum forest cover of 5,121 sq km, followed by Kadapa with 4,376 sq km, Visakhapatnam (3,773 sq km), Prakasam (3,333 sq km) and West Godavari with 3,273 sq km. Coming to increase in the forest cover over 2019, Nellore has taken the lead with an increase of 127.27 sq km, followed by East Godavari with 127.10 sq km. West Godavari recorded an increase by 123.91 sq km, followed by Chittoor (73.25 sq km) and Vizianagaram with 61.59 sq km. The total dense forest in the State is around 1,994 sq km, followed by 13,928 sq km of moderately dense forest and 13,861 sq km of open forest. The total scrubs recorded is 8,276 sq km. Though the total dense forest has retained its total spread, there is a slight drop by 10 sq km in moderately dense forest over the 2019 report. But there is substantial increase of about 657 sq km in the open forest category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/forest-cover-in-state-goes-up-by-647-sq-km/article38289479.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||Three Navy personnel killed in explosion aboard INS Ranvir||Three Navy personnel were killed and 11 injured in an explosion aboard the destroyer INS Ranvir at the Naval Dockyard in Mumbai on Tuesday.   “In an unfortunate incident at Naval Dockyard Mumbai, three naval personnel succumbed to injuries caused by an explosion in an internal compartment on-board INS Ranvir ,” the Navy said in a statement.  ‘No major damage’ The ship’s crew responded immediately and brought the situation under control quickly, it said. “No major material damage has been reported,” the Navy added. Officials said the incident took place at 4.30 p.m. INS Ranvir had been on cross-coast operational deployment from the Eastern Naval Command since November 2021 and was due to return to the base port shortly, the Navy said. A Board of inquiry has been ordered, it added.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ship-explosion-kills-3-navy-personnel/article38289485.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:27 IST,||Bhagwant Mann is AAP’s CM face in Punjab||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday announced that its Punjab unit president and Lok Sabha MP Bhagwant Mann will be the chief ministerial candidate in the Assembly election, with national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying his selection was based on “public opinion” expressed through dialling in a telephone number. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) accused AAP of staging a “mock tele-poll” and termed it a “phony fraud and puppet show”. “We urged the people of Punjab to choose the Chief Minister and the party had released a cell phone number on which people could share their choice. As many as 21,59,437 people had expressed their opinion and 93.3% people preferred Bhagwant Mann. [State Congress chief] Navjot Singh Sidhu came out as the second choice with 3.6% votes,” he said at an event in Mohali. After the announcement, Mr. Mann said Punjab knows how to come out of difficult situations and there’s no reason for the people to lose hope. “AAP’s agenda is to eradicate drugs from Punjab and provide employment and quality education to our youth and I’ll celebrate only after achieving all these goals,” he said. Artist-turned-politician Mr. Mann, 48, a two-time Lok Sabha MP, had been a famous comedian artist in Punjab. He stepped into mainstream politics in 2011 by joining the Punjab People’s Party. He left the PPP in 2014, joined AAP and contested the parliamentary elections from Sangrur from where he won for the first time. In 2019, he again won from the constituency and became the only candidate from Punjab to bag a seat for his party. This helped in his growing influence and stature in the party. Mr. Mann has had his share of controversies as well. In 2016, as an MP, he shot a video in the Parliament complex and put it on the social media for which he later apologised. He has been often under attack by his opponents for being “alcoholic”. He was accused of coming to public events drunk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bhagwant-mann-is-aaps-cm-face-in-punjab/article38289835.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:10 IST,||KSRTC takes footloose Malayalis on fun trips||When the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) announced its pilot budget tourism package from Kannur to Wayanad last year, there were 200 bookings on the very first day. In the next couple of days, the Kannur depot saw enquiries pouring in, leaving no seat vacant for the inaugural service. And it came as no surprise as the trips rolled out by the KSRTC’s Budget Tourism Cell have been drawing a lot of travelers in all districts.  “The cell was formed on October 28, 2021 and we started the tourism services from November 1. Till December 31 we operated 525 services and a spate of new routes were introduced this month. The response during the last two months has been excellent and at present all our packages are much in demand,” Jacob Sam Lopez, Chief Traffic Manager, Budget Tourism Cell, KSRTC, told The Hindu. The itinerary and destinations are picked by the district coordinators depending on various factors, including traveller preference. Preferred destinations While Munnar remains a top-rated destination, there are many takers for ecotourism circuits such as Thenmala and Nelliyampathy. “Apart from the destinations, the travel itself is a treat when it comes to remote destinations like Rosemala. As a Keralite, I feel more at home inside an “anavandi” and I thoroughly enjoyed all the trips,” says Anish Oommen Abraham, a travel vlogger who has tried the service from four different districts, including Malappuram, Thrissur, Palakkad and Kollam. While the entry fee is part of the package, the travellers do not have to wait for connecting services like private groups. Each district depot offers customised packages connecting a string of tourist attractions and these also include two-day trips with accommodation. Travellers to Munnar have the option to stay on air-conditioned sleeper buses spending just Rs. 100 a night. Affordable rates According to KSRTC officials, the unique selling point of the service is its highly affordable rates. While private tour operators charge a much higher rate to cover a single destination, the KSRTC package takes the traveller to different spots, spending adequate time at each of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ksrtc-takes-footloose-malayalis-on-fun-trips/article38289767.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:03 IST,||Many IAS officers, staff at BRKR Bhavan test positive||The spread of COVID-19 is continuing unabated with close to 20 members at B.R.K.R. Bhavan, the temporary secretariat, testing positive for the virus. Employees of different departments, including some bureaucrats in Medical and Health, Revenue, Home, Education and General Administration departments, have been diagnosed with COVID-19. Education Secretary Sandeep Kumar Sultania and Transport, Roads and Buildings Secretary Srinivas Raju are said to be among those who have tested positive. Health Secretary S.A.M. Rizvi, along with three other staff members, has also been found positive apart from four staffers of the Revenue department, said sources. Making the B.R.K.R Bhavan COVID list longer are three employees of the General Administration department (GAD) who also tested positive on Tuesday. GAD principal secretary Vikas Raj is said to have gone into home isolation. Two employees of the Information and Public Relations department working in the publicity cell were diagnosed as COVID-positive this morning and were sent for treatment. Attendance affected The temporary secretariat, according to officials, has been witnessing a spike in the COVID-19 cases since the past few days and this impacted staff attendance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-ias-officers-staff-at-mini-secretariat-positive/article38289731.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:14 IST,||New avatar||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-avatar/article38289837.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:11 IST,||Meeting ground||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/meeting-ground/article38289771.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:04 IST,||The lengthening shadows of fear||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lengthening-shadows-of-fear/article38289746.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||ED conducts searches in Punjab||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday seized nearly Rs. 6 crore during searches at close to a dozen places in Punjab, including the residence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew Bhupinder Singh Honey, in connection with a sand mining case. The searches began at the residence of Mr. Honey in Mohali early in the morning. Former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, after quitting from the Congress, had alleged that party leaders were involved in illegal sand mining. “As far as the issue of illegal sand mining was concerned, the offenders, unfortunately, were the substantive bulk of Congress MLAs and Ministers, including an overwhelming number in the current government,” he had said. The Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party have been accusing Congress leaders of being involved in the rampant mining activities. It is learnt that the ED’s money laundering case is based on an FIR registered by the police in 2018 pertaining to six quarries in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district. The police invoked various provisions of the IPC and the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act. The case was registered hours after several teams comprising officials of the district administration, the police and the mining department conducted surprise checks. Excavation machines and vehicles used for transporting the sand were found during the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-searches-premises-of-channis-nephew-others/article38289473.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||Dancing with care||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dancing-with-care/article38289475.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||Employees on the warpath on pay revision G.O.s||The government employees are gearing up for another round of protests to demand the State government to roll back the G.O. relating to the implementation of the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) recommendations. The employees’ associations want Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to invite them for talks again. AP JAC chairman Bandi Srinivasa Rao and AP JAC Amaravati chairman Bopparaju Venkateswarlu on Tuesday said at a press meet they would launch an agitation in a big way to oppose the G.O.s that were ‘against the interests of employees’. The government would be responsible for the inconvenience caused to the public, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/employees-on-the-warpath-on-pay-revision-gos/article38289478.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:55 IST,||Used masks are posing a health hazard||Over the last few weeks, with COVID-19 cases surging, people have been doubling masking, with disposable and cloth masks. But cloth masks, instead of being reused, are being discarded. What’s also worrying is that more often than not, masks are not segregated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/used-masks-are-posing-a-health-hazard/article38289512.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:13 IST,||Ship explosion kills 3 Navy personnel||Three Navy personnel were killed in an explosion aboard the destroyer INS Ranvir at the Naval Dockyard in Mumbai on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ship-explosion-kills-3-navy-personnel/article38289614.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:13 IST,||Bhagwant Mann is AAP’s CM candidate||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday announced that the its Punjab president Bhagwant Mann would be its chief ministerial candidate in the upcoming Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bhagwant-mann-is-aaps-cm-candidate/article38289616.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:07 IST,||‘Ensure 100% first dose vaccination in DK’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday directed the Dakshina Kannada administration to ensure complete COVID-19 first dose vaccination in the district by this month-end. Special attention should be given to areas where vaccination drive was slow, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ensure-100-first-dose-vaccination-in-dk/article38289885.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:27 IST,||Priyanka defends Cong. Hastinapur candidate||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra defended the party’s Hastinapur candidate, Archana Gautam, who has been viciously trolled for her past participation in beauty pageants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/priyanka-defends-cong-hastinapur-candidate/article38289839.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:27 IST,||Restore Press Club, say J&K parties||Jammu and Kashmir political parties, including the National Conference, Congress and Peoples Democratic Party, on Tuesday rallied behind the now-deregistered Kashmir Press Club and sought its restoration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restore-press-club-say-jk-parties/article38289840.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:57 IST,||Disinvestment in BEML: HC notice to Centre||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday ordered issue of notice to the Centre on a PIL petition questioning the decision to privatise BEML Ltd., a public sector undertaking, by way of ‘strategic disinvestment’ of 26% equity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/disinvestment-in-beml-hc-notice-to-centre/article38289698.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||Drone attacks ‘unacceptable’, says India||Terming the drone attacks by Houthi rebels in Abu Dhabi that left two Indians dead and two others injured, as “unacceptable”, India on Tuesday expressed solidarity with the United Arab Emirates (UAE). In a telephone conversation, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and UAE Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan exchanged condolences over the attacks that led to fuel tank explosions at the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) facilities in the Emirati capital on Monday, in which three ADNOC employees — two Indians and one Pakistani were killed — and six others injured. The Ministry of External Affairs said Mr. Jaishankar had condemned the attack and “emphasised that in this day and age, such an attack on innocent civilians was completely unacceptable and against all civilized norms.” The conversation came on a day the Saudi and UAE-led coalition bombed the Yemeni capital Sana’a in reprisals for the drone attacks for which Houthis claimed responsibility, killing at least 11 people, according to local reports, even as tensions in the Gulf region threatened to rise. However, the strikes weren’t referred to in the readouts issued by India or UAE. Indian Embassy officials said they were coordinating with local authorities to complete formalities needed to send the bodies of the two Indians back as early as Wednesday, while the two Indians injured in the attacks have been discharged after medical treatment. The Embassy said it had established the identity of the two deceased Indian nationals but did not disclose their names. “[I] conveyed our strong solidarity with UAE in face of such unacceptable acts,” wrote Mr. Jaishankar in a tweet. “Our Embassy is working with UAE authorities to provide the fullest support to families of the deceased,” he added. A statement issued by the UAE Foreign Ministry said Mr. Jaishankar had “expressed India’s strong condemnation and denunciation of the terrorist attack by the terrorist Houthi militia on civil areas and facilities in the UAE.” Mr. Zayed spoke to Mr. Jaishankar amidst a number of telephone calls with his counterparts in the region, a day after the UAE Foreign Ministry had called on the international community to “condemn and completely reject these terrorist acts”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drone-attacks-unacceptable-says-india/article38289395.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||Despite video, Congress keeps suspense on Punjab CM face||A day after the official Twitter handle of the Congress dropped a clear hint that Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi would be the party’s chief ministerial face in the Assembly election, the party on Tuesday evaded a direct response on the issue. At a press conference on the Enforcement Directorate (ED) searches in multiple locations in Punjab, including of a relative of Mr. Channi, the party in-charge for the State, Harish Chaudhary, referred to Mr. Channi as the “most popular leader in Punjab” but skirted the CM question. “The issue of chief ministerial candidate or who will form the government are all gone. The biggest question today is: can Punjab be suppressed. History is witness that none has ever been able to suppress Punjab,” Mr. Chaudhary said. On Monday, amid a tussle on the issue, the Twitter handle had released a 36-second video that featured only Mr. Channi, who appeared a dozen times. Putting out the video and the ambivalence is typical of the Congress’s playbook to keep the suspense on the issue, a source said.  Leaders close to Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu told The Hindu that the party social media team regularly put out videos of both the PCC chief and the Chief Minister.  In the video, actor Sonu Sood, whose sister Malavika is the party’s candidate from the Moga constituency, discusses what qualities a Chief Minister should possess. “A real ruler or a Chief Minister is one who doesn’t have to say he is deserving but is given the chair by literally forcing him to accept it and by bringing him from the backbenches. Only such a person can change the country,” said the actor in the video that showed Mr. Channi attending public events, eating sitting on the floor and other scenes. The video, also retweeted by the Punjab Congress handle, came just days after Mr. Channi, in an interview to a local TV channel, had said the party has done well whenever it has projected a CM face before the polls. The issue has been the bone of contention between Mr. Sidhu and Mr. Channi. Though the video was a clear message to the Sidhu camp, officially the party high command continues to talk about fighting the polls under the collective leadership of Mr. Channi, Mr. Sidhu and campaign committee chief Sunil Jakhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/despite-video-congress-keeps-suspense-on-punjab-cm-face/article38289401.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,||Active cases cross 17.6 lakh across India||India recorded 2,79,031 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, a 42.8% increase from a week ago. The total number of infections has reached 3.76 crore, and the active cases have crossed the 17.6 lakh mark. On Monday, 16.4 lakh tests were conducted (the results for which were made available on Tuesday). The test positivity rate (the number of cases detected per 100 tests) was 16.9%. Karnataka recorded 41,457 cases on Tuesday, the most for any State, followed by Maharashtra (39,207) and Kerala (28,481). The figures are based on the State bulletins released until 10 p.m. However, Lakshadweep, Jharkhand, Ladakh and Tripura had not yet released data for the day. As of Tuesday, 90% of the eligible population has been vaccinated with at least one dose, while 65.3% have received both doses. In the 15-17 age cohort, 50.1% of the population have received their first dose. On Tuesday, 434 deaths were recorded in India, considerably higher than the average levels recorded in the last week. The total number of fatalities has reached 4,86,877. Kerala reported the most deaths with 122 fatalities, followed by Maharashtra (53) and Delhi recorded 38 deaths. Andhra Pradesh logged 6,996 fresh cases and four deaths in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, when 38,055 samples were tested. It was the highest single-day tally in the past 220 days (since June 13). The daily test positivity rate, at 18.38% was also the highest in the past 236 days. During the 24 hours, 1,066 patients have recovered. In the past week of Sankranti festivities, over 32,000 infections were reported in the State while during the previous week (January 5- 11), the caseload was just 6,732. Telengana reported 2,983 new cases when 1,07,904 samples were tested on Tuesday. This is the highest daily case load since June-2021 and active caseload stands at 22,472. The surging cases has led to a gradual increase in hospitalisations .The occupancy of oxygen beds increased from less than 500 beds at the beginning of the month to 1,033 beds as on Monday. ICU beds occupancy has also gone up from 450 to 640 during the same period. Karnataka saw a massive spike with 41,457 cases on Tuesday when 1.85 lakh samples were tested in the past 24 hours. As many as 25,595 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. This was in sharp contrast to the figures on Monday when new cases reported was just 27,156. The test positivity rate too saw a huge jump as it stood at 22.3%, against 12.45% on Monday, according to the Health department's bulletin. The State also reported 20 new deaths. The active casepool in Karnataka now has 2.5 lakh patients. Meanwhile, the State could see as many as 1.2 lakh new cases a day in the next few days, according to a report submitted by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), the Health Minister K. Sudhakar said on Tuesday. Cases are rising in rural areas in the State. Maharashtra on Saturday reported 39,207 new COVID-19 cases . The State also added 53 new deaths to its list of COVID fatalities. Mumbai accounted for 6149 of these new cases as well as seven COVID deaths. A total of 38,824 patients were discharged on the day. Currently 23,44,919 people are in home quarantine and 2,960 people are in institutional quarantine. Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph surged to record 28,481 new cases on Tuesday— a jump by over 6,000 cases from the previous day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/active-cases-cross-176-lakh-across-india/article38289426.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:17 IST,||Restore Press Club, say J&K parties||J&K political parties, including the National Conference (NC), Congress and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Tuesday rallied behind the now-deregistered Kashmir Press Club (KPC) and sought its restoration. The National Conference asked the Lieutenant Governor “to restore the status quo of the press club and the pending re-registration”. He said the forcible takeover and subsequent closure of the KPC was the latest milestone in dismantling all insignias of democracy in J&K. “The NC condemns the closure of KPC in the strongest possible terms,” NC spokesman Imran Nabi Dar said. The J&K government on Monday announced closure of the KPC, saying it was a de-registered organisation and issued an order to hand over its premises in Srinagar to the Estates Department. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said, “It seems that the coup and its aftermath was entirely orchestrated to shut down another outlet that served as a medium for journalists to debate and discuss their opinions freely. With every passing day all the safety valves to express dissent are being muzzled.” The Congress said it unequivocally condemned the closure of the KPC and sought revocation of the closure order in the larger interest of the press freedom. J&K Apni Party vice president Ghulam Hassan Mir said the takeover of the Club’s building and land in Srinagar “is an unjustified move and the government should have allowed the impartial functioning of the Press”. CPI(M) leader Ghulam Nabi Malik described the Club’s closing as “an assaults on the rights of the people”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restore-press-club-say-jk-parties/article38289420.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,||Army rescues stranded civilians||Thirty civilians, who were stranded due to fresh snowfall and avalanches, were rescued in a six-hour operation by the Army in north Kashmir’s Kupwara on Tuesday. The civilians were stranded on the Chowkibal-Tangdhar road after a spell of fresh snowfall and two avalanches hit the stretch on the night of January 17-18. Teams mobilised “As soon as the information of civilians getting stuck closer to Khooni Nala and S.M. Hill on the NH-701 reached the troops, two teams, comprising avalanche rescue teams from Indian Army and a team of General Reserve Engineer Force (GREF), were mobilised for rescuing the civilians who were stuck in their vehicles,” an Army spokesperson said. Amid adverse weather conditions, 14 civilians were rescued and shifted to Neelam and 16 civilians were shifted to the N.C. pass, which is widely known as Sadhna pass. Vehicles retrieved “The entire effort took about five to six hours. All the rescued civilians were provided food, medical care and shelter for the night,” the Army spokesperson said. Twelve vehicles were also retrieved from the snow-swept Chowkibal-Tangdhar stretch on January 18 in the Valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-rescues-stranded-civilians/article38289418.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||Laser show to brighten up R-Day||A laser projection on the walls of North and South Block and a show by 1,000 swarm drones during ‘Beating The Retreat’ ceremony this year are among several new events at the Republic Day celebrations this year to commemorate the 75th year of Independence. However, the number of attendees at the parade will be significantly reduced, due to the COVID situation, to anywhere between 5,000 to 8,000, according to a senior defence official. “A novel ‘Drone Show’ has been conceptualised, designed, produced and choreographed within the country. This ‘Make in India’ initiative has been organised by a startup ‘Botlab Dynamics’, supported by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi and Department of Science & Technology,” the official said. “The show would be of 10 minutes duration involving around 1,000 drones fabricated through indigenous technology.” Week-long events From this year onwards the Republic Day celebrations will be week-long from January 23 to 30 every year instead of January 24. January 23 is the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Last year the first wave was ebbing and there were 25,000 visitors at the Parade last year. But with COVID cases on the rise this time, the number of visitors is going to be curtailed significantly and the numbers are still being worked out, the official said. Also this year the Parade would begin half an hour later at 10:30 a.m. to ensure that the flypast can start when the winter fog clears up.  Coinciding with the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav , several new events have been conceptualized by the Defence Ministry.   The Parade usually begins with the Prime Minister paying tributes and laying a floral wreath at the National War Memorial. This year simultaneously Next of Kin (NOK) of approximately 5,000 fallen heroes will be presented with the Plaque of Gratitude by NCC cadets all over the country under a nationwide programme ‘ Shaheedon Ko Shat Shat Naman’ , the official said.   Similarly, the MoD in collaboration with Ministry of Culture has organised an event Kala Kumbh .  Under this the National Gallery of Modern Arts organised the painting of 10 huge scrolls in two phases at Bhubaneswar and Chandigarh in December and early January. Ten scrolls each of 75 metres in length and 15 feet in height were prepared and would be showcased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/laser-show-to-brighten-up-r-day/article38289386.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||NCP rules out ties with Cong. in Goa||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Tuesday ruled out any alliance with the Congress in the Goa Assembly election on grounds that the latter had not responded favourably to seat-sharing. The Sharad Pawar-led party, however, stated that it would fight the polls in alliance with the Shiv Sena. Praful Patel, who is the NCP’s Goa in-charge, said the Congress believed it could win the 40-seat elections on its own and that it did not need anyone’s help. “The Congress believes that they can win Goa on their own strength even after losing 15 of its 17 MLAs [to other parties like the BJP and the Trinamool]. Every day, the situation in Goa is so fluid and that if every party thinks it can win on their own, it is up to them to decide… We [the NCP] are a responsible party. While we have an alliance with the Congress and the Sena in Maharashtra, the Congress has its own views in Goa,” he told reporters after arriving in the coastal State. The NCP was quite capable of fighting and winning a reasonable number of seats in Goa, the former Union Minister said. The Sena had expressed its desire to fight along with the NCP and that like-minded parties were welcome to join the alliance, he observed. Both the NCP as well as the Sena are to announce their list of candidates on Wednesday as well as reveal the seat-sharing arrangements. Sanjay Raut’s charge Meanwhile, Sena MP Sanjay Raut hit out at the BJP for ‘blocking’ Utpal Parrikar’s ticket for the Panaji Assembly seat, which had been held by his father, the late BJP leader and former Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar. The BJP Goa in charge, C.T. Ravi, said Mr. Utpal was being “used as a tool” and that the latter would remain with the BJP. “Utpal is a BJP worker, and he will stay with the BJP and work for the party. Manohar Parrikar always worked for the party and never brought his family into politics,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncp-rules-out-ties-with-cong-in-goa/article38289406.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,||Test for TB after COVID-19 if cough persists, says Centre||The Union Health Ministry has advised COVID-19 patients to undergo tests for tuberculosis and other conditions if cough persists for more than two-three weeks. It also instructed the States to keep an eye on the decline in the number of COVID-19 tests. Arti Ahuja, Additional Secretary, Health Ministry, stated that it was important to effectively track the spread of the pandemic. In a letter to the States, she observed that there should be increased testing in a strategic manner keeping in view the trend of case positivity in specific areas. Key strategy Testing remained a key and crucial component. It was seen from the data available on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal that testing had declined in many States and Union Territories. In all the advisories on testing issued by the ICMR, including the latest on January 10, the basic objective remained the early detection of cases for quick isolation and care, Ms. Ahuja explained. Testing remained a key strategy for pandemic management, as it helped in identification of new clusters and new hotspots of infection that could in turn facilitate immediate action for containment such as setting up of containment zones, contact tracing, quarantining, isolation and follow-up, she pointed out. High-risk factor Meanwhile, the revised ‘Clinical Guidance for Management of Adult COVID-19 Patients’ issued by the Health Ministry has added active tuberculosis as a high-risk factor for severe disease or mortality and underlined the need for investigation in case cough persists for over 2-3 weeks. The Ministry said there was no evidence of injectable steroids benefitting COVID-19 patients not requiring oxygen supplementation or in continuation after discharge. “Anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory therapy, such as steroids, could have the risk of secondary infection like invasive mucormycosis, when used too early, at higher dose or for longer than required,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/test-for-tb-after-covid-19-if-cough-persists-says-centre/article38289414.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,||Marital rape, gender neutral laws come up at NCW meet||At a consultation organised by the National Commission for Women on amendments to criminal law on Tuesday, there was unanimity among speakers that marital rape should be criminalised. The meeting also discussed rising instances of cyber-crime against women and the need for gender-neutral rape laws. The NCW is expected to have another round of discussion on this issue, following which it will send the recommendations to the Ministry of Home Affairs, which is looking at a review of the Criminal Law, including the IPC, 1860, the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. The meeting also comes at a time the Delhi High Court is hearing multiple petitions on making marital rape an offence and the government has sought more time to present its stand. The petitions have sought striking down exception to Section 375 of the IPC, which says forceful sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his own wife, the wife not being 18 years, is not rape. “There was agreement among all present that marital rape exemption cannot continue. There was one voice that raised concerns about evidence gathering,” said a person present at the meeting who didn’t want to be identified. ‘Strict burden of proof’  Senior Advocate in the Supreme Court, Geeta Luthra, who made the point on the need for evidence for punishing marital rape, told The Hindu , “No one is talking against women’s autonomy or privacy or that marital rape should not be an offence. But there should be a better investigative process and a strict burden of proof so that it doesn’t happen that someone is miffed and makes a marital rape allegation.”  The meeting also discussed the interpretation of consent. “We have said there should be a broader understanding of when consent stands vitiated. Anything obtained with fraud or force where force means fear of injury to body, mind and reputation is considered in cases of extortion and we are demanding that the same standard should be applied to consent in sexual offences as well. The focus has to be on violence and not morality,” said Ved Kumari, Vice-Chancellor, National Law University, Odisha. On the issue of age of marriage being raised for women to 21 years to make it equal to that of men, most speakers agreed that 18 years should be the age of marriage for both men and women. The meeting also discussed the need for gender-neutral anti-rape laws which the civil society has demanded to recognise same-sex assaults among gay, lesbian and bisexual people as well as sexual crimes against transgender people. “There was a lot of emphasis on cyber-crimes against women as well as making revenge porn and online stalking punishable,” Senior Advocate, Supreme Court, Pinky Anand said.. Several women’s rights activists, however, were unhappy because they were not invited for the discussions. While there were 13 speakers, only one was an activist and remaining were lawyers apart from a representative each from the National Law School of India University, Bangalore, and the National Law University, Odisha. Six women’s organisations wrote to NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma demanding wider consultations.  The focus has to be on violence and not morality Ved Kumari Vice-Chancellor, National Law University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/marital-rape-gender-neutral-laws-come-up-at-ncw-meet/article38289387.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||Nirmala flays ‘UPA fraud’ in Devas deal||Hitting out at the previous UPA government over the “fraud” and “scandalous” Antrix-Devas deal, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said the Narendra Modi-led government was fighting in every court to save taxpayers’ money that would otherwise be used to pay for arbitration awards that Devas has won globally. “Internationally too there are now arbitral awards coming up…this [is what the] greed of the UPA has done…,” Ms. Sitharaman said. “But the Government of India under Prime Minister Modi is fighting in every court to make sure that this fraud doesn’t get away,” she said. “Till today we are fighting [arbitration cases] one after the other to save taxpayers money.” This money would have “otherwise gone for paying all the damages because of this scandalous agreement... it was a fraud in the first place. And I'm glad that the Supreme Court has called it out,” the Minister said. Her statement follows a Supreme Court decision on Monday that upheld a National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) decision to wind up Devas. “Now, we shall definitely take this order and defend our position, the Government of India’s position... and make sure justice is done against this fraud which was perpetrated very much under the nose of UPA's own government,” the Minister said. Govt. wont bear loss “No, the loss shall not be borne by the Government of India. This is Prime Minister Modi’s government, we shall fight it till the last. This is a fraud, and that has come out very clearly in the Supreme Court order and now it is the Congress party’s turn to explain how this was allowed, explain how the Cabinet was kept in dark and explain how it took them six full years to have this kind of fraud perpetrated on the people of India,” Ms Sitharaman added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nirmala-flays-upa-fraud-in-devas-deal/article38289467.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||SC asks Centre why only 19 women were admitted at NDA||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Union government to explain the admission of merely 19 women in the prestigious National Defence Academy (NDA) for 2022. A Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul made it clear to Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, representing the Union, to come clear why the UPSC (Union Public Service Commission) had restricted women’s admissions to just 19 for the year. The court also asked the Centre to place the figures on record the total number of candidates, including women, who appeared in the NDA, Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) and Rashtriya Military School (RMS) entrance tests. “The figure is the same as for the 2021 test. Last year, you said that it was due to infrastructure problems that the intake of women will be less. Now, again for the year 2022, you have proposed to take the same number of women candidates. Why have you fixed this figure?,” the Bench addressed the government. Case listed on March 6 The court gave the Centre three weeks to file its affidavit. The case was listed on March 6. Petitioner Kush Kalra said they have filed an additional affidavit stating that on November 14, 2021, the NDA exam was held and 8,009 candidates qualified for the Service Selection Board test as also medical tests, out of which 1,002 candidates were women and 7,007 men. The government advertisement had said NDA would take in 400 cadets in the current NDA-II 2021 intake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-asks-centre-why-only-19-women-were-admitted-at-nda/article38289391.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||HC commutes death sentence of 2 sisters who killed children||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday commuted the death sentence of two sisters — for murdering and kidnapping children between 1990 and 1996 in Kolhapur — to life imprisonment. A Division Bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and S.V. Kotwal was hearing a petition filed by Renuka Shinde and Seema Gavit, lodged at the Yerwada Central Jail in Pune, in 2014. After seven years, 10 months and 15 days, their mercy petition was rejected. They pleaded that the delay in disposal of their mercy petitions resulted in infringement of their fundamental rights and therefore their death sentence should be commuted to life imprisonment. The case dates back to the 1990s when the sisters and their mother killed nine out of 13 children kidnapped by them. They were convicted and sentenced to death on June 28, 2001. Their mother died and their appeal was filed before the Supreme Court in 2005 and dismissed in August 2006. The mercy petition filed with the Governor of Maharashtra was rejected in 2013. The application to the President of India was rejected in 2014. Thereafter the present writ petition has been filed. The court held, “Though the procedure for deciding the mercy petitions mandates speed and expediency, the State machinery showed indifference and laxity at each stage of processing the files. That it took seven years only for the movement of files for such a grave issue is unacceptable when electronic communications were available to be used.” The 59-page judgment read, “The State not only has violated the constitutional rights of the petitioners but also failed the innocent victims of these heinous crimes.” The crimes committed by the petitioners are heinous. The brutality shown by them in murdering innocent children is beyond words to condemn, the judgment said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-commutes-death-sentence-of-2-sisters-who-killed-children/article38289393.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||Mamata Banerjee to campaign for SP||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chairperson Mamata Banerjee will campaign for the Samajwadi Party in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election. After meeting Ms. Banerjee at her residence in Kolkata,SP leader Kiranmoy Nanda said Ms. Banerjee would hold a joint virtual meeting and press conference with Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow on February 8. “We wanted Mamata Banerjee to come and campaign for us in the Uttar Pradesh polls. After her success in West Bengal, she has become a face against the Bharatiya Janata Party in the entire country. Her support will encourage our workers and the people of Uttar Pradesh who are opposing the BJP,” Mr. Nanda said. The Samajwadi Party leader said a joint virtual meetingand press conference was being planned in Varanasi too, but the date had not been decided yet. Adapting to curbs While there was speculation of the Trinamool Congress seeking to contest a few seats in Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Nanda denied it. The SP leader said that because of the curbs by the Election Commission, it was difficult to have large gatherings and meetings in Uttar Pradesh and this was the reason party had decided to have a joint virtual meeting of Mamata Banerjee and Akhilesh Yadav. In the West Bengal Assembly polls held last year, the Samajwadi Party had extended its support to the Trinamool Congress. Senior Samajwadi party leader and Rajya Sabha member Jaya Bachchan had campaigned for the Trinamool in the West Bengal Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-to-campaign-for-sp-plans-virtual-meet-in-up/article38289403.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:16 IST,||FinMin flays ‘UPA fraud’ in Antrix-Devas deal||“Now, we shall definitely take this order and defend our position, the Government of India’s position... and make sure justice is done against this fraud which was perpetrated very much under the nose of UPA’s own government,” the Minister said. “No, the loss shall not be borne by the Government of India. This is Prime Minister Modi’s government, we shall fight it till the last. This is a fraud, and that has come out very clearly in the Supreme Court order and now it is the Congress party’s turn to explain how this was allowed, explain how the Cabinet was kept in dark and explain how it took them six full years to have this kind of fraud perpetrated on the people of India,” Ms. Sitharaman added. Asked about the implication on arbitrations in the international courts and if they will accept the ruling of a domestic court, the Minister said, “...it’s the Supreme Court of India whose order we are taking up and presenting before those arbitrations. It has been established that this is a fraud and we will take all the facts before the courts… No country which respects the rule of law will ignore these facts.” The Congress has no right to speak about crony capitalism, she stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/finmin-flays-upa-fraud-in-antrix-devas-deal/article38289396.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||Sri Lanka’s Tamil MPs seek Modi’s intervention||Prominent Tamil legislators from Sri Lanka’s north and east have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking India’s help in ensuring that Colombo addresses the island’s long-pending Tamil question with a lasting political solution. A delegation of MPs, led by senior Tamil politician and Tamil National Alliance (TNA) leader R. Sampanthan, met the Indian High Commissioner in Colombo on Tuesday, and handed over the letter. The seven-page letter foregrounds the many unkept promises, made by different governments in Colombo, to implement the 13th Amendment and go beyond it to ensure meaningful power devolution. It was signed by the TNA’s constituent party leaders — Mavai Senathiraja (ITAK), Dharmalingam Sithadthan (PLOTE), Selvam Adaikalanathan (TELO) — with others including former Northern Province Chief Minister C.V. Wigneswaran and former MP Suresh Premachandran (EPRLF).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sri-lankas-tamil-mps-seek-modis-intervention/article38289465.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||No one died of hunger in recent times: Centre||“Can we understand that there are no starvation deaths in the country? Our limited question is whether your officers have the latest information on starvation deaths... Is there any survey report indicating whether starvation deaths are happening or not? Give us some data. Ask your officers to furnish some information,” the CJI asked Mr. Venugopal. “Our officers said there are no such starvation deaths,” the top law officer replied at one point. Advocate Ashima Mandla, for petitioners, intervened to submit that starvation deaths could only be detected through autopsy. She said the authorities have to make a conscious effort to identify starvation deaths. The CJI underscored that the “hunger of the poor on the streets has to be satisfied”. The court said that usually many freebies were announced by political parties during election time. “But this is election time and we do not want to comment much,” it stated. Welfare schemes Mr. Venugopal said that the Centre was on the front foot in food welfare schemes. “We have 131 food related programmes,” he said. “That malnutrition exists is not disputed by us. That community kitchens are needed is not disputed. The problem is the funding,” he observed. The States have to source the funds for community kitchen programmes by themselves, even if by additional taxation, and the panchayats were obliged under the Constitution to provide the logistics for distribution. The Bench asked the Centre to explore the possibility of a “model” community kitchen scheme by which it could support the States to ensure food security for the poor. It said it was not up to the judiciary to formulate a “uniform” community kitchen scheme for the States, but the Centre ought to do it in consultation with the States. Broad guidelines “We cannot prepare a straitjacket and uniform scheme for the entire country... You can make a model scheme and leave it to the States to follow the guidelines depending on their individual food habits,” the Bench addressed Mr. Venugopal. The Attorney-General agreed to convey to the Union government the court’s suggestion to provide the States with an additional 2 per cent food grains. The court asked the States to file reports on the status of malnutrition and hunger deaths in two weeks along with suggestions for community kitchen schemes. The court is hearing a petition that highlights how starvation deaths continue to eat into the right to life. The petition was filed jointly by activists Anun Dhawan, Ishann Dhawan and Kunjana Singh. It drew attention to how Tamil Nadu’s Amma Unavagam had become a roaring success by involving peers in self- help groups, employing the poor to serve hygienic food to eradicate the problem of hunger on the streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-one-died-of-hunger-in-recent-times-centre/article38289397.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||Tableaux selection fair, says Defence Minister||Pointing out that Tamil Nadu’s contribution in the country’s freedom struggle predated the 1857 battle, Mr Stalin said its role was “no less than other States.” Besides, a photo exhibition titled ‘Tamil Nadu in Freedom Struggle’, which was held earlier in Chennai, would be organised in major cities across the country. Mr. Singh, in his letter to Ms. Banerjee, said: “It was our government that celebrated the 75th anniversary of the government-in-exile of India led by Netaji in a grand manner in 2018 and honoured the surviving soldiers of the Azad Hind Fauj in the Republic Day Parade.” “I would also like to tell you that this time the CPWD tableau has also paid tribute to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary,” he added. Explaining the selection process, Mr. Singh said the tableaux proposals received are evaluated in a series of meetings of the Expert Committee comprising eminent persons in the field of art, culture, painting, sculpture, music, architecture and choreography. The Committee examines the proposals on the basis of theme, concept, design and its visual impact before making its recommendations. “As per the time slot allotted for tableaux in the overall duration of the parade, short listing of tableaux is done by the Expert Committee.” A Defence official said on Tuesday that a total of 21 tableaux, including from nine Ministries and government Departments were selected this year. The States from which tableaux have been selected include Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tableaux-selection-fair-says-defence-minister/article38289398.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||We do not support any political party: AIMPLB||The All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) on Tuesday stated that it does not comment on politics and elections. The statement was shared on social media by the AIMPLB general secretary, Maulana Khalid Saifullah Rahmani. The move comes days after noted cleric Maulana Khalil-ur-Rahman Sajjad Nomani, a member of the AIMPLB’s influential Working Committee, tweeted an open letter to All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election. In the letter, Maulana Nomani told Mr. Owaisi about a division of votes, and urged that his party contest only where winning was certain, and enter into an alliance on others. In the statement, the AIMPLB stated that only the statement of Maulana Rahmani issued by the board’s office should be considered the board’s official stand. “It should also be kept in mind that the board does not participate in politics and does not make any statement about the election, in support of or against any political party or candidate,” it stated, adding that the media exercise caution while attributing statements to the board. “The board is a religious organisation of Muslims and deals in a timely manner on the required issues that fall in the domain of Muslim Personal Law,” the statement reads. A source said that the statement was issued to clear confusion which was witnessed among sections of public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-do-not-support-any-political-party-aimplb/article38289399.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||Priyanka defends Cong. Hastinapur candidate||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra defended the party’s Hastinapur candidate, Archana Gautam, who has been viciously trolled for her past participation in beauty pageants. Ms. Vadra was addressing people in a Facebook Live. To a question about the BJP’s campaign against Ms. Gautam, she said, “Our candidate from Hastinapur has reached this stage after a period of struggle. The fact that she is a known face today reflects that struggle.” Ms. Vadra stated, “The campaign against her and especially the questions like when did you last wear a bikini or what if someone wants to marry you and so on are unwarranted. Why doesn’t the media ask Narendra Modi, who is he going to marry or not?” No male candidate regardless of his political affiliation would have been similarly targeted, she said. Ms. Vadra exhorted women voters to vote for the party’s women candidates. Each person in the list, she said, had gone through intense struggle. She also spoke about the Unnao rape victim’s mother, who is contesting as Congress candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-defends-cong-hastinapur-candidate/article38289408.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,||Cartoonist Narayan Debnath passes away||Legendary cartoonist, noted illustrator and litterateur Narayan Debnath passed away in Kolkata on Tuesday. He was 96 and was undergoing treatment in a private hospital in the city for the past few weeks. Mr. Debnath was the creator of some of immortal cartoon characters for Bengali readers such as Bantul the Great, Handa Bhonda, Nonte Fonte that have inspired not only children but generations of Bengalis. Mr. Debnath’s comic strips have attained a cult following for nearly six decades. The cartoonist was honoured with the Sahitya Akademi award in 2013 and the Padma Shri in 2021. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed condolence at the demise of the cartoonist. “We were proud to bestow upon him Bengal’s highest award Banga Bibhusan in 2013. His passing away is certainly an immeasurable loss to the world of literary creativity and comics. My deepest condolences to his family, friends, readers and countless fans and followers,” Ms. Banerjee said in a tweet. Mayor of Kolkata Firhad Hakim said that the mortal remains of the cartoonist would be taken to his residence at Shibpur in Howrah district, where the final rites will be performed. Mr. Debnath was born in 1925 in Shibpur and was trained at the Government Art College. He was drawn towards visual arts and initially drew jewellery design at his father’s shop before he created the immortal cartoon characters. The journey of the cartoonist and illustrator began with Handa Bhonda (1962) — antics of two friends constantly trying to pull a fast one on each other. This comic strip continued for over five decades and is considered as the longest-running one by an individual artist. “He gave joy and inspiration to generations of children from Bengal through his cartoon characters. His death is a loss to Bengali literature and particularly children literature,” noted painter Shuvaprasanna said. Artists and painters have also called for preserving his comic strips.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cartoonist-narayan-debnath-passes-away/article38289423.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||ED searches premises of Channi’s nephew, others||The timing of the searches is set to intensify the political heat in the poll-bound State. Former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, after quitting from the Congress, had alleged that party leaders were involved in illegal sand mining. “As far as the issue of illegal sand mining was concerned, the offenders, unfortunately, were the substantive bulk of Congress MLAs and Ministers, including an overwhelming number in the current government,” he had said. The Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party have been accusing Congress leaders of being involved in the rampant mining activities. It is learnt that the ED’s money laundering case is based on an FIR registered by the police in 2018 pertaining to six quarries in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district. The police invoked various provisions of the IPC and the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act. The case was registered hours after several teams comprising officials of the district administration, the police and the mining department conducted surprise checks. Excavation machines and vehicles used for transporting the sand were found during the operation. While about 30 suspects were detained, several accused were later named in the FIR. The crackdown on illegal sand mining had been carried out on the directions of then Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. “Conducting an ED raid is BJP’s favourite weapon because they themselves have things to hide. Not everyone is like you. We have #NoFear. #BJPFakeRaid,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-searches-premises-of-channis-nephew-others/article38289384.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:16 IST,||Assam to settle row with Meghalaya||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday said a roadmap had been prepared for resolving the 50-year-old boundary dispute with Meghalaya. “Our efforts to resolve Assam-Meghalaya border row have started bearing fruits as six of the 12 areas of difference[s] have been identified for resolution in the first phase,” he tweeted on Tuesday. “A roadmap for settlement has been prepared based on the recommendations of three Regional Committees with representatives from both the States. We’ve reached this stage after several rounds of CM-level talks on the matter,” he said. The committees formed by both the States had jointly inspected the disputed areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-to-settle-row-with-meghalaya/article38289389.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||Michael Lobo on Congress third list||The Congress on Tuesday announced its third list of nine candidates for the upcoming Goa Assembly election. Prominent in the list are Michael Lobo, the former Minister who recently quit the BJP to join the Congress and who will contest from Calangute; former MLA Prasad Gaonkar, who has been given the Sanguem ticket; and ex-MLA Lavoo Mamledar, who will fight from Marcaim. “A good mix of experience and youth who I’m sure will hold Goa in good stead if elected as MLA’s,” tweeted the Congress’s Goa in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao after the list was announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/michael-lobo-in-congress-third-list/article38289404.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||Bhagwant Mann is AAP’s CM candidate||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday announced that the party’s Punjab president and Lok Sabha member, Bhagwant Mann, would be its chief ministerial candidate in the Assembly election, with national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying his selection was based on “public opinion” through a mobile phone poll. “We urged the people of Punjab to choose the Chief Minister and the party had released a cellphone number on which people could share their choice. As many as 21,59,437 people had expressed their opinion and 93.3% people preferred Bhagwant Mann. Navjot Singh Sidhu came out as the second choice with 3.6% votes,” he said. The Shiromani Akali Dal accused the AAP of staging a “mock tele-poll’ and termed it a “phony fraud and puppet show”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhagwant-mann-is-aaps-cm-candidate/article38289409.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||Former Army chief J.J. Singh joins BJP||The former Indian Army chief General Joginder Jaswant Singh on Tuesday formally joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the Punjab Assembly election. He joined the BJP, in the presence of Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is in charge of the party’s election committee, and Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma. General J.J. Singh contested against former Punjab Chief Minister and the then Congress leader Amarinder Singh from the Patiala (Urban) constituency in the 2017 Assembly election. He left the Shiromani Akali Dal in 2018. The 75-year-old former Army chief became the first Sikh Army officer to take over as the Chief of the Army staff in January 2005 and served as the 13th Governor of Arunachal Pradesh from 2008 to 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-army-chief-jj-singh-joins-bjp/article38289470.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,||11 cities win Centre’s road challenge||Eleven cities have been selected as the winners of the Streets for People Challenge for their pilot projects to make roads more pedestrian-friendly, the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs said on Tuesday. Aurangabad, Bengaluru, Gurugram, Kochi, Kohima, Nagpur, Pimpri Chinchwad, Pune, Udaipur, Ujjain and Vijayawada were selected on the basis of their pilot projects and would be given Rs. 50 lakh each as they scale up their proposals, the Ministry said. Among the winning projects were Gurugram’s effort to pedestrianise markets and school zones with the involvement of citizens. The Ministry also announced 10 winners of the pilot stage of the Nurturing Neighbourhoods Challenge. The challenge was also started in November 2020 and included 70 pilot projects by 25 cities. Among the winners were Bengaluru, which improved safety of an anganwadi centre with child-specific design standards; Hubbali-Dharwad, which started a shared pram service, priority seating for pregnant women 100 buses; and Jabalpur. Indore, Kakinada, Kochi, Kohima, Rourkela, Vadodara and Warangal were selected as winners of the pilot stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11-cities-win-centres-road-challenge/article38289415.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,||‘Dangerous precedent for press freedom’||The Editors Guild of India has expressed anguish over the shutting down of the Kashmir Press Club. It said the government had effectively dismantled an important journalistic institution of the region that has seen the worst kind of state heavy-handedness against any independent media. The Guild cautioned that it would set a dangerous precedent. The action was the latest in a sequence of disturbing events, wherein the “re-registration” of the club was first arbitrarily put “in abeyance” by the Registrar of Societies on January 14, followed by the shocking breach of institutional norms when a group of people, with the active support of the police and the CRPF, took over the office and management of the Club on January 15. The club, established in 2018, had more than 300 members, making it the largest journalist association in the region. Space for media freedom and active civil society, the Guild said, had been steadily eroding in the region. “The shutting down of the club therefore sets a dangerous precedent for media freedom,” a Guild statement read. It also demanded the restoration of the club and that the State works towards protecting the space for a free press.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dangerous-precedent-for-press-freedom/article38289421.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||EC lets SP off with warning for gathering||The Election Commission on Tuesday let the Samajwadi Party off with a warning for violating COVID-19 guidelines in place for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections by having a gathering at the party office in Lucknow on January 14. In its order, the EC said cases had already been filed in connection with the matter. Because this was the SP’s first violation since the elections were announced on January 8, the commission advised the party to be careful in future. The EC had issued a notice to the party on January 15, to which the party replied the next day with a categorical denial. The SP said it had received 4,000 applications for tickets and potential candidates were interviewed in the office under COVID guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-lets-sp-off-with-warning-for-gathering/article38289462.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||Air India to reschedule U.S. flights||Air India’s flights to the U.S. could see some cancellations and rescheduling due to the roll-out of 5G services there, which is likely to cause a major disruption to flights. “Due to deployment of 5G communications in USA, our operations to USA from India stand curtailed/ revised with change in aircraft type from January 19th, 2022,” Air India posted on Twitter. Airline officials declined to comment about the number of cancellations likely. One senior official said rescheduling of flights “was a work in progress” and that the problem was a “serious” one. Air India operates flights to New York, Newark, Chicago, Washington DC and San Francisco.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/air-india-to-reschedule-us-flights/article38289463.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||Vikram Dev Dutt to head Air India||The Appointment Committee of the Cabinet on Tuesday appointed Vikram Dev Dutt as Chairman and Managing Director of Air India. Mr Dutt is is a 1993-batch IAS officer of AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territory) cadre. He has been appointed as Air India Chief in the rank and pay of Additional Secretary, according to an order of the Department of Personnel and Training. The appointment comes at a time the government is in the final stages of handing over the airline to Tata Sons, which won the bid to privatise the airline. The transfer of the airline was earlier supposed to conclude last month, but is delayed as certain conditions precedent need to be concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vikram-dev-dutt-to-head-air-india/article38289388.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:40 IST,||Court rejects bail plea by Deshmukh||A special court on Tuesday rejected former Home Minister of Maharashtra Anil Deshmukh’s default bail in corruption case against him. Mr Deshmukh, 71, currently lodged at Arthur Road Jail filed for statutory bail on the grounds that the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court took no cognizance of the chargesheet by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The plea filed by advocate Aniket Nikam on January 4 states, “Mr. Deshmukh is incarcerated since November 2, when he was remanded to custody. Excluding the date of first remand, a period of 60 days has since elapsed. As he is offering to accept his bail bonds, there is an embargo in continuing his further remand as per the Code of Criminal Procedure.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-rejects-bail-plea-by-deshmukh/article38289392.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||MP demands ESI hospital for Aruppukottai||The Union Government is ready to construct a new ESI hospital in Aruppukottai for the benefit of weavers of the region, said Virudhunagar MP, B. Manickam Tagore. Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, he said that he had taken up with the Union Minister of Labour and Employment, Bhupendra Yadav, the need for ESI hospital at Aruppukottai as hundreds of weavers of the town and taluk had to go all the way to Sivakasi or Madurai to get treatment in ESI hospitals there. “The minister said that the Centre was ready to construct the hospital if the Tamil Nadu government handed over land for the same,” he said. He said that he has proposed for a 100-bedded hospital at Aruppukottai. When his attention was drawn to Centre rejecting Tamil Nadu’s tableau for Republic Day parade, he said it was shocking that officials in the panel were not aware of freedom fighters like Velu Nachiyar, V.O. Chidambaram and Subramaniya Bharathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-seeks-esi-hospital-for-aruppukottai/article38289675.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tambaram Corpn. to begin re-laying badly damaged roads||Several roads battered by heavy rain in the localities of Tambaram, Pallavaram and Chitlapakkam are finally being repaved. The newly-formed Tambaram Corporation has started work on re-laying 165 roads, which were damaged before the start of the Pongal festival. Tambaram Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said the State government had sanctioned Rs. 10 crore for temporary restoration of roads damaged by heavy rain last year. Over 165 badly damaged roads were identified for restoration and would be relaid within a few months. Repairs on these roads will be done only after milling is completed as per specifications, he added. M.K. Nagar Main Road (formerly Swamy Malai Nagar) in Keelkattalai, Pillayar Koil Street and C.T.O. Colony Main Road in West Tambaram and Rajaji Cross Street and Bharathamatha Street in East Tambaram are few of the important roads which will be repaired. The Tambaram Corporation, comprising five municipalities and five town panchayats, has also been sanctioned Rs. 60 crore for paving new roads under the Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Project (TNSUDP) and the Tamil Nadu Urban Road Infrastructure Fund (TURIP). Mr. Elangovan said the amount sanctioned under both schemes last week would be used to pave roads for a total length of more than 140 km. Dug-up streets Residents in Tambaram, Chitlapakkam, Pammal and Anakaputhur have been complaining about the poor condition of the roads owing to digging done for drainage and laying cables. Residents’ welfare activist P. Viswanathan said three important roads in Chitlapakkam, which were damaged for the construction of a cut and cover drain to route surplus rainwater to the Sembakkam lake, needed to be restored quickly. He said the interior roads, such as Thirumurugan Salai, Ramanar Street and Maruthapandian Street in Chitlapakkam, had become slushy and hard to navigate. These roads were in urgent need of repair, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tambaram-corpn-to-begin-re-laying-badly-damaged-roads/article38289582.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||State sees marginal rise in fresh COVID-19 cases||After witnessing a small dip in fresh COVID-19 cases for two days, Tamil Nadu recorded a marginal rise in infections on Tuesday. As many as 23,888 people tested positive for the infection and 29 died. Chennai and its three neighbouring districts reported fewer cases when compared to the previous day. As against 8,591 cases on Monday, the city logged 8,305 infections. Chengalpattu recorded 2,143 cases when compared to 2,236 cases on the previous day, while 687 people tested positive in Kancheepuram as against 766 on the previous day. Fresh cases fell from 1,018 to 854 in Tiruvallur district. Infections marginally rose in Coimbatore, Erode, Salem and Thanjavur. While Coimbatore logged 2,228 cases when compared to 2,042 on the previous day, there were 777 cases in Erode, 532 in Salem and 453 in Thanjavur. However, Tirunelveli’s daily tally saw a spike from 331 to 707. Among other districts, Kanniyakumari had 830 cases, while Madurai and Tiruppur logged 643 and 517 cases, respectively. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 29,87,254. With 1,41,562 tests conducted on Tuesday, the positivity rate stood at 16.87%. The number of fatalities rose to 29 in the State. This took the toll to 37,038. There were no COVID-19 deaths in 26 districts. Chennai accounted for eight fatalities, while there were five deaths in Coimbatore and three each in Chengalpattu and Tiruchi. All of the deceased had co-morbidities. Presently, 1,61,171 patients are under treatment/home isolation for COVID-19. Chennai had the most number of active cases, at 61,691, followed by Chengalpattu (16,985) and Coimbatore (11,594). As many as 15,036 patients were discharged, taking the total recoveries so far to 27,89,045. A total of 4,105 oxygen beds, 3,660 non-oxygen beds and 833 Intensive Care Unit beds were occupied in COVID-19 health centres and hospitals in the State. In total, the State has 40,906 oxygen beds, 24,965 non-oxygen beds and 9,827 ICU beds for COVID-19 in health centres and hospitals. Chennai’s bed occupancy stands at 1,348 oxygen beds, 1,293 non-oxygen beds and 308 ICU beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-sees-marginal-rise-in-fresh-covid-19-cases/article38289566.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen yet to be paid for helping with flood relief work||Fishermen, who helped residents during the monsoon in October-November, are yet to be paid for their services. Neelakantan of Nochikuppam, who along with other boat owners had sent 22 boats to rescue stranded residents at places, including Velachery, Royapuram and Ashok Nagar, said the men were clamouring for money. Livelihood troubles “It has now been two months, and since our income has been hit due to lack of fishing activities owing to rough seas, we were hoping the money would be distributed by Pongal. But that was not to be. The local officials of the Fisheries Department have been telling us that they are yet to get the amount from the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC),” he said. K. Bharathi of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association said it was taking time due to the large amount needed. Around 250 men were deployed along with their boats during the rescue operations, and they stayed put for as long as it required. In some cases, this was even up to 20 days. “The Fisheries Department said only some paperwork remained before they can disburse the money. During the previous years, we did not wait for the money, it used to be settled quickly,” he said. Advance Sources in the Corporation said that they paid Rs. 2.5 lakh per village in advance before engaging the boats. “We are indebted to the fishermen. They helped us in our time of need, and they are ready to lend a hand at any time. “During the flood, we provided them with food and places to stay. We are waiting for a final bill from the Fisheries Department to settle the due,” an official source said. Billing delay Sources in the Fisheries Department said bills towards expenses totalling Rs. 1.26 crore, including damage caused to boats, for fishermen from Chennai, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram district had been readied and were in the process of being sent to the respective authorities in these districts. “It took us time to tally advances paid to these men for travel. As far as damages are concerned, we have fixed it as per government norms. We will disburse the amount soon,” an official said.  The Fisheries Department said only some paperwork remained before they can disburse the money K. Bharathi South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-yet-to-be-paid-for-helping-with-flood-relief-work/article38289575.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||PMK, NTK look to make it big in the upcoming urban local bodies elections||The Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) and the Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK), which harbour big ambitions in Tamil Nadu, are gearing up for the urban local bodies elections. In these elections, they see another opportunity to position themselves as the alternative to the DMK as well as the AIADMK. PMK sources said the party would contest alone in the elections as announced by the leadership recently. But they underlined that the allotment of the post of Mayor of the municipal corporations in and around Chennai to the Scheduled Castes should have been avoided and the representation of the community should have been ensured across Tamil Nadu. However, NTK leaders consider the reservation of the post of Mayor of Chennai and Tambaram for the Scheduled Caste women as an advantage. “The Naam Tamilar Katchi has been fielding an equal number of male and female candidates. We have also fielded more candidates from the Scheduled Castes. In fact, in November 2019, our leader Seeman urged the State government to reserve the post of Chennai Mayor for the Scheduled Castes and implement the reservation system for the post of Deputy Mayor too,” NTK spokesperson Packiarajan Sethuramalingam said. He said Seeman, the NTK chief co-ordinator, would announce the candidates for Mayors (to be elected indirectly) in the coming weeks. While the PMK had contested alone in the rural local bodies elections claiming that it did not have enough time to conclude seat-sharing negotiations with the AIADMK, party founder S. Ramadoss reiterated the desire at the party’s general body meeting to lead an alliance and form the government in 2026. Dr. Ramadoss had also alleged in December last that the party’s partners for the 2021 Assembly election violated the “alliance dharma”. A PMK leader said the party had revamped its structure with the intention of forming and leading an alliance in the State. Asked about the possibility of smaller parties springing a surprise by winning the elections for Mayor in at least some of the corporations, Villupuram MP D. Ravikumar, of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, said such a possibility had been precluded by the indirect election of Mayors. “Smaller parties will find it impossible to elect Mayors since they will be elected indirectly. If Mayors were elected directly, there might have been a chance. Only those with a majority of councillors will be able to elect a Mayor. The urban local bodies elections will once again see a direct contest between the DMK and the AIADMK. However, the DMK will get a clear mandate,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-ntk-look-to-make-it-big-in-the-upcoming-urban-local-bodies-elections/article38289559.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diverted on Kamarajar Salai||The police have announced traffic diversions on Kamarajar Salai in view of the Republic Day celebrations to be held on January 26 and the rehearsals on January 20, 22, and 24. The stretch of Kamarajar Salai from Light House to War Memorial will be closed for vehicular traffic from 6.00 a.m. onwards till the celebrations are over. No vehicles will be allowed from Wallajah Point towards War Memorial. Commercial vehicles coming from Adyar will be diverted at Greenway’s Point towards R.K. Mutt Road, V.K. Iyer Road, Devanathan Street, St. Mary’s Road, R.K. Mutt Road, Luz Junction, Luz Church Road, Karpagambal Nagar, Sivasamy Salai junction, Royapettah High Road, Royapettah Clock Tower, G.P. Road and Anna Salai to reach Broadway. Other vehicles, including MTC buses, coming from Adyar will be diverted at Santhome High Road-Kutchery Road Junction towards Kutchery Road. These vehicles can use Kutchery Road, Luz Junction, Royapettah High Road, Royapettah Clock Tower, G.P. road and Anna Salai to reach Broadway. Bus route changes Bus 27D coming on Dr. Radhakrishnan Salai towards Gandhi Statue will be diverted at V.M. Street Junction towards V.M. Street and can use Royapettah High Road, Luz Junction, R.K. Mutt Road, Mandaveli junction, South Canal Bank Road and Srinivasapuram to reach Foreshore Estate. Bus 21G from Luz Junction, proceeding towards Gandhi Statue, will be diverted at Royapettah Point, Royapettah High Road, Royapettah Clock Tower, GP Road, Anna Salai and to reach Broadway. Buses 12G and 45B from Luz Junction, proceeding towards Gandhi Statue, will be diverted via Nilgiris, Music Academy, T.T.K. Road, Government Royapettah Hospital, Royapettah Clock Tower, G.P. road, Anna Salai, Adams Road to reach Anna Square. Vehicles heading to the Dr. R.K. Salai-Dr. Natesan Road junction will be diverted towards Dr. Natesan Road. Similarly, vehicles reaching the Dr. Natesan Road-Avvai Shanmugam Salai junction and the Dr. Besant Road-Kamarajar Salai junction will be diverted towards the Ice House junction. Vehicles on the Bharathi Salai-Bells Road junction will be diverted towards Bells Road. The Anna Square bus terminus will be temporarily shifted to Wallajah Road, near the Government Guest House. Vehicles coming from Parry’s Corner will be diverted at RBI Subway (North) towards Raja Annamalai Mandram and can use Muthusamy Point, Wallajah Point, Anna Salai, Anna Statue, General Patters Road, Royapettah Clock Tower, Government Royapettah Hospital, Royapettah Road, Dr. Radhakrishnan Salai, Dr. Natesan Road, Karaneeswarar Pakoda Street and Santhome High Road to reach Adyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diverted-on-kamarajar-salai/article38289583.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Reservation of Mayor post based on Census 2011, legal provisions’||The scheme of reservation, worked out for the post of Mayor for 12 municipal corporations out of 21 in Tamil Nadu, is based on the data of Census 2011 and the legal provisions relevant to urban local bodies, according to a senior government official. On Monday, the State government issued a notification, bringing Chennai and 11 other corporations under one form of reservation or the other. Chennai and one of its neighbouring corporations, Tambaram, have been reserved for the Scheduled Castes (SCs-women), while another neighbouring civic body, Avadi, has been set apart for the SCs and Kancheepuram for women (general). Two more clusters of nearby corporations — Madurai and Dindigul, and Coimbatore and Erode — have been covered under the scheme, and the four local bodies are meant for women (general). Totally, there are three categories of reservation — SCs, SCs (women) and women (general). Emphasising that there is “no room for manipulation” in the reservation, the official says that what is to be first ascertained is the number of the posts to be set aside for the SCs. Applying the principle of population, the number has been arrived at 3. When the authorities listed all 21 municipal corporations in the descending order on the basis of the proportion of the SC population, the top three local bodies were Tambaram, Chennai and Avadi. Of them, Tambaram and Chennai were selected for the SCs (women) in view of a higher women population and a 50% quota for women. The authorities again listed the remaining 18 corporations in the descending order based on the share of women’s population. Nine were chosen for women (general), given the rule of 50% quota. While doing this exercise, one more factor was kept in mind. This pertained to the status of the post in every municipal corporation in 2011. As the law required that if the post of mayor in a municipal corporation was reserved under one category, it could remain so for two full terms or 10 years. Though no election could be held in 2016, the authorities went by the fact that 10 years had passed since the reservation was last effected. This was why Tiruchi, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi, which were earmarked for women in 2011, have been de-reserved. Likewise, Vellore, which was set aside for SCs (women) in 2011, has now been kept for women (general). Likewise, if a municipality, reserved for women in 2011, was upgraded subsequently as a municipal corporation, the post of mayor has been de-reserved this time. For example, Thanjavur and Nagercoil, which were, as municipalities, kept for women (general) in 2011, have now been released from the scheme. For the post of mayor, the municipal corporations which are not covered under the reservation scheme are Tiruchi, Tirunelveli, Salem, Tiruppur, Thoothukudi, Thanjavur, Nagercoil, Hosur and Kumbakonam. The official clarifies that what has been followed in respect of the municipal corporations has been adopted in the case of municipalities and town panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reservation-of-mayor-post-based-on-census-2011-legal-provisions/article38289561.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ensure autos, taxis collect stipulated fare during lockdown: DGP||Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu has asked all Commissioners of Police and District Superintendents of Police to ensure that autorickshaws and taxis collected only the stipulated fare from passengers at railway and bus stations during the total lockdown on Sundays. Plaints from public In a circular, he said people returning from outstations during the total lockdown complained about the absence of transport to reach home from railway and bus stations and about overcharging by autorickshaw drivers. Mr. Sylendra Babu said no untoward incident was reported on January 9 and 16. Though some elements “misbehaved”, police personnel maintained decorum and handled the situation in a humane manner. The Commissioners’ and the Superintendents’ personal supervision of security arrangements and advisory to people to maintain COVID-19 appropriate behaviour helped the police department earn the good will and confidence of people. He said 19,962 cases were booked for the violation of COVID-19 guidelines on January 9 and 14,951 cases on January 16. In all, Rs. 78.34 lakh in fine was collected from the violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-autos-taxis-collect-stipulated-fare-during-lockdown-dgp/article38289554.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Enrolment for NPTEL courses at IIT-M begins||The Indian Institute of Technology Madras’ National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning (NPTEL), a joint initiative of the IITs and Indian Institute of Science (IISc), has called for applications for the January 2022 semester. There are 593 courses to choose from through the Swayam platform. One of the courses, Introduction to Machine Learning, will be offered in Tamil. Learners can register for free by visiting https://swayam.gov.in/NPTEL. The last date to enrol for the first set of courses is January 31. Andrew Thangaraj, coordinator, NPTEL-IIT-M, said online education had gained tremendous popularity in recent years. So far, over 1.58 crore learners have enrolled in NPTEL courses. Learners can opt for a proctored certification exam for a nominal fee to earn certificates from the IITs. NPTEL also offers support through internships and soft skills training for students from rural India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/enrolment-for-nptel-courses-at-iit-m-begins/article38289568.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. reserves 16 wards for women from Scheduled Castes||The Greater Chennai Corporation has reserved the post of councillors in 84 wards for women in the general category and 16 wards for women from Scheduled Castes (SC). Besides this, 16 other wards have been reserved for SC candidates. According to a notification issued by Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi, wards 3, 16, 17, 18, 21, 22, 24, 45, 62, 72, 73, 99, 108, 117, 144 and 200 have been reserved for Scheduled Caste (General). Wards 28, 31, 46, 47, 52, 53, 59, 70, 74, 77, 85, 111, 120, 135, 159 and 196 have been reserved for Scheduled Caste Women. The 84 wards reserved for Women (General) are 2, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 26, 33, 34, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 48, 51, 58, 61, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 71, 75, 76, 79, 81, 83, 87, 88, 91, 93, 95, 96, 97, 98, 100, 101, 102, 103, 107, 109, 112, 113, 115, 118, 119, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 128, 131, 132, 134, 136, 147, 149, 150, 152, 153, 157, 158, 160, 161, 163, 164, 167, 171, 173, 174, 175, 179, 180, 183, 185, 187, 188, 191, and 197. Egmore MLA I. Paranthaman said the reservation was expected to improve welfare measures for the weaker sections of the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-reserves-16-wards-for-women-from-scheduled-castes/article38289569.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||Haj: Re-include Chennai airport, demands OPS||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Tuesday reiterated his demand for the re-inclusion of Chennai in the list of airports for the Haj pilgrimage. In a statement, he recalled the demand he made in November and urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to get in touch with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restore Chennai as an embarkation point for the pilgrimage. T.N.’s tableau On the issue of the exclusion of Tamil Nadu’s tableau from the Republic Day parade, Mr. Panneerselvam said the Chief Minister should have explained to the Centre, the role played by Tamil Nadu in the areas of art, culture and the freedom struggle of the country. Meanwhile, V. K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the AIADMK, also urged the Centre toreconsider its decision on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/haj-re-include-chennai-airport-demands-ops/article38289557.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rejected tableau to be showcased across T.N.||A day after an expert committee rejected Tamil Nadu’s tableau for the Republic Day Parade in New Delhi, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday announced that it would be showcased at the Republic Day celebrations organised by the State government in Chennai and taken to the key places in the State. A photo exhibition titled, ‘Tamil Nadu in Freedom Struggle’, which was held earlier in Chennai, would be organised in major cities across the country. Pointing out that Tamil Nadu’s contribution to the freedom struggle predated the 1857 uprising, Mr. Stalin said its role was “no less important than that of other States”. His decision came a few hours after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh wrote to him, maintaining that the tableaux were selected in line with the guidelines. An unconvinced Chief Minister expressed shock and regret that no reason was cited in Mr. Singh’s letter. Letter to PM On Monday, Mr. Stalin wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the exclusion of Tamil Nadu’s tableau would hurt the sentiments and “patriotic feelings” of the people of the State. “The tableau that proposed to showcase our freedom fighters who bravely fought against the British has not been permitted to take part in the Republic Day Parade in Delhi. In this scenario, the tableau would be presented at the State government’s Republic Day celebrations to express the patriotic fervour and sentiments of Tamil Nadu. It would be sent to major cities in Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Stalin said. The Chief Minister pointed out how the Vellore mutiny in 1806 preceded the Sepoy Mutiny in 1857, which is said to be the ‘First War of India’s Independence.’ Likewise, ‘Veerathai’ Velu Nachiyar fought against the British and reclaimed the lost land over seven decades before the Rani of Jhansi swung her sword, he said. “This land of Tamil Nadu has produced several bravehearts for the freedom struggle such as Pulithevan, Veera Pandiya Kattabomman, Veeran Sundaralingam, the Maruthu brothers, Dheeran Chinnamalai and numerous others.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rejected-tableau-to-be-showcased-across-tn/article38289560.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Precaution dose: Special drive every Thursday||A special COVID-19 vaccination drive for precaution doses will be conducted every Thursday, starting January 20. According to a circular issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, the drive will be conducted at all existing government COVID-19 vaccination centres - upgraded Primary Health Centres (PHCs), block PHCs, government hospitals under the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services and government medical college hospitals under the Directorate of Medical Education. The sessions are meant for the administration of the precaution dose to eligible healthcare workers, frontline workers and those aged above 60 with co-morbidities, who have completed 39 weeks from the date of administration of the second dose. The directorate instructed all Deputy Directors of Health Services (DDHS) to coordinate with the respective Joint Directors of Health Services, deans and other health officials, including those in the private sector, to ensure that eligible staff received the precaution dose. The DDHS were also instructed to improve the coverage of the precaution doses in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/precaution-dose-special-drive-every-thursday/article38289562.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rehabilitation of rescued child labourers hit for want of funds||The identification of child labourers and rehabilitation process of over 3,800 children rescued from child labour, who are studying in over 200 special schools under the National Child Labour Project (NCLP) in Tamil Nadu has been severely affected, for want of funds from the Union Labour Ministry. As of last month, a total of 3,861 children rescued from child labour across the State were studying in 213 special schools serving as ‘bridge schools’ and for many of these children in various districts, and the monthly stipend of Rs. 400 have not been paid to many of them. A total of 724 staff, including educational instructors and others, have been working, but have not been paid for many months now. “The special schools are in a critical stage now without funds and the rehabilitation process is severely affected because field staff and building owners want their salaries and rent pending for many months now. In many schools, parents are questioning the instructors about the stipend and suspect whether we have taken the money,” said a Project Director requesting anonymity. The project is being implemented in 15 districts in the State. Flagging the hardship being faced by the staff, he said: "If the Centre is not sanctioning funds, the State government should at least pay our salaries and adjust with the funds when they come from the Centre.” A report titled ‘Reversing the Situation of Child Labour - A Rapid Survey in Tamil Nadu’ by Campaign Against Child Labour (CACL) Tamil Nadu & Puducherry published last year said that child labour had increased nearly 280% among the vulnerable communities. Child rights activist R. Vidyasagar said that the pandemic that is continuing for almost three years now has impacted the lives of most people in many ways, he said. “In this situation NCLP schools assume greater importance to provide bridge courses for the children who have become child workers and to mainstream them back in formal schools,” contended the former child protection specialist with UNICEF. A senior official in the State government said that the NCLP was being 100% funded by the Government of India, which periodically sanctions funds. “We have also written to the Government of India in this regard, three months ago. There were certain issues from our side such as production of audit and utilisation certificates, which we have produced now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rehabilitation-of-rescued-child-labourers-hit-for-want-of-funds/article38289991.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Former gangster arrested||Former gangster Binu Pappachan was arrested by a special team of police on Tuesday. He is wanted in more than a dozen criminal cases and several non-bailable warrants are pending against him, the police said. Binu, 48, who had more than 25 criminal cases turned infamous after his 45th birthday celebration on February 6, 2018, where he invited about 200 goons and henchmen, and cut his birthday cake with a machete. The incident went viral on social media. He was arrested by the police and released on bail. He frequently jumped bails and failed to appear before courts for trial proceedings. The police said he was arrested by a special team for threatening a city-based businessman by demanding protection money. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-gangster-arrested/article38289576.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pulse polio put off to Feb. 27||The Polio National Immunisation Day 2022 has been rescheduled to February 27. It was scheduled to be held on January 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pulse-polio-put-off-to-feb-27/article38289577.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK gets new IT wing secy.||The DMK on Tuesday announced that since Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan has resigned from the post of the party’s IT wing secretary, party MLA T.R.B. Rajaa has been appointed in his place. A press release from party general secretary Duraimurugan said Mr. Thiaga Rajan voluntarily quit the post as he wanted to concentrate fully on his job as the Finance Minister. Mr. Rajaa, who functioned as the party’s overseas wing secretary, has now been replaced by Rajya Sabha MP M.M. Abdulla in the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-gets-new-it-wing-secy/article38289580.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||10 colleges chosen for language courses||In line with the Minister for Higher Education’s announcement last year that foreign languages like German, French and Japanese would be taught in engineering colleges, a total of 10 government engineering colleges have been shortlisted for the implementation of the scheme on pilot-basis. The shortlisted colleges are: Government College of Technology, Coimbatore; Government College of Engineering, Salem; Government College of Engineering, Tirunelveli; Alagappa Chettiar Govt. College of Engg. & Tech., Karaikudi; Government College of Engineering, Bodinayakanur; Government College of Engineering, Dharmapuri; Government College of Engineering, Bargur; Government College of Engineering, Srirangam, Tiruchi; Government College of Engineering, Sengipatti, and Thanthai Periyar Govt. Institute of Technology, Vellore. It has been proposed to conduct foreign language courses in German, French and Japanese for the students of these colleges, through online, offline and blended mode. The scheme aims at producing engineering students with multilingual skills to aid them in placements, and also become better research scholars. The Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC) is in the process of selecting firms to hold classes for students, and has issued a tender to select the firms. The TNSDC has issued another tender to select training service providers to impart ‘Personality Development’ and ‘Communicative English’ coaching to over 30,000 school and college students. The proposal is for offering these two courses to over 22,700 College/Polytechnic/ITI students, belonging to backward, most backward and denotified communities, and minority welfare hostels. It also aims at offering these courses to over 7,600 students in Class VIII and XII in Kallar Reclamation Schools across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-govt-engg-colleges-selected-to-offer-foreign-language-courses/article38289584.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dropping of parking fee plan, latest reversal in Corpn.’s revenue drive||More than a month after deciding to collect parking fee on 30 city roads, the Coimbatore Corporation on Monday suspended the plan. At the November 30 Council meeting, the Corporation had said it would collect parking fee at Rs. 30 or Rs. 40 an hour for four-wheelers and Rs. 10 an hour for two-wheelers parked on the earmarked stretches of the 30 roads and also proposed parking fee at select off-street parking places. The reasons the Corporation cited in reversing the decision were that it had not consulted stakeholders – Coimbatore City Traffic Police, traders and a few others – and the parking fee proposal did not elicit from contractors the kind of response it had expected. A few years ago, the Corporation had given up collecting user fee from city residents for the waste they generated. After the Central Government framed the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, the Corporation set about collecting the user fee in 2017. The Corporation had by then drafted the by-laws for collecting the fee saying it proposed to collect Rs. 10 to Rs. 30 from every household based on property tax slabs. It collected the user fee for a few months but gave up in the face of strong protest, mainly from political parties. It had proposed to collect Rs. 20 crore but managed only Rs. 1 crore. After not collecting the user fee for around three years, the Corporation decided to resume collecting the user fee. It had estimated that it would net Rs. 13 crore a year from the move. Sources said the Corporation then had only suspended the collection but not reversed the decision to collect user fee. And, the Corporation would not reverse the user fee collection decision as well because there was a strong legal backing to collect the fee, an obligation to do so and it was linked to the city’s Swachh Bharat ranking. The civic body also wanted to improve its revenue and meet at least a part of the waste collection expenditure by collecting the user fee, the sources also said. In fact, the Corporation had begun the process of making modification in the Urban Tree Management System software to enable the user fee to be paid along with property tax. And, finally, as per the Supreme Court’s ‘polluter pays’ principle, it was incumbent on the city’s residents to pay for the waste they generated, the sources further said and reiterated that there was no going back on the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dropping-of-parking-fee-plan-latest-reversal-in-corpns-revenue-drive/article38289608.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 2,228 new cases, five deaths||A total of 2,228 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday.The Health Department said that 786 persons recovered from the disease on Tuesdayand the district had 11,594 active cases.It said that five more persons from Coimbatore died of COVID-19, taking the toll in the district to 2,536.Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 21.4 % on Monday when 2,042 persons were found infected. After three days, the daily caseload of Tiruppur district went below the 600-mark as the Health Department reported 517 fresh cases on Tuesday. A total of two new deaths were reported, taking the district’s toll to 1,033. While 314 persons recovered, 3,433 patients were active cases on Tuesday. As per Monday’s data, the total positivity rate of Tiruppur district was 16.3%. In the Nilgiris, 216 people tested positive on Tuesday. The total number of cases recorded in the district so far is 6,478, with 221 deaths. A total of 1,575 people are currently undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-2228-new-cases-five-deaths/article38289595.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Report on elephant deaths on railway lines submitted, says Union Minister||The committee tasked by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) to study deaths of wild elephants on railway tracks near Coimbatore submitted its report in September 2021, said Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav in a letter to Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram. Recommendations The committee's report has suggested recommendations to the Railways, State Forest Departments (SFDs) of Tamil Nadu and Kerala to prevent death of elephants due to train hits. The report has been circulated to the SFDs, Railways and other stakeholders to take measures to prevent death of elephants, the Minister's letter said. Measures Mr. Shanmugasundaram had written to Mr. Yadav seeking to know the measures taken by the Ministry to prevent deaths of elephants on railways tracks. A total of 11 wild elephants were killed on the railway line between Kanjikode and Madukkarai stations on the Palakkad-Walayar-Coimbatore segment from 2016 to 2021, including three pachyderms that were knocked down by a train on November 26, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-on-elephant-deaths-on-railway-lines-submitted-says-union-minister/article38289589.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:49 IST,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to capture leopard holed up in an abandoned warehouse without tranquillisers||The Forest Department is keen on capturing the leopard holed up in an abandoned warehouse on Coimbatore-Palakkad Road without using tranquilliser dart.  Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj told The Hindu on Tuesday that he had not given an order to tranquillise the animal.“But have asked them [staff] to drive the animal using various means and then trap it,” he said.  The unused warehouse at B.K. Pudur, about 10 km from Coimbatore city, has two doors where the forest staff have placed cages. “If the carnivore comes out through the doors, it would get trapped,” said officials. To lure the leopard, the two cages have live dogs as bait. The dogs are kept in a partition of the cage so that they will not be harmed. Conservator of Forests S. Ramasubramanian visited the place on Tuesday. The boundary of Madukkarai forest range is 4 km from the spot. Assistant Conservator of Forests C.Dinesh Kumar, forest veterinarians A. Sukumar (Coimbatore division), Rajesh Kumar (Mudumalai Tiger Reserve) and Madukkarai forest range officer P. Santhiya are camping at the place. The department on Tuesday morning released a video of the leopard moving inside the building.  We have asked the staff to use various means to drive the animal from the hideout Shekhar Kumar Niraj Principal Chief Conservator of Forests||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-capture-leopard-holed-up-in-warehouse-without-using-tranquilliser/article38289601.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Goondas Act invoked against HM workers||The Coimbatore City Police have invoked provisions of the Goondas Act against the two Hindu Munnani workers who were arrested on charges of defacing a statue of social reformer Periyar E.V. Ramasamy at Vellalore. A release issued by the police said the provisions of the Act were slapped on V. Arunkarthik , 26, an autorickshaw driver, and V. Mohanraj, 28, both residents of Vellalore. Detention orders were served on the duo on Monday and they were lodged in Coimbatore Central Prison. The statue in front of the Periyar study centre at Vellalore was found garlanded with a pair of slippers on January 9 morning. It was smeared with a saffron-coloured powder. Arunkarthik and Mohanraj were arrested by the police on January 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goondas-act-invoked-against-hm-workers/article38289603.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Grant 4G and 5G licenses to BSNL: DYFI||Members of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) staged a protest in front of a Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited office in the city on Tuesday urging the Central government to grant 4G and 5G licences to the State-owned telecom service provider. So far, the government had not made financial allocation or provided technical support for providing 4G services to BSNL. Now, it was giving 5G licences to only private telecom service providers. This showed that the government sidelined the PSU to favour private players. The sidelining came at a time when people’s reliance on mobile data increased during the pandemic, where online education and work from home had become the norm, the DYFI said. And, the private telecom service providers had cashed in on the opportunity by increasing data charges. They increasing data charges had burdened the users, many of who were facing salary cuts, again because of the pandemic. This was where the people felt the need for BSNL’s services, the DYFI said and urged the government to support the PSU and also rein in the private telecom service providers. DYFI’s district secretary K.S. Kanagaraj led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grant-4g-and-5g-licenses-to-bsnl-dyfi/article38289599.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead with injuries on head||A 45-year-old man was found dead with injuries on head on the platform of a shop near Saibaba Colony in Coimbatore on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Shanmugam, who had been working as a driver at the MGR Vegetable Market near Saibaba Colony. According to the police, many people who work at the market sleep on the platforms of shops at night. Shanmugam slept in front of a shop on Monday night. Police suspicion The police said that the man could have been bludgeoned by someone with a heavy object like stone. Police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-dead-with-injuries-on-head/article38289606.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Register for booster dose’||Coimbatore Corporation has asked persons over 60 years of age with comorbidities to register for getting the precautionary booster dose at their house. In a release issued here on Tuesday the civic body said such persons could dial 0422-2302323 to get vaccine at their house.The release said persons over 60 years of age who had not taken their first dose or those who were past the second dose due date could also dial the number to get vaccine at their house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/register-for-booster-dose/article38289609.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:49 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minister unveils NLCIL’s rehabilitation and resettlement policy||NLC India Ltd. (NLCIL), a Navaratna Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) under the Ministry of Coal, has been playing a pivotal role in ensuring the country’s energy security during the last six decades, Union Minister for Coal, Mines and Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi has said. Launching the new rehabilitation and resettlement policy of NLCIL through virtual mode from New Delhi on Monday, Mr. Joshi lauded the efforts of NLCIL and the Tamil Nadu Government in framing a very flexible rehabilitation policy with multiple options available to the affected people. He said the compensation to the affected villagers would be fair and transparent. The new policy had provisions for enhanced amenities to project-affected families, he said, adding that NLCIL had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the State government to impart skill to them under Skill India Mission. The new policy would pave the way for sustainable livelihood and make every village Atma Nirbhar, he added. Union Minister of State for Coal, Mines and Railways Raosaheb Patil Danve said besides benefitting the villagers, the policy would lead to further increase in energy production by the PSU. Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare M.R.K. Panneerselvam, Minister for Labour Welfare and Skill Development C.V. Ganesan, NLCIL Chairman-cum-Managing Director Rakesh Kumar, and Directors R. Vikraman, Jaikumar Srinivasan, Shaji John, and Cuddalore Collector K. Balasubramaniam were present during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-unveils-nlcils-rehabilitation-and-resettlement-policy/article38289960.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||317 fresh cases in Cuddalore||Cuddalore district recorded 317 fresh COVID-19 infections on Tuesday, taking the tally to 67,096. The district saw 64,156 recoveries and the active cases stood at 2,063. Villupuram district recorded 197 cases, taking the total number of cases to 47,746. Kallakurichi district reported 209 cases, taking the overall tally to 32,932.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/317-fresh-cases-in-cuddalore/article38289965.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:49 IST,TAMIL NADU||Agriculture Minister inaugurates oxygen plant in Kurinjipadi GH||Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare M. R. K. Panneerselvam on Monday inaugurated a new oxygen generation plant at the Kurinjipadi Government Hospital in the district, set up by Hyundai Motor India, under its philanthropic division, Hyundai Motor India Foundation initiative (HMIF). According to a press release, the 50 litres per minute (LPM) plant will address the oxygen requirement of 13 ICU beds and help treat COVID-19 patients in the hospital. “The pandemic cast a spotlight on being prepared for any eventuality,” HMIF trustee S. Ganesh Mani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agriculture-minister-inaugurates-oxygen-plant-in-kurinjipadi-gh/article38289956.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jyothi darshan held sans devotees||The annual ‘jyothi darshan’ at Sathya Gnana Sabha (Hall of True Knowledge), founded by Ramalinga Adigalar, popularly known as Vallalar , was held at Vadalur on Tuesday, without the usual congregation of devotees in view of surge in COVID-19 cases.  The entry of devotees was restricted as per the directions of the district administration. Serving of free meal from the very kitchen where Vallalar lit the ever-burning stove for preparing food to the people who suffer due to hunger is a tradition here. The jyothi darshan is considered as a special event by the followers of the Samarasa Sutha Sanmarga Sathya Sangam because it is on that day that all the seven screens of different hues in the Sabha would be removed one after another to reveal the holy light of the lamp kept in the sanctum sanctorum there. The darshan was planned to be held at regular intervals: 6.00 a.m., 10 a.m., 1 p.m., 7 p.m., and 10 p.m. on Tuesday. It will be followed by a darshan at 5.30 a.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jyothi-darshan-held-at-vadalur/article38289587.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Collect your gift hamper’||The district collector has announced the commencement of distribution of Pongal gift hampers to cardholders who had not collected them prior to Pongal. A press release from Collector S. Dhivyadarshini said that eligible cardholders who had not collected their gift hampers consisting of 21 types of grocery items, can do so at the respective fair price outlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collect-your-gift-hamper/article38289697.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thoppayar dam to be opened for irrigation||Thoppayar dam will be opened for irrigation on January 19 to facilitate the second cropping season in two districts. A total of 253.90 cubic feet of water will be released for 55 days starting January 19. A total watershed area of 5,330 acres will be covered in the two districts of Dharmapuri and Salem. This entails coverage of 2,050 acres in Dharmapuri and 3,280 acres in Salem districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoppayar-dam-to-be-opened-for-irrigation/article38289695.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||DYFI criticises Central government||The Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) have criticised the Centre for protecting the interests of private telecom operators at the cost of public telecom operator BSNL. As part of their state-wide agitation, its members staged Save BSNL selfie protest here on Tuesday. It district secretary K.R. Balaji said that the selfies will be posted in social media to impress upon the Centre to take efforts for upgrading BSNL service. While private operators have got licence for 4G service and were getting ready for 5G service, the PSU BSNL was yet to be given licence for 4G service. Recently, the private mobile operators have increased the telecom charges up to Rs. 100 for three-month talk time. People who had migrated to private operators lured by their 4G facility have come back to BSNL for its cheaper tariff, he said. The Centre has not allowed BSNL to expand its network based on its subscribe-base and the BSNL subscribers were facing network issues. DYFI wanted the Centre to stop private operators from swindling the subscribers with higher tariff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dfyi-members-stage-protest/article38289668.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Athikadavu-Avinashi scheme works nearing completion||About 93% works under the Athikadavu–Avinashi Ground Water Recharge and Drinking Water Supply Scheme have been completed and the scheme is expected to be commissioned soon, said Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Swaminathan and Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi here on Tuesday. The Ministers along with Member of Parliament A. Ganeshamurthi, MLAs A.G. Venkatachalam (Anthiyur), and E.R. Eswaran (Tiruchengodu), District Collector H. Krishnanunni, and Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation chairman Kurinji N. Sivakumar inspected the water pumping station established at Kalingarayanpalayam in Mettunasuvampalayam Panchayat in Bhavani. The Ministers said the scheme was implemented at a total cost of Rs. 1,758.88 crore to fill 32 Public Works Department tanks, 42 union tanks and 971 pond’s in the districts of Erode, Tiruppur and Coimbatore and also help in irrigating 24,468 acres. So far, Rs. 1,443.59 crore has been spent on the project. Construction of six water pumping stations is nearing completion. The project proposes to lay high-density polyethylene pipelines for a total length of 798 km, of which 631 km length has been laid. The project proposes to lay mild steel pipelines for 261 km length, of which 208 km have been completed. About 96% works for obtaining right of use for utilising land has been completed and work is under way to provide underground electric cables. The project proposes to divert 1.5 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of surplus water from River Bhavani from the downstream of Kalingarayan anicut by pumping through pipelines and treating it and refilling the water bodies. The foundation for the scheme was laid by former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on February 28, 2019. Larsen and Toubro Limited, Chennai, was given the work order on March 4, 2019. Works began on December 25, 2019 and were scheduled to be completed in two years. But due to COVID-19, work was delayed and is expected to be completed soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/athikadavu-avinashi-scheme-works-nearing-completion/article38289685.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rich tributes paid to Kalingarayan as canal in his name turns 740||Rich tributes were paid to Kongu chieftain Kalingarayan by farmers and villagers in the district as the day marks the completion of construction of Kalingarayan Canal and discharge of water into the canal 740 years ago. The fifth day in the Tamil month of Thai is celebrated as Kalingarayan Day as the construction of the 91.10-km canal that helps in irrigating 15,743 acre in the district was completed in 1283. It took 12 years to construct the canal connecting River Bhavani at Bhavani with River Noyal at Kodumudi. Memorial The State government had constructed a memorial for the chieftain at Kalingarayan anicut in Kalingarayan Palayam in Bhavani and the day is celebrated as a government function. Ministerfor Information and Publicity M.P.Swaminathan and Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi in the presence of Collector H. Krishnanunni, A. Ganeshamurthi, MP, MLAs A.G. Venkatachalam (Anthiyur), E.R. Eswaran (Tiruchengode) and Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation chairman Kurinji N. Sivakumar garlanded the statue of Kalingarayan at Mettunasuvampalayam in Bhavani. Mr. Swaminathan told the media that the chieftain had made inter-linking of rivers possible 740 years ago. “He executed the project when there was no scientific advancement, telecommunication or transportation facility,” he said. Likewise, former AIADMK Ministers K.A. Sengottaiyan and K.C. Karuppannan, former MLAs and MPs, along with functionaries garlanded the statue at Kalingarayan Palayam. In Kalingarayan ayacut areas in Kodumudi block, farmers and villagers performed special puja for the canal and left mulapari pot that contains nine different types of grains, in the canal. Modakkurichi MLA C. Saraswathi took part in the puja held at various villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rich-tributes-paid-to-kalingarayan-as-canal-in-his-name-turns-740/article38289690.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||College students win 12 medals in IndiaSkills competition||Students from the Bannari Amman Institute of Technology in Sathyamangalam have bagged 12 medals in nine different skills at the IndiaSkills national-level competition held in New Delhi recently. Organised by the National Skill Development Corporation, that comes under the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, the competition was conducted at multiple locations in New Delhi from January 7 to 9, adhering to COVID-19 norms. The students of the college won one gold, five silvers, three bronze and three medallions of excellence. Another student of the college who represented his home State Andhra Pradesh won a gold medal. Events were held at Talkatora Indoor Stadium and the closed door events witnessed participants from 26 States and Union Territories competing in more than 50 skills. Winners The gold medal was won by P. SrimannarayanaRaju (Andhra Pradesh) in Additive Manufacturing. Silver medallists were C. Karthi in Electronics, Pragadeeshwaran in Plumbing and Heating, S. Vishnu Priya in Visual Merchandising, P.V. Saraswathy and S. Dhakshayani in Health and Social Care. Bronze medallists were S. Jagan in Prototype Modelling, V. Logesh and K. Ajay Prassath in Landscape Gardening. Medallions of Excellence were received by Kalilur Rahman in AH Plastering and Drywall Systems, L. Shri Hari in Web Technology and K. Ramesh Raja in Mobile Application Development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-students-win-12-medals-in-indiaskills-competition/article38289694.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 777 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Tuesday reported 777 new cases of COVID-19, which took the overall tally to 1,12,283. While 237 persons were discharged after treatment, 3,366 persons were under treatment. One person died of COVID-19 and the district’s toll rose to 716. 532 cases in Salem Salem district reported 532 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 1,06,768. While 215 persons were discharged, 3,187 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 1,733. Namakkal district reported 295 cases, which took the overall tally to 56,698. While 92 persons were discharged, 1,623 persons were under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 371 new cases and Dharmapuri 172 fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-777-new-covid-19-cases/article38289686.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:35 IST,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri Collector chairs meeting on jallikattu||The district administration along with the district coordination committee of the Animal Welfare Board held consultations on the conduct of jallikattu and erudhu vidum vizha at the Krishnagiri Collectorate on Tuesday.  Guidelines According to the administration, only local bulls would be permitted to participate in the events. The organisers have been forbidden from collecting additional entry fee for the cattle. The event should not exceed beyond 3.30 hours and the bulls would not be allowed to run beyond 125 metres. The arena should be double barricaded and the organisers should give in writing to the programme coordinator details of the number of cattle participating in the event. The cattle should be audited by a team from the Animal Husbandry Department.Further, COVID-19 protocols should be strictly adhered to by the organisers and the spectators would be allowed entry only upon production of COVID-19 vaccination proof along with RT- PCR test taken two days prior to the event.Further, the arena should not have more than 150 persons or half of the total capacity of the arena, whichever is lower, as an extension of the COVID-19 physical distancing norms, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishnagiri-collector-chairs-meeting-on-jallikattu/article38289688.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 100-cr. education loans given in Madurai, says MP||Concerted efforts byMP Su. Venkatesan and Madurai district administration, along with bankers, have resulted in distribution of education loans worth Rs. 100 crore in Madurai district for the academic year 2021-22. Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, Mr. Venkatesan said the attempt was to ensure that no eligible student, who had passed out Plus Two, was denied access to higher education for want of financial assistance. “While the national average of education loan has dipped to 54% in view of COVID-19 this year, coordinated efforts by the district administration and bankers have led to doubling of the amount given as education loans in Madurai district,” he said. Mr. Venkatesan said awareness of the education loan mela was created among students of all 357 higher secondary schools in the district and three rounds of review meeting were held with bankers by Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar. The bankers were told that all loan applications rejected would be scrutinised by the district administration. While 100 applications were rejected and they were being scrutinised, Rs. 99.21 crore-worth loans were issued to 1,095 students. As many as 319 applications were under process. Stating that medical and paramedical admissions were yet to begin, Mr. Venkatesan exuded confidence that the total loan amount disbursed would cross Rs. 150 crore this academic year. The Centre gave subsidy on the interest part for the four years of student days for education loans.However, in case of delay in payment of subsidy by the Centre, the banks imposed penalty on the students.“I have appealed to the banks not to impose any penalty on the students for the Centre’s delay,” he said. CPI(M) district secretaries M. Ganesan and K. Rajendran were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-100-cr-education-loans-given-in-madurai-says-mp/article38289879.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Early disbursal of relief sought||A woman, along with her two children, who had lost her COVID-infected daughter Jothika and grandson Rithish recently after five of a family attempted to end their lives, has sought early disbursal of relief for the family living in acute poverty for its survival. The woman, Lakshmi, a widow, and her two teenage sons, gave a petition to Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar, seeking assistance. The woman had lost her husband last month after having spent the family’s life-time earnings for his treatment. After her husband’s death, Jothika, 23, who was deserted by her husband, was taking care of her mother, brothers and her son.Even as the family was struggling to make both ends meet, it was shattered when they learnt that Jothika was infected with COVID. When all the women decided to end their lives and those of the children, one of the boys escaped. While Jothika and her son Rithish died, the other two were saved by neighbours. The early disbursal of funds under COVID relief would help them for their survival, the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-with-two-children-seeks-early-disbursal-of-covid-relief/article38289672.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC modifies life term awarded to man||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has modified the life sentence imposed on a convict by a trial court in Ramanathapuram district, for causing the death of his sister-in-law, to seven years rigorous imprisonment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The court was hearing a criminal appeal filed by S. Ravichandran of Mudukulathur. He was sentenced to life imprisonment by the Principal Sessions Judge, Ramanathapuram. He was convicted for the offence of murdering his sister-in-law. In 2013, he attacked his brother’s wife with a bill hook. She succumbed to injuries. It was said that the two frequently quarrelled with each other. One of the reasons was the death of the man’s cow. He suspected that the cow died because of black magic exercised by her. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran observed that there was no premeditation to murder. The court took into account the postmortem report and said that the injuries were on non vital parts of the body. The court also took note of the fact that during cross examination, the doctor who conducted the postmortem admitted that these injuries would not ordinarily cause the death of a person. Unfortunately, in this case, death occurred due to shock and loss of blood from the injuries. The court placed on record its appreciation to advocate Mahaboob Athiff, the Legal Aid Counsel appointed by the court to represent the appellant Ravichandran after the advocate who was on record to appear for the appellant had reported no instruction. With the modification, the criminal appeal was partly allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-modifies-life-term-awarded-to-man/article38289674.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||High Court ultimatum on compensation||Taking a serious view of the fact that the State had not yet paid compensation to a man from Tirunelveli district after acquiring his land, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that if it was not paid, the official vehicle of the Tirunelveli Collector and other movable properties in the Collector’s office would be attached. Justice P.T. Asha observed it was unfortunate that the orders passed as early as 2018 on the undertaking given by the then government advocate had not been complied with. The court said that the Special Tahsildar, Adi-Dravidar Welfare, Cheranmahadevi in Tirunelveli district was directed to report compliance in 2019. The court was hearing a petition filed in 2012 by K.L. Srinivasan. The court observed that the authorities had taken the court for a joy ride. Despite an assurance given to the court that the amount would be paid, the order has not been complied with. The amount is just Rs. 6.13 lakh, the court said. The hearing was adjourned till January 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-ultimatum-on-damages/article38289875.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Temple festival held without devotees||Thai Poosam festival that attracts thousands of devotees was celebrated without the presence of devotees at Dhandayuthapani Swamy Temple here on Tuesday. The festival on the occasion of Poosam Star of Tamil monthof Thai at the temple, one of the six Abodes of Lord Murugan, draws devotees from various parts of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The devotees after undertaking fast for days walk bare-footed for hours and days and reach the temple, located on hillock, on Thai Poosam day. “In view of COVID restrictions, all the special pujas as per the tradition were conducted without devotees,” said temple Joint Commissioner and Executive Officer, N.Natarajan. The temple has been out of bounds for devotees since Friday. Even the car procession of the presiding deity was held in the inner precincts of the Periyanayagi Amman temple with only temple staff and officials from various departments. However, a good number of devotees, who have come with ‘kavadis,’ have decided to stay back in the town to have a darshan of Lord Dhandayuthapani Swamy when the temple reopens on Wednesday morning. Devotees also found their way to tonsure their heads as part of their vow, away from the temple though it has been banned by the Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments. Meanwhile, despite the ban on devotees to enter the temple due to COVID-19 threat, hundreds of devotees gathered outside Subramaniya Swamy Temple at Tiruppankundram. The devotees, who came on foot from different parts of the district, came around the girivalam streets and offered their prayers by standing outside the temple premises. “All the special pujas and abhishekams were held at the temple as usual without the presence of the devotees,” said the temple Executive Officer (in-charge), Kalaivanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-festival-held-without-devotees/article38289671.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. scrambles to cut spread in the new surge of COVID cases||As COVID-19 cases exponentially increase in the third wave of the pandemic, health officials say the Union Territory is probably hitting peak levels of transmission and that a trend reversal could start as early as in a couple of weeks from now. As 2,093 fresh cases took the active tally past the 10,000 mark, the administration scrambled to contain the spread and cut down transmission risks by suspending physical classes in schools and colleges, reverting to online education till January 31, and capping attendance in government offices to 50%. Data shows that hospitalisation rate in the third wave continues to be minimal and that over 95% of the fresh infections are in home isolation. In the last 24 hours, the cases jumped from 907 to 2,093, and the active cases increased from 8,359 to 10,393. The number of hospital patients changed from 130 to 163, while home isolation numbers went from 8,229 to 10,230 during this period. Inversely related Meanwhile, the test positivity rate (TPR), which has been surging upwards in the past few days, touched a possibly all-time high of 57.44% on Monday. It has, however, dropped to 34% on Tuesday, when the sample pool was enlarged from 1,579 to 6,028. At present, there is an inverse relationship between the sample size and the TPR – the more the sample size, the lower the TPR should be, an official said. The impact of the virus is much less severe this time with symptoms ranging from sore throat, cough and fever, which subsides in three to four days. “Unlike in previous phases, the infection is non-severe and limited to the upper respiratory tract..., there is no lung involvement, as experienced with the Delta variant, and symptoms such as plummeting oxygen saturation levels, shortness of breath or hypoxia are extremely rare”, said G. Sriramulu, Health Director. It is also notable that a substantial proportion of persons who test positive are asymptomatic, warranting a sharpening of testing strategy around contacts of positive cases. Vaccination’s impact Doctors say that the expansion of vaccination coverage may have contributed to fewer hospital admissions and complications from COVID-19. The Union Territory has covered about 85% of its population with some form of vaccine protection. However, an estimated number of one lakh, remain unvaccinated. In its revised guidelines, issued on January 17, for clinical management of adult COVID-19 patients, the Health Ministry advised home isolation care for mild disease (upper respiratory tract symptoms and/or fever without shortness of breath or hypoxia), ward admission for patients with respiratory rate ≥ 24/min, breathlessness or SpO2 90%to ≤93% on room air, and ICU treatment for anyone with respiratory rate >30/min, breathlessness and SpO2<90% on room air. “The situation is quite the opposite of the one during the pandemic’s earlier phases, when the entire health workforce was battling high proportions of hospitalised cases, including ICU admissions, and rendering secondary-level guidance for home isolation patients. With such a large number of patients now in home isolation, we need to reallocate part of the resources from the vaccination drive to strengthen home isolation monitoring to tide over this phase,” a health official said. The calls to round-the-clock war room by patients under home isolation is still in the low range. “We expect the call volumes to go up over the week”, said Duraisamy, who is attached to the Covid War Room. The urging to the public from the administration, which has steadfastly avoided harsh lockdowns and instead opted for graded restrictions, is to fall back on the basics of masking, social distancing, avoiding crowding in public spaces and complying with vaccination schedules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-scrambles-to-cut-spread-in-the-new-surge-of-covid-cases/article38289963.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:49 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Rejection of R-Day tableau sketches shows autocratic mindset of PM’||The rejection of sketches of tableau for the Republic Day celebrations submitted by Opposition ruled States by the Centre has yet again showed the “autocratic and anti-democratic” mindset of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Tuesday. In a virtual statement, he said there was no justification for rejecting the tableau proposals given by Tamil Nadu, Kerala and West Bengal. “It shows the autocratic and anti-democratic attitude of the Prime Minister. The BJP does not believe in federalism,” he claimed. [An expert committee scrutinised the tableau proposals.] According to him, the Centre always harboured a negative attitude towards Opposition-ruled States. The Union government had refused sketches of tableau submitted by the Congress government in Union Territory two years ago, he said. The sketches given by the Tamil Nadu Government depicted the contribution of renowned freedom fighters, including the poet-patriot Subramania Bharati, he said. “The decision of the Centre to reject the sketch also exposed the doublespeak of the Prime Minister. Whenever he visits Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the Prime Minister makes it a point to garland the statue of Mahakavi Bharati and heap praise on his contributions,” he added. On COVID-19 situation in the Union Territory, he said the exponential rise in cases was due to the unregulated New Year celebrations. “When all the Southern States imposed restrictions, Puducherry government alone allowed the celebrations. This led to people from other States coming to Puducherry,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rejection-of-r-day-tableau-sketches-shows-autocratic-mindset-of-pm/article38289958.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||3 COVID-19 deaths in U.T.||The Union Territory recorded three COVID-19 deaths and 2,093 fresh cases as the tally of active cases crossed the 10,000 mark on Tuesday. Puducherry recorded two deaths and Karaikal one, taking the cumulative toll to 1,893. Of these, Puducherry logged 1,476, Karaikal 254, Yanam 109 and Mahe 54. Puducherry accounted for 1,715 of the fresh infections, detected from 6,028 tests, followed by 279 in Karaikal, 54 in Yanam and 45 in Mahe. With 256 recoveries from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 10,393. Of these, 163 were in hospital and 10,230 in home isolation. The test positivity was 34.72%, the case fatality rate 1.35% and the recovery rate 91.27%. The Union Territory has registered an aggregate of 1,40,710 cases and 1,28,424 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 20.99 lakh tests administered to date, over 17.77 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 5,511 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine. The Union Territory has administered a total of 15,03,355 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-deaths-in-ut/article38289646.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Attendance for Group A, B staff in government offices capped at 50%||The government has issued a circular, capping attendance at its offices at 50% as a measure to reduce transmission of COVID-19. In line with the Centre’s guidelines, the territorial administration issued an order directing the government offices and departments to have only 50% of its Group B and Group C staff coming to offices till January 31. In a circular, Under Secretary to Department of Personnel and Administrative Affairs of Puducherry V. Jaishankar said all Group A officers, under secretaries to the government and heads of departments, should attend office at full strength. Departments rendering essential services, the revenue-generating departments, and those involved in implementation of COVID-19 control activities, are not exempted from in-person attendance. Any staff residing in containment zones, are exempted from coming to offices till the zone is denotified by authorities, the circular said.  Any staff residing in containment zones, are exempted from coming to offices till the zone is de-notified by authorities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attendance-for-group-a-b-staff-in-government-offices-capped-at-50/article38289964.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:49 IST,TAMIL NADU||Former MP welcomes SC’s decision||Terming the recent Supreme Court order upholding 27% reservation to the students of Other Backward Classes (OBC) in the All India quota for medical admissions a “milestone,” former Member of Parliament M. Ramadass said the country has to take more steps to ensure social justice and progress. In a statement, he said the Centre should abandon the scheme of “usurping” 50% of medical seats from State governments and creating all India quota in PG medical admissions. The States should be allowed to fill all its seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-mp-welcomes-scs-decision/article38289955.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||MP flays AINRC-led govt. in U.T.||The All India N.R. Congress led-National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in Puducherry has failed to deliver on all fronts, charged Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam on Tuesday. In a statement, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during the Assembly election campaign, highlighted the benefits of having a same government at Centre and Puducherry. But so far, no concrete development has taken place in the Union Territory. “Mr. Modi said a double engine government will be beneficial for the Union Territory. Now, both engines are going in different directions. As a result, no development or welfare schemes have been implemented. People are yet to get Deepavali and Pongal gifts, announced by the government,” he charged. He sought an explanation from the government on the delay in inaugurating the Marie Building. The government has also messed up COVID-19 management. The decision to open the Union Territory for New Year celebrations has led to an alarming rise in the number of cases, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-flays-ainrc-led-govt-in-ut/article38289966.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Physical classes cancelled for Class X and above||The Puducherry Government has decided to stop all physical classes for students of Class X and above, till the end of this month. All students, including those in higher education institutions, would be allowed to attend only online classes from Wednesday, Home Minister A. Namassivayam said on Tuesday. ‘Rise in cases’ Interacting with reporters, he said the decision was taken, considering the rise in number of COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory. For the last one week, only students up to Class IX were attending classes online. Around 65% of the teenagers have been vaccinated against COVID-19. Those left out in the 15-18 age group, would be covered after the resumption of physical classes, Mr. Namassivayam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/physical-classes-cancelled-for-class-x-and-above/article38289967.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||3,030 schools will get new buildings: Minister||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Monday said the State government was fully involved in the task of constructing buildings in 3,030schools in the first phase by demolishing dilapidatedstructures all over Tamil Nadu, as directed by the Chief Minister. Inaugurating 12 additional classrooms at Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Keeranur in Pudukottai district, he said the additional classrooms had been constructed at a cost of Rs. 169. 94 lakh under Integrated School Education Scheme. Mr. Poyyamozhi said ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ scheme was being implemented effectively with a view to reducing the gap in learning for students during the pandemic period. The Chief Minister had announced suspension of classes on campus for students of classes 10 to 12 till January 31keeping in mind the safety of health of the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3030-schools-will-get-new-buildings-minister/article38289585.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Additional DPCs based on farmers’ demand’||Environment Minister Siva. V. Meyyanathan on Tuesday said that additional paddy procurement centres would be opened in the district based on farmers’ demands. A committee had beenformed to monitor the government’s direct purchase centres(DPCs) and its functioning. As per Chief Minister’sinstruction, a total of 69 DPCs had been opened in the first phase in Pudukottai district,he further said after inaugurating paddy procurement centresat Vallathirakottai and Palaiyur in Alangudi taluk in the district. Steps would be taken to enable paddy farmers to register their produce online. This would enable them to sell paddy directly and get benefitted without any intervention of agents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-dpcs-based-on-farmers-demand/article38289653.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Officials come to the rescue of woman||A photograph of a minor girl feeding her mother, suffering from epilepsy, that went viral in social media has drawn the attention of Virudhunagar district administration. The woman, Guru Backiam (38), was deserted by her husband, after she developed chronic seizures. She brought up her two children - a boy and a girl - by taking up some work or other despite her health issues. However, she fell on hot dosa plate while cooking and suffered burn injuries that crippled her movement. While her son Ramesh, 15, chose to be the family’s bread-winner, the daughter, Mahalakshmi, 8, nursed her mother at home in Seithur near here. As the family suffered due to acute poverty, a social activist posted their plight in the social media tagging the Chief Minister, M.K. Stalin. Subsequently, Rajapalayam MLA S.Thangapandian visited Guru Backiam’s house and handed over Rs. 10,000. Collector J. Meghanath Reddy promised all possible assistance to the poor family. Rajapalayam Tahsildar P. Ramachandran said that the Collector had visited the woman with a team of medical officers to provide better treatment to the woman. He gave her a monthly assistance of Rs. 1,000, meant for destitute women, and a ration card for the family. The family also got Rs. 15,000 special assistance from the Collector’s discretionary funds. When the district administration wanted to give her a house under Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board’s project, she wanted a house in close proximity to her place of dwelling. The Collector has promised to give her a free house-site patta and construct a house. The Tahsildar has got ready a gift hamper of groceries worth Rs. 15,000 to the family. The family did not approach any departments seeking any help. However, we have extended all these help to the family,” he added. Sattur Revenue Divisional Officer R. Pushpa was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-come-to-the-rescue-of-destitute-woman/article38289677.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. intensifies containment measures||With COVID-19 active cases crossing 2,800 in the district, the Corporation has intensified containment measures here on Tuesday. On Monday, the district reported 466 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 1,06,236. While 186 persons were discharged, 2,871 persons continue to be under treatment. Also, the positivity rate continues to be over 12.2% in the district. As two-third of the cases continue to be reported in the Corporation limits, officials intensified screening, carried out disinfection measures in public places and in areas where persons were under home isolation. Health officials said that of the total 1,757 oxygen-supported beds in hospitals in the district, 149 were occupied. Of the 1,167 non oxygen-supported beds, 131 were occupied and of the total 580 ICU beds, 68 beds were occupied. Thus, a total of 3,156 beds were available for COVID-19 patients in hospitals in the district as on Tuesday. All the 4,606 beds in the CCC were vacant, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corpn-intensifies-containment-measures/article38289692.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:36 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level drops further at Mettur Dam||Water level at the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur stood at 112.99 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 120 feet on Tuesday. At 8 a.m., the inflow stood at 1,071 cusecs and the discharge was 8,000 cusecs into River Cauvery. The storage was 82.72 tmcft against the full capacity of 93.47 tmcft. Bhavanisagar dam Water level at the Bhavanisagar dam in Erode district stood at 100.01 feet against the FRL of 105 feet. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 871 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project canal, 700 cusecs into Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs into River Bhavani for drinking water purpose. The storage was 28.73 tmcft against the capacity of 32.80 tmcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-drops-further-at-mettur-dam/article38289696.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Sevvai’ pongal festival celebrated||‘Sevvai’ Pongal festival of the Nagarathars, the business community of Nattarasankottai, was celebrated on Tuesday. The local people, who have settled in various countries, come here without fail for this mega festival of making Pongal at Kannudaya Nayagi Amman temple on the first Tuesday (Sevvai) of the Tamil month of Thai. Pongal was made in over 900 pots. One of the families is selected through draw of lots to make the first pongal in a mud pot and giving the first respect by the community. The festival also is not only an occasion for the relatives from far and near to interact but also to finalise marriage proposals. The festival attracts foreign tourists every year. However, no foreign tourist was present due to the COVID restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sevvai-pongal-festival-celebrated/article38289680.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:29 IST,TAMIL NADU||One killed in manju virattu near Sivaganga||One person was killed and scores were injured in the traditional manju virattu held without police permission at Kandipatti near here on Tuesday.  Even as the Minister for Rural Development K.R. Periyakaruppan, along with Collector P. Madhusudhanan and Superintendent of Police Senthil Kumar, inaugurated a jallikattu event, local farmers unleashed hundreds of bulls in the nearby open space for the manju virattu.  Hundreds of people witnessed the traditional event, which was free for all without any safety regulation. The bulls ran into crowds from all directions and those who were caught unawares were injured while others managed to escape, a police officer said. Despite the attempts by the district administration and the police to prevent the event by seeking cooperation from the villagers and putting up check posts in 12 places, the villagers managed to bring their bulls to the ground through irrigation tanks. A. Malaisamy, 52, of Paganeri, was killed after he was gored by a bull. He died at the Government Medical College Hospital in Sivaganga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-killed-in-manju-virattu-near-sivaganga/article38289660.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three held with bombs||Three persons were nabbed with a bag containing nine country-made bombs near Watrap on Tuesday. According to the police, a team from Forest Department, led by Forester, K. Bharathi, found three persons near Arjunapuram Odai on W.Pudupatti to Moolakadu road. Upon noticing the forest team, they tried to flee from the scene with one of them carrying a bag. The team chased and apprehended them. When the team found nine country-made bombs, they handed them over to the police. The police identified them as Pushparaj (22), Chinnamani (20) and Sarathkumar (21) of W. Pudupatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-with-bombs/article38289678.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:29 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers launch rally against Mekedatu dam project||The Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam on Tuesday launched a rally from Tiruvarur to Mekedatu with a clarion call to political parties of the State to oppose tooth and nail the Karnataka move to build a dam across the Cauvery river at Mekedatu. The “rally for justice” called upon the Centre to withdraw the permission given to Karnataka for preparation of detailed project report for construction of dam at Mekedatu and grant permission to Tamil Nadu for construction of a dam across the river at Rasimanal. The rally was also in protest against the Karnataka Congress’ now suspended Mekedatu padayatra and to press the Centre to ensure that Cauvery Water Management Authority functioned with autonomy. Participating in a motorcade rally, farmers of the delta exhorted the political parties in the State to come together to save the rights of Tamil Nadu farmers over the Cauvery river water. Alleging that the construction of a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu would spell doom for agricultural operations in Tamil Nadu, they urged the Central government to ensure that the project was shelved by the upper riparian State. They warned the Congress that its aspirations would be ruined in Tamil Nadu if the party high command failed to convince its Karnataka unit to stop pressing for the execution of the Mekedatu project. Leading the rally, P.R.Pandian, general secretary of the association, alleged that the Karnataka units of both the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party were hand in glove in promoting the Mekedatu project. After passing through Thanjavur, Tiruchi, Namakkal and Salem, the rallyists are scheduled to head to Mekedatu from Hosur on Wednesday, where they planned to lay seige to the proposed site for the construction of the dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-launch-rally-against-mekedatu-dam-project/article38289658.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thirukalyanam at temple to be performed twice this year||The Kalyanapuram Srinivasaperumal Thirukalyanosthava Committee has decided to conduct the celestial wedding of Goddess Alarmelmangai with Sri Srinivasa Perumal at Kalyanapuram twice this year due to the pandemic situation.  According to committee sources, it was earlier planned to hold the 81st varshika thirukalyana mahotsavam from January 29 to February 5 with the main event of thirukalyanam on thai sravanam star which falls on February 1.   However, in view of the rise in COVID-19 cases and restrictions imposed by the State government, the committee has decided to reschedule the mahotsavam events to February-end with januvasam on February 27 and thirukalyanam on February 28.   At the same time, it does not want to skip the celestial marriage event being conducted on thai sravanam star for the last eight decades. Hence, the thirukalyanam event will be held as a one-day event on February 1 with the participation restricted to ‘kainkaryaparars (priests and assistant priests), trustees and committee members.   Regular events such as one-day laksharchana and januvasam prior to the celestial wedding and aupasanam rituals and music events will be held from the last week of February. The celestial wedding will once again be conducted on the maasi sravanam, which falls on February 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thirukalyanam-at-temple-to-be-performed-twice-this-year/article38289652.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:29 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thai Poosam festival: devotees offer prayers before temple gates||Devotees, who observed vows in connection with Thai Poosam, offered prayers on their completion before the closed doors of Swaminathaswamy Temple at Swamimalai.  The devotees, who eagerly arrived at Swamimalai on Tuesday morning, presuming that the temple would be open, were disappointed on seeing the locked gates.  “We are perplexed by the functioning of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department,” said Sundaram, a local resident running a puja article shop near the temple.   “While it stood firm on keeping Murugan temples such as Swamimalai temple out of reach of devotees on Thai Poosam , it allowed thiruvoodal at Arunachaleswarar temple in Tiruvannamalai, the float festival at Kapaleeswarar temple at Mylapore in Chennai and the wooden car festival at Thiruvidaimaruthur in Thanjavur district,” he added.  However, the devotees offered prayers before the closed iron gates of the temple by lighting lamps and breaking coconuts.  Meanwhile, the rituals and procession of deities in connection with Thai Poosam took place within the temple premises . The Holy Flag was hoisted on January 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thai-poosam-festival-devotees-offer-prayers-before-temple-gates/article38289665.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Thai Poosam’ festival held without devotees||The ‘Thai Poosam’ festival of Lord Subramaniya Swami Temple, which would usually draw thousands of devotees from various parts of Tamil Nadu, was held here on Tuesday without devotees due to the COVID-19 restrictions. The devotees, who had come to this coastal holy town on ‘padayatra’ to offer prayers on this special occasion, had to offer prayers from the beach or from a distance from the shrine. Since the COVID-19-related restrictions were imposed from January 14 to 18 and the devotees were prevented from entering the temple during these days, thousands of devotees, who had come on ‘padayatra’, were not allowed to enter the temple where the ‘Thai Poosam’ rituals were performed as usual. Even as the temple premises wore a deserted look, the devotees offered prayers from north check-post, Thoondugai Vinayagar Temple and from the beach. On Tuesday, the devotees, who are still coming from other districts on ‘padayatra’ and staying in the lodges here, will be allowed to enter the temple on Wednesday to offer prayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thai-poosam-festival-held-in-tiruchendur-without-devotees/article38289591.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||After a hiatus, flex board culture creeps back into Tiruchi||After a gap of a few months, the practice of erecting flex boards and hoardings has returned to the city. Acting on a batch of public interest litigation petitions in December 2018, the Madras High Court had restrained political parties and public forums from erecting digital banners or placards on either side of arterial roads, platforms, walkways and any other road throughout the State. The order was passed on the ground that the publicity materials tend to divert the attention of the road users thereby causing accidents. Except on a few occasions, almost all political parties, including the AIADMK, which was the ruling party then, and the DMK adhered to the order. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, shortly after assuming office in May 2021, directed his party men to refrain from the practice. He discouraged party men from erecting banners to welcome him. When he visited Tiruchi for an official function recently, he ensured that none of his party men displayed digital banners. However, the practice has once returned to the city with the cadre of a few political parties putting up banners and festoons. Though the cadre of many parties indulge in the practice here and there, it is alleged that the rank and file of the DMK has taken a lead in erecting flex boards. With the elections to urban local bodies are round the corner, it is said that the district and ward level functionaries of the DMK mainly resort to the practice to gain attention of K.N. Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, and Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Minister for School Education, so as to secure the party’s nomination to the ward member posts. There are complaints that the party men fix lengthy flexes on the walls of private and public buildings without permission. They remain there for several weeks, leading to criticism by cadre of other political parties, who claim that they cannot find space even to put up posters. Similarly, the party men also prefer to erect banners, featuring their leaders, for functions such as marriage, house warming, ear boring, birthdays and other social gatherings. Erection of flex boards on pathways and platforms is causing concern to road users, walkers and motorists. Some of them pose danger to pedestrians. A large number of flex boards were erected by a DMK functionary on Tiruchi-Dindigul Road at Karumandapam for a family function on Monday. “It is a matter of serious concern as we often tend to get distracted by noticing flex boards on the roadside. Law enforcers do not seem to bother to check the menace,” said M. Jayakumar, a resident of Karumandapam. When contacted, Collector S. Sivarasu said he had received a few complaints on erection of flex boards in public places. He would soon convene a meeting with the officials concerned. Action would be taken against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-a-hiatus-flex-board-culture-creeps-back-into-tiruchi/article38289656.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mentally ill inmates reunited with family after counselling, medical treatment||The Shelter For Homeless Mentally Ill at Teppakulam, a facility of the City Corporation that is being run by NGOs, has been witnessing reunion of inmates with family members at periodic intervals, with active involvement of the Police Department. So far since April last year, the Home run by Anbalayam in colloboration with the City Corporation, Chennai-based Banyan and Sowmansya Hospital has been able to reunite five inmates with their family members after proper medical treatment. Doctors from Sowmansya Hospital, Gopalakrishnan and Aruthra visit the Shelter every week to monitor the progress of the medical treatment. The latest inmate to be reunited with family members was Vijayamma of Warangal district in Telangana State. On Tuesday, Vijayamma had a tearful reunion with her family member who was traced by social workers at the Shelter by reaching out to Jangaon police, based on the information gathered from the inmate herself after months of treatment. Vijayamma had been under psychiatric counselling and medical treatment since June last year when she was rescued from Tiruverumbur area. "The inmates show signs of recovery after treatment and counselling and start giving indications of their family and home. Based on the information, we reach out to the nearest police station and trace the family members," Sakthivel, Psychiatric Social Worker at the Shelter said. The City Corporation meets the recurring expenditure towards food and overheads. The Shelter also receives support from donors to look after the inmates. There are, at present, 18 inmates consisting of five women and 13 men, in the age group of 18 to 60 years. The Shelter has a capacity to accommodate 50 inmates. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, an isolation ward has been created with 10 beds. The newly rescued homeless mentally ill people are being integrated with the others after tests to rule out COVID-19 infection. The first person to be reunited with family was a 45-year-old man from Vishakapatnam. Two among the five inmates who were restored to the family fold were from within the district, belonging to Manikandam and Thuraiyur. The other person to be reunited with family was a man in his mid-forties belonging to Bengaluru. The family reunion was being followed up with monitoring of the health of the inmates with the help of partnering entities at local level, Mr. Sakthivel said. Those showing strong signs of recovery were engaged for running errands. An inmate was keen on gardening work and another was performing the role of watchman, Mr. Sakthivel, who undertakes capacity training said. Yet another inmate recovered even to the extent of going out to work in a restaurant in Tiruvanaikovil, he said. T.K.S. Senthilkumar, Anbalayam Founder, said a proposal had been mooted for start of a Free Legal Aid-cum-Counselling Centre for Homeless People at the facility. Counselling for homeless people, whether or not they suffer from mental illness, is a felt need, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mentally-ill-inmates-reunited-with-family-after-counselling-medical-treatment/article38290013.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:29 IST,TAMIL NADU||Passengers suffer as Karur buses skip Chathiram Bus Stand||Passengers travelling by mofussil buses on Tiruchi-Karur route are still put to much hardship as the buses continue to avoid going via Chathiram Bus Stand, even after the reopening of the satellite bus terminus. For over two years, mofussil buses going to Karur, Erode, Tiruppur and Coimbatore from Tiruchi skipped Chathiram Bus Stand as it remained closed for renovation. They picked and dropped passengers at the temporary bus halts on Karur Highway, on both direction. Although the bus stand was reopened after renovation, which was taken up under the Smart Cities Mission, a few weeks ago, the buses operating on the routes do not go via the bus stand. The location of the temporary bus halt immediately after the descent of the road overbridge on Karur Bypass Road has also compounded the woes of motorists as the bus crew halt their vehicles haphazardly, blocking traffic coming behind. In the recent years, Karur Bypass Road, connecting Salai Road and Tiruchi-Karur Highway, has emerged as one of the arterial roads in the city. It has also emerged as an important entry route for vehicles coming from the northern and western districts of the State. Mofussil buses and other vehicles from these districts enter the city via this road at the traffic intersection near Kalaignar Arivalyam. Severe traffic congestion witnessed at this junction is aggravated by the halting of the buses at the temporary stop. “Hundreds of passengers undergo much hardship every day as they have to trek to and from the temporary bus halts. Some autorickshaw drivers fleece passengers for the short trip to the bus stand from the temporary bus halt,” said P. Ayyarappan, district president, Road Users Welfare Association. The association has submitted a representation to the district administration. “The petition has been forwarded to the Transport authorities, who say that they are ready to concede the demand if the police clear the same. We plan to meet the traffic police officials soon,” Mr. Ayyarappan said. “Senior citizens, women and persons with disabilities face much difficulty; the temporary bus halts are unsafe during nights and early hours. There is adequate space for providing halts for theses buses after the renovation of the Chathiram Bus Stand,” said N. Ramakrishnan, another civic activist. The police should keep the area around the bus stand free of encroachments and regulate vendors, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passengers-suffer-as-karur-buses-skip-chathiram-bus-stand/article38289664.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campaign for cloth bags gets under way||Non-governmental organisations, Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam and Thanneer, began the New Year with an eco-awareness campaign to promote the use of cloth bags here. Titled ‘Illam Thedi Thunippai’ (Cotton bag at your doorstep), the campaign was launched with distribution of bags ahead of Pongal at Ponmalai Railway Ground in Melakalkandar Kottai. The campaigners advised consumers to consciously opt for cloth bags while going shopping, and keep them handy in their vehicles as well. While buying fresh meat, fish and poultry, use reusable vessels for storage, they said. In a press statement, K.C. Neelamegham, state advisor of Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam, said, “It is essential for us to move away from disposable plastic bags and adopt cloth bags in order to protect the environment and keep the world safe for future generations. Grown-ups should set an example by taking this up seriously.” ‘Illam Thedi Thunippai’ is expected to be launched in homes, playgrounds, educational institutions soon. Besides Mr. Neelamegham, the launch ceremony was attended by Samy Self-Defence Group director T. Jeevanantham and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaign-for-cloth-bags-gets-under-way/article38289648.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Holy gifts sent from Srirangam temple||Holy gifts were sent from Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple to Mariamman Temple at Samayapuram in connection with Thai Poosam on Tuesday.   The holy gifts, including flowers, bangles, kum kum , fruits and a holy silk saree, were earlier kept on display at Sri Renga Vilas mandapam inside the Srirangam temple and thereafter taken to Samayapuram.  Srirangam temple Joint Commissioner S. Marimuthu, who was accompanied by a priest and temple officials, handed over the holy gifts to the Samayapuram temple authorities in the evening.  It has been a tradition to send holy gifts from Srirangam Ranganathaswamy temple to the Samayapuram temple on Thai Poosam every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holy-gifts-sent-from-srirangam-to-samayapuram-mariamman-temple/article38289650.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||9,734 mask rule violators booked in Tiruchi city since January 6||Tiruchi City Police have initiated action against those found not wearing masks in public places by booking cases and slapping fines against them. Since imposition of night curfew on January 6, they have booked cases against 9,734 persons for not wearing masks in public places and the fine collected from the violators stands at Rs. 19.46 lakh. In addition to this, the police personnel have also realisedaround Rs. 21 lakh as fine from those who did not adhere to the personal distancing norm and shopkeepers who kept their outlets open during night curfew. According to a press release issued here on Tuesday, distribution of essential goods such as milk went on as usual during the complete lockdown on Sunday. Hospitals and pharmacies also functioned. Vehicle checks Vehicle checks were intensified at the eight check-posts falling within the city limits and at other vantage points to ensure that the general public adhered to the State government’s safiety nstructions. Cases were booked against those who ventured out without any genuine reason and were found wandering. Penalty was levied on each violator. Simultaneously, the police personnel created awareness of the need to wear masks while venturing out and ensuring personal distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/9734-mask-violators-booked-since-january-6/article38289651.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Concern for students||Closure of schools for classes 10 to Plus Two by the State government as a protective measure against COVID-19 appears to be not to the liking of a section of teachers and school heads. The closure has come at a time when the schools are about to begin the revision exam for students of these classes. Speculation is rife that postponement of the State Higher Secondary Certificate Examination is a likely outcome of the closure of the schools. “Since portions have been reduced to the extent of 35%, all chapters have been completed. However, the current break will be detrimental to students,” according to a senior government school teacher. “Students who perform well will utilise the time well at home. The same cannot be said of the average and below averge students who need to be monitored on a daily basis,” a headmaster points out. As for private schools, the teachers engage the students online, but the level of seriousness in the midst of distractions such as Pongal is not up to the desired level, according to many. “The idea of the government is to prevent crowding and emergence of clusters. But then, the teachers in private schools are also required to complete the omitted portions since the students have to be simultaneously prepared for NEET and other screening tests for pursuing professional programmes,” adds another school head.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-for-students/article38290014.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:29 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,600 cases, three deaths in central region||The central districts on Tuesday reported 1,661 fresh COVID-19 cases. Three deaths, all from Tiruchi district, were recorded in the region, according to a bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Tiruchi and Thanjavur continued to report high numbers of cases, though the former saw a minor dip on Tuesday. According to the bulletin, 471 cases were reported in Tiruchi on Tuesday (down from 495 on Monday), while Thanjavur reported a spike at 453 cases over Monday’s tally of 409. Among the other districts, Tiruvarur reported 142 cases, while Karur had 137 cases. Mayiladuthurai saw a significant rise in numbers at 133 cases on Tuesday (from 65 the previous day). In Nagapattinam, 113 positive cases were reported on Tuesday, up from 71 on Monday. Eighty-nine persons tested positive in Pudukottai, while 69 fresh cases were reported in Perambalur. Ariyalur district recorded the lowest in the region with 54 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1600-cases-three-deaths-in-central-region/article38289662.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Complete Smart City works in time’||Shiv Das Meena, Secretary, Municipal Administration and Water Supply, and P. Ponniah, Director of Municipal Administration, inspected the ongoing development works being implemented in the city under the ‘Smart City’ Programme on Tuesday. They inspected the ongoing ‘Smart City’ projects in Palayamkottai, Thatchanallur and Tirunelveli Zones. After inspecting ongoing renovation of VOC Stadium being done at a cost of Rs. 14.95 crore, they reviewed the execution of Ariyanayagiupuram Drinking Water Scheme project at Kokkirakulam. When they visited the Tirunelveli Junction bus-stand being reconstructed at a cost of Rs. 85.56 crore, Mr. Meena asked the officials to complete the project at the earliest. He inspected the underground drainage programme being implemented in Tirunelveli Junction and Thatchanallur areas. After inspecting the Nainarkulam where the irrigation tank’s bund is being strengthened and beautified with walkers’ path, lighting etc., the officials visited garbage yard at Ramaiyanpatti where the the degradable waste is being converted into manure. “All ongoing projects under the ‘Smart City’ programme should be completed within the stipulated deadline while ensuring superior quality,” Mr. Meena said. Collector V. Vishnu, Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran, City Health Officer Rajendran and City Engineer (in-charge) Narayanan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complete-smart-city-works-in-time/article38289989.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fabrication of reactor, steam generators commences for Kudankulam Unit 6||The fabrication of the reactor and steam generators for Unit 6 of the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project, being executed with Russian technical knowhow, has commenced in Volgodonsk. Russia’s Rosatom – Atomenergomash has already constructed 2x1,000 MWe VVER reactors at Kudankulam, and is building four more reactors with similar capacity at the upcoming nuclear park for the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL). The fabrication of the reactor and steam generators for Unit 6 is being carried out by Atommash, AEM-Technologies, a machine-building division of Rosatom. As the reactor and steam generator shells have passed the incoming inspection, the components are at the initial operations of the manufacturing cycle. Preliminary work for anti-corrosive overlay is being carried out on the flange and bottom of the reactor. At the welding unit, protective overlay is applied on the bodies of the primary circuit collector of the steam generator, an official statement said. Within the frames of the contract for the fifth and sixth power units of the KKNPP, JSC AEM-Technologies will manufacture and supply two nuclear reactors with internals and an upper block of the VVER-1000 type, two sets of steam generators, reactor coolant pump set bodies, main circulation piping, emergency core cooling system tanks, passive core flooding system tanks and two pressurisers. The total weight of these components will be about 6,000 tonnes.Since the reactor, an item of the first safety class, has a vertical cylindrical body with an elliptical bottom, it is hermetically sealed from above with a cover, with drives of mechanisms and control and protection bodies installed on it and nozzles for the output of cables of sensors for in-core monitoring. The steam generator, a heat exchanger and a part of a steam generating unit with a diameter of more than 4 m and a length of 14 m, weighs 340 tonnes. The reactor will have four steam generators to ensure unhindered power generation.  Russia’s Rosatom – Atomenergomash has already constructed 2x1,000 MWe VVER reactors at Kudankulam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fabrication-of-reactor-steam-generators-commences-for-kudankulam-unit-6/article38289555.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Knit cloth manufacturers condemn yarn price hike||Members of Knit Cloth Manufacturers Association (KNITCMA) staged a demonstration outside Tiruppur railway station on Tuesday condemning the hike in yarn and cotton prices and demanding its reduction. According to Tiruppur city police, around 70 members participated in the demonstration, which was held from 10.15 a.m. to 10.45 a.m.. KNITCMA president Ahill S. Rathinasamy told mediapersons that it was the responsibility of the Central government to ensure that there was no shortage of raw materials. It must “respect the sentiments” of the knitwear industry in Tiruppur. He demanded the Central government to control the prices, immediately stop the export of yarn to other countries and reduce the import duty on cotton. Mr. Rathinasamy also urged the State government to form Tamil Nadu Cotton Corporation from which all mills in the State could directly procure cotton. The demonstration was held amidst the two-day strike announced by the garment exporting units of Tiruppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/knit-cloth-manufacturers-condemn-yarn-price-hike/article38289605.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur Corporation to intensify testing||Tiruppur Corporation will intensify testing and increase the number of fever camps in the coming days, an official said on Tuesday. The Corporation has been reporting around 180 to 190 new cases every day for the past few days, he said. However, over 90% of the new cases were in home isolation and only around 5% of the patients required hospitalisation. As many employees working in the garment and knitwear units and other industries of Tiruppur left to their hometowns for Pongal holidays, the number of swab samples lifted within the Corporation limits had decreased to 800 to 1,000 samples. The Corporation will soon increase the number of swab samples collected per day to over 1,400 samples and would increase further depending on the spread of COVID-19, according to the official. Screening of rail passengers, particularly migrant workers from other States, will be intensified at the Tiruppur Railway Station. While two fever camps are being held in each of the four Zones of Tiruppur Corporation at present, the number of camps will be increased soon for improved tracing of cases, he said. A total of four triage centres – one for each Zone – have already been set up to guide those with symptoms and the personnel at these centres monitor those in home isolation, the official said. Regarding vaccination for those aged 18 years and above, the official said around 65% of the city’s population have been fully vaccinated with both the doses, while nearly 90% have taken at least the first dose. The vaccination drive for all eligible public will continue at the 17 urban primary health centres, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-corporation-to-intensify-testing/article38289610.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Five held for stealing in temples||The Gudimangalam police on Tuesday arrested five persons, including two minor, boys on charges of stealing jewellery and cash from two temples in Udumalpet and Gudimangalam in Tiruppur district. The police said that on January 16, the gang broke into the temple in Udumalpet and stole gold jewellery worth Rs. 15,000, following which they stole cash Rs. 2,200 from another temple in Gudimangalam. The police arrested Moorthy (23), Sathyamoorthy (37) and Velan (19) and remanded them in judicial custody and sent the two boys, to Juvenile Observation Home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-for-stealing-in-temples/article38289602.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for social media post||The Cheyur police on Sunday booked a 39-year-old man on charges of posting derogatory messages against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on social media platforms. Based on a complaint from the local functionaries of the BJP and DMK the police booked him under section 505(2) (Statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code and section 67 (Punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act. Investigations revealed that the accused was mentally unstable and he was not arrested, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-booked-for-social-media-post/article38289596.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur briefly||Tiruppur Corporation has invited applications from eligible candidates for temporary medical specialists in three urban primary health centres. A release said that candidates specialising in general medicine, obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics, ophthalmology, other fields such as ENT and dermatology, ortho and psychiatry can apply. The temporary specialists will be hired based on minimum remuneration of Rs. 2,000 per patient and maximum of Rs. 3,000 per patient, the release said. Those interested shall visit the National Urban Health Mission centre at the Tiruppur Corporation headquarters on Mangalam Road. The last date for submitting applications is January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-briefly/article38289611.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. yet to draw up policies to regulate cattle grazing in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve||Three months since the capture of MDT23, a tiger believed to have been responsible for the deaths of at least two cattle grazers in Gudalur and the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), the Forest Department is yet to come up with policies to regulate grazing in the core and buffer areas of the reserve. Over the last two years, three cattle herders have been killed in problematic interactions with tigers in the MTR. While the department has tolerated cattle grazing in the MTR buffer zone by local communities, recent reports from local residents living in the reserve indicate that people are also being allowed to graze their cattle in parts of the core area. Local conservationists have for many years voiced concerns that allowing cattle grazing in tiger habitats could lead to a host of problems. “Cattle grazing could lead to an increase in problematic human-animal interactions, retaliation from people when their animals get preyed on by carnivores, spread of diseases such as foot and mouth disease and also competition for food to wildlife such as gaur, spotted deer and other herbivores,” said a conservationist from the Nilgiris. However, another Nilgiris-based conservationist N.Mohanraj said, though cattle-grazing needed to be controlled within the reserve, recent studies suggestd that a regulated amount of grazing could be beneficial to the health of forest ecosystems and tiger reserves. “Some amount of grazing by cattle clears areas which can be used by other herbivores and prevents build-up of thick vegetation which will hinder their movement. However, there has to be a scientific approach to understanding the amount of grazing that can be allowed in the tiger reserve, and also how this can be allowed safely to prevent other issues from arising, such as problematic interactions between carnivores and humans,” he added. When contacted, D. Venkatesh, Field Director of MTR, said the Forest Department was studying the issue to come up with solutions. “We are identifying the villages in the reserve that own large amounts of cattle and are trying to figure out whether Eco-Development Committees can be set up to provide alternative livelihoods to the grazers and gradually minimise grazing within the reserve,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-yet-to-draw-up-policies-to-regulate-cattle-grazing-in-mudumalai-tiger-reserve/article38289593.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 240 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 54,514 with 240 new cases reported on Tuesday.While a total of 51,183 patients have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 2,181. The district’s death toll is 1,150.In Ranipet district, 282 caseswere reported and the total stood at 47,187. In Tirupattur district, 173caseswere reported on Tuesday and the total number of positive cases stood at 31,047.In Tiruvannamalai, 359 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 58,180. Of them, 55,329 have been discharged, and the number of active cases stands at 2,175.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-240-fresh-cases/article38289992.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Remembering a tall leader||There was a time when the word ‘cancer’ meant only death in the public mind. This perception in the later years was changed by the work of Dr.V. Shanta, who came under the influence of legends S. Krishnamurthi and his mother Muthulakshmi Reddy, a visionary dedicated to social service and reforms. The three legendary figures were instrumental in the birth of Cancer Institute, a banyan tree of shelter and hope. Dr. Shanta moved into the campus of the Cancer Institute in 1955 and made this her home until her last days in January 2021. She was simple all through her life and followed the Gandhian lifestyle. She was a multifaceted personality, a disciplinarian, starting her work at 7 a.m., and was on call 24x7 for the care of patients, à la Florence Nightingale. She was a shelter of hope to those patients coming from far and wide at odd hours knocking on the gates of the Institute seeking care and support. As an educationalist, she introduced various courses in oncology to train the next generation. A strategist to parley with the government for waiving the costly custom duties on drugs/instruments/equipment to reduce the financial burden on patients, for the introduction of railway concession for cancer patients and their families to commute to the Institute frequently for treatment and follow-ups. On the whole, she was a visionary, along with Dr. Krishnamurthi, who transformed a 12-bed facility into a 650-bed hospital with other ancillaries to make it a comprehensive cancer centre of national and international repute.  She lived true to the quote in the Bhagavad Gita , “Service above self is service to God, action is thy duty, and fruit is not thy concern”. Dr. Shanta might not be with us today, but her mission and crusade against cancer will continue. She contributed much to public service and cancer care and was a true Bharat Ratna.  The Government of India should take note of this exemplary work and honour her with the highest national award posthumously. We pledge to follow in her footsteps to bring many more laurels to the Institute on her first death anniversary. Men may come, and men may go, but some remain immortal by their deeds. (The author is Director (Emeritus), Cancer Institute, Adyar)  ( For the entire article, see https://bit.ly/DrShanta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remembering-a-tall-leader/article38289579.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:29 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dancing with care||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dancing-with-care/article38289444.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||19-01-2022-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA ANUSHAM ARTS ACADEMY- 98841 90454 Today R.R.Sabha Hall-2, Mylapore. 3.00 pm 'Soulful Strings' by Vignesh Shankar- Guitar, Madurai T.Kishore- Violin, Madipakkam P.Suresh - Mridangam, N.Rajaraman- Ghatam. B/N 4.30 pm A. Sri Sanjana Guru Tapas Mahalakshmi, 5.45 pm Akshitha Rajesh Guru Bhuvaneswari Vaidyanathan, 7.15 pm Manasvini Kannan Guru Gayathri Sasidaran. All are Welcome. https://livewebcast.in/anusham Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha (Regd) Vani Mahal. Ph 28152166 Vanimahal@gmail.com 42nd ISAI, IYAL, NATAKA VIZHA 2021-2022 32ND BHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 42nd ISAI, IYAL, NATAKA VIZHA 2021-2022 at Sri Chandrasekarendra Saraswathi Mahaswami Auditorium (Dedicated to the memory of Sri P.Obul Reddy &Smt. P.Gnanamba). Today: 02.00p.m Sri. U.Jaya Vigneshwar (Mandolin), Ms. Shree Lakshmi Bhat (Violin) Sri. Ambur Padmanabhan (Mrudangam). 04.00 p.m Smt. Jayasri Vaidyanathan (Vocal), Karaikkal Sri. S. Venakatasubramanian - Violin, Sri. M.S. Venakatasubramanian (Mrudangam), Sri. S. Sunil Kumar (Kanjira ) ALL ARE WELCOME. 06.30p.m. Scheduled Dance Program by Sri. V.P. Dhananjayan has been cancelled. Tomorrow: 6.30 pm Sri. K. Bharat Sundar (Vocal). (Note: Scheduled program by Malladi Brothers Sri. Sriram Prasad & Sri. Ravi Kumar (Vocal) has been cancelled) FESTIVAL MAIN SPONSORS: Rajalakshmi Institutions, Nippo Indo National Limited, Sri. P. Obul Reddy & Smt. P. Gnanambal Trust, MGM Health Care, SBI, Indian Bank, Bank of Baroda, Ministry of Culture New Delhi, Arun Excello -Ziva, Bhaggyam Constructions, Shriram Capital Ltd, Textan, Sastra, Union Bank of India, Bank of Maharastra, Thejus, Indusind Bank, JB Cultural Foundation, GRT Jewellers, DBL Medias, Canara Bank, The Federal Bank, Karur Vysya Bank Ltd., Bank of India, Sundaram Finance Ltd, Catholic Syrian Bank. 32ND BHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 at Sri P. Obul Reddy Hall Today 04.00 pm Bharathanatyam by Ms. K. Vaishnavi Lakshmi and Ms. Krishnapriya Padmanaban Guru: Smt. S. Divyasena 06.30 pm Bharathanatyam by Ms. Visagavarshini Samynathan and Ms. Rohini Ram Guru : Smt. Rajeshwarri Santhanakrishnan. Tomorrow: 04.00 pm Bharathanatyam by Ms. Yogitha. P & Ms. Ranjani V Guru: Smt. Padmapriya Manikantan. 06.30 pm Bharathanatyam by Ms. S. Nandhika & Ms. B. Kaviya Guru: Smt. Bhavani D. Entry as per Govt. SOP Guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-01-2022-city-cinema/article38289574.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pralhad Joshi seeks relaxation of weekend curfew rules in State||Union Minister Pralhad Joshi believes there is no need for a weekend curfew as it is adversely impacting the economy. “It is true that we need tough rules to handle COVID-19, but we need to focus on the economy too. The present restrictions could be relaxed to improve the economy. This is my personal opinion. I have shared them with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai,” he said during the launch of vaccination for teenagers in Hubballi on January 18. “Economic activities should continue, even as as vaccination is being taken up on a large scale and medical infrastructure is being upgraded. It is clear that there is no need for any lockdown. At the same time, weekend curfew rules should be relaxed,” he told journalists. Meetings to discuss future steps to control the pandemic will be held in Bengaluru on January 20 and 21. “Let the government decide on the issue after taking into consideration all factors,” he said. “While the government should relax weekend curfew rules to facilitate economic activities, people should adhere to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour,” he said. “In 2020, a complete lockdown was necessary as the medical infrastructure was inadequate, and vaccines were yet to arrive. Now, there is no need for a total lockdown. We have improved medical facilities and our vaccination figures are 10 times those of some other countries. The Centre has asked States to have micro-containment zones where the number of cases is high. States should focus on tracing and tracking,” the Minister said. In agreement C.T. Ravi, BJP national general secretary, echoed similar sentiments. Mr. Ravi who is visiting towns in the poll-bound state of Goa, said on Tuesday that he preferred stricter rules to lockdowns and curfews. He was speaking to journalists in Dabolim in Goa. “I do not think there is any need for lockdowns or weekend curfews. It is true that we need to take precautions to stop the spread of the infection. However, experts have shown that the impact of the virus in the third wave is milder than earlier waves. Most affected persons are non symptomatic or have mild symptoms. Most are getting treated at home and only a few are in hospitals. We should realise that lockdowns and curfews cripple the economy badly and affect the lives of the poor most. The lives of the people are important and so are their livelihoods. People are slowly recovering from the effects of the previous lockdowns and curfews. Why should they undergo hardship again?. Let the State impose stern rules but not curfews,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pralhad-joshi-seeks-relaxation-of-weekend-curfew-rules-in-state/article38289710.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:34 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Centre did not reject Kerala’s tableau because of Sree Narayana Guru’||Pralhad Joshi, Union Minister, has denied allegations that the Centre had rejected the Kerala tableau from the Republic Day parade as it depicted the life of Sree Narayana Guru. “All States and Union Territories send their tableaux every year. But the Centre can choose only 12. That is why, there is an unwritten rule and precedent that a State is chosen only once in three successive years. This precedent was followed and Kerala was dropped. It was also because the Kerala tableau had violated some rules,” Mr. Joshi said. He was speaking to journalists at the COVID-19 vaccination for teenagers at St Fatima school in Hubballi on Tuesday. “Kerala presented its tableau in 2018 and 2021, and naturally it could not get the chance this time, and they did not comply with some rules,” Mr. Joshi noted. “Congress leaders like Siddaramaiah are spreading lies that the Centre dropped the tableau as it depicted Sree Narayana Guru,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-did-not-reject-keralas-tableau-because-of-sree-narayana-guru/article38289704.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:34 IST,KARNATAKA||Probe ordered into death of COVID-19 patient||Nitesh Patil, Deputy Commissioner, has ordered an inquiry into the recent death of a woman from COVID-19 related causes in Hubballi, allegedly due to medical negligence. He issued orders to District Health and Family Welfare Officer B.C. Karigoudar to investigate the incident and submit a report. In his letter on Tuesday, the DC referred to the death of a COVID-19 positive woman at the Vedanta Covid Care Centre in KIMS hospital on January 17 owing to the alleged negligence of the nursing staff. He has sought a report within 24 hours. The victim’s relatives had alleged that nursing staff were not present at the ICU to provide emergency treatment to the woman. KIMS management has denied this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-ordered-into-death-of-covid-19-patient/article38289705.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:34 IST,KARNATAKA||Katti says masks are matter of personal choice, clarifies later||Umesh Katti, Forest Minister, has defended his decision not to wear masks by saying it was a matter of personal choice. At the inauguration of a park in Athani on Monday, the Minster said he was not wearing masks as it was a matter of personal choice. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has described it as a matter of individual freedom. That is why I don’t wear masks,” he said. However, on Tuesday, he clarified on his stand by posting a message on social media. “I have not asked anyone not to wear masks. I believe that that wearing masks is a matter of personal choice. But this does not mean I am asking others to follow me and stop wearing masks,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/katti-says-masks-are-matter-of-personal-choice-clarifies-later/article38289707.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:34 IST,KARNATAKA||Kannada translation||Chaduranga Mattu Katte , a Kannada translation of Marathi play Zubbi Ani Buddhibal will be performed in Bengaluru on Wednesday.  The play by Champra Deshpande, has been translated by Belagavi-based writer Dadasaheb Chougale. Panchamukhi Natara Samuha will present the play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-translation/article38289708.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:01 IST,KARNATAKA||Chandrashekar Kambar bereaved||Satyabhama Kambar, wife of Kendra Sahitya Akademi president Chandrashekar Kambar, died in Bengaluru on Tuesday. The 77-year-old homemaker had been suffering from a heart ailment. She was admitted to a hospital on January 3. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has expressed his condolences for Dr. Kambar’s loss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chandrashekar-kambar-bereaved/article38289533.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Collection centres get an influx of used masks with dry waste||Every day, Kumuda, a waste-picker who manages the Dry Waste Collection Centre (DWCC) in J.P. Nagar ward, sorts used disposable masks and reusable cloth masks that have been discarded with dry waste. Over the last few weeks, with cases surging, people have been doubling masking, with disposable and cloth masks. But cloth masks, instead of being reused, are discarded. What’s also worrying is that more often than not, masks are not segregated. “At the very least, we get over a hundred used masks every day. Though they are supposed to be discarded along with household biomedical and sanitary waste, it lands up in the DWCCs,” said Ms. Kumuda. Last year, fed up with finding disposable masks in dry waste, which is a health hazard, many operators and managers of DWCCs had made short videos explaining how to responsibly dispose of medical waste. “After that, the numbers dropped. However, over the past two-three weeks, people are back to discarding masks with regular dry waste,” she added. This seems to be a common practice across the 130-odd centres across the city, and not just the DWCC at J.P. Nagar. Rajesh Babu, founder of Swachh, an organisation that manages 27 DWCCs, said that the influx of masks at the centres seems to coincide with the spike in COVID-19 cases. As per the health department advisory, many citizens were double masking – wearing one disposable, medical grade mask and another cloth mask. During the second wave, the BBMP, in a pilot project, had authorised DWCCs to be drop off points for household biomedical waste. From here, Mr. Babu explained, the authorised collector would pick it up. “However, after the COVID-19 cases came down, this has also stopped. The BBMP can revive this, given that the household biomedical waste, mainly comprising used masks, has started coming to the DWCCs again,” he said. Vishwanath C., programme manager (DWCC), Hasiru Dala, an organisation that manages a few centres in the city, said the waste pickers had been trained to segregate the masks and store them separately. “We treat this as hazardous waste,” he said. But when contacted, Sarfaraz Khan, BBMP Joint Commissioner (Solid Waste Management), said that the civic body had already tied-up with four different service providers for picking up household biomedical waste from these DWCCs for incineration. “Service providers need to be fixed only in Rajarajeshwarinagar and Dasarahalli zones,” he said and added that citizens can drop off household biomedical waste at the DWCCs separately for responsible disposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/collection-centres-get-an-influx-of-used-masks-with-dry-waste/article38289517.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:02 IST,KARNATAKA||HC notice to Centre on plea against disinvestment in BEML||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday ordered issue of notice to the Centre on a PIL petition questioning the decision to privatise BEML Ltd., a public sector undertaking, by way of ‘strategic disinvestment’ of 26% equity out of the Government of India’s total 54.03% shareholding in the company. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order on the PIL petition filed by four staff and employees’ associations of BEML. The petitioners have questioned the ‘in-principle approval’ given by the Union Government on October 27, 2016 for ‘strategic disinvestment’ of shareholding in BEML, and also the expression of interest invited on January 4, 2021 in the form of preliminary information memorandum. It has been pointed out in the petition that the company, which began with the investment of Rs. 5 crore in 1964 and has achieved a turnover of nearly Rs. 3,500 crore in the present times, is in fact one of the most profitable PSUs of the country and therefore this is not a case of the Government selling a loss incurring PSU. “If BEML is allowed to be privatised, the Ministry of Defence will lose control over any of its companies and the entire production will go out of control of the Ministry, resulting in threat to the security of the nation,” the petitioners claimed. “Loss of Government control over policy and production of defence hardware and expendables by privatisation of defence PSUs is a flawed national strategy. Even if it makes business sense to go for ‘strategic sale’ of these public assets to a ‘strategic partner’, it is empathetically submitted that the national interest is about sovereignty and security and not business profits,” the petitioners have argued. It has also been contended in the petition that privatisation of BEML may not only lead to the concentration of economic power in a few private hands but may also result in retrenchment of workers as the change in ownership from public to private usually means losing a status resembling that of a civil servant to become a private sector employee with no guaranteed job security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-disinvestment-in-beml/article38289540.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Hospitalisations at 1.3% of overall cases; 28,067 beds available||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Tuesday, reiterated that the city is well prepared to tackle the third wave of COVID-19. The situation is currently under control. Hospitalisations continue to be low; only 1.3% of the overall cases are now in the hospital, he said. While 100% tele-triaging is happening at the Assembly constituency level, there were over 300 mobile triage units for door-to-door visits. In a press release, the BBMP stated that a total of 28,067 beds — 3,237 beds in government hospitals, 2,696 in government medical colleges, 13,540 in private hospitals and 8,594 in private medical colleges — have been identified. Of these, 6,704 were available for allotment under the COVID-19 Hospital Bed Management System. Thus far, 637 had been allocated under government quota. That apart, 17 COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs) have been operationalised with 1,387 beds – 911 general and 576 oxygen beds. An additional 10 CCCs are kept in readiness and would be operationalized when required. “More than 95% of COVID-19 positive persons do not need hospitalisation, and can recover under home isolation. To date, about 55,000 home isolation kits have been distributed, and over 90,000 kits are in stock,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospitalisations-at-13-of-overall-cases-28067-beds-available/article38289531.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:02 IST,KARNATAKA||Steep reduction in salary leaves State’s dialysis workers upset||Trouble could be brewing in the State-sponsored dialysis programme as a steep reduction in salary, in some cases by about 40%, for those working in dialysis units has left about 680 employees fuming even as they fear job cuts. So far, the discontentment has not spilled over to work as the dialysis centres continue to offer the crucial services while the employees have approached the Labour Department for redressal. These employees, including dialysis technicians, nurses and ‘D’ group employees, have been manning 122 dialysis units since March 2017 when the scheme was awarded to BRS Health & Research Institute to manage. While the problem for the employees started after BRS defaulted on payment of salaries for months of June and July and meanwhile intimated the State Government that it would no longer be able to continue with the services, the company also defaulted on payment towards provident fund and ESI. Having managed the dialysis scheme since August 2021, the Health Department on January 7 this year handed over the scheme to Kolkata-based ESKAG Sanjeevini Pvt. Ltd. to continue with the services till March 31, 2022 as a temporary arrangement. A fresh long-term tender to continue the scheme beyond March 2022 is expected to be floated shortly as the original five-year contract given in 2017 comes to an end.  In the past few weeks, the employees have been receiving calls from the new agency, some even getting offer letters, with far less salaries than what the BRS had been paying them. Health Department officials said while BRS handled 24 districts, ESKAG Sanjeevini had overseen activities in seven districts. “The new agency is sending offer letters with salaries far less than what we were getting. I was getting a consolidated salary of close to Rs. 23,000, which has now been brought down to about Rs. 13,000 a month. We do not know if we need to accept it or not.,” an employee on condition of anonymity told The Hindu . “Even when the Government took over, salary had been slashed citing the National Health Mission norms. We will not agree to such steep cuts,” another employee said, adding that payment of salaries had been erratic in the past few months.  In November, after confusion arose over payments in some districts, the Government clarified that the NHM fixed salaries could be provided till March 2022. Health Commissioner D. Randeep acknowledged that the BRS had fixed higher salaries in some places, but maintained that the salary structure had not been uniform across. “Paying higher salary is beyond our scope. As long as minimum wages is not violated it cannot be an issue. There is no need for negotiation on salary now since a fresh tender is being floated.” Incidentally, both NHM objective statement and Memorandum of Understanding signed between State Government and BRS had payment of minimum wages as the clause. “I do not know why BRS paid a higher amount,” Mr. Randeep said. On the default in payment of salaries, PF and ESI, he said that the Government is yet to clear the dues of BRS, and that the first priority will be to clear the dues of employees before the dues of BRS is cleared. Allaying fears of job cuts, Mr. Randeep said: “We have asked the new agency not to disturb workers. It is there only to oversee the activities and make payments on time.” Meanwhile, the employees, who have formed a union affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), have approached Labour Department for help. “In times of pandemic, the Government should take care of the economic well-being of the employees, especially since they are frontline workers. It is illegal and unfair to reduce their wages. We will take a legal recourse,” said Nithin M.S., AITUC Secretary, Bengaluru.  In times of pandemic, the Government should take care of the economic well-being of the employees, especially since they are frontline workers. It is illegal and unfair to reduce their wages. We will take a legal recourse.Nithin M.S.AITUC Secretary, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steep-reduction-in-salary-leaves-states-dialysis-workers-upset/article38289544.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Speed up vaccine coverage’||In the wake of rising cases for COVID-19 in the last few days, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday instructed Deputy Commissioners to raise the average vaccination coverage of the first and second dose to the level of State average by the end of the month in districts which are lagging below the State average. According to data available with the Health and Family Welfare Department, the State average for first dose vaccine coverage as on January 18, was 99.6% and 83.3% for second dose. About 62% of those between 15 and 17 years have been provided vaccination. In some districts, sources said less than 80% of the adult population was not administered second doses for COVID-19. Districts such as Ballari (79.4%), Yadgir (76.6%), Raichur (75.1%) Kalaburagi (73.2%), Haveri (78.7%), Chitradurga (78.9%) lagging behind in providing second doses of vaccination. Mr. Bommai held a videoconference with Deputy Commissioners and District Health Officers on the COVID-19 vaccination progress and directed them to visit taluks and review distribution of medicines and supervise the situation with all seriousness. Officials have been told to conduct tele-triaging immediately on receiving the lab report on COVID-19. With 94% of the infected people in home isolation, officials have been told to take precautions to ensure that the infection does not spread to other members of the family. The other members of the family too should be tested and treatment provided, if necessary, Mr. Bommai said. With more cases being reported from villages, he asked doctors to commence “Vaidyara Nade Hallliyakade” (visit of doctors to villages) programmes to ensure availability of healthcare facilities at the doorsteps of villagers. The Chief Minister asked senior officials to prepare a special SoP to ensure visits of doctors to villages. Instructions have also been issued to strengthen private and government OPDs in Bengaluru and opening of new OPDs, according to the population density. Directions have also been issued for formulation of special SoPs for vaccination and treatment of workers who were brought from other states to work in industries in Karnataka. Mr. Bommai instructed officials to test and treat those in home isolation and identify those with comorbiditiesfor immediate treatment as the positivity rate was high in all districts. Noting that greater emphasis should be given for health check-up and treatment for children, Health Department officials have been told to undertake a booster vaccination drive for frontline workers and health workers. The Chief Minister said as the testing rate was high in Karnataka, the cases too were high. “But still we have succeeded in managing it. If the precautionarymeasures are good then the third wave could be managed well even if the cases see a rise,” Mr. Bommai said at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deputy-commissioners-asked-to-speed-up-vaccination-coverage/article38289523.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Man rents shop to set up fake jewellery store to con goldsmith||The Magadi Road police on Wednesday arrested a 23-year-old man who allegedly set up a fake jewellery store to cheat a goldsmith of five gold chains valued at over Rs. 16 lakh. The conman and two of his associates went through extreme lengths to carry out the crime. “They rented out a shop and paid an advance of Rs. 25,000 to the shop owner which they stocked with a few pieces of second-hand furniture. It was a meticulous plan,” said a police officer. A team tracked down the conman, Farhan Abbas, to his hometown in Alipura in Gauribidanur talulk of Chickballapur district. According to the police, Abbas and two of his associates, initially tried to dupe jewellers in Cubbonpet, but failed. They then decided to rent out a shop in Rajajinagar 5th block under the name Vasundhara Jewellers. They paid an advance of Rs. 25,000 to the shop owner, and fixed a monthly rental of Rs. 23,000. Order for five necklaces After they purchased second-hand furniture and did up the interiors of the shop, they approached a goldsmith, Sohidul Mondal and placed an order for five necklaces on December 31. Mondal took up the job, and on January 6 sent two of his employees toVasundhara Jewellers with the five gold chains and the bill. Abbas and his associates informed the employees that they would get the approval of their customers before paying the bill. “They asked them to wait in the shop, took the chains, and escaped. After waiting for over four hours, the two employees informed Mondal who tried to call Abbas on his phone, only to find that he was not reachable,” said a police officer. Realising that he had been duped, Mondal approached the police. A special team led by Inspector Srinivas G.T., tracked Mondal down, but his two associates are on the run. “He made the mistake of using his cell phone to make a few calls, and we were able to access the call record details,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-rents-shop-to-set-up-fake-jewellery-store-to-con-goldsmith/article38289519.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:02 IST,KARNATAKA||Violation of curbs: ‘Book case against BJP leaders’||Once again, the Opposition Congress is set to take on the government as it on Tuesday petitioned Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar seeking not just filing of FIRs against BJP leaders who violated COVID-19 norms, but also demanding disciplinary action against officials who desisted from acting against the BJP leaders. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Tuesday said the State BJP leaders in several districts had organised public events in violation of COVID-19 curbs and urged the State Government to register FIR against such leaders. In a detailed petition to the Chief Secretary, Mr. Shivakumar also demanded disciplinary action against officials of the district administration and the police for showing laxity in discharge of their duties and not filing cases against BJP leaders for violation of COVID-19 restrictions imposed by the Government across the State. Mr. Shivakumar attached photographs published in newspapers in the petition and said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, presiding officers of both the Houses of the State legislature and several leaders participated in an oath-taking ceremony of MLCs at the Vidhana Soudha on January 6 in violation of COVID-19 norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/violation-of-curbs-book-case-against-bjp-leaders/article38289537.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Chief Secretary orders strict implementation of containment measures||Enforcement authorities have been directed to implement containment measures strictly in their jurisdictions and take action against violators. Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, in an order on Tuesday, said after the review of the COVID-19 situation in the State by the Chief Minister and Chairman, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) on Monday, he has been directed to strictly implement the containment measures and enforce COVID 19 appropriate behaviour to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the State. In his capacity of the Chairman, State Executive Committee, he has issueddirections, to the Chief Commissioner BBMP, Police Commissioners, Deputy Commissioners, Superintendents of Police, and other heads of departments and authorities for strict enforcement ofcontainment measures and COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. “Any person, group of people, society, association of persons, organisation, institution, RWA, etc, violating containment measures and not complying with COVID-19 appropriate behaviour issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, should be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 5l to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act-2020 besides legal action under Section l88 of the IPC, and other legal provisions as applicable,” the order said. It further stated that officers who do not take action against violators of the containment measures, will be liable for action as per law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-secretary-orders-strict-implementation-of-containment-measures/article38289521.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Four held for selling drugs||Two policemen were arrested on January 13 for allegedly selling drugs while on security duty near the residence of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on 80 Feet Road at R.T. Nagar in Bengaluru. According to the R.T. Nagar police, who arrested the duo along with two of their associates, Head Constable Shivakumar and Constable Santosh were caught red-handed by a Hoysala patrol team. Both personnel are attached to Koramangala police station. “The control room received information of a suspicious autorickshaw on 80 feet road in R.T. Nagar PS limits on January 13 night. A Hoysala team immediately reached the spot. They detained four persons. The autorickshaw was seized, and the four men were taken to the police station,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-held-for-selling-drugs/article38289526.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:00 IST,KARNATAKA||3.22 lakh precaution doses administered||Over a week after the administering of precaution doses commenced, over 3.22 lakh people have been given the third dose as on Tuesday.When the government announced the launch of the programme from January 10, the Department of Health and Family Welfare had said that as many as 21 lakh people in Karnataka are eligible for the precaution dose. These included six lakh healthcare workers, seven lakh frontline workers, and eight lakh persons aged 60 and above with comorbidities. Among the conditions for getting jabbed with the third dose is that beneficiaries will get the same vaccine administered previously, and that they would have to have completed nine months post the previous dose. Health Minister K. Sudhakar, on Tuesday, appealedto all frontline workers to get the third dose. “If you don’t take it, we can’t tell others to do so. As of now, the percentage of coverage of frontline workers for the precaution dose is 39%. We are not satisfied with this number. The Commissioner has said that in a week or 10 days, it will be taken up as a drive to cover as many eligible beneficiaries as possible,” he said. On the vaccination of 15-17 year-olds, he said the State average coverage is 62%. But in some districts, it is around 30 to 40%. Directions have been given to improve this percentage, he said. Meanwhile, eligible senior citizens who have started getting alerts are getting the jab. Doctors said the present numbers are commensurate with the number of those who have completed nine months after getting vaccinated.Manoj Kumar H.V., MBBS, Dean cum Director Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College and Research Institute, said, “The condition for taking the precaution dose is that they should have completed nine months after the previous dose. So the pace now is the same as what it was nine months ago - i.e. April. Healthcare workers are also taking the dose. Those eligible are receiving auto-generated messages.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/322-lakh-precaution-doses-administered-so-far-in-state/article38289528.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:02 IST,KARNATAKA||B.S. Muddappa passes away||The founder-Managing Director of the erstwhile Karnataka State Dairy Development Corporation (now Karnataka Milk Federation) B.S. Muddappa, 98, passed away here on Tuesday. Sources said that he passed away due to age related illness. Among important positions that he held were General Manager of MSRTC, Vice-Chairman KSRTC, Managing Director Consumer Cooperatives, Director Bangalore Dairy, and several posts in State and at the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bs-muddappa-passes-away/article38289536.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||No power supply||There will be no power supply on Wednesday from 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. in areas serviced from 66/11 KV Surya City MUSS. The areas to be affected are: Surya City Phase 1 and 2, Hinaki Rajapura, Ramakrishnapura, Anekal Main Road, Marsuru, Nagayanahally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-power-supply/article38289515.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Family robbed at gunpoint||Four armed men held a family with two children at gunpoint and robbed them of their valuables at their residence in Vijayapura on the outskirts of the city on Tuesday night. They rang the doorbell at around 8.40 p.m. Thinking that her husband, who is a doctor, had returned from the clinic, Sheela Rajkumar opened the door. The four men barged into the house, threatened Sheela and her mother and two children at gunpoint and forcibly took 200 gm of gold and Rs. 5,000 in cash from them. The accused locked them in a pooja room and escaped. The incident came to light when her husband, Dr. Rajkumar returned home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/family-robbed-at-gunpoint/article38289518.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Driver arrested||A squad with the Department of Legal Metrology has uncovered a scam where petrol is illegally siphoned into secret compartments in tankers used to transport fuel to petrol bunkers. Each hidden chamber has the capacity to store an additional 50 litres. While one driverwas arrested on Monday, officials suspect that at least 20 tankers have been modified. The squad intercepted a tanker near HPCL terminal at Devanagundi and found a secret chamber filled with petrol. “As much as 50 litres of petrol was stolen on every trip and sold separately,” said a police officer. The driver, Praveen Kumar, 25, allegedly confessed to the crime. He and his assistant Shivakumar were arrested. “Shivakumar allegedly said he would sometimes make two trips per day,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/driver-arrested/article38289530.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Medical practitioners warned against spread of misinformation||The Karnataka Government has warned medical practitioners of action if they are found guilty of spreading misinformation about COVID-19. In a statement on January 18, the Commissionerate, Health and Family Welfare Services, said, “It has come to the notice of the government that a few medical practitioners, while communicating to the public on various media platforms, are giving incomplete, inaccurate and unsubstantiated information about COVID-19. Such misinformation leads to confusion among the public at large on the prevailing COVID-19 scenario in the State, and encourages them to deviate from well laid out guidelines issued by the health and revenue authorities.” Medical practitioners, being proficient in both clinical and public health, should exercise utmost care and caution while communicating with the public on COVID-19. “It is expected that medical practitioners shall refer to the guidelines / circulars / orders issued by Government of Karnataka and any media / social platform. Any misinformation or non factual data on COVID-19 shared on such platforms would attract action as per Section 54 of Karnataka Epidemic Disease Act,” according to the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-practitioners-warned-against-spread-of-misinformation/article38289520.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:00 IST,KARNATAKA||II PU exam likely from April 16 to May 4||The Department of Pre-University Education, on Tuesday, issued a tentative timetable for the II PU annual examinations for the 2021-2022 academic year. If all goes as planned, the examination will start on April 16 and continue till May 4. In a press release, the department stated preparatory examinations for II PU students will commence from March 14 and conclude on March 25. With the pandemic throwing the calendar out of gear, the government had decided to reduce the syllabus by 30% for language subjects. For optional subjects, the examinations will be conducted without any cut in syllabus, stated the DPUE.Those who have concerns about the tentative schedule can send their objections by email to the DPUE. Objections will be received till February 1, 2022. The department has also decided to conduct examinations for I PU students as well this year. As per the release, these will be conducted from March 28 to April 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ii-pu-exam-likely-from-april-16-to-may-4/article38289524.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:59 IST,KARNATAKA||3-day holiday for classes I to IX in Shivamogga||The Shivamogga district administration has declared three-day holiday for classes 1 to 9 in Shivamogga from Wednesday. The administration took this decision in the wake of an increase in COVID-19 cases in Shivamogga. RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, who is Minister in-charge of the district, on Tuesday told mediapersons that schools would reopen on January 24. As many as 208 children in over 45 schools had been tested positive for COVID-19. In order to avoid spread of the infection, the administration has declared a three-day holiday, the Minister said. 260 new cases Shivamogga district reported 260 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, increasing the total active cases to 1,611. One person died, increasing the total deaths to 1,073. Among the infected 1,467 are in home isolation, 40 are in private hospitals, 30 are in dedicated COVID health centre, 55 people have been isolated at designated COVID hospitals and 19 are in triage centres. Of the fresh cases 131 were reported in Shivamogga, 48 in Bhadravathi, 17 each in Thirthahalli, Shikaripura, 26 in Sagar, five in Hosanagar, four in Soraba, and 12 cases were from other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-day-holiday-for-classes-i-to-ix-in-shivamogga/article38289906.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Holiday for classes in Hassan, Alur taluks||The Hassan district administration has declared three days holiday for classes one to IX in Hassan and Alur taluks of the district, considering the increasing number of COVID-19 cases among students. Hassan reported 288 cases among students and Alur reported 161 cases. Excise Minister K. Gopalaiah, who is also Minister in charge of the district, told the media that the decision was taken in the interest of students. It was necessary to avoid the spread of infection. The administration has taken all other measures necessary to tackle the situation, he said. As many as nine COVID Care Centres had been opened in the district. The tahsildars and taluk health officers had been instructed to be prepared to face any eventuality. The Minister held a meeting with senior officers and people’s representatives on tackling the spread of the pandemic. Hassan reported the highest test positivity rate among the districts in the State. The positivity rate in Hassan, as per the test results of Monday, stood at 32.93%. Every day, the Health and Family Welfare Department has been conducting over 5,000 tests. The positivity rate among the samples taken for RAT was 23.74 % and those for RT-PCR was 39.75%. Fresh cases Hassan district reported 1,527 fresh cases and two deaths on Tuesday. With that, the total deaths reached 1,387 and active cases increased to 6,466. As many as nine people are in the intensive care unit. Among the fresh cases, Hassan taluk reported 769, Channarayapatna 177, Arkalgud 163, Alur 86, Arsikere 101, Belur 71, Holenarasipur 113, Sakaleshpur 46, and one case was from other district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/holiday-for-classes-in-hassan-alur-taluks/article38289917.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two held in cheating case||The Anavatti police in Soraba taluk of Shivamogga district on Monday arrested two people on charges of cheating a resident of Gundlupet in Chamarajanagar after assuring them gold coins. The arrested are K. Ramappa, 44, of Thimlapura in Anavatti, and Thimmappa, 65, of Bannur in Shikaraipur taluk. Coins at low price The accused had contacted the complainant over phone and assured them gold coins at low price. They asked the complainant to collect the coins at Anavatti after paying Rs. 5 lakh in cash. The complainant took them on January 4. Upon verifying the coins, he realised that he had been cheated. He filed a complaint with the police. The police registered the case and arrested the accused. The police have also recovered Rs. 4.22 lakh from the arrested, said a release issued by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-in-cheating-case/article38289909.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Injured youth succumbs||A person who was assaulted by his relatives over a petty issue at Purlehalli in Arsikere taluk on Sunday succumbed in the hospital on Tuesday. Sharath, 28, was assaulted by his relatives following an argument over not inviting them for a programme organised by his family. Sharath was treated at government hospital in Arsikere before being taken to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. Later, he was shifted to Bengaluru. The Banavara police have registered a case. The accused are absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/injured-youth-succumbs/article38289911.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Seer arrested||The Srirangapatna police arrested Rishi Kumar Swami of Kali Mutt at Devanur in Kadur taluk of Chikkamagaluru district in connection with his statement calling for demolition of a mosque at Srirangapatna. The police took him to custody at his mutt early on Tuesday. A case was registered against the seer, known for his controversial remarks, following his statements during his recent visit to Srirangapatna. He had appealed for demolition of a mosque on the lines of Babri Masjid at Ayodhya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-arrested/article38289914.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:59 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Hostels can be closed if over five students are infected’||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner R. Selvamani has instructed teachers and officers of the Department of Public Instructions to take measures necessary to avoid the spread of COVID-19 among schoolchildren. The officer held a meeting with officials and representatives of educational institutes in Shivamogga on Tuesday. As the number of COVID-19 cases among students is increasing, school managements should screen students every day. Students’ body temperature should be recorded and those with symptoms should be sent back home. Attendance should not be compulsory, the DC said. Hostels where more than five students test positive, should be closed down. But, authorities should not send students to their native places. Instead, they should take care of them in the hostels. The officers concerned should appoint nodal officers to keep a tab on cases in schools and colleges, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hostels-can-be-closed-if-over-five-students-are-infected/article38289905.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:34 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 68 nursing students test positive in Ballari district||As many as 68 of around 400 nursing students who had arrived from outside the State for writing examinations tested positive for COVID-19 in Ballari on Tuesday. As per the information provided by the local authorities, most of the students, who are from Haryana, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and other northern States, had arrived in the district without a valid RT-PCR negative report obtained within the past 72 hours. Alerted by the possibility of infection, the administration took their throat swabs and sent it to the laboratory for test. Upon getting the confirmation of infection, the administration isolated the infected candidates and made separate arrangements for them to write the exams. Meanwhile, the police bookes cases against 13 educational institutions and hotels for providing accommodation for the candidates who had not produced RT-PCR negative reports. As per the information provided by Ballari Superintendent of Police Saidulu Adavath, the Cowl Bazar and the Ballari Rural police, acting on a complaint by Ballari taluk tahsildar Rehman Pasha, booked Marched Residency, Vidya Comforts, Vishnu Priya Lodge, Chalukya Lodge, BDDS, Amala Nivas, Indian Nursing College, Puja School of Nursing, Mata Function Hall, Ne Era Nursing College, Karnataka Nursing College, Sharabeshwara Nursing College, and Best School of Nursing under various sections of National Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code. Ballari and Vijayanagara districts have jointly been reporting a high number of COVID-19 positive cases for the last one week. The twin district reported 714 new cases (Ballari-532 and Vijayanagara-182) on Tuesday. Ballari taluk topped with 378 new cases in Ballari district followed by Sandur (113). Hosapete reported highest new cases (91) in Vijayanagara district followed by Hadagali (34) and Harapanahalli (27). With the discharge of 54 people after recovery, the total number of active cases stood at 3341 by 7 pm on Tuesday. The district had reported 560 new cases on Monday, 566 cases on Sunday and 410 cases on Saturday. In a video conference meeting, Ballari Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati briefed Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on the COVID-19 situation and the containment measures taken in the district. He said that the arrival of workers from outside the State to Jindal Steel factory was one of the major reasons behind the sudden spike in the cases. As the COVID-19 cases rise in Vijayanagara district, the administration geared up containment measures including the establishment of COVID-19 war room and helpline. Deputy Commissioner Anirudh Sravan P., in a media release, said that the war room would function round the clock and appealed to the people to contact it by calling 08394-200108.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-68-nursing-students-test-positive-in-ballari-district/article38289701.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:34 IST,KARNATAKA||Guest lecturers plan to continue protest outside CM’s residence||Guest lecturers, who have been on agitation in their respective districts for more than a month demanding job security, are planning to shift the agitation site to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s residence in Hubballi. Addressing a media conference here on Tuesday, Jagappa Talwar, State organising secretary of the Federation of First Grade Degree College Guest Lecturers’ Association, said that they had been left with no option but to intensify their agitation to get their demands fulfilled. “The Government appears to be least bothered about the serious job security issues being faced by around 14,500 guest lecturers serving in different government colleges across the State. Many States in the country, including Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, and Tamil Nadu, have given job security to the guest faculty and we are demanding the same in the State. Ours is a just and easily implementable demand. But the Government is showing little interest in it. We have been left with no option but to intensify our agitation. We are planning to continue our centralised agitation either outside Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s residence in Hubballi or at the Siddaganga Mutt premises in Tumakuru,” Mr. Talwar said. Rejecting outright the Government’s order issued on January 14, Mr. Talwar said that the order would push the guest lecturers from the frying pan into the fire. “The Government termed the order in question as a Sankranti gift to agitating guest lecturers. But, it is, as a matter of fact, a death knell for 14,500 guest lecturers. The Government is propagating that it has increased the guest lecturers’ honorary payment three times. It is a blatant lie. It is going to downsize the guest faculty by half and pay the increased salary to the remaining staff after mounting tremendous work pressure on them. A guest lecturer who worked eight hours a week to get Rs. 13,000 a month would have to work 15 hours a week to get around Rs. 20,000 a month. Half of 8,500 guest lecturers would lose their jobs and their work would be transferred to the remaining guest faculty,” Mr Talwar said. “It is not a question of just one person but that of 14,500 families. There are many people who have put in 10-15 years of their services as guest lecturers. Many of them have crossed 50 years. If they are fired from their jobs, where should they go? How would their families survive? What about their aged and ailing parents dependent on them? Law is not static but dynamic that needs to be modified to keep it with the changing time and conditions,” Mr Talwar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guest-lecturers-plan-to-continue-protest-outside-cms-residence/article38289706.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:10 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Ensure 100% first dose vaccination in Dakshina Kannada’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday directed the Dakshina Kannada administration to ensure complete COVID-19 first dose vaccination in the district by this month-end. Special attention should be given to areas where vaccination drive was slow, including Ullal, Kotekar, Someshwar and other areas by holding special vaccination camps. He was interacting with deputy commissioners and other senior officials of 18 districts through virtual mode from Bengaluru. Though DK had achieved 96% target in the first dose, there was delay in achieving 100% vaccination, Mr. Bommai regretted and said vaccination is a National programme. Every step to achieve complete vaccination, including seeking cooperation from local leaders and people’s representatives, should be taken. He expressed dissatisfaction over the vaccination progress in DK while other districts were marching ahead. Personnel from departments concerned should identify people who have not taken the first dose, visit them and coax them to get vaccinated. Though it is a challenging task, the target should be achieved. The progress of the second dose in DK was 81% and efforts should be made to complete the target, Mr. Bommai said. DC K.V. Rajendra assured the Chief Minister of completing 100% vaccination of the first dose with the help of people’s representatives and religious leaders. Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar and Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar participated from Bengaluru while DK ZP CEO Kumara, Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar and others attended the meeting from Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-100-first-dose-vaccination-in-dakshina-kannada/article38289899.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:10 IST,KARNATAKA||Daily tulasi ‘archane’, bhajans to mark new paryaya||Vidyasagar Tirtha Swami of Udupi Sri Krishnapura Mutt, who took over the reins of Sri Krishna Mutt during the paryaya celebrations on Tuesday, said sahasra tulasi archane to Lord Krishna and bhajans every day will be part of his paryaya during the next two years. In his blessings during the paryaya darbar after he ascended the sarvajna peetha that marked the change of administration of Sri Krishna Mutt in Udupi, the seer said services could become a success with the cooperation of the devotees and the will of Lord Krishna. He said he did not expect the kind of cooperation and enthusiasm from devotees before and during the paryaya celebrations at the time of COVID-19 pandemic. He said hundreds of devotees have participated directly and indirectly in the events thereby enhancing the celebrations. Wishing devotees a bright future, the seer, who is performing the fourth paryaya, said he is living with specific goals and hoped the Lord would give the strength to keep up the expectations from devotees. Former Deputy Chief Minister G. Parameshwara said the world has accepted Indian culture and tradition. History tells that India had been the education hub in the past attracting thousands, he noted. Paryaya darbar awards were presented to hotelier Neramballi Raghavendra Rao and P. Vrajanatha Acharya on behalf of his father, the late P. Vyasaacharya. Haridasa Upadhyaya, P. Lakshminarayana Sharma, Gururaj Nippani, Chippagiri Nagendracharya, and Gopalakrishna Upadhya were declared as ashaana vidwamasas of the Sri Krishna Mutt. On the occasion, Vidyasagar and the other seers of Ashta Mutts released the vangmaya nidhi of Vadiraja. Outgoing paryaya seer Ishapriya Tirtha Swami of Adamar Mutt, Palimaru Mutt Seer Vidyadheesha Tirtha Swami, Pejawar Mutt seer Vishwapriya Tirtha Swami, Kaniyuru Mutt seer Vidyavallabha Tirtha Swami, Palimar Mutt junior seer Vidyarajeshwar Tirtha Swami, and Shirur Mutt seer Vedavardhana Tirtha Swami were present. Among those present included MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat, National Women’s Commission Member Shyamala Kundar, MLC Manjunath Bhandary, Karnataka Bank Managing Director and CEO M.S. Mahabaleshwara, former Ministers Vinay Kuamr Sorake and K. Abhayachandra Jain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/daily-tulasi-archane-bhajans-to-mark-new-paryaya/article38289894.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:10 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress takes out padayatra to condemn Centre’s action||Condemning the Central Government’s rejection of the float proposed by Kerala Government for the Republic Day parade that had reformer Sree Narayana Guru’s idol, the Youth Congress and other Congress activists on Tuesday took out a protest march from the district Congress office to Kudroli Gokarnanatha temple, which was established by Naryana Guru. Launching the protest march, former State Congress president G. Parameshwara said the Central Government has rejected the float of Kerala Government that contained statue of Narayana Guru, who professed equality among castes. The Central Government has not given any explanation for rejecting the float. The Central Government should reconsider its decision and allow the float of Kerala Government on women empowerment, which features Narayana Guru, during the Republic Day parade. The march was delayed for nearly two hours following heated exchanges between the Youth Congress activists and other Congress activists during a meeting held at the party office earlier. Former Mayor Mahabala Marla reportedly questioned district Youth Congress president Lukman Bantwal and other office-bearers of Youth Congress for keeping the district Congress president K. Harish Kumar in the dark about the protest planned around noon. Heated exchange followed between supporters of former Minister B. Ramanath Rai and Youth Congress activists. A few Youth Congress activists were reportedly sent out of the meeting. Then Mr. Parameshwara came to the party office and held a meeting with activists till 1.30 p.m. Mr. Kumar, Mr. Rai, Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader, former Mangaluru City South MLA J.R.Lobo, and AICC secretary Ivan D’Souza attended the meeting. Lack of cohesion among activists was evident during the protest march. A batch of activists led by Mr. Bantwal, Mr. D’Souza and AICC Secretary P.V. Mohan, went ahead with the march from the party office, while other activists, including Mr. Rai, Mr. Khader and Mr. Kumar, marched for a short duration. Activists were seen leaving the march midway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-takes-out-padayatra-to-condemn-centres-action/article38289892.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:10 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Jal Jeevan Mission has picked up pace State’||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K. S. Eshwarappa said that 10,000 rural houses are being provided with drinking water connection in Karnataka daily under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Speaking to media persons in Dharmasthala, the Minister said that Karnataka intends to provide piped drinking water to all rural houses by 2023 though the Union Government wants to complete the mission in India by 2024. Mr. Eshwarappa said that, initially, the pace of progress in Karnataka under the mission was slow. But now, it has picked up. People are also co-operating in getting piped water connection to their houses. The Jal Jeevan Mission aims at providing safe and adequate drinking water through individual household tap connections to all households in India. The Minister was in Dharmasthala to attend the Maha Mrityunjaya Yaga organised by Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja to wish long life to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jal-jeevan-mission-has-picked-up-pace-state/article38289887.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:10 IST,KARNATAKA||TAPMI Founder’s Day celebrated in Manipal||T.A. Pai Management Institute, Manipal, celebrated its 39th Founder’s Day during the birth centenary celebrations of its founder, T.A. Pai, and arranged a Founder’s Day lecture at Manipal on Tuesday. Sharda Sampath, Chief Postmaster General, Karnataka Circle, released a special cover to mark the occasion and presented it to U. Satish Pai, Manipal Media Network’s Executive Chairman. SELCO Solar Light Pvt., Ltd., founding chairman Harish Hande highlighted societal role that management institutes like TAPMI have to play with inspirations from Late Pai. Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project Executive Director L.H. Manjunath spoke about his strong association with Late Pai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tapmi-founders-day-celebrated-in-manipal/article38289896.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:10 IST,KARNATAKA||Move to online classes if five or more positive cases are found: DC||Asking educational institutions to shift to online classes from offline classes if five or more students are tested positive, Deputy Commissioner K.V .Rajendra directed institutions not to hold any activity apart from those related to academics. In the meeting with representatives from different educational institutions and doctors on Monday, officials stated that though students were testing positive for COVID-19 the infection was no serious, necessitating stoppage of physical classes. Dr. Rajendra said new restrictions are now being put in place for a period one week and the situation will be reviewed once again on January 24. Deputy Director of Public Instruction Sudhakar said institutions which report five or more positive cases should temporarily close operations for a week and move to online teaching. Students, who are unwilling to come to school/college or are incapable of coming to the institution, should be provided online teaching. Institutions should forthwith call meeting of parents and make them aware of steps taken for safety of children and precautions that parents should take. Opinion of parents about online and offline classes should also be taken, he said. Dr. Rajendra asked institutions to ensure that all those aged between 15 and 18 are given the first dose of Covaxin at the earliest. Institutions, where there are more out station students and there are good number of students coming from neighbouring Kasaragod, should be more careful to prevent the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/move-to-online-classes-if-five-or-more-positive-cases-are-found-dc/article38289900.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:10 IST,KARNATAKA||1,859 positive cases in DK and Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 1,058 new COVID-19 cases, including 56 from five clusters, on Tuesday. With discharge of 275 patients, the active cases were at 4,964. The test positivity rate (TPR) is at 10.76. Of the 56 new cases, 15 students were from a government school in Bengre and a private school in Bajpe. As many 20 Ayurvedic students were reported positive of 95 samples that were tested from a hostel in Mangaluru taluk. Thirteen of 52 from a old age home in Bondel, who underwent RT-PCR test, were found positive. Eight of 74 residents tested at a ladies hostel in Bantwal taluk were also found positive. With 4,976 persons vaccinated on Tuesday, the total number of persons jabbed in Dakshina Kannada district reached 31.15 lakh of which 17.19 lakh have taken the first dose, 13.79 have taken the second and 16,081 persons have taken precautionary dose. In Udupi district, 801 new cases were reported and 95 were discharged on Tuesday. The overall TPR is at 21.62%. The active cases were at 4301. With 533 new patients from 2310 tests the TPR of Udupi taluk is at 23.07%. There are 194 patients from Kundapura (TPR 27.48%) and 67 patients from Karkala taluk (TPR 10.21%). As many as 741 patients are in home isolation, 30 in covid care centres, 19 in designated covid health hospital and 11 patients in designated covid hospital. There are 99 patients in general ward, 25 in high dependency unit, 16 in ICU without ventilator and 10 patients in ICU with ventilator. With 2,355 persons vaccinated on Tuesday, the total number of persons jabbed in Udupi district reached 19.03 lakh of which 10.28 lakh have taken the first dose, 8.63 lakh have taken the second and 11,875 persons have taken precautionary dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1859-positive-cases-in-dk-and-udupi/article38289897.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:10 IST,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||Power supply would be affected between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. in areas fed by 11 kV Mangaladevi feeder on Thursday. Areas affected include Mangaladevi, Yemmekere, Hoige Bazar, Subhasnagar, Shivanagar, Monkeystand and surrounding areas. Areas fed by 11 kV Pragathinagar feeder, including Passport Office, Kodialbail, Dongerkeri and surrounding areas would not get power supply on Thursday between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article38289889.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:10 IST,KARNATAKA||Indian Gaur gives birth to second calf at Pilikula Biological Park||An Indian Gaur has given birth to a male calf at Pilikula Biological Park. With this the number of Indian Gaurs at the park has risen to six, according to Director of the park H.J. Bhandary. The same Gaur named ‘Anushka’ had given birth to a female calf in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/indian-gaur-gives-birth-to-second-calf-at-pilikula-biological-park/article38289895.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru sees spike in cases in 0-17 age group||Unlike the previous waves, the COVID-19 infection is more prevalent among children in the 0-17 age group in the third wave if the cases reported in the last one week in Mysuru are an indication. Since the start of 2022, cases in the 0-17 age group have shot up disturbingly, putting the district administration and the health authorities on their toes and triggering containment measures. The numbers have been going up with each passing day. From a single case in the 0-17 age group on January 2 (total COVID-19 cases reported on that day was 20), the number of cases reported went up to 142 on January 16 (total COVID-19 cases reported on that day was 1,892). The infection is spreading rapidly with a 27.07% positivity rate reported in Mysuru on January 16, which is higher than Karnataka’s TPR rate. A total of 6,988 tests were carried out on January 16. The break-up of cases in the 0-17 age group since January 10 is like this: 26 cases on January 10, 52 cases on January 11, 68 cases on January 12, 80 cases on January 13, 75 cases on January 14, 85 cases on January 15 and 142 cases on January 16. Among children, most of the cases are in the 11-17 age group. Out of 142 cases reported in the 0-17 age group on January 16, as many as 116 cases were among persons in the 11-17 age group, 20 in the 6-10 age group and 6 in the 0-5 age group. The spike, perhaps, prompted the district administration to shut down schools in Mysuru and taluks from LKG to Class 9 to contain the spread of the infection. Cases in the 0-17 age group started to spike on January 9 when a total of 60 cases were reported. Other than Mysuru city, T. Narsipur is reporting a lot of infections in the 0-17 age group (29 cases) followed by six cases in H.D. Kote, 4 each in K.R. Nagar, Nanjangud and Mysuru taluk, on January 16. Sources in the Health Department said more cases in the 0-17 age group are being detected with tests being done in schools and colleges as part of efforts to contain the spread with ‘Test, Track and Treat’ policy. Authorities have stepped up testing. The number of people queuing up for an RT-PCR test in front of testing centres is on the rise following an increase in infections and people showing up with COVID-19-like symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-sees-spike-in-cases-in-0-17-age-group/article38289913.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:02 IST,KARNATAKA||Mekedatu: Govt. urged to step up efforts for NoC from Central Water Commission||Close on the heels of the proposed Mekedatu balancing reservoir project hogging the limelight recently with the Congress taking out a ‘padayatra’ in its support, the Institution of Engineers-India’s Karnataka State Center on Tuesday urged the State Government to step up its efforts to get an NoC from the Central Water Commission (CWC) and other clearances to its proposal on constructing the proposed reservoir. The IEI argued that the project ensures water supply to Bengaluru from the Cauvery round the year, besides meeting the drinking water needs of Ramanagaram, Kolar and Chickballapur districts. The project also has an “indirect” benefit as farmers in Mysuru region will be assured of water all through the year as the “pressure” on the four major dams in the Cauvery basin, which have a combined storage of 114.57 tmcft, will be eased, with the construction of the balancing reservoir, it claimed. “The proposed Mekedatu project’s focus is only on meeting the drinking water needs of the people. The project is, however, opposed by Tamil Nadu. But, on the contrary, the project benefits the neighbouring State the most. Moreover, there’s no provision for irrigation in the project and the water, after power generation, is released into the river that eventually flows into T.N.,” said IEI-State Chairman M. Lakshmana. He maintained that the nod of Cauvery Water Management Authority to the proposed project was not required since Karnataka was only intending to make use of its share of water. Mr. Lakshmana claimed that the Siddaramaiah Government had identified nearly 14,000 acres of land at Magadi and near Shivamogga/Dandeli as replacement for the forest land that would get submerged once the proposed reservoir was constructed. “As per the DPR prepared in 2013, 4,716 hectares of forest land goes into the project besides 280 hectares of revenue land.” Arguing that the project will in no way affect T.N.’s share of water, Mr. Lakshmana said the allocated water to the State can be utilised practically without wasting its portion if the proposed reservoir was constructed. It will ease pressure on the four dams since the State has to release around 30 tmcft to T.N. during summer every year. If the State could hold water after releasing T.N.’s share, it will help farmers in the basin get more water for their crops and take up cultivation of second crop, he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mekedatu-govt-urged-to-step-up-efforts-for-noc-from-central-water-commission/article38289542.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:00 IST,KARNATAKA||AAP seeks redressal of problems in Maharani’s college hostel||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Mysuru has taken up the problems faced by students of Maharani’s College for Women in Mysuru who complain that their hostel which is in a wretched condition and has become unlivable. The students had staged a protest in Mysuru in December urging authorities to address the problems in their hostel. It has been over a month-and-a-half since the protest, but no solution is in sight, claims Malavika Gubbivani, president, AAP, Mysuru district unit. Speaking at a media conference in Mysuru on January 18, Ms. Malavika said a protest over food, drinking water and lack of other basic facilities on December 7 promoted a team of AAP volunteers to visit the hostel on December 13. “The plumbing problem at the entrance of the hostel was addressed by the AAP with the help of donors, but other problems are pending due to the apathy of the hostel management and college authorities,” she alleged. She said the hostel building is in a dilapidated condition. The approach is through a mud road. The garden is neglected. The hostel corridor is full of discarded items with no arrangements for disposal of waste. There is only one cleaning staff for the whole building. Students have to clean their accommodation themselves. The toilets are in a horrible condition and students also have to put up with rats, Ms. Malavika alleged adding, “Though students had complained to college authorities, no one has acted on their complaints.” The AAP had sought permission to clean the toilets, but was told that permission would be given only if all other deficiencies of the hostel too are addressed, she claimed. “The problems may be resolved if a committee comprising students is set up,” she suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aap-seeks-redressal-of-problems-in-maharanis-college-hostel/article38289908.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rise in Mysuru’s TPR||Mysuru’s test positivity rate is soaring alarmingly as it is inching close to 30 percent with steep spike in daily cases. For the first time since the second wave, the number of deaths rose as three fatalities were reported, including of a 17-year-old girl. At 29.98%, it’s the highest positivity rate the district has reported since the onset of third wave. A total of 1,848 cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the active case tally to 8,401. As many as 6,164 tests were done on Tuesday Also, 585 patients were discharged on Tuesday with a recovery rate of 31.66%. Like the previous days, there is no let-up in cases in 0-17 age group as 96 tested positive on Tuesday, including 75 cases in Mysuru city alone. Cases in 11-17 are particularly higher in 0-17 age group. The death toll has risen to 2,438. As many as 8,093 infected are home isolated while the rest are in hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. Out of 1,848 cases, 1,347 cases are from Mysuru and 107 from T. Narsipur. After Mysuru city, Mysuru taluk has highest number of active cases. Mysuru has 6,494 cases while Mysuru taluk has 442 cases. T. Narsipur stands third in the number of active cases as it has 397 active cases with the taluk reporting more number of clusters in recent days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rise-in-mysurus-tpr/article38289915.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Penalty on unauthorised tobacco reduced||The Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry has decided to reduce the penalty on unauthorised tobacco for the season 2021-22, providing relief to thousands of tobacco farmers in the State. The Government has authorised Tobacco Board to levy a penalty of 5% on the proceeds of the sale and Rs. 1 per kg of tobacco on the produce cultivated in excess of the authorised quota as well as the tobacco cultivated by unregistered growers. Earlier, a penalty of 10% of the proceeds and Rs. 2 for every kg of unauthorised tobacco was levied. Climatic conditions Pratap Simha, Mysuru MP, who had appealed to the Union Commerce Secretary to reduce the penalty, argued that tobacco was cultivated in rain-fed areas and its yield depended on the climatic conditions. He said it was not possible for the farmers to estimate the yield and control the output. Thousands of farmers in the region are dependent on the tobacco crop, he said while making out a case for reduction of penalty on unauthorised tobacco. The Government’s decision to reduce the penalty is expected to help 11,000 farmers, who had cultivated tobacco in 26,000 barns, he said. Fixed limits In Karnataka, tobacco is cultivated mostly in Mysuru and parts of neighbouring Hassan district. The Tobacco Board has restricted the tobacco crop to 97 million kg in Karnataka this year and fixed 1,750 kg for every barn. The tobacco grown in excess of the barn size by farmers possessing tobacco cultivation license is considered unauthorised and become liable for levy of penalty. Similiarly, the entire produce of tobacco cultivated by farmers without a license is also regarded as unauthorised and attracts a penalty. The auction of tobacco for the season 2021-22, which began in September last year, is expected to continue till February-March 2022 by when the harvested tobacco is auctioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/penalty-on-unauthorised-tobacco-reduced/article38289711.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:01 IST,KARNATAKA||IEI to hold discussion||Claiming that the proposed Mekedatu balancing reservoir project ‘will not cause any serious harm’ to the environment, the Institution of Engineers-India (IEI), Karnataka State Centre plans to organise a session in Bengaluru to discuss various aspects of the project. IEI plans to invite social activist Medha Patkar and actor Chethan Ahimsa, who have opposed the project, to the session. IEI State president M. Lakshmana said, “On behalf of the IEI, we will invite Ms. Patkar to a session to discuss the project and will explain to her that the impact on the environment is minimal. The project will benefit farmers in Mysuru region besides addressing the drinking water needs of Bengaluru and other districts like Kolar and Chickballapur.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iei-to-hold-discussion/article38289534.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||5.5 lakh vegetable seedlings to be distributed||The Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat in Alappuzha has come with a project to increase vegetable production in the local body. As part of the project, the panchayat will distribute 5.5 lakh vegetable seedlings of five varieties to some 9,000 residents free of cost. The local body has joined hands with the Kudumbashree Mission to produce seedlings of beans, bitter gourd, snake gourd, Okra, and ribbed gourd. Rain shelters "The saplings grown in rain shelters in 18 wards are ready for distribution. Planting materials including traditional and hybrid seeds and fertilisers were provided by the panchayat. The local body is spending Rs. 7 lakh for the project," said M. Santhoshkumar, vice president, Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat. The distribution of seedlings, which was scheduled for Tuesday, has been postponed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Neighbourhood groups "The entire saplings will be distributed to households through neighbourhood groups in a single day. They will also be planted across the panchayat around the same time. We will also make arrangements for the sale of vegetables," Mr. Santhoshkumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/55-lakh-vegetable-seedlings-to-be-distributed/article38289864.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||Alappuzha has 1,087 new cases, most through contact||COVID-19 continued to spread at breakneck speed in Alappuzha with the district registering 1,087 new cases on Tuesday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 30.41%. The fresh cases include 1,063 people who contracted the disease through local transmission. Ten health-care staff and one person who came from abroad tested positive for the disease. The source of infection of 16 people, including some of the health staff, remains unidentified. Meanwhile, 119 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district, recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 5,039. In view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases, a virtual all-party meeting chaired by Alappuzha Municipal chairperson Soumya Raj on Tuesday decided to initiate various measures to tackle the spread of the disease in the civic body. Officials said that checks in shops and other commercial establishments would be intensified for violation of COVID-19 rules. The meeting decided to organise awareness programmes on the COVID-19 pandemic and strengthen the functioning of ward-level monitoring committees. Registration will be made mandatory for weddings and other functions. Oxygen and medicine audits will be carried out at General Hospital, Alappuzha, and primary health centres in the municipal limits. Fumigation Fumigation teams will disinfect markets and other public places. Alappuzha Municipal vice chairman P.S.M. Hussain, municipality standing committee heads Beena Ramesh, A. Shanavas, R. Vinitha, K. Babu, and Bindu Thomas, and party leaders spoke.  Ten health-care staff and one person who came from abroad tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-has-1087-new-cases-most-through-contact/article38289865.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:58 IST,KERALA||Five held for vandalising memorial||The police officers have arrested five people who allegedly vandalised a memorial column of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi at Vellakinar in Alappuzha. The arrested have been identified as Saurav (20), Ajith (30), Sreejith (30), Shihab (25), and Deepu (28), all hailing from Alappuzha municipality. The arrested are Democratic Youth Federation of India activists. The incident happened on Sunday. The arrested were released on bail. Besides the memorial, a flag post of the Youth Congress was destroyed. Following the incident, Youth Congress activists filed a complaint before the police alleging that DYFI activists were behind the attack. Meanwhile, the memorial column has been reconstructed by the Congress party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-held-for-vandalising-memorial/article38289858.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Wayanad to take steps to curb number of tourists||The Wayanad district administration has intensified restrictions on the public in the wake of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the district. District Collector A. Geetha on Tuesday issued directives to the District Tourism Promotion Council officials to adopt steps to restrict the number of tourists in major destinations in Wayanad. Visitors’ entry to destinations like Edakkal and Kuruva should be booked online, said Ms. Geetha. Private hospitals were directed to reserve 30% of beds for COVID-19 patients. Govt. offices Senior officials of various departments were directed to restrict the entry of public to government offices and provide services through the online mode. Pregnant employees may be provided work-from-home facility. Only online classes should be held for students up to Class 9 until January 21, said the Collector. The number of participants in social, political, cultural, and sports events should be restricted and monitored, said Ms. Geetha, adding that if more participants attended such events, legal action would be initiated against them. Hotels, gymnasiums, swimming pools, and clubs should be closed till February 15 and the health Inspectors should ensure that the establishments under their jurisdiction were adhering to COVID-19 protocols. A flower show and exhibition scheduled to be organised by a charitable trust from January 20 to February 10 has been directed to be cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-to-take-steps-to-curb-number-of-tourists/article38289792.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:26 IST,KERALA||Minority community leaders sidelined in Cong.: Kodiyeri||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary and Polit Bureau member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has the same tone as that of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader Mohan Bhagwat. Speaking to mediapersons here on Tuesday, Mr. Balakrishnan said the Congress could not replace the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and it had lost its secular face. He alleged that leaders belonging to minority communities were neglected and sidelined in the Congress in line with Mr. Gandhi’s speech in Jaipur calling for establishing what he called a rule of Hindus in the country after ousting the “Hindutva” government at the Centre. Alleging that the Congress even sidelined its prominent minority faces, including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Salman Khurshid and K.V. Thomas, from the national-level leadership as part of the party’s new policy, Mr. Balakrishnan claimed this issue was being discussed widely in the Congress organisation. Accusing the Congress of discontinuing the representation of people from minority communities in the party’s State leadership, Mr. Balakrishnan sought to know whether the move was part of the new policy announced by Mr. Gandhi in Jaipur. ‘In State unit too’ “The question is whether minorities are being sidelined in the Kerala unit of the Congress as well. When K. Karunakaran became Chief Minister in 1982, A.L. Jacob was made Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president. When A.K. Antony became Chief Minister, K. Muraleedharan was elected president. When Oommen Chandy became Chief Minister, Mullappally Ramachandran became president,” Mr. Balakrishnan said and sought to know the reason for changing that norm. No differences with BJP Mr. Balakrishnan asked why was the Congress unable to strongly oppose what Mr. Gandhi had said. His stance was akin to that of the RSS chief. “While the BJP says that India is a nation of Hindus. Rahul Gandhi says it is the country of Hindus. One says nation and the other says country. This is the only difference between the BJP and the Congress,” he said. The CPI(M) leader made the statement at a press conference here two days after he told the CPI(M) Thiruvananthapuram district conference that the Congress which upheld secularism excluded minorities at the Kerala leadership of the party.  ( With inputs from Press Trust of India )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minority-community-leaders-sidelined-in-cong-kodiyeri/article38289820.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||India-China row should be resolved via dialogue: SRP||CPI(M) Polit Bureau member S. Ramachandran Pillai has said the party’s stand has always been to resolve the India-China border dispute through dialogue. He clarified his position here on Tuesday in the wake of media reports that cited him as glorifying China at the Kottayam district conference of the party and differences between him and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the issue. Mr. Pillai said the Line of Actual Control had not been demarcated and earlier the previous Congress government and now the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government had held talks with China. But India should never fall into the trap of the United States, which would be happy if both nuclear powers, India and China, went to war. He demanded that the Congress and the BJP make it clear whether they were with the U.S. which wanted the total destruction of both countries through war. Mr. Pillai said assessing the global situation at party conventions, he spoke of the progress of socialist countries. It was suggested that India should learn from China’s growth. He said China was the world’s largest debtor in 1999, but things had changed by 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/india-china-row-should-be-resolved-via-dialogue-srp/article38289871.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Restrictions on events imposed in Kasaragod||In the wake of increasing COVID-19 cases, District Collector Bhandari Swagat Ranveer Chand has issued orders limiting the number of people attending all kinds of social, political, cultural, religious and community functions and wedding ceremonies to a maximum of 50. The restrictions were imposed in accordance with the directives from the government to control the spread of the disease. TPR 23% An average of 23% of test positivity rate was reported on January 15, 16, and 17. Hence, the restrictions under Sections 26, 30, and 34 of the Disaster Management Act were imposed, the Collector said. Formation of clusters If a COVID cluster forms in a school, the principal or headmaster should immediately inform the Health Department, the Collector said. All ceremonies, meetings and events in government, quasi-government, public sector and self-governing bodies should be conducted only online. Organisers must be careful to wear masks at all events and to ensure physical distancing. The police, sectoral magistrates, and local authorities have been directed to strictly enforce these regulations, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-on-events-imposed-in-kasaragod/article38289784.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||4,013 more test positive as COVID-19 cases surge in district||As many as 4,013 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Tuesday and the test positivity rate is an alarming 40.71%. The district now has a total of 21,613 COVID-19 patients. On Tuesday, 2,468 patients tested negative, registering recovery. A fresh batch of 9,858 samples were sent for testing on Tuesday. Aid for hospital Meanwhile, Petronet LNG Ltd provided about Rs. 48.9 lakh from its corporate social responsibility fund towards setting up facilities for COVID-19 treatment at the Government General Hospital, Ernakulam. The fund was used to buy multipara monitor, B level ventilator and humidifier required for 14 ICU beds, according to an official release. The project was executed by the National Health Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4013-more-test-positive-as-covid-19-cases-surge-in-district/article38289800.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:46 IST,KERALA||Govts. invoking NSA, UAPA to suppress dissent: Kafeel Khan||The National Security Act and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act were being invoked not only by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh, but by all governments that felt threatened by the criticism against their policies and wanted to suppress dissent, according to Kafeel Khan, paediatrician and activist. “I feel lucky that I am alive despite being in prison for about 500 days and to remain as a refugee in my own country following state persecution. But, there are thousands languishing in jail for over 10 to 20 years under these laws,” he said, after presenting his book “The Gorakhpur Hospital Tragedy: A Doctor’s Memoir of a Deadly Medical Crisis” at the Ernakulam Press Club on Tuesday. Dr. Khan had hit the headlines after he alleged that oxygen shortage led to the deaths of several children at the BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur in 2017. He was arrested on January 29, 2020, for an address to students of the Aligarh Muslim University on the Citizenship Amendment Act. On the continuing plight of the families of the children, who died in the devastating tragedy, Dr. Khan said that justice had not been delivered to them yet. “They are yet to receive the financial assistance assured by the authorities. The Uttar Pradesh Government fudged the COVID-19 data to show that the number of deaths owing to COVID-19 was less,” he alleged. On the poll scenario in Uttar Pradesh, Dr. Khan said that the Samajwadi Party led by Akhilesh Yadav had an initial edge. “But, that has changed after the Bharatiya Janata Party changed the battle into a Modi versus Akhilesh, fearing that they will lose the election. Yogi Adityanath has been removed from the posters and rallies,” he said. Dr. Khan said that he had received an offer to publish the Malayalam version of his book and it was expected to be ready by March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govts-invoking-nsa-uapa-to-suppress-dissent-kafeel-khan/article38289795.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Yet another blaze at Brahmapuram plant site||A major fire broke out in the area where plastic waste has been piled up at the site of the Brahmapuram solid waste treatment plant on Tuesday afternoon. The area was covered with smoke as the refuse that have been accumulated on the campus over the years caught fire. The dry weather and wind in the region worsened the fire situation even as fire and rescue officials from the five nearby fire stations attempted to douse the fire. An attempt to douse the fire using the water from the nearby Kadambrayar didn't succeed as the floating vegetation prevented the suction of water to fire tenders. The delay in operating fire hydrants had also hampered firefighting efforts, according to local residents. Though the fire could be brought under control, the smoke billowing out of the garbage heaps has made life miserable for the residents of the nearby local bodies, they complained. Fire outbreaks have become a regular affair at the site during the summer months. Huge quantities of waste, including plastic refuse, from the Kochi Corporation and the nearby local bodies are being dumped on the campus. The efforts of the local body to process the waste through various measures, including biomining, have not succeeded fully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yet-another-blaze-at-brahmapuram-plant-site/article38289807.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Traders may be shifted to Ambedkar Stadium||After the failed attempt to rehabilitate the traders of Fashion Street to an area near the Ernakulam Maharaja’s College ground, the authorities are now toying with the idea of using the space of the Ambedkar Stadium near the bus stand of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation. A team of officials from the Kochi Corporation, the Irrigation Department and the Greater Cochin Development Authority had carried out a joint inspection of the site to ascertain its suitability for rehabilitating the traders during the first week of January. The rehabilitation of 74 traders, who have set up shops on the canal, remains a major stumbling block to the implementation of the Mullassery canal rejuvenation programme. The Irrigation Department is the implementing agency of the work. The Kochi Corporation had, a few decades ago, allowed the traders to set up shops on the canal as part of a rehabilitation programme. The restoration of the canal to its original extent, removal of encroachments and levelling of its floor bed were listed as the steps to be carried out to ensure the smooth flow of water to free the city of floodwaters. The Irrigation Department had been insisting that the shops and the encroachments be removed for it to begin the canal restoration work. The civic authorities had to backtrack from the proposal for shifting the traders temporarily to the college ground after the college authorities and a section of the general public objected to it. The department is waiting for the authorities to clear the encroachment on the canal and remove the shops for the work to begin. The contract for the canal work was signed between the department and the contractor picked for the job last week. The district administration has been apprised of the developments, said Baji Chandran, Superintending Engineer of the Irrigation Department, who is leading the canal restoration work. The project cost would be less than the anticipated expense as the contractor quoted an amount, which was 4% lower than the estimate. Initially, it was expected that the project may require Rs. 10 crore, he said. The project site could be handed over to the contractor only when the impediments on the canal were cleared and the project site was assigned to the Irrigation Department. Any delay in handing over the site could further delay the implementation of the project, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-may-be-shifted-to-ambedkar-stadium/article38289803.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||No clusters yet in schools in Ernakulam, say officials||Nearly 30% of the teenagers in schools under the General Education department in Ernakulam have received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine as the authorities stated that no school-based cluster has been reported yet in the district. However, there has been an increase in number of students and teachers getting infected following the spike in the number of daily cases from the first week of January. Around 190 students have been tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 while the corresponding number of teachers and non-teaching staff is around 100 in schools under the General Education department after the offline sessions resumed from November 1 onwards, according to official estimates. Honey G. Alexaner, Deputy Director of the department, Ernakulam, said that there were only a few cases of infection among students and teachers in November and December. “The surge was witnessed from the first week of January as the number of students and teachers shot up compared to the previous months,” she said. Meeting held A meeting of the representatives of schools and parent-teacher associations concerned was held in the district on Tuesday to chalk out the measures to be initiated amidst the worsening pandemic situation. Vaccination coverage has to be stepped up without delay, it said. Schools have been told to speed up the process by improving the coverage by the end of January, according to the General Education department. Schools having about 500 students under the target group can organise vaccination camps on the campus itself. Managements can seek the help of the Health department for organising camps. The physical mode of learning will continue for students in Classes 10, 11, and 12 in view of the vaccination for teenagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-clusters-yet-in-schools-in-ernakulam-say-officials/article38289801.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Maintain status quo in SNDP Yogam elections: High Court||The Kerala High Court has ordered that the status quo be maintained for ten days in the proceedings of elections for the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam office-bearers scheduled for February 5. Justice T.R. Ravi passed the order on Tuesday on a writ petition filed by V. Vijayakumar and another person from Kollam challenging the articles of association of the Yogam. Fully heard According to the petitioners, the election was scheduled for February 5 and they sought a stay on the proposed election. The court observed that the case had been finally heard and reserved for judgment. The judgment would soon be pronounced. ”As such, it will be appropriate that the proceedings of the election are not continued in the meanwhile.” Based on decision The high court also noted that even as per the petition filed, the election was due on February 5 and hence it would have to be conducted ultimately on the basis of the decision arrived at in the case.  The election is scheduled for February 5 and the petitioners sought a stay on the proposed election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maintain-status-quo-in-sndp-yogam-polls-hc/article38289793.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Major fire breaks out at plastic dump yard at Kalamassery||A major fire broke out at the plastic dumping site of the Kalamassery Municipality in North Kalamassery on Tuesday afternoon. The incident occurred around 3.30 p.m. as the fire spread over the vast heaps of plastic waste dumped at the collection yard of the civic body. Seven fire tender units were pressed into service to contain the fire. Thick plumes of black smoke billowed over the plant and firefighting operations were hampered as the smoke and fire spread quickly from one heap of waste to another. Inflammable gas “We were facing a major challenge to ensure full control as the fire continued from the heaps owing to the likely presence of inflammable gas in it,” said K. K. Shiju, Regional Fire Officer, Ernakulam. The delay in arranging an earth remover to break the chain of the waste heaps lying close to one another affected the firefighting operations. Despite repeated requests, the municipality authorities were not able to deploy it at the site even after two hours of the incident. Blamed A.K. Nishad, chairman of the Health Standing Committee, blamed the CPI(M)-led Opposition of delaying the council’s recommendation to rent out an earth remover for use in case of an emergency. “However, we are trying our best to arrange one at the site without delay,” he said. The municipality authorities alleged that the government’s Clean Kerala Company, which was entrusted with the task of collecting the waste from the dumping yard, had delayed it. However, the officials of the Clean Kerala Company denied the allegation while stating that they had already shifted about 400 to 500 tonnes after signing the agreement with the municipality in December. Moreover, the municipality authorities were yet to provide a clear picture on the exact quantity of plastic waste lying at the site till now, they said. Thick smoke The officials of the State Pollution Control Board, who rushed to the site, pointed out that monitoring turned tough owing to the heavy smoke and fire. There were chances of methane type inflammable gas formation in the waste heaps, resulting in the fire. Other reasons, if any, have not yet been ascertained, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-fire-breaks-out-at-plastic-dumping-yard-at-kalamassery/article38289805.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Govt. urged to protect Manassery fishing gap||Traditional fishers, operating about 50 fishing boats and using the fishing gap in Manassery, Saudi and Kattiparambu, south of Fort Kochi, have appealed to the State government to maintain navigability of the fishing gap to enable traditional fishers to continue to harbour their boats and sell fish in the neighbouring areas.K.P. Vijayakumar of Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedi, representing traditional fishers using the mini fishing harbour north of Chellanam, said the State irrigation department had been trying to protect the fishing gap using granite boulders in the past. However, the recent incidents of heavy weather conditions had resulted in the boulders falling into the waters, making them not suited to the navigation of fishing boats.Meanwhile, a convention of local people on Monday appealed to the government to make the Manassery fishing gap operational. Father Paul Kochikkaran, who addressed a convention of local people, said the authorities should not ignore the problems being faced by local fishers, who benefit from the fish landing centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-urged-to-protect-manassery-fishing-gap/article38289806.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||HC directive on land to Chengara agitators||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to inform it of the time frame for allotment of habitable land to the landless, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes families at Chengara in Pathanamthitta district. Justice Devan Ramachandran also directed the government to disclose the name of the officer entrusted with identifying and allotting the land. The court issued the order on a writ petition filed in 2013 by the Adivasi Dalit Munneta Samiti and others. 20 years The court reminded the authorities that the issue had its beginning in 2001 when an agreement was entered into by the government with the participants of the Chengara land agitation. It had now been nearly 20 years. But a resolution had not yet been found. When the State was gearing up for various projects which would involve displacement of people on account of land acquisition, the delay in grant of eligible benefits to the persons who were involved in the Chengara agitation would only give rise to further strife and complication, the court said. The court added that unless earlier commitments made by the government were adequately met, further commitments, particularly on account of the pressing demand on land in Kerala, would become impossible to be honoured, thus paying the way for deleterious consequences in future. Therefore, the competent authority of the government should tell the court how and when the land required for the families would be allotted to them. This was every important because the requirement of land on account of various development activities would only mount in future. Govt. stance The State government submitted that the Land Revenue Commissioner and other revenue officials were taking steps to identify land for distribution and 36.3438 hectares of habitable land had been identified in four districts. The government was in the process of finding out more land. The court also directed the State government to conduct necessary inquiry to confirm whether 36.3438 ha was fully habitable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chengara-stir-hc-asks-about-land-allotment/article38289867.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Protests continue against synod decision||The fast by members of the laity and priests in the Syro-Malabar Archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly against a decision of the Synod of Bishops to impose a uniform code of Mass celebration continued for the seventh day on Tuesday. Father Babu Kalathil, who who on a fast, was shifted to the Lisie Hospital, but continued his fast for the seventh day. Bishop visits protesters Bishop Kuriakose Bharanikulangara of Faridabad visited those on protest at the hospital, said a communication from Alamaya Munnettam, the combine of lay people demanding that the church administration should allow a fully congregation-facing Mass. Almayana Munneettam leaders Prakash P. John and Thomas Keercheri are those others on a fast. Father Tom Mullanchira is also on a fast in front of the Cardinal’s house, the communication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stir-continues-against-synod-decision/article38289775.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:02 IST,KERALA||TPR over 31% in Kollam, special squad to control crowd||As the test positivity rate (TPR) in Kollam crossed 30% on Tuesday, the district administration has decided to take strong measures to ensure protocol compliance. A special squad led by incident commanders will be in charge of crowd control, and beaches, parks, public places, places of worship, hotels, bars, theatres, and auditoriums will be inspected. Field inspections Two enforcement squads that include deputy tahsildars (including special offices) will be formed to carry out field inspections on shift basis. The deputy collectors in charge of each taluk will coordinate the activities of the squad and strict legal action will be taken against violators. The District Police Chief and the Deputy Director of Panchayat will appoint two officers each to assist the respective tahsildars in the operation of the squads. District Development Commissioner Asif K. Yusuf will handle the district-level coordination of the squads.While the number of new COVID-cases on Tuesday rose to 1,604, the current test positivity rate in Kollam is 31.7. The total number of active cases in the district is 8,074. According to Ms. Parveen, the medical facilities in the district are currently adequate. “The situation will be assessed and extra measures will be taken if needed. Preparations will be made to set up facilities in private hospitals as well. Oxygen availability and number of beds will be increased as required. The ventilator and ICUs will also be arranged proportionate to the spread. At present there is no reason for panic,” she said.  The number of active cases in Kollam district on Tuesday is 8,074.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-over-31-in-kollam-special-squad-to-control-crowd/article38289870.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:58 IST,KERALA||Career guidance webinar held||The District Employment Exchange organised a career guidance webinar here on Tuesday. More than 100 students participated in the event held at Kuzhimathikad Government Higher Secondary School. Regional Employment Officer R. Baiju Chandran inaugurated the function. Principal S.R. Sreeja presided over the function. Employment Officers M. Sheriff and R. Ashokan were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/career-guidance-webinar-held/article38289859.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Online training programme||The Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is conducting an online training programme on manufacturing value-added products. The training programme will be held from 11 a.m. on January 21. Last date Interested persons may register their names before 10.30 a.m. on January 21. For more details, call 0476-2698550, 80750 28868 or 99477 75978.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-training-programme/article38289949.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||16 injured as KSRTC bus overturns||Sixteen persons were injured when a speeding Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus overturned near Adichira in Ettumanur in the early hours of Tuesday. The accident occurred around 2.15 a.m. on the Main Central Road when the driver of the bus, on its way to Mattupetty from Thiruvananthapuram, lost control of the vehicle. The bus rammed several electric poles before overturning. A police team, which rushed to the spot, launched a rescue operation and rushed the injured persons to Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. Officers said that none of the injured was in a critical condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/16-injured-as-ksrtc-bus-overturns/article38289860.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:00 IST,KERALA||Five more arrested for youth’s murder||The police team probing the murder of a 19-year-old youth, whose body was dumped at the Kottayam East police station, on Tuesday arrested five more persons in connection with the case. District Police Chief Shilpa Devaiah told mediapersons that Shan Babu was bludgeoned to death by Jomon as part of a raging online war between two gangs. “The murder was committed to avenge the assault on one of his gang members in Thrissur a few months ago, a video of which was circulated on social media. Jomon was outraged over the victim and his friends for liking and commenting on this footage and hatched a plan to trace the leader of his rival gang through Shan,” explained the official. “Jomon picked up Shan from his house along with a few of his friends, who were also involved in the assault and murder. They, however, fled the scene after dropping the accused and the victim’s body at a location near the police station,” she said. All six held She said all six persons involved in the crime were in custody and being interrogated. Jomon, a history-sheeter, had about 15 criminal cases pending against him. The official dismissed allegations of police inaction and said all steps had been initiated on receiving a complaint by the victim's mother. During interrogation, the key accused had confessed to bludgeoning the youth to death using a coffee stump.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-more-arrested-for-youths-murder/article38289873.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||15 COVID clusters in Kozhikode; TPR 31.48%||The number of COVID-19 clusters in Kozhikode district rose to 15 on Tuesday. Five were closed down because of high transmission of the infection. According to the Health Department, most of these are educational institutions. The number of new infections rose to 2,967 and the daily test positivity rate came down slightly to reach 31.48% on Tuesday. Active caseload in the district is now 14,409. As many as 261 people are undergoing treatment in private hospitals and 145 at government hospitals. Meanwhile, the district administration, the departments of Health and Education, and the Arogya Keralam Mission are planning to launch ‘Eduguard’, a vaccination initiative for the 15-17 age group from January 20 to 22. Spot registration will be available in schools with over 500 students. The students will be given Covaxin. Health Department sources said 49,075 people in the age group had been vaccinated since the launch of the drive on January 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/15-covid-clusters-in-kozhikode-tpr-3148/article38289783.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||As cases rise, MCH under pressure||The Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, has started feeling the pinch of an apparent third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to sources, there has been an increase in the patients seeking admission in the past few days after the number of infected persons rose sharply owing to the Omicron variant of the virus. A doctor working there said that over 200 persons had approached the out-patient section of the general medicine department on Monday, 13 of whom were admitted. “Even during the second wave of the pandemic, we haven’t had more than 100 or 120 persons a day,” he said. Only a couple of beds remain vacant in the wards, and five beds in the intensive care units. Another doctor said that a majority of the patients admitted were in the ‘A’ or ‘B’ category, who were asymptomatic or those with mild symptoms. “The Government General Hospital is reportedly not taking in patients saying that they don’t have enough beds. No other government hospital in the periphery is available for treatment,” he said. While some doctors said that more first-line treatment centres (FLTC) should be set up to handle infected persons with mild or moderate symptoms and those who were asymptomatic, some others said they could be accommodated even in facilities such as primary health centres. Some people were reportedly reluctant to go to second-line treatment centres set up at private hospitals such as Malabar Medical College Hospital and Research Centre and KMCT Medical College Hospital because the treatment is not fully free. “The referral system in government hospital should be streamlined. Only ‘C’ category people who are symptomatic and needing urgent medical attention should be taken to the MCH,” one of the doctors suggested. Staff crunch The hospital authorities are also facing severe staff crunch with no additional manpower added to the existing system. The COVID brigade of health professionals formed to tackle the pandemic has been disbanded. The nursing staff are the worst affected. The existing staff at the main hospital block were redeployed for the superspecialty block earlier. The staff required for the new building under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana were taken from among them again, said the sources. Added to this is the phenomenon of a rising number of health professionals testing positive for the virus. The doctors are of the opinion that urgent measures and proper planning are required to avoid crumbling of the system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-cases-rise-mch-under-pressure/article38289787.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Over 25 injured as building collapses||Over 25 labourers were injured when a building under construction collapsed at the Markaz Knowledge City near Thamarassery in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. According to sources, 24 persons were admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital with different type of injuries and some others to a private hospital in Kozhikode city. Some of them were earlier taken to the taluk hospital, Thamarassery. Concrete reinforcement The incident happened at 11.50 a.m. when the concrete reinforcement of the second floor of the building was going on. In the process, the first floor is also reported to have collapsed. The land earlier was a rubber plantation. Markaz Knowledge City is being built by a trust run by the Sunni faction of Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar. Alex Thomas, president of the Kodenchery grama panchayat, said that the local body would conduct an inquiry into the incident. Construction companies have been told to take precautions to avoid similar incidents, Mr. Thomas said. Meanwhile, Abdul Salam, chief executive officer, Markaz Knowledge City, told the media that construction works had been going on there for the past 10 years and all the precautions and quality control measures had been taken. He claimed that within 10 minutes of the incident, the labourers were given first aid treatment and taken to hospital. Mr. Salam said that the injuries were not of a serious nature. “We take responsibility for their care and rehabilitation and ensure that similar incidents do not recur,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-25-injured-as-building-under-construction-collapses/article38289781.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||UDF, BJP boycott Corpn. Council meeting||In protest against the denial to submit adjournment and calling attention motions, councillors belonging to the opposition Congress-Indian Union Mulsim League (IUML) combine and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) boycotted an online meeting of the Kozhikode City Corporation Council held on Tuesday. At the same time, the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI-M]-led Left Democratic Front adopted the agenda for the day in less than an hour. However, some items on the agenda that required detailed discussions were kept aside for the next council meeting. The United Democratic Front members said that there was no point in participating in a council meeting without presenting issues affecting the citizens. However, BJP members, who attended the online meeting initially, boycotted the proceedings after Mayor Beena Philip refused the party leader T. Raneesh to present an adjournment motion. Mr. Raneesh said that serious issues such as the surge in COVID-19 cases needed to be discussed in the council meeting. Certainly, it was not right to deny permission to present an adjournment motion in this regard, he said. However, the Mayor responded saying that a high-level committee would be summoned the next day to discuss the COVID-19 situation. UDF party leader K.C. Shobitha and deputy reader K. Moideen Koya said that their members had boycotted the council meeting after the Mayor declined to give permission to discuss the issues relating to the COVID-19 pandemic and the shortage of medicines in government hospitals. Ms. Shobitha of the Congress said that the police had slapped cases on the rallies organised by opposition parties but no cases were registered against the CPI(M), which had organised a bigger public meeting in connection with its party district conference on the beach. Another Congress member, P. Ushadevi, said that she wanted to present a calling attention motion pertaining to the irregularities unearthed by the Vigilance department in the corporation office. The UDF councillors also accused the corporation authorities of giving permission to conduct the election to the Kudumbashree Mission during the pandemic. However, permission was refused to conduct a meeting of 75 council members, they said. Henceforth, household waste collected by the Haritha Karma Sena from the corporation limits will no longer be taken to the Njeliyanparambu waste treatment unit. This was because the Malabar Waste Management Private Limited, a special purpose vehicle of the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC), had requested that the site be cleared as construction of the waste-to-energy plant at Njeliyanparamba was in progress. The waste-to-energy plant will be set up on 12.67 acres of corporation land. The Rs. 250-crore project is expected to process around 450 tonnes of solid waste and create 6 MW of electricity per day. Meanwhile, the corporation has allotted 20 days to Niravu Vengeri to clear the existing waste from Njeliyanparamba.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-bjp-boycott-corpn-council-meeting/article38289791.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Travellers to foreign countries a worried lot||The third wave of COVID-19, triggered by the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, is disrupting the travel plans of businesspeople and vacationers in Kerala. With the looming uncertainty, families who had earlier booked flight tickets to go abroad have either cancelled or postponed their trips. “I was planning to visit my daughter in the United Kingdom this month. But the surge in positive cases has changed my plans to April,” said Beena Thomas, a retired college teacher.  Advance bookings Travel agents confirmed that advance bookings had come down by almost 50% and current bookings by 25%. “The cancellations are mainly on account of the stricter testing norms and quarantine rules,” said T. Hameed, a tour consultant in Kozhikode. Usually, ticket bookings to the Gulf Cooperation Council nations for summer vacations begin from January. Many who had previously booked flights to visit the ongoing Expo 2020 in Dubai are also confused. Some have cancelled or postponed their tickets to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) . “The peak winter tourism is in full swing in Dubai. Millions have visited the national pavilions since the expo started on October 1 last year,” said Vinod Nair, an NRI. Travellers are hoping that the expo organisers will extend the global event beyond March 31 in view of the pandemic situation. Despite the rise in COVID-19 cases in the UAE, over 10 million people have visited the expo until now. Fare hike Many travellers also fear that airline companies will hike fares in the wake of fluctuating travel restrictions. International flights were expected to resume from December 15. Now, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has continued the suspension of international commercial passenger flights till January 31. However, the DGCA has clarified that the restriction will not apply to flights approved by it and international cargo operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacationers-a-worried-lot/article38289789.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||CRC shifted to new premises||The Composite Regional Centre for Skill Development, Rehabilitation and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (CRC), Kozhikode, was relocated to a new building at Chevayur on Tuesday. Virendra Kumar Khatik, Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment, opened the facility through online mode. Mr. Khatik said that Kerala was one of the States with a high population of the differently-abled. According to the 2015 census, there are 7,93,937 such people here. The new CRC building was expected to benefit them, he said. The new building spread over 4,800 sqft was built spending Rs. 20 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crc-shifted-to-new-premises/article38289785.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Nod for skill development centre at Nilambur||V. Muraleedharan, Union Minister of State for External Affairs, will lay the foundation stone for a skill development centre sanctioned by the Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakram (PMJVK) at Nilambur on Wednesday morning. V. Abdurahiman, Minister for Sports, will lay the foundation stone for a girls’ hostel being set up as part of the PMJVK scheme at the same function. The Union Ministry of Minority Affairs chose the Nilambur minority concentration block to set up the skill development centre and the girls’ hostel. The foundation stone will be laid at Nilambur orphanage campus. P.K. Basheer, MLA, will preside over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-skill-development-centre-at-nilambur/article38289788.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Student gathering at Pattambi college invites police wrath||A cultural programme conducted by degree final semester students of Sree Neelakanta Government Sanskrit College, Pattambi, in the college auditorium on Tuesday ended up in a controversy with the police slapping a case for violating COVID-19 protocol. The college authorities had given permission for the final semester students to conduct the programme by following COVID-19 restrictions. Principal Sunil John had allowed 100 students to participate in the programme. However, the students threw caution to the wind when they gathered at the auditorium and danced to the tune of music. Students’ reaction Some students said that it was a natural outburst of their emotions after they were forced to remain off the campus for nearly two years because of COVID-19. The police got wind of it by afternoon, and registered a case against Principal Sunil John, several teachers, and 300-odd students for violating COVID-19 restrictions. The police said they had warned the college authorities against large gathering in the name of celebration. The police said an FIR was filed, and the normal procedures would be followed. Some teachers who were present on the campus at the time of the celebration said that it was not a very large gathering. They said that it was a natural outburst of the emotions pent-up within the students.  Cultural programme by degree final semester students of Sree Neelakanta Government Sanskrit College, Pattambi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/student-gathering-at-pattambi-college-invites-police-wrath/article38289953.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Gender resource centre inaugurated||The district panchayat on Monday launched a gender resource centre and named it after Captain Lakshmi Sahgal. District panchayat president K. Binumol inaugurated the library set up in association with the Kudumbashree Mission. She said that it would be a mini library providing resources for studies on gender justice and equality. It will function by coordinating 50 gender resource centres across the district. As many as 300 books were made available in the first phase. District panchayat vice president C.K. Chamunni presided over the function. District Collector Mrunmai Joshi was the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gender-resource-centre-inaugurated/article38289950.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Investigation on into recovery of explosives||The district police on Tuesday launched a probe into the recovery of abandoned explosives from a location along the Thiruvabharanam procession route near Vadasserikkara. Officials said five defunct gelatin sticks were recovered from a location underneath the Pengad bridge through which the sacred ornaments from Sabarimala would be taken back to Pandalam on January 21. On an alert raised by the local people, a team from the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad reached the spot. The squad recovered the material. Forensic experts also visited the place and collected evidence. Confirming the recovery, the Ranni police said the defunct material might have been kept underneath the bridge by the local fishermen. Representatives of the Pandalam Palace Trust have sought a detailed probe into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-on-into-explosives-found-at-vadasserikkara/article38289868.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:25 IST,KERALA||New preparedness plan with 3 indicators for districts||As the third wave of COVID-19 fuelled by the Omicron virus variant spreads like wild fire across the State and new cases and hospitalisations rise exponentially, the State’s level of preparedness to meet the exigency is in focus. Last year, at the peak of Delta, when there were 4,45,334 active cases with over 37,000 people hospitalised, the State had just about managed to avert the situation of a breach in the health system’s surge capacity. “In comparison, hospitalisations are much fewer now. Of the 1.42 lakh active cases, only about 5,500 patients are in hospitals. Yet, when it comes to preparedness -- ensuring adequate hospital beds and human resource -- it is doubtful whether the State has done enough because this time one cannot take all hospital beds for COVID care and allow non-COVID care to be a casualty. The focus now is indeed on treatment in periphery and field hospitals. But it would be an uphill task to revive the field hospitals and the COVID brigade, all of which had been virtually shut down by October last, “ a senior health official said. Biggest challenges The biggest challenges, public health experts reckon, would be that of health-care workers’ absenteeism as they themselves become COVID-positive in huge numbers and the challenge of overcoming the pandemic fatigue amongst them. However, the State is banking on the fact that hospitalisations and serious disease will not rise because of the high background vaccination rate and the immunity afforded by prior infection in the population. Current strategy “Unlike during the Delta wave, the State is no longer chasing COVID or furiously devising strategies for delaying the peak or flattening the epidemic curve. Apart from the feeling that much of the strategies adopted earlier to tackle COVID had backfired, there is also new understanding that strategies solely focussed on limiting Omicron transmission are useless. The current strategy is to direct districts in preparedness while monitoring the situation closely, emphasising on home care and teleconsultations and not creating unnecessary panic amongst the public,” a member of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee said. The State has readied a new COVID-19 preparedness plan wherein it has set three indicators as threshold triggers for augmenting preparedness at all levels by districts -- hospital bed occupancy, critical care occupancy and caseload. The State has provided only a broad framework, while it will be the task of individual districts to increase the preparedness. As soon as these triggers push the set threshold, district administrations will have to initiate action plans to improve infrastructure, surveillance measures, testing strategies and stocking of liquid medical oxygen. Field hospitals Accordingly, districts should set up field hospitals, prepare a human resource pool and increase oxygen beds, ICU/ ventilator beds by 20%, as soon as the first threshold -- doubling of hospital admissions due to COVID-19 or 50% increase in COVID ICU admission -- is reached. Doubling of ICU admission due to COVID or hospital admissions reaching 10% of total hospital admissions of the district is taken as the second threshold. Alongside, cluster identification, increased testing in clusters, stock assessment of medical oxygen, drugs and consumables in districts should also be initiated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-preparedness-plan-with-3-indicators-for-districts/article38289814.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:23 IST,KERALA||Afghan students’ long wait for electronic visas||After the return of the Taliban to power in Afghanistan, several students from that country who have been selected for scholarships by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations have been facing an uncertain future as they continue their months-long wait for e-visas. The delay has all but extinguished their hope of securing admissions in universities in India. The Government of India’s decision to invalidate visas issued to Afghan nationals had dealt a severe blow to many. Some of them who had returned to Afghanistan to renew their visas have also been separated from their families that have settled in India for years. Munawar (name changed), a postdoctoral scholar at the University of Kerala, has been waiting for six months for the Indian government’s electronic visa. He is worried about his family that is left to fend for itself in Kerala. Although he managed to complete the formalities without much delay, the emergence of the Taliban regime put paid to his plans to return to India. Like many others, Munawar now awaits the e-visa for which he submitted application on August 20 last year. His wife, a postgraduate student at the University of Kerala, and his three children currently reside in Thiruvananthapuram. ‘Hard times’ “These are hard times for the family. My wife and children recently contracted COVID-19 and continue to suffer from its after-effects. I only pray that the Government of India take a compassionate view of the Afghan students and expedite the visa processing,” Munawar said. His plight largely mirrored that of Kabul resident Sayed Mahboob Hashimi, a final-year MBA student of Osmania University. Having settled in Hyderabad for three years, his family had made India their second home. Things fell apart when Mr. Hashimi had to head for Afghanistan five months ago to renew his visa. Ever since, his wife and four children have been staying by themselves in India. With several other Afghan students being unable to join their chosen courses in time, their window of opportunity appears to be closing. Many are now trying to obtain Iran visas in the hope of being able to travel to India from the West Asian country. Sabu Joseph, director of Kerala University’s Centre for Global Academics which handles international students’ affairs, said the university recently received a joint petition by seven Afghan students including Munawar seeking intervention in the issue. The State government has subsequently collected the details of such students, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/afghan-students-long-wait-for-electronic-visas/article38289994.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||TPR in capital district shoots up to 47.8%||The COVID-19 scenario in the capital district remained alarming as the test positivity rate (TPR) shot up to 47.8%, with 6,911 more people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. A health-care worker succumbed to the disease, while many government offices showed initial signs of their functioning being affected on the day. The active caseload rose to 36,250 even as 785 people recovered during the last 24 hours. Of the new cases, the source of infection was unknown in 224 cases. As many as 67 health-care workers were among those infected. Ten recent deaths were also attributed to the disease on Tuesday, according to official statistics. A 46-year old nurse attached to the Varkala taluk hospital, P.S. Saritha of Puthenchantha, succumbed to the disease. After having tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, she had remained in home isolation. After being found non-responsive in her room by her family early Tuesday, she was confirmed dead at a hospital. It is yet to be known if she suffered from any comorbidities. The pandemic appeared to have affected the functioning of the Secretariat, with several employees having contracted the infection. The Chief Minister’s office and the offices of the Health, Forest and Devaswom Ministers are among those that have reported COVID-19 cases during the last few days. The Secretariat Central Library has been closed until January 23 after some of its employees tested positive. General Education Minister V. Sivankutty and Aruvikkara MLA G. Steephen have tested positive for COVID-19. Among the COVID-19 clusters in the district, the Government Medical College Hospital and General Hospital continued to witness high rate of infection among its staff. Nearly 50 health-care workers, including nine doctors, were among those infected in the General Hospital. Nearly 110, including over 20 doctors,, have been infected in the Government Medical College Hospital. Quarantine The functioning of the police force, a vital cog in the government’s COVID-19-norms enforcement strategy, was also affected, with several personnel going into quarantine after being diagnosed with COVID-19. Over 100 officers, including Circle Inspectors, attached to the Thiruvananthapuram City police tested positive in the last few days. The Valiyathura (27) and Karamana (20) police stations were the worst affected. Many cases were also reported at Poonthura, Thiruvallam, Pettah, Nemom and Peroorkada police stations. Seven police personnel delegated for security duties at the Secretariat have also gone into isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-in-capital-district-shoots-up-to-478/article38290010.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Restrictions set to be intensified||Restrictions are set to make a comeback in the capital district after a hiatus as the government has raised the alarm over the unchecked spike in COVID-19 cases. The district-level COVID-19 review meet, which took stock of the unfolding pandemic situation, noted the scant regard given towards the recent set of guidelines issued by the district administration. This has prompted the authorities to tightly enforce the norms and initiate legal action against violators. “The district has witnessed rampant violation of the COVID-19 restrictions. Under such circumstances, police and revenue officials have been tasked with strictly enforcing the norms. Moreover, not more than 50 people will be permitted to attend marriages and funerals,” said Transport Minister Antony Raju during a media briefing that followed the meeting. The Minister said entry to shopping malls and other commercial establishments will also witness restrictions in a manner that permitted one person per 25 sq.ft. of the premises. Pointing out that the government has postponed all scheduled public meetings and functions, Mr. Raju said some organisations are yet to follow suit. Action will be taken against the organisers and participants in such cases, he cautioned. The district currently has 35 COVID-19 clusters, many of which have formed in hospitals and colleges. Seven COVID-19 first-line treatment centres have been opened in various parts of the district. The meeting also floated a host of proposals, including bringing down the attendance levels in government offices and closing down schools and colleges until the COVID-19 surge subsided. A final decision will be taken by the high-level COVID-19 committee chaired by the Chief Minister, Mr. Raju pointed out. In view of the growing number of health-care workers getting infected, the review meeting called for deploying more workers to avert a possible crisis in hospitals. The government had recently disbanded the COVID-19 brigade that had played a significant role in managing first-line treatment centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-set-to-be-intensified/article38290001.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:26 IST,KERALA||Case graph continues to soar in the State||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph soared to 28,481 new cases on Tuesday – a jump of over 6,000 cases from the previous day – when 80,740 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Testing also went up by over 11,000 samples from Monday, with more testing done in the huge case clusters being reported from across the State, especially in higher education institutions. The State’s active case pool that began rising on January 2 when it had just 19,021 cases stood at 1,42,512 cases as on Tuesday, 3.4% of which are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals. The number of recoveries also showed an increase, with 7,303 persons reportedly recovering from the disease on Tuesday. Hospitalisations continued to surge and on Tuesday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 jumped to 944. Current ICU occupancy in both public and private hospitals in the State also rose from 655 to 722. The number of patients requiring ventilator support dipped from 178 to 169. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 51,026, with Kerala adding 122 deaths to the official list of COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday. These include 39 deaths which occurred in the past few days and 83 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following appeals filed by families. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 54,30,258 cases. Most cases in capital Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 6,911, followed by Ernakulam 4,013, Kozhikode 2,967, Thrissur 2,622, Kottayam 1,758, Kollam 1,604, Palakkad 1,546, Malappuram 1,375, Pathanamthitta 1,328, Kannur 1,170, Alappuzha 1,087, Idukki 969, Kasaragod 606 and Wayanad 525 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-graph-continues-to-soar-in-the-state/article38289816.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:23 IST,KERALA||Govt. inaction blamed for tribal suicides||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has accused the government of inaction despite the death of five girls under ‘suspicious’ circumstances in the tribal areas of the district. He was visiting Idinjar and Kochuvila tribal settlements in Peringamala panchayat on Tuesday. Mr. Satheesan alleged that the government machinery was a failure in the tribal belt that was in need of special attention. Government departments, including the police, should be vigilant so that such incidents do not recur. Investigation The drug mafia had the settlements in a strangehold. Not only boys but also girls had fallen prey to a big narcotic substance racket here. Girls as young as 16 or 17 were becoming victims. The presence in tribal settlements of outsiders and those with criminal backgrounds was suspicious. The government should be ready to probe this. The ongoing investigation was not comprehensive, Mr. Satheesan said. He alleged that the government was politicising projects for the empowerment of the tribal community. Instead of tribal welfare, it was exploitation that was happening in the settlements. Authorities, including the tribal officer, had failed to visit the house of the deceased girls. No family should suffer so. The government should come forward to assist the families of the five girls, he said. Mr. Satheesan was accompanied by Adoor Prakash, MP, District Congress Committee president Palode Ravi, Mahila Congress president Jebi Mather and Youth Congress State vice president K.S. Sabarinadhan. Panel takes case Meanwhile, the Kerala State Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes has taken a suo motu case in connection with the suicide of girls in tribal settlements of Vithura and Peringamala. The commission asked the District Collector, the District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) and the Scheduled Tribe Development director to submit reports urgently. The Collector was directed to take steps and issue guidelines to prevent such incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-inaction-blamed-for-tribal-suicides/article38289997.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:23 IST,KERALA||Allianz Group inks lease deal for office space at TechZone||The Embassy Group on Tuesday announced the Allianz Group as its first marquee tenant at the Embassy Taurus TechZone in the capital. Spread over 4,63,704 square feet of the office space, it is one of the largest single office lease transactions in the State. The 3 million square feet Special Economic Zone (SEZ) office space is being jointly developed by Taurus Investment Holdings India and Embassy Group at Taurus Downtown Trivandrum. The 21-acre integrated development plan includes food courts, banks, ATMs, daycares and healthcare centres. Speaking about the development, Aditya Virwani, Chief Operating Officer, Embassy Group, said, “Allianz Companies‘ lease at Embassy Taurus TechZone is a testament to how demand for large office spaces by blue chips has not been diminished by COVID-19.” Somesh Jauhari, Chief People Officer for Allianz Technology India and Allianz Services India, said the signing reaffirms the company's commitment to further grow in Thiruvananthapuram that is home to over 5,500 Allianz employees and remains one of the single largest locations for Allianz outside of Europe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/allianz-group-inks-lease-deal-for-office-space-at-techzone/article38289993.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Corporation to reopen FLTCs after spike in COVID-19 cases||The city Corporation, which had closed down its COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) after the easing of the pandemic situation, has now reopened some of those and is planning to open more with COVID-19 cases shooting up in the capital city. Over the past two days, the district as a whole has recorded more than 40% test positivity rate (TPR), with the city too having some major clusters. The civic body has currently opened FLTCs at the Homoeo Hospital at Iranimuttam, Government Hospital at Fort, Manvila and the Samethi campus near Anayara. Though most of these centres have less than 10 occupants currently, one has close to 70. On Tuesday, directions were issued to open more FLTCs at the Ayush Panchakarma hospital in Poojappura, Railway Auditorium at Thampanoor, Chacka and Vellayambalam. Though a majority of those who have tested positive with mild symptoms are opting for home isolation, civic officials feel that there will be requirement for first-line treatment and isolation facilities at the current rate of spread. In the initial days of the pandemic, the Corporation had opened FLTCs and institutional quarantine centres, which had put the civic body’s financial and human resource under strain. Some of these centres had taken care of people from the nearby panchayats too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-to-reopen-fltcs-after-spike-in-covid-19-cases/article38290002.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:23 IST,KERALA||Making cement bricks from rice husk ash||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has extended support for developing a technology for manufacturing cement bricks from rice husk ash. The university has taken up the project for Kalady Rice Millers Consortium Private Limited, a consortium of 36 rice mill owners founded to serve as a common facilitation centre for the rice milling industry. According to a press note, the project will draw on the expertise of the faculty members across KTU’s associated colleges. It is being facilitated by its Industry Attachment Cell. Alternative source Rice husk is considered as an alternative source for cement manufacturing. Large-scale disposal of rice husk, including open-field burning and unregulated dumping, causes major environmental problems. Such factors has led to rice husk cement growing in demand in the construction industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-cement-bricks-from-rice-husk-ash/article38289995.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:26 IST,KERALA||Restrictions on public transport on the cards||Transport Minister Antony Raju on Tuesday said an emergency meeting of officials of the department and the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will be held on Wednesday. He said the meeting would discuss the need to impose restrictions in public transport vehicles in view of the steep increase in COVID-19 cases. Various proposals regarding steps to minimise crowding and contact on board buses would come up for discussion. Curbs could also be imposed on the number of passengers permitted to travel on a bus. Amidst reports of several KSRTC employees contracting COVID-19, Mr. Raju insisted there was no cause for concern. The KSRTC remained among the least affected among government departments. Under the circumstances, there was no pressing need to cut down on the number of trips, he said. He also blamed a section of employees for propagating falsehoods in a bid to drive commuters away from KSRTC buses. Stringent action would be taken against such efforts. Dismissing reports that the utility plied only 700 buses, KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar said 3,431 buses operated services on Tuesday,including 1,388 buses in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-on-public-transport-on-the-cards/article38289823.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Vaccine for students in schools from today||COVID-19 vaccination for students in schools will get under way on Wednesday. Minister for Health Veena George said here on Tuesday that the decision to administer vaccines in schools was taken so that maximum number of children could be vaccinated and their safety ensured in the wake of the COVID-19 surge. The Health department is all geared up for the vaccination drive, the Minister said. On the directions of the Chief Minister, both the Health and the General Education departments had held numerous rounds of talks before giving a final shape to the vaccination exercise in schools at a meeting of the two Ministers concerned. The vaccines would be administered by adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. Parental consent would be taken before administering vaccines. They should ensure that all children above the age of 15 were vaccinated, Ms. George said. As many as 8,31,495 (55%) children in the 15-18 age group had been vaccinated, she said. Those still unvaccinated should get in touch with school authorities and get registered. Schools with more than 500 beneficiaries are selected as sites for conducting the vaccination, she said. The school vaccination centres would have a waiting area, vaccination room and observation room. They are required to carry Aadhaar or school ID card. These would be presented at the vaccination desk to ensure a student is registered. The children should be questioned to ensure that they do not have any health problems, allergies, and so on. Only then could they receive the vaccine. Post-vaccination, they would be monitored for half an hour in the observation room, said the Minister. Vaccines would be administered in schools from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-for-students-in-schools-from-today/article38290011.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Protest march in support of Dileep fizzles out||A protest march to the Secretariat called by a little-known organisation in support of actor Dileep, an accused in a case involving the kidnapping and sexual assault of a female actor, fizzled out after the police denied them permission citing the prevailing COVID-19 situation. The protest call was issued by the All Kerala Men’s Association, which calls itself “an organisation to fight injustice against men.” A poster of the protest that was shared in social media described its objective as to oppose the “targeting of Dileep”. Director Santhivila Dinesh, who often appears in television discussions in support of the accused actor, was to inaugurate the march. Mr. Dinesh, incidentally, was arrested last year in a case involving the posting of offensive videos against dubbing artiste Bhaghyalakshmi. After the march was cancelled, the organisation’s president Ajithkumar said the association would be back with the protest at a later date. The protest poster had attracted mostly critical comments when it went viral on social media, questioning the timing and intent of the demonstration when the actor had moved an anticipatory bail plea in the High Court following new revelations in the case. .  The protest poster attracted mostly critical comments when it went viral on social media||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-march-in-support-of-dileep-fizzles-out/article38290007.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:26 IST,KERALA||Colleges may return to online classes||Higher education institutions could soon return to online classes amid the steep surge in COVID-19 cases across the State. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu said on Tuesday that the government was seriously considering the possibility of shutting down institutions under the department for the time being. The final decision would be taken by the COVID-19 review committee chaired by the Chief Minister on Thursday. In a statement, Dr. Bindu said Principals had been directed to shutter colleges for 15 days in the event of formation of COVID-19 clusters on campuses. Nearly 15 college clusters had been detected in Thiruvananthapuram alone. Many colleges in the capital had already resumed online classes after several students tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/colleges-may-return-to-online-classes/article38289817.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Kudumbashree polls under lens for flouting norms||The Kudumbashree Mission has come under scrutiny for COVID-19 protocol violations at the Kazhakuttam area development society (ADS) elections on Tuesday. The ADS elections from January 16 to 21 follow those held to the neighbourhood groups, and will be succeeded by polls to the community development societies (CDS). The huge turnout for the Kazhakuttam ADS elections, with social distancing norms ignored, comes at a time when the COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) in the district has crossed 44%. Alarmed by the spike in the case graph, the district administration had, this past weekend, issued an order prohibiting public functions and social gatherings until further notice. The order issued by District Collector Navjot Khosa in her capacity as chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority says public functions or social gatherings, even if they involve less than 50 people, should be cancelled or postponed. At the ADS elections, the ADS general body, which comprises all five elected members from each neighbourhood group in the ward, elects an 11-member governing body for the ADS. Since each general body member has the right to select candidates for the poll to the governing body, the turnout reached triple figures. Kudumbashree representatives say that as part of the plan process for next year, the government had through an order on January 12 given an exemption for conducting the Kudumbashree elections by complying with COVID-19 protocols. Moreover, the Kudumbashree Mission had brought out detailed guidelines for conducting the polls. Kudumbashree members with COVID-19 or those in quarantine could suggest any other member of their neighbourhood group as a proxy to cast their vote. N95 masks or double masking and frequent use of sanitisers were mandatory for all general body members. Thermal scanning was also to be done, and social distancing maintained. Open spaces or well-ventilated halls were to be used for the polls. Each member was also asked to carry own pen. The Kazhakuttam police who were present at the venue, however, said there was no crowding, and those who had gathered in groups were issued warnings. It is learnt that the ADS polls in other wards too have been witnessing a large turnout, with the mission being issued notice by the police earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-polls-under-lens-for-flouting-covid-norms/article38289778.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:23 IST,KERALA||KITE puts out schedule for digital classes||The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) has published the updated telecast schedule for First Bell 2.0 digital classes, effective from January 21. This comes in the wake of in-person learning being discontinued in schools for Classes 1 to 9 for two weeks owing to the surge in COVID-19 cases. All digital classes aired on KITE Victers channel will have a repeat telecast on KITE Victers Plus channel the next day. Classes schedule Three classes for Plus One will be aired on Victers from 7 a.m. to 8.30 a.m. There will be eight classes for Plus Two from 3.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. The pre-primary classes will be shown on the channel at 8.30 a.m. Digital classes for students of Classes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 will be telecast at 9 a.m., 9.30 a.m., 10 a.m., 10.30 a.m., 11 a.m., 11.30 a.m., 12 noon, and 12.30 p.m., respectively. There will be two classes for Class 9 from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m., while Class 10 students will have three classes from 2 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. There will be repeat telecast of Class 10 classes on the channel at 9.30 p.m. The repeat of Plus One classes will be aired on KITE Victers Plus the next day at 6 p.m., while Plus Two classes will be shown at 8.30 a.m., and those for Class 10 students at 7 a.m. Pre-primary Classes for pre-primary to Class 8 students will be re-telecast from 12.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., while that for Class 9 at 5 p.m. “KITE has made all arrangements for completing the digital classes for Class 10 by the first week of February. For Plus Two classes, the classes would be completed by the end of February, following which special revision classes that include topics beyond the focus areas will be telecast on KITE Victers,” KITE Chief Executive Officer K. Anvar Sadath said. KITE will also conduct live phone-in programmes for students to clear their doubts and will bring out special audio books. As per the new schedule, digital classes for Classes 1 to 9 will be completed by April, while that for Plus One by May. Mr. Sadath, in a statement, said the new telecast schedule was designed to provide continuing support to teachers in the wake of temporary suspension of offline classes for students in Classes 1 to 9. It was also in line with the decisions of a high-level meeting presided over by Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty after reviewing the present scenario.  All digital classes aired on KITE Victers channel will have a repeat telecast on KITE Victers Plus channel the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kite-publishes-victers-schedule/article38289777.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:23 IST,KERALA||Lok Ayukta asks govt. to produce files on Cong. plea||The Kerala Loka Ayukta has ordered the State government to furnish relevant files regarding Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala's petition accusing Higher Education Minister R. Bindu of overstepping her constitutional bounds by "pressurising" Governor Arif Mohamed Khan to extend the tenure of the Kannur University Vice Chancellor beyond the retirement age. A division bench headed by Lok Ayukta Cyriac Joseph and Upa Loka Ayukta Haroon R. Rashid tasked the Director General of Prosecution and Special Attorney, Lok Ayukta, K. M. Shaji, to present the files in the court. No response Mr. Chennithala had told the court that he could not proceed against Ms. Bindu because Raj Bhavan had not responded to a Right to Information (RTI) application seeking the production of relevant files and communications. The reluctance had impeded Mr. Chennithala from pursuing the matter in the Lok Ayukta, he said. Autonomy Mr. Chennithala had accused Ms. Bindu of violating the autonomy of varsities and indulging in "nepotism, corruption and maladministration" to insert the next of kin of The Communist Party of India (Marxist) functionaries into academic posts. He alleged that Ms. Bindu had also written to the Governor to disband the expert committee to select the next Kannur University Vice Chancellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lok-ayukta-orders-production-of-files-in-chennithalas-plea/article38289774.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Trekking season from January 20||Reconsidering its decision to ban entry to Agasthyarkoodam, the Forest department has decided to conduct the annual trekking season from January 20 to February 26. According to an official release here on Tuesday, the Thiruvananthapuram Wildlife Warden said the online bookings for the trek will recommence on Wednesday at 11 a.m. Only 50 persons will be provided entry each day. There will not be offline registrations this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trekking-season-from-january-20/article38290000.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Petrol bombs hurled at police station||Two unidentified miscreants hurled two petrol bombs at the Aryancode police station, near Neyyattinkara, on Tuesday. There were no casualties in the attack. The incident occurred around 11.30 a.m. when the motorcycle-borne duo hurled two petrol-filled bottles towards the station. While one exploded and damaged the rear glass of a parked police jeep, the other did not go off after it landed on sand, the police said. The miscreants managed to flee from the scene, despite a few police personnel rushing towards them. A lighter and a pair of footwear were recovered. The attack is suspected to be linked to a crackdown on drug peddlers in the area. A case has been registered in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/petrol-bombs-hurled-at-police-station/article38290006.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Police panel gives clean chit to Churuli||A panel of police officers who had been directed by the Kerala High Court to view and report statutory violations, if any, in exhibiting the Malayalam movie Churuli on an OTT platform has given it a clean chit.  The panel headed by ADGP K. Padmakumar has observed it is impossible to stipulate that a set of characters living in a remote, imaginary land and constantly battling against adverse conditions should use only civil language. The filmmaker has the freedom to decide on the nature of the language that the characters should speak. The characters are intrinsically linked to the language they use. It is not possible to analyse the language that they use in isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-panel-gives-clean-chit-to-churuli/article38289808.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:25 IST,KERALA||63 more Omicron cases||The caseload of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 went up by 63 in the State, taking the total to 591, Health Minister Veena George said on Tuesday. Among the fresh cases, Thrissur registered the higher number with 15 cases. Omicron cases were also registered in Thiruvananthapuram 14, Kollam 10, Ernakulam 8, Malappuram 4, Idukki 3, Palakkad 2, and Pathanamthitta, Kottayam and Kozhikode 1 each. Four of those infected had come from Tamil Nadu in recent times. While 36 people came from low-risk nations, nine others had reached from high-risk nations. Thiruvananthapuram witnessed seven contact cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/63-more-omicron-cases/article38289809.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:26 IST,KERALA||UDF against unscientific lockdown||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) on Tuesday said it was against imposing an unscientific lockdown. Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan said curtailing commerce and daily life totally would further imperil the precarious economy and destroy livelihoods and businesses. In 2020 and 2021, the government had caused overcrowding in banks and shops by unscientifically restricting business hours. It should not reimpose such ham-handed decisions again. Mr. Satheesan accused the government of undercounting Omicron cases to hide the utter ineptitude of its pandemic mitigation strategy. He alleged the daily cases in the State were at least five times the official figure. No strategy The Health department was at a loss to cobble together a coherent public health strategy. The department had come to a standstill. It had disbanded COVID-19 brigades prematurely. Health Minister Veena George's role is, pathetically, limited to counselling the public daily to follow pandemic regulations. Ms. George has no credible mitigation strategy to offer, he alleged. Mr. Satheesan said home test-kits sold off the counter of medical stores had also contributed to the underreporting of COVID-19 cases. There is a dire shortage of anti-viral medications in State-run hospitals. Mr. Satheesan demanded that the government reinstate the social welfare measures implemented during the previous COVID-19 waves. It should declare a moratorium on realising loans from borrowers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-against-unscientific-lockdown/article38289824.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:26 IST,KERALA||SSLC, Plus Two question paper patterns published||The government has published the exam paper patterns for the SSLC and Plus Two examinations. Though the focus area (textbook portions that need to be paid more attention to) for the SSLC and Plus Two examinations had been fixed at 60%, the questions from the focus area have been capped at 70%, with the rest pertaining to non-focus areas. How it works For instance, in a question paper with a maximum score of 80, questions for 56 marks will be from the focus area and the rest from non-focus areas. In a question paper of 60 marks, the focus area questions will be for 42 marks, the rest being from non-focus areas. Last year, the focus area had been fixed at 40%. However, 80% of the questions were from the focus area, while the remaining 20% of the questions were from the rest of the portions, including the focus area. The number of questions was double that for which answers had to be penned. As a result, 100% of the questions could be answered from the focus area. Admission issues These factors are believed to have driven up the number of students who had A+ grade in all subjects last time, leading to complications in securing admission to Plus One and undergraduate courses. This time, a question paper with a maximum of 80 marks has questions only for 120 marks, with 30% being from outside the focus area. So, students aiming to secure full A+ will need to be thorough not only with focus area, but non-focus area portions too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-plus-two-question-paper-patterns-published/article38289822.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||SAY results out||Results of the Class X equivalency Save-A-Year (SAY) examinations for 2021 have been published. The results will be available on the Pareeksha Bhavan websites www.kerala pareekshabhavan.in and https://pareekshabhavan. kerala.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/say-exam-results-out/article38289779.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||IDA elects office-bearers||Dr. Shibu Rajagopal has been elected State president and Dr. Deepu Jacob Mathew as secretary of the Indian Dental Association (IDA) for the year 2022. Other office-bearers have also been elected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ida-elects-office-bearers/article38290005.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Women’s panel sitting put off||The Kerala Women’s Commission has postponed its sitting scheduled to be held at Kerala State Jawahar Bal Bhavan here on Friday and Saturday. The new date will be intimated later, a statement from the commission said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-panel-sitting-put-off/article38290012.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Skilling centres to groom students||Skill development centres will be set up in higher education institutions in the State, Minister for Higher Education R. Bindu has said. She was speaking after inaugurating a mega job fair organised by the Kerala Knowledge Mission in association with the district administration and the Kerala Development and Innovation Strategy Council at Government Engineering College, Thrissur, on Tuesday. “Many students who complete higher education in the State lack skills needed for the employment market. The crisis is severe in engineering sector. The issue will be rectified by providing necessary skill development programmes to groom the students for employment. Universities will be transformed into centres that build confidence in students to face life rather than being mere centres proving degrees,” she said. The government wants students to become entrepreneurs and providers of jobs rather than being jobseekers. 10,000 jobs this month Job fairs were being organised with the objective of providing jobs for 20 lakh people in five years, District Collector Haritha V. Kumar said. The goal was to provide jobs for 10,000 people in January, she added. The job fair was organised in hybrid format.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/skilling-centres-to-groom-students/article38289985.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||More curbs in Thrissur as test positivity rate crosses 30%||Preventive measures have been strengthened in the district as the test positivity rate (TPR) crossed 30% on Tuesday. The district recorded a TPR of 31.01% on the day. There are 28 active clusters in the district. A total of 2,622 persons tested positive on the day. A review meeting convened by Ministers K. Radhakrishnan, K. Rajan and R. Bindu has asked the authorities to strengthen preventive measures and awareness programmes at the local- body level. Currently there are 14,408 active cases in Thrissur. Of them, 475 are admitted to hospitals. Though there are sufficient facilities in health institutions, COVID first-line treatment centres and domicile-care centres will be started wherever necessary. People were asked to maintain COVID-19 protocols strictly to prevent the spread of the virus. Currently there are 28 active clusters in the district, according to Junior Administrative Medical Officer Kavya Karunakaran. Of them, 10 are new. The cluster at Thrissur Government Engineering College is the largest. So far 82 students tested positive there. Jubilee Mission Medical College Hospital has 68 cases and Jyothi Engineering College, Cheruthuruthy, 32 cases. Other clusters have fewer than 20 cases. Ban on meetings As the TPR crossed 30%, no social, political, religious or cultural meetings will be allowed in the district, according to District Collector Haritha V. Kumar. Religious festivals should be observed as rituals without people’s participation. Offices should arrange work-from-home facility for their pregnant staff. Shops and business establishments should encourage online purchase. Examinations, recruitments and sports trials should be organised by maintaining COVID-19 protocols, the Collector said. Rapid response teams will be reinstated in the wake of the increase in cases. Local body institutions have been asked to monitor home isolation of COVID patients and their contacts. Meetings, including grama sabhas, should be convened online. Traders and religious institutions have been given notice in the wake of the new situation. Steps will be taken to ensure that business institutions, markets, tourism centres and religious places maintain COVID-19 protocols. Deputy Collectors will coordinate the preventive measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-curbs-in-thrissur-as-test-positivity-rate-crosses-30/article38289952.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||House surgeon held with MDMA, other synthetic drugs||A house surgeon at the Thrissur Government Medical College was held with drugs on Tuesday. The police seized 2.5 gram of MDMA (ecstasy) and other synthetic drugs from Akhil Mohammed Hussain, who was staying at a private hostel near the medical college. The drugs were brought from Bengaluru, according to the police. The Medical College police and the City Shadow police were keeping vigil as there were reports that a drug network had been active near the medical college. The police had earlier nabbed the peddler who distributed the drugs to Dr. Hussain. The police raided the hostel based on the information provided by the peddler. The drugs were kept under his bed. Dr. Hussain has only 15 more days to complete his house surgency. The police are investigating whether there are more drug users in the medical college. There were indications that a huge network has been functioning in Thrissur concentrating on professional education centres, including medical colleges. During exams There were reports that students were using synthetic drugs during examination time to study overnight. The police have received information on those distributing drugs at the medical college and nearby places. Such networks are booming near professional institutions as the students are willing to buy drugs at exorbitant prices. The house surgeon who was taken into custody has reportedly been using drugs for some time. The police are tracking the phone numbers from which calls were received to the house surgeon’s phone demanding drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/house-surgeon-held-with-mdma/article38289776.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:26 IST,KERALA||Curbs in place at Guruvayur temple||In the wake of the spurt in COVID-19 cases, restrictions have been imposed for darshan at the Sreekrishna temple, Guruvayur. Only 3,000 people will be allowed at the temple. Darshan will be controlled by online booking.  Only 12 people, including photographers, will be allowed for weddings. The Choroonu ceremony for children has been stopped until further announcement and prasadam kit will be given from the temple for those who have already booked for the ceremony..  Cultural programmes at the Melpathur auditorium stand postponed. There will not be any Prasada Oottu. Breakfast for 500 people and lunch for 1,000 people will be given as parcel each day from Wednesday. However, facility will be arranged for Thulabharam by maintaining the COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-in-place-at-guruvayur-temple/article38289821.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:46 IST,KERALA||Seeking blessings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-blessings/article38289799.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:58 IST,KERALA||Undaunted by COVID||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/undaunted-by-covid/article38289857.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:01 IST,KERALA||Ensuring students’ security||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensuring-students-security/article38289862.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Book fair on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/book-fair-on/article38289983.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Chariot procession||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chariot-procession/article38289773.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Food for soul||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-for-soul/article38289999.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:26 IST,KERALA||Procession on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/procession-on/article38289819.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:42 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati Express derails in Goa||The Vasco-da-Gama-Howrah Amaravati Express derailed between Dudhsagar and Caranzol stations in Goa on Tuesday. The front wheels of the leading loco engine derailed at around 8.56 a.m. The derailment happened within minutes of the train leaving Dudhsagar station. However, there were no injuries or causalities. All passengers and staff on board are safe, said a release from the South Western Railway zonal office. The derailment led to a delay in the operation of two services — Train No. 12780 at Castle Rock and Ernakulam- Pune Express at Sanvordem. However, within a few hours, all the three affected trains were readied and continued their onward journey. The accident relief train (ART) and the medical equipment van left Castle Rock at 9.45 a.m. and reached the spot at 10.35 a.m.. A team led by Arvind Malkhede, Divisional Railway Manager and other senior officers rushed to the spot. The full rake of the Amaravati Express is unaffected and is being backed towards Dudhsagar by the ART. Officers have provided drinking water and refreshments. ART team detached the entire rear portion of the train and transported it to Dudhsagar. It will be taken to Kulem in Goa and from there to a workshop in Hubballi. Technicians succeeded in re-railing the locomotive of the train at 11.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-express-derails-in-goa/article38289429.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:42 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In times of pandemic, Bengalureans’ date with dates||Over the last fortnight, hundreds of people have been vying for a date with Mohammed Idrees Choudhury, a well-known dry fruits merchant from Russell Market. Mr. Choudhury’s shop, Delicious, which was established in the 1920s, has always been a popular haunt, but this surge in patronage is unusual at a time when most people are avoiding crowded markets. The reason? He is offering huge discounts on three coveted and expensive varieties of dates — Ajwa, Sufri (Safri) and Kalmi — imported from Saudi Arabia. Rs. 300 a kg These varieties usually retail anywhere between Rs. 750 and Rs. 1,400 a kilo, but Mr. Choudhury is selling them for Rs. 900 for 3 kg, which works out to Rs. 300 a kg. He claimed that his Saudi Arabian exporter, whom he has been trading with for over a decade, offered him, and another trader from Indonesia, huge discounts due to the bumper crop. “I decided to share this discount with customers as we are in the middle of a pandemic,” said Mr. Choudhury. In the initial days, when word spread among his customers, the crowds were so huge that the police were roped in to enforce COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. “Given the way it is spreading in the city, I approached the police. We received special permission to sell the dates, but to keep crowds down, I have introduced a token system,” he said. Kalmi dates usually sell for Rs. 750-800 per kg, while Sufri retails at Rs. 700 per kg. But the most sought-after variety is Ajwa, and prices can go up to Rs. 1,400 a kg. Black Ajwa dates not only have significance in Islamic traditions but are believed to be good for the heart. Others like Kalmi are rich in vitamins. ‘Service to society’ “People have been consuming more dates since the pandemic, but not everyone can afford Ajwa dates. I want people from all economic sections of society to benefit from this. By not cashing in on the heavy discount I was offered, I can render a bit of service to society,” Mr. Choudhury added.  Bangalore Dry Fruits, one of the city’s oldest stores in Chickpet, told The Hindu that the last best price for Ajwa was Rs. 1,100. Customers are thrilled with the windfall.  “I am a regular customer and have been buying from Idrees for the last 10 years. But this special offer is the best so far, specially ahead of the Holy month of Ramzan,” said Syed Yakub, a businessman from Shivajinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-times-of-pandemic-bengalureans-date-with-dates/article38289433.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:42 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Surge in cases due to Congress padayatra’||Suggesting closure of schools and colleges in the light of COVID-19 surge in Karnataka, the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Tuesday blamed the Congress padayatra on Mekedatu issue for the rise in the number of cases.   “In the name of padayatra , the Congress organised a fair. It also made the common man break the rules citing that politicians were violating norms. This led to an increase in the cases in Ramanagaram district where the padayatra was taken out, and across the State,” he told reporters here. “The Congress had always ignored water issues pertaining to the State. Only because elections are nearing, it remembered Mekedatu,” he alleged.  Mr. Kumaraswamy also announced that Janata Jaladhare, a programme by his party to highlight water issues, which was to have been launched on January 26, had been postponed in view of rising cases. “We will start it when the numbers come down. We are not in a hurry like the Congress to start the programme violating pandemic norms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surge-in-cases-due-to-congress-padayatra/article38289435.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:42 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||WRD asks A.P. to put off Krishna water release till April||The Water Resources Department (WRD) has written to Andhra Pradesh authorities to postpone the release of Krishna water to April as all the major city reservoirs are nearly full. Chennai is normally due for a second spell of water release in January. After a bountiful monsoon, the five reservoirs, including the Thervoy Kandigai Kannankottai reservoir, have a combined storage of 10,909 million cubic feet (mcft) of water, which is 92.79% of their total capacity. The fifth reservoir at Thervoy Kandigai Kannankottai, created mainly to store Krishna water, is full. The Poondi reservoir, a prime storage point for Krishna water, continues to get 220 cusecs (cubic feet per second) as inflow from catchment areas. ‘No space’ “We do not have space to store additional water now. On an average, nearly 1,200-1,500 mcft is being drawn from the reservoirs every month to supply the city. So, we have written to the Andhra Pradesh officials to release water from the Kandaleru reservoir in April for summer needs,” an official said. The city received nearly 4,479 mcft of Krishna water between July and September last year. Slow progress The WRD recently resumed work on a retaining wall and lining along the slope of the Kandaleru-Poondi canal at vulnerable portions. However, the Rs. 24-crore project is progressing slowly as the canal still has water flow. “We plan to complete the work by March. Portions of the canal lining have slipped and hindered the flow. This work will ensure better flow of water and reduce siltation in the canal,” the official added. Meanwhile, the WRD is also verifying accounts of project and maintenance cost received from Andhra Pradesh pertaining to the Krishna Water Supply Scheme. The committee, including the WRD and the Finance Department, plans to finalise accounts verification and payment of Rs. 50 crore to the Andhra Pradesh Government soon. The payment of cost would be done as per the Krishna Water Supply Project Agreement, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wrd-asks-andhra-pradesh-to-put-off-krishna-water-release-till-april/article38289572.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:42 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stalin urges SPC to keep tabs on schemes||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday called upon the members of the State Planning Commission (SPC) to come up with comprehensive suggestions for the development of the State. He urged them to monitor whether the welfare schemes implemented by the government reached the people at the grassroots. Chairing a review meeting of the commission at Ezhilagam here, Mr. Stalin said the members should come up with a comprehensive executive plan for implementing their ideas. “You may keep coming up with new ideas. Discuss them with experts and come to us with a comprehensive plan from A to Z,” he said. SPC Vice-Chairperson J. Jeyaranjan made a presentation on the functions of the commission, new policies, information on the department-wise reviews, field visits, among others. Calling upon the members to monitor the welfare schemes, Mr. Stalin said, “If the schemes are not reaching the people, there is no use.” Development was to be achieved in various fronts — quality of life, life span, education, raising of children, eradication of poverty, public health, human rights, social justice and welfare of the marginalised communities. Encouraging the commission to come up with guidelines to ensure development in all sectors, Mr. Stalin pointed out: “We have to agree that our development is not equally distributed. Industrial growth differs between districts and so is education. While poverty is low in some districts, it is high in other districts. You are aware of the financial situation. We need your suggestions on how to save funds. Revenue is generated only through registration and excise. We have to generate revenue from tourism, MSMEs, handicraft, handlooms, among other sectors.” Development in Tamil Nadu should be in social sector, he said. Planning Secretary Vikram Kapur, Commission’s full-time member Rama Srinivasan, SPC Member-Secretary T.S. Rajsekar, members K. Deenabandu, T.R.B. Rajaa, G. Sivaraman and Narthaki Nataraj participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-asks-planning-panel-to-monitor-schemes/article38289564.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ID liquor makers kill ‘police informer’||Two Illicitly Distilled (ID) liquor manufacturers allegedly killed a man, P. Venkata Ram Kumar (49), branding him as a police informer. Police arrested the accused, Parasa Veera Raju and his son Mahesh, of Puchikapadu village in Jeelugumilli mandal on Tuesday. According to Polavaram DSP K. Latha Kumari, the accused suspected that Ram Kumar was passing on information to the police on the ID liquor brewing units in the locality. They had a heated argument with Ram Kumar and, in a fit of rage, Veera Raju attacked him with a stick causing him severe injuries. Local people rushed Ram Kumar to a hospital in Jangareddugudem, where he died while undergoing treatment, the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/id-liquor-makers-kill-police-informer/article38289929.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:35 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five nabbed for kidnapping man in East Godavari||Five persons, including a Special Protection Force (SPF) constable, who were arrested on Monday for their involvement in the kidnapping of a 55-year-old man, were produced in court on Tuesday. The accused, identified as P. Jayaraju, P. Srinu, M. Praveen, D. Srinivasa Reddy, and SPF constable P. Sateesh Kumar, hailing from Rajanagaram mandal, were charged with the kidnap of Dwarampudi Krishna Reddy, a resident of Vemulapalli village in Mandapeta mandal. The gang was led by Jayaraju, who allegedly hatched the kidnap plan. He was working as an aide in Mr. Krishna Reddy’s house. On January 5, the gang allegedly kidnapped Mr. Krishna Reddy while he was on his way home. Later, they took him to a hideout in the East Godavari Agency, from where they allegedly forced the victim to ask his family members to bring a ransom of Rs. 10 lakh for his release. The kidnappers allegedly specified that the money should be sent via Jayaraju. As per the plan, Jayaraju handed over Rs. 10 lakh to the gang after which Mr. Krishna Reddy was set free somewhere on the national highway near Kadiyam. From the next day, Jayaraju stopped going to work at Mr. Krishna Reddy’s house. On January 9, the victim lodged a police complaint. According to Mandapeta Sub-Inspector P. Siva Krishna, their investigation unearthed the role of the five-member gang in the kidnap. On Monday, the police arrested the five members and registered cases against them and recovered Rs. 6 lakh from the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-nabbed-for-kidnapping-man-in-east-godavari/article38289492.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:35 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No restriction on entry of vehicles from other States, says E.G. SP||East Godavari Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Raveendranath Babu on Tuesday stated that there would be no restrictions on the entry of vehicles entering the district from Telangana, Odisha, and Chhattisgarh to transport goods and materials. However, the curfew from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. announced to curb the spread of COVID-19 would be enforced at the inter-State border in East Godavari Agency, which might affect the movement of people, the SP said. “We seek the support from the public to cooperate with the frontline staff to implement the curfew between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. till January 31. Those travelling by road during the curfew time should produce their travel tickets,” said Mr. Raveendranath Babu. The police teams would also be deployed across the district and the district borders to prevent the movement of people as against the curfew guidelines. The SP also appealed to the staff and people associated with the emergency services to produce their identity proof as demanded by the police personnel during the curfew hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-restriction-on-entry-of-vehicles-from-other-states-says-eg-sp/article38289494.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:42 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No arrest of Dileep till Friday in actor case||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday adjourned to Friday the hearing on the anticipatory bail petitions filed by actor Dileep and five other persons in a case registered for threatening the investigation officer in an actor sexual assault case. While adjourning the hearing, the court made it clear that the earlier undertaking by the prosecution that the petitioners would not be arrested would continue till Friday. According to Dileep and others, the registration of the FIR was “nothing but a vindictive and retaliatory act” by investigation officer Baiju Paulose against whom Dileep had initiated criminal contempt of court proceedings before the Additional Special Sessions Court trying the assault case for causing obstruction to the administration of justice. The case has been registered following the revelations by filmmaker Balachandrakumar, who claims to be a friend of Dileep, that he had overheard the actor telling somebody his plans to finish off the investigation officer and attack the team members. The petitioners pointed out that even if the allegations were accepted as true, the case did not make out any ingredients of any of the offences alleged. The allegations were based merely on talks between certain individuals. They feared that they would be arrested as the only purpose of the registration of the case was to take petitioners into illegal custody, harass and humiliate them before the public and torture them in custody. Sarath, a friend of Dileep, has also filed an anticipatory bail petition before the court. According to him, he had been an acquaintance of Dileep for more than 25 years. The intention of the investigating agency was to threaten the people who were giving assistance to Dileep and also with an intention to protract the trial. Meanwhile, the court directed the State Police Chief to inquire into the allegations that the media are violating the trial court's restraint order on publication or telecasting of any matters in relation to the assault case till the conclusion of the trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-arrest-of-dileep-till-friday-in-actor-case/article38289437.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:42 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Court to move SC for time||The special judge considering the actor rape case may once again approach the Supreme Court seeking more time for completing the trial as the court-set deadline will expire soon. Special judge Honey M. Varghese is likely to highlight the plea of the prosecution seeking more time for reinvestigating the case while moving the apex court for extension of the deadline. The Supreme Court had earlier asked the trial court not to seek any further extension and complete the proceedings before February 16. This will be the fourth time that the trial court is seeking an extension of the deadline. If it were the COVID-imposed lockdown and the plea of the State government and the victim for change of court and later the resignation of the special prosecutor that earlier forced the trial court to seek more time, this time the prosecution has sought more time to reinvestigate the case, which in turn has hit the trial proceedings. Prosecutor’s resignation Moreover, the newly appointed special prosecutor has also stepped down, which has stalled the court proceedings. These aspects are also likely to reflect in the plea of the trial court. Incidentally, the prosecution plea to reinvestigate the case comes at a time when the trial court had completed the examination of around 200 witnesses. It was the television interview of a filmmaker, P. Balachandra Kumar, who stated that actor Dileep, the eighth accused in the rape case, had invited him to view a video clip of the alleged rape that gave a twist to the controversial case. Incidentally, the trial court has asked the police to file a report on the progress of the reinvestigation on January 20. The police had also booked a case against the actor for allegedly plotting to kill the investigation officers in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/court-to-move-sc-for-time/article38289439.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:42 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 labourers injured in Kerala building collapse||Some 15 labourers were injured, a couple of them seriously, when an under-construction building at the Markaz Knowledge City near Thamarassery in Kozhikode district of Kerala collapsed on Tuesday. Those injured were shifted to the taluk hospital at Thamarassery, and later to the Government Medical College, Kozhikode. The area of the building collapse lies between Kodenchery and Puthuppady grama panchayats. It is still not clear if more labourers are trapped in the debris. The incident happened at 11.50 a.m. when the concrete reinforcement of the second floor was going on. In the process, the first floor is also reported to have collapsed. Markaz Knowledge City is being built by a trust run by the Sunni faction of A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-labourers-injured-in-kerala-building-collapse/article38289428.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:42 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Newborn dies of malnutrition in Kerala||A newborn belonging to a Cholanaikkan couple living in the deep forest of Nilambur died apparently of malnutrition on Sunday night. The mother is in a critical condition at Government District Hospital, Nilambur. Asha, wife of Kethan from the Kuppumala tribal settlement deep inside the forest in the Karulai range, said she had not got any treatment or nutrition support from the authorities, including the Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP) and the Health department, since she conceived over eight months ago. After Asha developed pain on Saturday morning, she left her home in the jungle and began a walk towards a hospital many kilometres away. On seeing an elephant herd on the way in the evening, she took shelter behind a large rock in the river and spent the night there. She resumed her journey on Sunday morning and reached Sayivila by afternoon. From there, with the help of a few men, Asha was carried to Government District Hospital at Nilambur. Condition critical Asha had been enervated when she reached the hospital by 5 p.m. Although she gave birth around 7 p.m., the newborn’s condition was critical. The baby was soon shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. But it died on the way. Asha’s family said that they had alerted the authorities about her pregnancy and that no medical care or nutritional supplement had been given to her. ITDP officials said they had strengthened their surveillance of the tribal families living in the forests of Nilambur, especially in the wake of the recent infant deaths in Attappady. However, the ITDP district officer could not be reached for his comments. The Mithra Jyothi Tribal Development Foundation, a non-government organisation working for the welfare of tribespeople, has sought action against ITDP and health officials for their failure in reaching out to the pregnant woman. “The infant death is a case of murder. It could have been prevented. It happened because of sheer neglect by the authorities,” said Mithra Jyothi chairman Aju Koloth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/newborn-dies-of-malnutrition-in-kerala/article38289431.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:42 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 Maoists killed in gun battle||In less than a month, the proscribed CPI (Maoist) suffered another blow in the restive Telangana-Chhattisgarh border area with the death of three Maoists, including a woman cadre, in an ‘exchange of fire’ (EoF) with a joint team of Telangana police, the Chhattisgarh police and the CRPF personnel at Karriguttalu forest area near the volatile inter-State border on Tuesday morning. A police constable was injured in the gun battle that erupted between the two sides close to the densely forested area straddling the inter-State border on the Chhattisgarh side, police sources said. The injured cop was airlifted to Warangal by a chopper and admitted to a hospital for better treatment. On December 27 last year, a joint operation by the Telangana police’s Greyhounds force and Chhattisgarh police’s District Reserve Guards (DRG) dealt a severe jolt to the banned outfit when six Maoists, including four women cadres, were killed in the Pesallapadu ‘encounter’ in the neighbouring Sukma district of Chhattisgarh. Tuesday’s encounter in the forested border area close to the Maoist strongholds in Dandakaranya region on the other side of the inter-State border has come as a major setback to the outlawed outfit. Police suspect that a senior Maoist leader of divisional committee member (DVCM) rank was among the three Maoists killed in Tuesday’s ‘encounter’. Joint search In a statement, Mulugu Superintendent of Police Sangram Singh Patil said a joint search operation was launched based on reliable information that a large group of Maoists (Telangana State committee) was planning to abduct and kill some prominent people (politicians, sarpanches and contractors) in the areas along the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border. An exchange of fire broke out between the Maoists and the police parties while the latter were conducting a combing operation at Karriguttalu forest area on Tuesday morning. After the firing stopped, a thorough combing and search operation was conducted by the police parties in the area. During the search, three bodies of Maoists (Two male and one female), one self loading rifle (SLR), one INSAS rifle, one single bore weapon, 10 rocket launchers and kits were found at the site, he said. In the EoF, one person from the police parties also received bullet injuries, the SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-maoists-killed-in-gun-battle/article38289441.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hithakarini Samajam gets new board of trustees||The nine-member board of trustees of Hithakarini Samajam, established by social reformer Kandukuri Veeresalingam Pantulu in 1906, took the oath on the campus of Sri Kandukuri Rajyalakshmi Women’s College in the presence of MP Margani Bharat in Rajamahendravaram on Tuesday. According to M. Hari Jawaharlal, member secretary of Dharmika Parishad, the term of trustees is two years. The trustees are Kasi Bala Muni Kumari, M. Satish, D. Saritarani, K. Sivaraju, B. Adilakshmi, U. Raju, V. Satyanarayana, D. Aruna Kumari and D. Satyanarayana. Mr. Bharat said the trustees should contribute their mite to the Samajam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hithakarini-samajam-gets-new-board-of-trustees/article38289493.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:42 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spectator gored to death, 45 others injured in jallikattu near Tiruchi||A spectator was gored to death and 45 others, including a constable, were injured in a jallikattu organised as part of the Pongal festivities at Navalurkuttapattu near here on Tuesday. The police identified the deceased as B. Vinod Kumar, 29, of Navalurkuttapattu. He worked at a private company. Vinod Kumar sustained a grievous injury at the collection point, having been gored by one of the bulls that was released from ‘vaadivaasal’. He was rushed to hospital. But he died on the way, said police sources. Kasinathan, a constable attached to the Armed Reserve, was injured in the right forehand when a bull bumped into him. He was treated on the spot by a medical team deployed for the event. Among the other injured were 21 tamers, 13 bull-owners and 10 spectators. Thirty-five persons were treated for injuries as out-patients at the venue, while 10 others were referred to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, Tiruchi. A total of 510 bulls were released and about 380 bull-tamers took part in batches at the six-hour event. About 300 police personnel and Home Guards were deployed at the venue. Huge crowd Health Department teams checked the tamers and treated the injured, while veterinary teams checked the animals before they were allowed in. A large number of spectators watched the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jallikattu-spectator-gored-to-death/article38289532.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:35 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees from backward communities express happiness at TTD’s initiative||Devotees hailing from SC, ST and fishermen communities expressed their happiness over being facilitated with Vaikunta Dwara darshanam at the temple of Lord Venkateswara. As part of its initiative to promote Sanatana Dharma and check religious conversions, the TTD had resolved to bestow the people hailing from backward communities with the privilege of having darshan at Tirumala temple. Around 1,000 devotees from Addateegala and Rampachodavaram in East Godavari who were specially brought for darshan on Tuesday in collaboration with the Samarasata Seva Foundation thanked the temple administration for its gesture. Addressing the devotees at Madhava Nilayam, Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy said that the TTD had constructed 502 temples in the areas having a predominant population of backward communities in different parts of the State. The administration of the temples was handed over to the members belonging to their communities and even the priests were selected from among them and imparted training in carrying out the daily prayers and rituals, Mr. Dharma Reddy said. He exhorted them to act as messengers in the promotion of Hindu dharma and culture in their respective localities. The TTD has resolved to provide Vaikunta Dwara darshan to at least 1,000 devotees hailing from backward areas every day besides bearing all their travel expenses. The facility will be extended to people of all the thirteen districts in turns and that will be in force till the closure of Vaikunta dwaram on January 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-from-backward-communities-express-happiness-at-ttds-initiative/article38289491.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:35 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTR’s role in empowerment of women remembered||The legendary actor turned politician N.T Rama Rao was hailed as the ‘Telugu man of the century’ by political and apolitical personalities on his 26th death anniversary observed on Tuesday. Tirupati constituency in-charge and former MLA M. Sugunamma and TUDA former Chairman G. Narasimha Yadav broke coconuts at Alipiri, the foot of Tirumala hills, and prayed for the return of ‘Ramanna Rajyam’ in the State. They also offered floral tributes to the NTR statue near Town Club in the city. Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV), the all-women university that owes its existence to Late NTR, fondly remembered him on the occasion. Vice-Chancellor Jamuna Duvvuru praised his vision to educate women to ensure their empowerment. In Kadapa, parliamentary constituency in-charge M. Linga Reddy, Assembly constituency convenor V.S. Ameer Babu and others paid tributes by garlanding his statue. District party chief T. Peeraiah hailed him for providing property rights to women and reaching out to the Backward Classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntrs-role-in-empowerment-of-women-remembered/article38289502.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:35 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati bags cyber award||The Centre for Research on Cyber Intelligence and Digital Forensics (CRCIDF) has chosen the Tirupati Urban district for the ‘National Cyber Award 2021’. The award was announced at the ‘Cyber Policing Best Practices meet 3.0’ held recently on a virtual platform. Superintendent of Police(SP) (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu received the ‘Best Team Mentor’ award for his initiatives in cracking cyber crime cases, while Inspector V. Subrahmanyam Reddy received the ‘Best Investigator’ award. Mr. Naidu dedicated the award to his cyber wing staff and gave them full credit for their success. Meanwhile, two of the twelve police personnel chosen by the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT-AP) University, Amaravati, for the ‘Unsung Heroes’ award, are from Chittoor district. K. Ravi Manoharachary, Sub Divisional Police Officer, Madanapalle and Angadi Sadiq Ali, Inspector in Piler circle, have been picked up for the coveted award for saving the lives of general public on various occasions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-bags-cyber-award/article38289500.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, darshan tickets can be booked on arrival at Tirupati airport||Now, passengers arriving at the Tirupati international airport can book darshan tickets of Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala by instantly donating to the SRIVANI Trust. This facility, soon to be extended by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), will obviate the need for the unscheduled visitors to run behind touts for securing the ticket in the black market. Sri Venkateswara Alaya Nirmana (SRIVANI) Trust was formed by the TTD in 2019 to repair and renovate dilapidated temples by accepting donations. A donor paying Rs. 10,000 to the Trust is given a VIP break darshan ticket as a token of appreciation of his/her benefaction. Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) came forward with a proposal to the TTD to set up a current ticket booking counter at the airport last month, which will soon accept donation for SRIVANI Trust and provide break darshan tickets. Since the premium tickets were hitherto available only at Tirumala or online, it has been decided to extend the same to the passengers on arrival. This, the TTD and APTDC authorities believe, will not only encourage people to donate to temple renovation, but also introduce an element of certainty in the itinerary of the visiting public. Member of Parliament (Tirupati) M. Gurumoorthy, who has taken up a series of measures to improve tourism potential in and around Tirupati, hailed the TTD and APTDC for the initiative and promised to bring in more flights to Tirupati under UDAN scheme. Passenger footfall The airport received an increased passenger footfall of 88,023 in December last year, which phenomenally rose from 63,591 in November, notwithstanding the Omicron threat. With darshan being the prime objective behind one’s Tirupati visit, Dr. Gurumoorthy asserts that the initiative of offering SRIVANI tickets at the airport will make more passengers prefer air travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/now-tirupati-airport-to-sell-darshan-tickets/article38289438.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spl. drives to check norm violations||The Chittoor district administration has put in place stringent norms, even as the number of COVID-19 cases surged to breach the 1,500-mark on Tuesday. Night curfew will be clamped from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu announced special drives to check adherence to the ‘COVID appropriate behaviour’ among the public by penalising violations. Hefty fines Hefty fines are likely to be imposed on those not wearing masks in public places and not adhering to physical distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spl-drives-to-check-covid-norm-violations/article38289930.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ban on 100-year-old ‘Chintamani Padya Natakam’ evokes mixed reactions||The State government has brought the curtains down on the popular ‘Chintamani Padya Natakam’, which has enthralled the people for almost 100 years. The government’s decision on Monday to ban the staging of the play was in response to the representation submitted by the members of a particular community objecting to certain dialogues and portrayal of a character in the noted Telugu play. Authored by playwright Kallakuri Narayana Rao in 1920, the artistes of the play had celebrated its centenary in 2021, and organised special programmes marking the occasion. In the play, the writer explains how people neglect their families by falling a prey to certain social evils. Subbisetty, Chintamani, Bilvamangaludu, Bhavani Shankaram, and Srihari are some of the characters in the play. Amarajeevi Potti Sreeramulu Education Society president V. Subramanyam of Rajamahendravaram thanked the government for banning the ‘Chintamani’ play, which, he said, was insulting a particular community. ‘Not correct’ ‘Surabhi’ artiste Jayachandra Varma said the writer had penned the play with a good intention to fight against a social evil. “But, some artistes have added vulgarity to the play and damaged its reputation,” Mr. Jayachandra Varma said on Tuesday. “It is not a correct decision to ban the historic play. Even after 100 years, there are many who like the padya natakam,” Mr. Varma said. Expressing concern over the government’s decision, Govada Venkat of Govada Creations said, “All plays contain a good message to society. It is not correct to highlight only a few characters in the drama.” “We had celebrated the centenary of ‘Chintamani Padya Natakam’ last year, and organised Padya Nataka competitions too. The government has a right to either remove a character its considers as bad or edit objectionable dialogues. But imposing a ban on the historic play is not correct,” Mr. Venkat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-govt-bans-100-year-old-chintamani-padya-natakam/article38289430.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Increase testing by using mobile labs, IMA tells govt.||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday issued an open advisory to the State government and State Covid Taskforce on the way forward in tackling the virus spread. IMA Andhra Pradesh State president C. Srinivasa Raju, in the advisory, said that augmenting tertiary hospital infrastructure, although extremely crucial, would always be a temporary phenomenon in the pandemic. “The tertiary-level solution does not contain the spread of the disease, but helps in effective life-saving treatment. Instead, focusing on primary care will help limit the spread and reduce the burden on the healthcare system,” Dr. Raju said.. He said the focus should be on preventive care, containment of the spread, and reducing the burden on hospitals. “Testing, tracing, isolation, counselling, and primary care should all be within the community by the community, and for the community,” he added. The government machinery should act as a catalyst, and infra and inventory provider in this community-oriented self-sufficient model, Dr. Raju said. Strengthening the PHCs and CHCs with needy infrastructure such as PPE kits and Viral Transport Media kits was a very important measure to be done immediately, he said. Enhancing the testing by commissioning mobile labs in every mandal headquarters was the need of the hour, Dr. Raju observed. “Minimum one lakh tests per day should be done and 5% of the positive cases should be sent for gene sequencing,” he advised. The test positivity rate could shoot up to 40% to 60%. “Testing, home isolation, and symptomatic treatment are crucial in the combat against the pandemic,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/increase-testing-by-using-mobile-labs-ima-tells-govt/article38289942.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu joins list of leaders who tested COVID positive||Former Chief Minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu became the latest addition to the growing list of prominent political leaders who have tested positive for Coronavirus in the State. Mr. Naidu said that he is COVID-19 positive with “mild symptoms.” In a tweet on Tuesday, he said, “I’ve tested positive for COVID with mild symptoms. I have quarantined myself at home and taking all the necessary precautions. I request those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested at the earliest. Please be safe and take care.” Meanwhile, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, in a tweet, wished Mr. Naidu a speedy recovery. Communist party of India (CPI) State Secretary K. Ramakrishna had tested positive on Monday. He is undergoing treatment at NIMS in Hyderabad. Meanwhile, leaders of many other political leaders have tested positive for coronavirus in the recent past. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and Srikakulam YSRCP MLA Dharmana Prasada had tested positive for the virus on January 14. Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkaterswara Rao (Nani) and Telugu Desam Party leader Vangaveeti Radha had also tested positive for the virus recently. Mr. Kodali Nani, who had fever and showed mild symptoms, remained in isolation and gave his sample for an RT-PCR test. On confirmation that he contracted the virus, he was shifted to the Asian Institute of Gastroenterology (AIG) Hospitals in Hyderabad for better treatment TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh had tested positive with no symptoms. Announcing this through his Twitter handle, he said, “I have tested positive for COVID-19. I’m asymptomatic and feeling fine but will be self-isolating until recovery. I request those who have come in contact with me to get tested at the earliest and take necessary precautions. Urging everyone to stay safe.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-among-covid-positive-leaders-list/article38289713.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:35 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector supervises arrangements for R-Day fete||Krishna Collector J. Niiwas on Tuesday directed officials to make adequate arrangements for Republic Day celebrations in strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols. Mr. Niwas, along with Protocol Director Balasubramanyam, Additional Director General of Police Shanka Brata Bagchi, Vijayawada City Police Commissioner Kanti Rana Tata, MP N. Suresh, MLC L. Appi Reddy, and MLC and Coordinator for Chief Minister’s programmes Talasila Raghuram supervised the arrangements being made at the Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium for the R-Day fete. Reminding officials that not more than 200 guests should be allowed at the venue in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases, he said special seating arrangements should be made for VVIPs and VIPs. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Ministers and other senior bureaucrats are scheduled to attend the function. Vijayawada Municipal Commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh, MLA M. Nagarjuna, vice-chairman for Navaratnalu programme Narayana Murthy and officials of various departments were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-supervises-arrangements-for-r-day-fete/article38290016.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employee leaders should resign: TDP||TDP’s MLC Paruchuri Ashok Babu has objected to what he describes as “pay reverse orders” issued by the government without conceding the demands of the employees. Addressing the media on Tuesday, Mr. Ashok Babu advised the leaders of the employees’ JAC and associations to resign to their posts following their “miserable failure to ensure a better deal in the PRC.” These leaders should have rejected the 23% fitment and continued their agitation, but they had accepted it and lost the trust of the employees, he observed. How could the employee leaders accept an increase in the retirement age, particularly when they were due to retire in one or two months. They had mortgaged the interests of over 14 lakh employees for their selfish ends, he alleged. “The employee leaders had claimed they voted with both their hands to bring the YSRCP to power. They had also threatened to ensure the downfall of the YSRCP government,” Mr. Ashok Babu said, and added the “government has neither shown loyalty nor fear to the assertions or threats of union leaders.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/employee-leaders-should-resign-tdp/article38289935.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. shunning welfare of its own employees, alleges Sailajanath||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president S. Sailajanath on Tuesday lashed out at the YSRCP government for “denying the government employees their rightful benefits under the PRC.” In a statement, Mr. Sailajanath said it was unfair to deny the employees what had been promised to them after making them wait for more than two years. He said the government employees were angry for being let down, and would teach a fitting lesson to the government. Mr. Sailajanath said the government, which had been depositing money in the bank accounts of the poor under various welfare schemes, shunned the welfare of its own employees. The advisers to the government, who were receiving fat salaries, failed to give pragmatic advice, he said. Reduced HRA The Secretariat employees, who had migrated from Telangana to Andhra Pradesh after bifurcation and who had been receiving 30% HRA, would have to satisfy themselves with only 16% HRA under the new policy, he said. Instead of implementing the recommendations of the Ashutosh Misra Committee, the government had issued the G.O.s based on the CS Committee report, he said. ‘Withdraw G.O.s’ Mr. Sailajanath said the government should withdraw the G.O.s before the employees resorted to protests. Liquor policy Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had, in the run-up to the elections, promised to implement prohibition in a phased manner, but after coming to power he had not only reduced the prices of liquor but also increased the timings for its sale to augment revenues, the Congress leader said. Mr. Sailajanath also criticised the government’s decision to allow schools to function despite a spurt in the COVID-19 cases. ‘Give holidays to schools’ Referring to the neighbouring States that had closed the schools in the larger interest of the children and teachers, Mr. Sailajanath accused the YSRCP government of ignoring the health of the students. The APCC chief demanded that holidays be immediately declared to schools and online classes conducted to ensure safety of all the stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-shunning-welfare-of-its-own-employees-alleges-sailajanath/article38289940.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTR brought laurels to Telugus: Naidu||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) rank and file paid rich tributes to party’s founder-president N.T. Rama Rao on the occasion of his 26th death anniversary on Tuesday. In a statement, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu said that NTR had proved that a common man can reach great heights and achieve success. Born in a farmer’s family, NTR had brought laurels to the Telugus. He was the uncrowned king in the film industry, and matchless political leader. His journey with the slogan, ‘pride of Telugus’, was unforgettable, he said. NTR had come to power within 9 months of founding the party. He had shown the power was not for enjoyment but to serve the people. The power, which had been limited to only a few sections of society, was brought within the reach of the downtrodden, Mr. Naidu said, and added that NTR had laid the foundation for the welfare schemes. In a separate statement, TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh asserted that honesty, selflessness and fearlessness were the weapons used by NTR in his struggle for self-respect and self-rule. Following in his footsteps, the same weapons should be used now to re-establish a truly egalitarian welfare State, he said. TDP Andhra Pradesh State president K. Atchannaidu garlanded the statue of NTR at the party office at Mangalagiri, near Vijayawada. Mr. Atchannaidu, addressing the party workers, said the TDP and the Telugus would be celebrating the birth centenary of NTR on May 28, 2023. “The TDP will complete 40 years of existence this March. The cadres have to rededicate themselves for the development and welfare of the people drawing inspiration from NTR,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntr-brought-laurels-to-telugus-naidu/article38289945.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lorry owners urge State to roll back hike in green tax||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh Lorry Owners’ Association have urged the government to roll back the steep hike in the green tax imposed since January 1 this year, a slash in the Value Added Tax (VAT) on diesel and immediate repairs to the district and State roads that were damaged during the recent torrential rains. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the association general secretary Y.V. Eeswar Rao said the impact of COVID-19 had pushed the lorry owners into a deep financial crisis. An unprecedented slump in the market had made things difficult for the fraternity on all fronts. The finance companies were taking seizing their vehicles as they were unable to pay the monthly instalments and due to financial constraints, many owners were unable to pay salaries to the drivers and cleaners. Mr. Rao said the government’s decision to increase the green tax from the existing Rs. 200 to Rs. 20,000 starting January 1 had dealt a further blow to the truck owners. They also asked the government to reduce VAT on diesel and take up immediate repairs to the roads damaged during the recent floods in the State. Not only vehicle parts like tyres were getting damaged, but also the trucks were consuming more diesel because of this, Mr. Rao said. He reiterated his plea for an early solution to the issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lorry-owners-urge-state-to-roll-back-hike-in-green-tax/article38289943.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SERP wins Skoch award||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy along with the Department Secretary Gopalkrishna Dwivedi and SERP (Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty) CEO Imtiaz Ahmed met the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Tuesday and showed him the Golden Award presented by Skoch for exemplary work in rural development. Pat from CM The Chief Minister congratulated the Minister and officials on winning the award. The award was given to SERP for its outstanding work in implementing YSR Cheyutha, YSR Asara schemes and uplifting the rural poor and working for poverty alleviation in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/serp-wins-skoch-award/article38289498.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:35 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Staggered classes for RGUKT students from Jan. 24||In view of the current COVID situation and considering the safety of students with their learning requirements, the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) has decided to ask the students to report to campuses in a staggered manner, giving priority to the final year Engineering students. In a statement on Tuesday, University Vice-Chancellor K. Hemachandra Reddy said the final year Engineering students would be asked to report to their respective campuses on January 23 and their classes would start from 24. All other students would be called in a staggered manner. He said the university was also examining the possibility of holding online classes for those who were affected by COVID and unable to report to the campuses. He directed the campuses to inform the students separately the exact date of reporting to the campuses. All students must be vaccinated and submit the vaccination certificate at the time of reporting to the campuses and would be required to strictly follow the COVID protocols, failing which they would be asked to leave the campus without prior notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/staggered-classes-for-rgukt-students-from-jan-24/article38289499.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister allays fears||Education Minister A. Suresh said on Tuesday that there was an increase in the percentage of students attending school after Sankranti. In a statement, Mr. Suresh said that schools had registered 61% attendance on the first day of the school after holidays, which increased to 74% on the second day. He said there was no reason for students and their parents to worry as COVID-19 precautions were strictly being implemented on school campuses. Kadapa district registered 82% student attendance, Guntur 81%, Anantapur 80%, Kurnool 78%, and Chittoor 77% , he said. While ensuring that the students did not suffer on the academic front, their safety was of utmost importance, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-allays-fears/article38289933.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:35 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) vows support to agitating staff||The Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) State secretary V. Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday condemned the State government’s decision to implement the 11th PRC as per its plans despite the employees, teachers and other sections opposing its implementation. “The government has decided to cut the Housing Rent Allowance (HRA) and do away with the CCA. The fitment was below the Interim Relief (IR). Also, injustice was done to pensioners by increasing the age limit to 80 from 70 for additional pension. The CPI(M) would extend its support to the employees, pensioners, and teachers who were resenting and opposing the GO,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-vows-support-to-agitating-staff/article38290015.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:35 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pokarna contributes Rs. 1 cr. towards Nadu Nedu||Pokarna Group Limited has contributed Rs. 1 crore towards basic amenities in schools under the State government’s Nadu-Nedu programme. The cheque was handed over to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy by company’s CMD Goutham Chand Jain as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). The contribution was under Connect to Andhra initiative. Connect to Andhra CEO V. Koteswaramma was also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pokarna-contributes-rs-1-cr-towards-nadu-nedu/article38289496.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC application date extended to January 29||Taking into consideration the requests by unemployed youth, the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has decided to extend the last date for submission of applications for the posts of Junior Assistant-cum- Computer Assistant in the Revenue Department (Group-IV Services) and Executive Officer (Grade-III) in the Endowment sub-service, from January 19 to January 29. The Commission Secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said the applications should be submitted in online mode through the website https://psc.ap.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appsc-application-date-extended-from-jan-19-to-29/article38289488.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Prepare action plan to develop industries’||Industries Minister Mekapati Gowtham Reddy has asked the officials to prepare an action plan for the year 2022-23 aimed at developing industries, ports in the State. At a review meeting on Tuesday, he stressed on the need for promotion of industries and branding. The Minister said that MSME, APIIC, EDB and industries portals would be brought under one umbrella. Reviewing the progress of airports and ports, Mr. Gowtham Reddy asked the officials to prepare an action plan before February 4. He decided to meet Finance Minister B. Rajendranath Reddy to discuss the Visakhapatnam-Chennai Corridor on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prepare-action-plan-to-develop-industries/article38289946.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||As VSP stir nears one year, staff confident of winning the battle||The agitation taken up by the leaders and members of all trade unions and employees of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant under the banner Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee (VUPPC) against the 100% strategic sale of the public sector steel plant, is nearing one year, as they had taken it up on February 11, last year, as Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced it in the Budget-2021. Though crowd at the camps have thinned down over the days, but their resolve appears to be grown stronger and they are determined to continue the agitation till the Union Government withdraws its decision, as it had done in the case of the Farmers Act. “We will not budge an inch and so far we have been successful in our agitation and have not allowed any committee to enter the plant and take up a survey or assessment,” said Ch. Narasinga Rao, one of the chairmen of VUPPC and the State president of CITU. It is learnt that a team of transaction and bidding advisors had made three attempts in the last one year to enter the plant and take stock of the assessment, but failed on all the three counts, as the unions and employees had successfully stalled their entry. The agitation against the privatisation of the VSP is different from the other 30 listed PSUs. All the PSU have some percentage ranging from 10 to 35already disinvested in the past, while the VSP is the only plant that has held on to its 100% Central Public Sector Unit tag, with not a single stake disinvested, and has successfully resisted all the earlier attempts. Moreover, this plant is different from the rest, as it comes wrapped with a lot of emotions and sentiments. This plant had come up after 32 people laid down their lives in November 1967, in police firing across the State of then united Andhra Pradesh, including 11 in Visakhapatnam city alone. It cannot be privatised with a stroke of a pen, said CPI leader D. Raja. The 1967, the agitation under the banner of ‘Visakha Ukku-Andhrula Hakku’ was a student movement and was led by the students of Andhra Medical College, Andhra University and AVN College. It had then become a national movement and we intend to scale it up to that level, till the Union Government takes back its decision, said Ch. Adinarayana, chairman of VUPPC and district president of AITUC. The employees and members of VUPPC are hopeful that post elections in UP and in the other States, the Union Government will be forced to withdraw its decision. “The BJP-led Union Government had done a similar thing in the case of Dredging Corporation of India (DCI). The government had withdrawn the decision of privatisation of DCI, just before the 2019 General Election,” said Mr. Narasinga Rao. Another strong point that the employees of the plant see is that all the political parties, except the BJP, and trade unions, including BMS, have come under one banner to protest the privatisation move. In 1966, the then State Government had passed a resolution in the Assembly urging the Union Government to set up the plant and now again in 2021, the present State Government had again passed a resolution in the Assembly denouncing the privatisation. All that we demand is to keep VSP out of privatisation and let it function as a PSU. And we also demand that a captive iron ore mine be leased out to the plant, said Mantri Rajsekhar, a chairman of VUPCC. The Union Government should allow it function as a PSU and allot captive mines in one of the blocks in Bailadila Range, say member of Steel Executive Association (VSP).Already a number of national leaders such as Medha Patkar, Tapan Sen, Amarjeet Kaur, D. Raja, Brinda Karat, Rajesh Tikait and Ashok Dhawale, have visited the agitation site and have pledged support, till the decision is taken back. The next two months is crucial, as lot depends on the election outcome in UP and in a few other States, feel the members of VUPPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/as-vsp-stir-nears-one-year-staff-confident-of-winning-the-battle/article38290020.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP unions serve strike notice||All trade unions of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) issued a strike notice to the CMD of RINL-VSP on Tuesday, threatening to go on a one-day strike on or after January 31, if their demands were not met by then. The main demands include implementation of new wages as per SAIL, payment of adhoc arrears and simultaneous wage increase for all contract workers. All 16 unions, including INTUC, AITUC, BMS, CITU, HMS, YSRTUC, TNTUC, CFTUI, DVRSEU, TNTUC, AICTU, VSEU, JMS, VSMS and DITU, were signatories to the strike notice. ‘Adamant attitude’ The union leaders met CMD Atul Bhat in the meeting hall and handed him over the strike notice. Union leaders J. Ayodhya Ram, Gandham Venkata Rao and D. Adinarayana alleged that the management was not evincing interest in implementing the revised wages for the employees. They said that the additional expenditure on wages was only Rs. 15 crore and wondered whether the management was not in a position to pay even that amount. They alleged that it reflected the adamant attitude of the Centre and management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-unions-serve-strike-notice/article38289968.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Public hearing on ARR and power tariff from January 24||A public hearing will be conducted by the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) from January 24, according to the Chairman and Managing Director of AP EPDCL K. Santosha Rao. In a statement issued, here on Tuesday, he said that the DISCOMs had already submitted their Aggregate Revenue Requirement (ARR) and tariff filing for the financial year 2022-23 to the APERC. Three days The public hearing will be held on January 24, 25 and on 27 at the corporate office of APEPDCL in Visakhapatnam, by APERC Chairman C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy and its members Thakur Ram Singh and P. Raja Gopala Reddy. The public hearing would be held in respect of all three DISCOMs(APEPDCL, APCPDCL and APSPDCL) through video conference in view of the pandemic. Officials of the Energy Department, APEPDCL, APCPDCL and APSPDCL apart from authorities of the APERC would participate in the meetings, to be held from 10.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. with a one-hour break from 1 p.m. On each of these three days, the objections common against all three DISCOMs filings or against the filing of any single DISCOM would be heard from the registered objectors. The objectors are requested to approach their nearest Electricity Circle Office/Division Offices for participating live in the video conference. Objections from unregistered objectors would also be heard, after hearing the registered objectors on each day with the permission of the Commission. Arrangements have been made for streaming the programme live for the public, the CMD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/public-hearing-on-arr-and-power-tariff-from-january-24/article38290017.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t come out during curfew hours unless it’s emergency: Sinha||Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha has appealed to the people not to come out of homes unless and until it is very important or if there is any emergency, during the curfew hours. Hours before the night curfew was set to begin in the city, following the State government’s instructions, the Police Commissioner addressed a press conference at the Police Outpost on Beach Road here. He said that night curfew will be implemented from January 18 to 31, from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. in the city police station limits. He said that the police would only allow emergency and essential services, government vehicles, inter-State goods vehicles and RTC buses. He said that passengers travelling during the curfew will be checked if needed. He said that all the BRTS roads and Telugu Thalli Flyover, near Assilmetta, will be closed during the curfew hours. “People are requested to cooperate with the police for proper implementation of the curfew. Action will be taken as per law, against those who break curfew violations,” he said. When asked about the possibility of closing Beach Road to contain the spread of the virus amid increase in COVID-19 cases in the district, Mr. Manish Kumar Sinha said that as of now, there seems to be no need. “We may take a decision regarding it in the coming days, keeping in view the further rise in cases,” he said. The Police Commissioner also said that over 100 police personnel were affected due to COVID-19 in this wave. He said that the first case came to light on January 6. “About 25% of the COVID-19 cases are asymptomatic. Many others have just mild symptoms like fever and body pains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-come-out-during-curfew-hours-unless-its-emergency-sinha/article38290022.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rich tributes paid to NTR||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders and workers paid rich tributes to party founder and former Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao by garlanding his statue and raising slogans hailing him on his death anniversary, on Beach Road here on Tuesday. Former Minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao described NTR as a symbol of ‘the pride of Telugus’, who rode to power within nine months of forming the party. He was the first Chief Minister to give women a share in the family property, he said. Mr. Srinivasa Rao also recalled NTR encouraging youngsters to join politics and his concern for the poor. TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu was continuing in his footsteps and striving to achieve his ideals, he added. TDP Parliamentary District president Palla Srinivasa Rao recalled the contribution of NTR for the welfare of weaker sections. A blood donation camp was also organised by the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rich-tributes-paid-to-ntr/article38290023.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division achieves record loading||Waltair Division has achieved freight loading of 50 Million Tons (MT) in just 285 days of the current financial year (April to January 10, 2021-22). The Division loaded more than 50.11 MT in the last 9 months and 10 days. This is 13.35% more than the previous year (2020-2021), during which time it had loaded about 44. 21MT. This has been achieved in spite of acute shortage of wagons, prevalence of pandemic and major derailments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waltair-division-achieves-record-loading/article38290024.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Calls grow for more testing facilities||The absence of testing facilities in Vizianagaram is being acutely felt by residents, with many being forced to travel all the way to Visakhapatnam city to get tested for COVID-19. Apart from travel costs, they are forced to spend Rs. 1,500 on the COVID-19 tests - which is the usual rate at most of the private diagnostic labs in Visakhapatnam. Currently, the Maharaja Institute of Medical Sciences in Nellimarla has a laboratory for conducting Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (Rt-PCR) tests. Samples collected from suspected COVID-19 patients at various primary health centres (PHCs) are sent to MIMS for testing. The samples collected at remote places like Gumma Lakshmipuram, Kurupam, Pachipenta and other places reach MIMS only the next day due to infrequent transportation facilities. Moreover, the samples are collected only till afternoon, after which patients are asked to come the next day to provide their samples in the respective PHCs. This is leading to inordinate delays in knowing the results of Rt-PCR tests. Public holidays add to the delay, compounding the woes for the patients who are unsure whether or not to start taking medicines for COVID-19. According to official figures, 169 COVID-19 cases were recorded in Vizianagaram district on Monday, while 412 cases were recorded on Tuesday. CPI(M) city secretary Reddi Sankara Rao alleged that the the government authorities were collecting only a few samples although there were thousands of patients experiencing COVID-19 symptoms. “Due to the lack of enough testing facilities, many patients are not getting themselves tested, and are unaware that they are COVID-19 positive. They are not isolating themselves at home, which is the reason behind the rapid spread of the virus in the district. Many poor people are also unable to afford getting tested at private labs. The government should start operating mobile vans for collection of swab samples from patients,” Mr. Sankara Rao said.  Vizianagaram District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramana Kumari told The Hindu that another laboratory would be set up in a couple of days in Parvatipuram to provide test results quickly for patients living in tribal and other remote areas. “We are trying our best to give results within a day to the patients. We also urge the patients to remain in home isolation till the test results are received,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/calls-grow-for-more-testing-facilities-in-vizianagaram/article38289928.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers stage protest against pay revision G.O.s||The Forum of Registered Teachers’ Organisations secretary general Samala Simhachalam on Tuesday alleged that the Pay Revision Commission’s recommendations shocked the teachers and employees across the State. Participating in a protest at Muliguda of Gummalakshmipuram in the district, he said that the reduction of fitment from 27% to 23%, reducing the House Rent Allowance (HRA) and other decisions would have an impact on the salaries of the staff. “The government should rethink its decisions since the PRC had failed to satisfy the staff. Delay in clearing pending applications related to PF was causing mental agony for retired employees,” said Mr. Simhachalam. He said that the organisation State president Karanam Harirkishna had submitted a memorandum to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-stage-protest-against-pay-revision-gos/article38289931.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employees on the warpath on G.O.s||Employees across the State would take part in the protest, they said. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said the Chief Minister had promised 23% fitment and DAs. But the salaries were far below the Interim Relief (IR). A Central government scheme was introduced doing away with the House Rent Allowance (HRA).The government had promised five DAs, but while implementing the same, it had done away with other benefits, he said. The employees were not interested in 10-year PRC and change in master pay scales. The JACs would announce an action plan in two days, he said. ‘Black day’ Mr. Venkateswarlu said that the government had issued unscientific G.O.s to implement the PRC. “It was a black day for the employees and teachers. The government cannot link the Central government policies with the PRC. The employees will fight for implementation of the PRC every five years as against the government’s proposal to implement it for every 10 years,” he said. In a separate press conference, Secretariat Employees’ Association president Venkatarami Reddy said that the G.O. was not on the expected lines and the employees were not happy with it. The association would seek an appointment with the Chief Minister to apprise him of the situation.. AP Government Employees’ Association State president K. R. Suryanarayana, in a statement, said that the HRA and CCA being paid to the employees who shifted from Hyderabad to capital Amaravati should be continued. The other demands include continuation of additional pension to the pensioners who crossed 75 years and declaration of probation to village and ward secretariat members. An emergency meeting of the association was slated to be held on Wednesday to chalk out the future course of action, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/employees-on-the-warpath-on-gos/article38289937.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:41 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 villages in district under land resurvey pilot project||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy launched the “YSR Jagananna Sahswata Bhoo Hakku Mariya Bhoo Raksha Pathakam” (Your Land – Our Assurance) through video conference from his camp office at Tadepalli on Tuesday. The Chief Minister inaugurated the land resurvey programme at Gangamambapura Agraharam village of Atchutapuram mandal of Anakapalle revenue division in the district through video conference. Later, Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy told the media that four villages in four Revenue Divisions were taken up under the programme on a pilot basis. The other three villages under the pilot project were RY Agraharam of Bheemunipatnam mandal, Chollandi of Nathavaram mandal and Balajipeta of Chintapalli mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-launches-land-resurvey-pilot-project-in-vizag/article38290018.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:35 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paving the ‘protest path’||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paving-the-protest-path/article38289927.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forest cover in State goes up by 647 sq km||The reports also states that red sanders bearing forest in the State is around 1,085 sq km, dry teak forest cover is about 551 sq km and mangroves is around 404 sq km. Though there is no depletion or increase in the mangroves, there is a slight drop in the dry teak forest extent by about 0.12%. But on the brighter side, there is an increase in the cover of red sanders bearing forest cover by about 0.25% over the 2019 ISFR. As per the latest ISFR report, of the 29,784 sq km of forest cover, 24,239 is under recorded forest area (RFA) and 5,545 is outside the RFA. The tree cover in the State has also gone up from 3,914 sq km to 4,679 sq km. The dominant species of trees outside the TOF continue to be Mangifera Indica or mangoes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forest-cover-in-state-goes-up-by-647-sq-km/article38289938.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||COVID cases among healthcare staff rise, as do concerns||A large number of healthcare workers attending patients and implementing health schemes in Telangana continue to face the COVID-19 challenge. Health officials and hospital heads say the severity of the infection has been mild so far while some are asymptomatic. Until Tuesday afternoon, around 119 post-graduates, house surgeons, MBBS students, and faculty members from Gandhi Hospital were detected with the infectious disease. Around 62 patients, 10 post-graduates and a faculty member at the Institute of Mental Health, Erragadda, have also tested positive. The number of COVID infections is around 80 among medicos and senior doctors at Osmania General Hospital. In several other hospitals too, such cases among healthcare personnel has been on the rise. Even some of the Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANMs), who work at primary health centres and go door-to-door to deliver healthcare services have also tested positive. Then there are security guards and other support staff who manage crowd at hospital who have been diagnosed with the infection. ‘Inevitable’ infection Upon testing positive for the infection, one is required to isolate for seven days. “As frontline health workers, contracting COVID is almost inevitable. The only defence now is the booster dose of COVID vaccine and that has to be taken at the earliest,” said a senior doctor. Senior doctors have requested the State government to assure that medical attention is given to the staff’s family members with COVID. “We go home after attending patients. If we get the infection, they will get it too. The assurance from the government will help pacify our anxiety about the safety of our families,” said another senior doctor. The appeal was made by junior doctors, and Telangana ASHA Workers Union State president P. Jayalakshmi. She has also asked for issuance of the Rs. 1,000 Central government incentive for ASHAs. Junior doctors had already expected that hospitals would get busy in January and February. The first year post graduates have not joined yet, so the work burden is shared between the second and third year post-graduates and house surgeons. “One way to lower the burden in the current circumstances is by distributing COVID cases among all hospitals,” said a doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cases-among-healthcare-workers-rise-as-do-concerns/article38289727.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:07 IST,TELANGANA||TSRTC generates Rs. 107 crore revenue in Sankranti season||Taking several lakh passengers to their destinations safely this Sankranti season, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) on Tuesday announced that it had generated a revenue of Rs. 107 crore. According to data which the transport juggernaut released, this revenue was generated during Sankranti season, from January 7 to January 17. The average revenue generated per day was over Rs. 9.75 crore. The TSRTC was off to a promising start with over Rs. 12.04 crore generated on the very first day of the festival season — January 7 — and closed with Rs. 12.21 crore on January 17. The transport juggernaut said that it operated over 4,000 special buses which left from several locations such as Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station, Jubilee Bus Station, Aramghar, L B Nagar, CBS , K P H B and other important points, and transported as many as 55 lakh passengers to their destinations within Telangana and neighbouring States, including Andhra Pradesh. TSRTC personnel were closely monitoring movements of buses and the rush of passengers to ensure hassle-free journeys all through the season. Bus stations were bustling with activity and witnessed a surge of passengers. Platforms were choc-a-bloc with students who were seen leaving for their respective hometowns given the extended Sankranti holidays. TSRTC Chairman Bajireddy Goverdhan and Managing Director V C Sajjanar expressed their gratitude to passengers, and encouraged the public to take the Corporation’s buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-generates-rs-107-crore-revenue-in-sankranti-season/article38289754.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Bounced cheques plague GHMC’s property tax collection||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is facing an unusual problem of bounced cheques in relation to collection of property tax this year. A large number of cheques issued in property tax payment have bounced when submitted for realisation since April, 2021, worsening the financial condition of the civic body which is already under severe stress. As a result, the property tax collection has been below par thus far, keeping the authorities on tenterhooks. Ultimatums have been issued to the circle level officials to improve the collection or face action. According to information obtained from the GHMC, there is a deficit of over Rs. 130 crore in the tax collection when compared with the collections up to January 31 during the previous financial year. Last year, up to January-end, GHMC collected a revenue of close to Rs. 1,270 crore through property tax, while this year, till now, the revenue has not crossed Rs. 1,140 crore, even while the number of properties assessed are higher than previous year by about 70,000. One reason for the anomaly is said to be poor collection of tax from the newly assessed properties. While the number of new assessments hovers around 59,000, only about 56 per cent of the dues have been realised, as per data obtained. It is especially poor in circles such as Chandanagar, Amberpet, LB Nagar, Alwal, Moosapet, Kukatpally, and Ramachandrapuram, for reasons not known. Increasing number of bounced cheques is another factor behind the poor tax collection. Of the total cheques issued to the corporation this financial year, 8,719 cheques have failed when submitted for realisation. In 5,791 instances of bounced cheques, tax has been collected subsequently, which amounted to close to Rs. 45 crore. Dues are still pending from 2,928 defaulters whose cheques amounting to Rs. 34 crore had bounced. Goshamahal leads in bounced cheques, with a total of 665 bad cheques, of which 380 are still pending. Kukatpally follows at 621, of which 267 are yet to be realised. Officials under the condition of anonymity, blame the bounced cheques on the COVID-19 affected economy, and a large number of properties remaining vacant due to the pandemic. Nevertheless, deputy commissioners of all the circles received a rap on their knuckles for failing to meet the targets. An internal communique from the GHMC Commissioner warned them of disciplinary action if they fail to reduce the deficit to zero by January end. According to confidential sources, DCs of six poor performing circles have been threatened with removal from the position, if they fail to deliver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bounced-cheques-plague-ghmcs-property-tax-collection/article38289740.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||T-Hub to receive Rs. 5 cr. Startup India Seed Fund||Innovation ecosystem enabler T-Hub has been selected under the Startup India Seed Fund Scheme by the Centre’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) to disburse Rs. 5 crore among eligible startups. The fund allocated is sector agnostic. It is to support technology startups and innovations that are Minimum Viable Product ready and in need of funds for their early growth, T-Hub said on Tuesday in a press release announcing selection under the scheme. Disbursement mode T-Hub will disburse the Rs. 5 crore to 15 eligible startups in a span of three years by way of debt or convertible debentures instruments. The fund will be utilised to provide financial assistance to startups for proof of concept, prototype development, product trials, market-entry and commercialisation. Startups can apply for the fund at https://seedfund.startupindia.gov.in/. “At T-Hub, we are always investing maximum resources and efforts to ensure innovative startups have the right support to thrive and become global leaders. This fund is a huge validation of our strategy and execution of equipping startups with the means to reach their full potential, especially at the early growth stages,” CEO M. Srinivas Rao said. Committee set up T-Hub said it has set up Incubator Seed Management Committee consisting of prominent investors, mentors, established entrepreneurs, academic partners and State government representatives, to access the fund and select startups.  This fund is a huge validation of our strategy and execution of equipping startups with the means to reach their full potential, especially at the early growth stages. M. Srinivas Rao, T-Hub CEO||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/t-hub-to-receive-rs-5-cr-startup-india-seed-fund/article38289736.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||Farmers break-down before ministers||A team of ministers and officials have examined the crops, especially chilli, damaged in the recent untimely rain and hailstorm in the erstwhile Warangal district on Tuesday and assured the farming community that the government would come to their rescue. The extent of damage would be enumerated by the Agriculture officials. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy and Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development E. Dayakar Rao, chairman of the Rythu Bandhu Samithi (RBS) P. Rajeshwar Reddy, Secretary (Agriculture) M. Raghunandan Rao along with Member of Parliament from Mahabubabad M. Kavitha, Member of Parliament from Warangal P. Dayakar, legislators Ch. Dharma Reddy, P. Sudarshan Reddy, P. Srinivas Reddy and others went round the the fields where chilli crop was damaged in the recent hailstorm and rain in Nagaram and Mallakkapeta villages of Parakal mandal. Speaking after the field visit, the ministers admitted that there was crop damage due to the recent hailstorm and chilli was badly damaged with entire fruit/chilli falling to the ground just before the harvesting. The local elected representatives explained to the ministers that the damage was high in Narsampet, Parakal, Manthani and Bhupalapally constituencies. Farmers were in tears while explaining the damage showing the wilted chilli plants without having any fruit/chilli. The ministers assured them that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was very much concerned about their loss and the government would come to their rescue after receiving a report on the extent of crop damage and loss following a field-level visit by the officials of the Agriculture department to enumerate the damage and loss. They stated that every farmer who suffered loss due to hailstorm and untimely rains in the area would get justice. They said the government was providing free uninterrupted power for farming, extending investment support under Rythu Bandhu and assuring assistance under Rythu Bima in the event of death of a landholding farmer irrespective of the reason. The ministers told the farmers that the investment support given under Rythu Bandhu had crossed Rs. 50,000 crore in crop seasons since its launch in the 2018-19 kharif season. They assured that they would take the extent of damage as examined by them to the Chief Minister’s notice even before the submission a report by the Agriculture department. The Minister for Agriculture directed the officials concerned to take steps to provide relief to farmers in line with the existing guidelines apart from encouraging them to go for alternate crops. He said the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana was of no use as opting for the Central scheme entailed payment of more premium than the insurance amounts that were credited to farmers’ accounts. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s own State Gujarat withdrew from the scheme and farmers should be educated about the facts relating to PMFBY. The State government had been demanding implementation of crop insurance with fields owned by farmers as units as it was the only way in which farmers would be benefitted. He directed the officials concerned to see that there was no scope for mistakes while enumerating farmers who suffered losses as the government was committed to provide relief to genuinely affected farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-break-down-before-ministers/article38289760.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||Tributes paid to NTR by family members||Rich tributes were paid to late chief minister and founder of Telugu Desam Party (TDP) N. T. Rama Rao on Tuesday on the occasion of his 26th death anniversary. The family members reached NTR Ghat and offered floral tributes to the departed leader. “Rama Rao was hero in cinema industry and politics. One and only legend in the cinema and politics. He stands as an example to follow in politics. He had brought all national parties under one umbrella and offered an alternative to the Congress. He had given political life to so many in both Telugu states and gave representation to all sections in society,” said N. T. Rama Rao’s son and actor-turned politician N. Balakrishna after paying floral tributes at a statue of his father along with family members. Earlier in the day, N. Lakshmi Parvathi, wife of N. T. Rama Rao, also paid tributes to the departed leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tributes-paid-to-ntr-by-family-members/article38289758.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Checkposts erected at border points||The rise in COVID-19 cases has set alarm bells ringing for the district administration. In view of the situation, checkposts have been erected at border areas connecting both Karanataka and Maharashtra. These checkpoints have been established at Mamidgi in Nyalakal mandal, Madgi in Mogudampally mandal, Karasgutti in Nagalgidda mandal and Degulvadi in Kangti mandal in coordination with the police and Revenue department. Thermal screening is being conducted on those passing through these check posts to travel to or from the neighbouring States, including Maharashtra and Karnataka where the COVID case burden is on the higher side. If their temperature is above normal, they are being subjected to rapid antigen tests. Though the number of vehicles passing through these check posts is high, the number of tests being conducted is very less. The reasons cited are limited staff deployed at the points and non-cooperation of travellers/ passengers. Many a time, drivers are not stopping vehicles unless there is police presence. In all the four checkpoints in border areas, so far tests have been conducted for 363 persons and no positive case was identified. As a precautionary measure, testing was also being done at Sangareddy and Patancheru bus stands. Since January 8, tests were conducted on 93 persons at the bus stands and nine positive cases were identified.  “With the existing staff, it is not possible to conduct tests on everyone who passes through the checkpoints. We will deploy more staff shortly. In some instances, passengers are non-cooperative. Female staff are being deployed during the day and male staff at night. The drivers are not stopping vehicles if police are not present there. We have requested the police to take all necessary steps,” District Medical and Health Officer Gayatri Devi informed The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/checkposts-erected-at-border-points/article38289974.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Chemists stock up on key resources||Anticipating an increased demand for COVID-19 resources in view of surging cases, pharmacists in Telangana have started stocking up on medicines used for treatment as well as home testing kits. However, the sale of such medical resources is yet to take off. On Tuesday, the State recorded nearly 3,000 cases and the oxygen bed occupancy in hospitals has almost doubled in less than three weeks. Instructions to chemists for ensuring availability of medicines had been issued at the beginning to the year. Acting general secretary of Telangana Chemists and Druggists Association, Rangareddy, P. Krishna Kumar said the current demand is lower than what they witnessed during the first and second waves. Details of the stock available with them have been shared with the Telangana Drugs Control Administration. Drug Inspectors have noted down details of the pharma companies which manufacture the medicines such as vitamins and those used to treat fever and cold, among other resources. “We have been visiting manufacturing units to check the production capacity of COVID medical resources. Besides, we are checking the availability of the resources at pharmacies in hospitals where COVID patients are admitted, as well as at medical shops located outside,” drug inspector C. Vivekananda Reddy informed.  We are checking the availability of resources at pharmacies in hospitals where COVID patients are admitted, as well as those located outside. C. Vivekananda Reddy, Drug inspector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chemists-stock-up-on-key-resources/article38289728.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||ED arrests Servomax managing director for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested Avasarala Venkateswara Rao, promoter and managing director of Servomax India Private Limited (SIPL) on Monday, for allegedly indulging in money laundering practices. The investigation by ED was taken up following Central Bureau Investigation’s FIR on February 2, 2018. According to an ED release on Tuesday, it was found that Mr. Rao indulged in fraudulent transactions and did not repay the loan amounts, leading to the consortium banks suffering a non-performing asset value of Rs. 402 crore. “SIPL inflated its books of accounts to qualify for higher loans, issued LCs to related entities without any real purchase of goods, and it was established that Mr. Rao continuously indulged in benami transactions and diverted loan fund for personal benefits,” it said. It further stated that Mr. Rao used at least 50 entities to route the proceeds of the crime. “Once the loan account becomes an NPA, he would use his own shell entity (an employee as controlling director) so as to initiate the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process,” it said, adding his various acts of ‘deliberate violations’. Based on evidence gathered so far, the ED said, Mr. Rao was arrested under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act. On Tuesday, he was produced before the PMLA special court here, and remanded to 14 days of judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ed-arrests-servomax-managing-director-for-money-laundering/article38289743.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||BC body welcomes English medium in Govt. schools||National Backward Classes Welfare Association has welcome the State Government’s decision to introduce English medium of instruction in schools from the next academic year with the backing of a legislation and also to bring in a law to control fee in private and corporate schools. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, NBCWA president R. Krishnaiah said the decision to introduce English medium of instruction in 26,000 government schools would benefit about 15 lakh SC, ST, BC and minorities students, who otherwise, were not in a position to pursue English medium education in private schools. In a bid to educate their children in English medium in private schools many poor families were ending up in debts, by disposing of small properties, Mr. Krishnaiah said adding that the government decision would help such families get their kids educated in English medium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bc-body-welcomes-english-medium-in-govt-schools/article38289755.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||TPCC chief faults closure of schools when pubs are open||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Malkajigiri MP A. Revanth Reddy has alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is going ahead with a steely resolve to distance education from the poor including closing schools in the name of COVID-19 spread when there is no fatality with infection in schools. In an informal chat with newspersons here on Tuesday he observed that the Chief Minister was wilfully misleading people with decisions such as setting up a Cabinet Sub-Committee on controlling fee in schools instead of implementing the Right to Education (RTE) Act in letter and spirit under which 25% of admissions would go the poor without any donations and exorbitant fee. The only response from the government on the implementation of RTE so far had been that it was implementing KG to PG free education policy, the TPCC president said and sought to know the rationale behind the government decision to offer English medium instruction from the next academic year when there were no teachers and no recruitment for long. Criticising the government decision not to re-open schools after Sankranti vacation, Mr. Revanth Reddy sought to know the logic behind closure of schools when there was no instance of mortality among students infected in schools and allowing restriction-free functioning of pubs and restaurants when there were fatalities among those infected in pubs. The education system, from schools to universities, in Telangana was incapacitated under the TRS regime, he alleged and said allocation of funds for education was expenditure in the view of the Chief Minister while it was investment from the point of view of society. That was the reason the Chief Minister was denying education opportunities to the poor and instead giving them sheep and buffaloes, he observed. On the chances of open debate with Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president and Minister K.T. Rama Rao on agriculture, IT, Industries in the State, Mr. Revanth Reddy said KTR might not participate in debate with criminals but he was ready for the same with criminals and cheats too. The TPCC chief also expressed disappointment with Chinna Jeeyar Swamy ashram for sending him invitation for the unveiling of a Ramanujaswamy statue and a temple with a real estate company employee instead of an ashram functionary. He observed that real estate businessmen alongside Chinna Jeeyar Swamy would only create doubts among people although he had huge respect for the seer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tpcc-chief-faults-closure-of-schools-when-pubs-are-open/article38289762.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Art with tortoise care at its heart||Thanks to an art show titled Kurma, six pairs of tortoises in the Nehru Zoological Park, Hyderabad, will soon receive funding for their upkeep. Among the tortoises that stand to gain from the art show are a pair of Galapagos tortoises aged above 120 and a pair of Aldabra tortoises that are over 90. Hyderabad-based artist and curator Bolgum Nagesh Goud will be presenting Kurma, an exhibition of tortoise sculptures painted by 15 well-known Indian artists, at the State Gallery of Art, Hyderabad, on January 21 and 22: “We have already sold 12 of the sculptures to buyers who showed keen interest. We will be donating Rs. 2.5 to Rs. 3.5 lakh, once the sale is completed,” says Goud. The artists who have painted the three-dimensional fibreglass tortoise sculptures measuring 27x13x16 inches are Jagdish Chinthala, Bose Krishnamachari, Laxman Aelay, Srinivas Reddy B, Subrata Das, Sachin Jaltare, Ramesh Gorjala, Vinita Dasgupta, Ganapati Hegde, Siddharth Shingade, Meenakshi Jha Banerjee, Bandana Kumari, Arpitha Reddy, Bhushaiah and Nagesh Goud. In 2020, Goud curated the exhibition Gaja that showcased 25 painted sculptures of elephants. “We contributed Rs. 3.5 lakh from the sales proceeds for the upkeep of elephant Sita in the Nehru Zoological park,” he recalls. Vishnu connect The new show Kurma emerged as a follow-up to Gaja and thematically alludes to the second avatar of Lord Vishnu. “I asked my artist friends to paint the sculptures to the theme of the Samudra Manthan story from mythology,” says Goud. While the sculpture he painted bears images of Kamadhenu, Airavata, Lakshmi, moon and the Kalpavriksha that emerged from the churning of the ocean, others artists have given their own interpretations to the theme. For instance, Ramesh Gorjala depicted Ashtalakshmi while Bose Krishnamachari and Jagdish Chintala who are known for their bold abstract touches, let their colours do the talking. Taking a cue from Nature, Ganapati Hegde’s painting depicts the 10 avatars through leaves. Plans are afoot to open Kurma for viewing at the State Gallery of Art on January 21 and 22, from 12 noon to 6 p.m., adhering to COVID-19 safety protocols. In addition, the exhibits can be viewed on Nagesh Goud’s Facebook and Instagram accounts from January 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/art-with-tortoise-care-at-its-heart/article38289724.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Daily virus caseload close to 3,000-mark||Close to 3,000 cases of COVID-19 were detected in the State on Tuesday — the highest daily total since June-2021. Of the 1,07,904 samples put to test, 2,983 turned up positive for the infection. The last time more than one lakh tests were performed was in the first week of August 2021. The surge in cases has led to a gradual increase in hospital bed occupancy too. On Tuesday, the number of oxygen beds occupied had gone up to 1,033 from less than 500 at the beginning of the month. ICU bed occupancy has increased from less than 450 to 640 now. The 2,983 new infections included 1,206 from Greater Hyderabad region, 259 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 227 from Rangareddy. The cases were heavily concentrated in the three urban districts until a few days ago. But other districts too are witnessing a spike in infections — 118 in Hanamkonda, 96 in Sangareddy and 81 in Pedapalli. As of Tuesday evening, the cumulative case total stood at 7,14,639, the death toll at 4,062 and active caseload at 22,472.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-covid-caseload-close-to-3000-mark/article38289734.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Joint Commerce curriculum by TSCHE, UK by May 2023||Students enrolling in Commerce stream at the degree level will be exposed to curriculum of international standards, thus being equipped with skills to compete at the global level. As part of this, the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) has embarked on a Curriculum Development Project in association with the British Council and connecting two universities in the United Kingdom (Bangor, Aberystywth Universities) with Osmania University and Kakatiya University in Telangana. The e-curriculum to be jointly developed will focus on improving the domain knowledge, higher academic attributes and employability skills, said TSCHE chairman R. Limbadri. The project will take final shape by May 2023, he said and added this was decided at a joint meeting of the universities involved and the council recently. Mr. Limbadri said the number of students joining degree courses in the State has been increasing every year. During the 2021-22 academic year, a total of 2.5 lakh students were enrolled in various degree courses and of those, about one lakh opted for Commerce. The meeting chaired by Mr. Limbadri was attended by Osmania University Vice-Chancellor Ravinder, Kakatiya University Vice-Chancellor Ramesh, Project Director Prof. Ushakiran, professors Apparao, Stevenson, Rajireddy, Varalakshmi Gopikrishna, Vijayababu, Yadagirirao from Telangana, and Anka and Florina from the UK.  During the 2021-22 academic year, 2.5 lakh students were enrolled in various degree courses and of those, about one lakh opted for Commerce. R. Limbadri, TSCHE chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/joint-commerce-curriculum-by-tsche-uk-by-may-2023/article38289738.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Driver and owner booked for accident that killed techie||Both the driver without a valid driving licence, and the truck owner who hired him were booked for ‘culpable homicide not amounting to murder’ in the January 9 accident in KPHB Colony police limits that led to the death of a young techie. Yeddula Jagan Mohan Reddy, 28, hailing from Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh, who was riding his motorcycle was run over by the truck around 4 a.m. near metro pillar no 756. He had succumbed to his injuries while undergoing critical care. The police, after gathering preliminary evidence, on Tuesday said the tipper driver, Odde Ravinder, 25, did not possess a valid driver’s licence. Rash driving His driving was rash, negligent and dangerous. Kunchapu Venkatesh, the truck owner, also a resident of Gajularamaram as Ravinder, had hired him knowing the risks of driving heavy and transport vehicles, the police said. Ravinder and Venkatesh, in addition to the 304-II case, were also booked under various provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act. The duo was remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/driver-and-owner-booked-for-accident-that-killed-techie/article38289742.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||BJP questions Cabinet ‘silence’ on GO 317||Telangana BJP has castigated Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for totally ignoring the current employees’ and teachers’ agitation on GO 317 on zonal transfersduring the marathon Cabinet meeting heldon Monday and demanded an explanation on how he plans to allay their fears.“The Cabinet met for nine hours andit is shocking that ongoing stir of employees and teachers against the transfers policy did not even come up for discussion. It only shows how insensitive this government was towards employees and teachers,” said party president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar in a virtual press conference on Tuesday.The “time pass” Cabinet meeting did not find the employees’ agitation as important and talked about many other issues only to divert the attention of the public, he said. “Doesn’t the government have a responsibility to come out with a humane solution? And, when we tried to highlight their plight we were thrashed by the police and put in jail. This kind of coercion was not seen even during the Nizam’s time,” he observed.The BJP leader reiterated his party’s support to the employees protests and said data was being gathered to present a stronger case before the government about the contentious transfer policy and about the issue of filling posts.Mr. Sanjay Kumar charged that Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao lost people’s trust since his words and deeds did not match. The announcement of the formation of another officials panel to look into the vacant posts was only to drag the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-questions-cabinet-silence-on-go-317/article38289756.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:40 IST,TELANGANA||Three, including caretaker, arrested in Gandhinagar robbery||Gandhinagar police on Tuesday arrested three persons, including the caretaker of the victim, in the robbery case reported at SBI colony last week. P. Saikumar Goud, an electrician, had entered the house premises under the guise of checking a portion on the first floor for rent, while I. Dinesh Kumar, a CCTV technician, waited at a distance with the motorcycle. Police said the plan was indeed hatched by K. Raju, the caretaker of the sexagenarian couple. While Raju pretended showing the portion, he insisted the 65-year-old woman to attend the seeker’s doubts. Saikumar Goud, police said, snatched the gold ornaments from the woman’s neck, while also causing a small injury on Raju’s hands as per the plan, and fled the scene. The trio were nabbed after examining several CCTV footage, running recognition tools and, finally the headway was through the fake registration plate. Nine tolas of gold, Rs. 27,000 cash and other material were recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-including-caretaker-arrested-in-gandhinagar-robbery/article38289747.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:41 IST,TELANGANA||Letter on Pochampally received||The State has received the identity letter of Bhoodan Pochampally being adjudged as the best tourism village by the United Nation’s World Tourism Organisation. Bhoodan Pochampally of Yadadri-Bhongir district had been adjudged as the best in the competition in which 170 proposals were submitted from 75 countries including three from within the country. Tourism Minister V. Srinivas Goud accompanied by Tourism department managing director B. Manohar Rao called on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in this regard on Tuesday. The Chief Minister congratulated the Tourism department and felicitated Mr. Srinivas Goud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/letter-on-pochampally-received/article38289751.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:40 IST,TELANGANA||Three booked for cyclist’s death||Shashank Shekar, 28, Manabendra Roy, 29, both cabin crew in Air India, and Indukuri Srikanth, 28, a techie, who were in a drunken state and ran over three cyclists on the early morning of December 31, were booked for ‘culpable homicide not amounting to murder’. Nitin Agarwal, 45, of Gachibowli who was severely injured, succumbed the next day. Co-cyclists Sanjeev Srivastava and Rajiv Gajaria sustained minor injuries in the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-booked-for-cyclists-death/article38289748.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||New CEO for MaxiVision||V.S.Sudheer is the new CEO of MaxiVision Eye Hospital Group. COO for the last five years, he is being elevated to the position of CEO, the group said on Tuesday. He will be spearheading the group’s expansion plans, as part of which it intends to grow footprint in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Gujarat in Phase 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-ceo-for-maxivision/article38289977.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||HMDA continues drive against illegal structures||HMDA has continued its demolition drive against illegal structures, with a total of 13 structures pulled down on Tuesday. On Monday, the urban development authority in coordination with the District level task forces and Police, demolished 10 buildings under construction without required permissions in various municipalities within HMDA limits. Illegal structures in large sites of over 600 square yards in Shankarpally, Badangpet, Dundigal, Boduppal, Pocharam municipalities have been targeted in the first phase. Four structures in Shankarpally, three each in Dundigal and Badangpet, two in Pocharam, one in Boduppal have been pulled down on Tuesday. Town Planning staff in the respective municipalities have been issued with memos seeking explanation about inaction with regard to illegal structures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hmda-continues-drive-against-illegal-structures/article38289744.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Two awarded life sentence for step-mother’s murder||The IV Addl. Metropolitan Sessions Judge D. Hemanth Kumar on Tuesday convicted two persons for murder of their step-mother. The brothers – Devsoth Mahesh Naik and Naresh Naik – both auto-rickshaw drivers and in their 20s had killed their step-mother Vijaya Bai over personal grudges in the June of 2015, in Chatrinaka police limits over property sharing. The duo was sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and pay a fine of Rs. 2,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-awarded-life-sentence-for-step-mothers-murder/article38289749.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Award for GMR Centre||GMR Fulfillment Center, a part of GMR Group, announced it has been awarded with the prestigious EDGE (Excellence in Design for Greater Efficiencies) advanced certificate in recognition of its commitment towards sustainability by SINTALI with SGS as EDGE Auditor and ALF Green as EDGE Expert on Tuesday. Spread across 94,574.6 square metres with a floor area of 51,154 square metres, the project achieved carbon neutrality with predicted savings of 77% in energy, 84% in water and 70% less embodied energy in materials and total 790.16 tons of carbon dioxide per year. The centre undertook sustainable measures such as the use of renewable energy , said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prestigious-award-for-gmr-centre/article38289725.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Bridge to be inaugurated||A second bridge made of steel is ready for inauguration near Nagarjuna Circle of Punjagutta, built from the gate of the graveyard up to KBR Park. A statement from GHMC informed that the Rs. 17 crore bridge has a road width of 140 metres, and built with steel girders. It is scheduled for launch on Thursday, the note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bridge-to-be-inaugurated/article38289741.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Two children killed, 4 others hurt as tree crashes on them||In a heart-wrenching incident, two children were killed and four others were injured when a huge tree suddenly crashed on them while they were playing cricket beside a massive tree at Brahmana Bazar in Khammam town on Tuesday evening. According to sources, the deceased were identified as Diganth, 11, and Ayush, 7, both residents of Brahmana Bazar. Four other children suffered multiple injuries and two of them sustained head injuries, sources added. The incident occurred when six children of the same locality gathered at the open space abutting the huge peepal tree to play cricket. The giant peepal tree suddenly crashed down on a compound wall and a part of it fell on the six children playing beside it, sources added. Cleaning operation Some local residents said the condition of the old tree turned perilous after a cleaning operation was carried out involving a bulldozer in the open space beside it a few days ago. The four injured children were admitted to various hospitals in the town. Khammam One Town police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-children-killed-4-others-hurt-as-tree-crashes-on-them/article38289750.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:40 IST,TELANGANA||DPH contracts coronavirus||Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao has been diagnosed with COVID-19. On Tuesday, he said that he was getting hospitalised for isolation and symptomatic treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dph-contracts-coronavirus/article38289732.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:06 IST,TELANGANA||Work-related issues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/work-related-issues/article38289981.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||BJP using money, muscle power in Gujarat, says AAP||After two of its leaders quit the party in Gujarat, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday accused the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of forcing its leaders to leave the party by misusing the state machinery. The party leaders claimed that the ruling party feels threatened to the rise of AAP in Gujarat ahead of the Assembly polls to be held later this year. On Monday, Surat-based businessman and a prominent Patidar community social worker Mahesh Savani, who had joined AAP a few months ago, suddenly announced his exit from politics on the ground of health and personal reasons. He also said that he was not able to devote time to his social services activities while being in politics. ‘Family ties’ Earlier, a popular Gujarati folk singer Vijay Suvada, who had also joined the party in 2021, shifted to the BJP in the presence of BJP state president C.R. Paatil. He told mediapersons that his family had a long standing association with the ruling party. After the resignations of two of its key leaders, the AAP’s Isudan Gadhavi in a press conference in Ahmedabad on Tuesday, said, “It is unfortunate that they have left the party. It is their personal decision I extend my gratitude to them for the efforts they put in while they were in the party.” Mr. Gadhavi accused the BJP of applying “pressure” on AAP’s leaders to quit or distance themselves. “They use the state machinery to apply pressure and offer huge money. Its money and muscle power that’s being used by the BJP to check the growing strength of AAP in Gujarat ahead,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-using-money-muscle-power-in-gujarat-aap/article38289641.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||Comply with orders on contempt pleas: Gujarat HC||The Gujarat High Court on Tuesday directed the State Chief Secretary to issue necessary instructions for compliance of the court’s orders for which contempt petitions by employees of grant-in-aid schools have been filed against the government. CS Pankaj Kumar was present before the Division Bench of Chief Justice Aravind Kumar and Justice Ashutosh Shastri. “Please, first and foremost, take stock of all contempt petitions. Please see to it that necessary instructions are given,” CJ Kumar said during the virtual hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/comply-with-orders-on-contempt-pleas-gujarat-hc/article38289851.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||Nod for Narmada project||The Gujarat government approved a project worth Rs. 4,369 crore for the use of additional one million acre feet of the Narmada river water for the border district of Kutch.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nod-for-narmada-project/article38289846.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||Rajasthan seeks timely release of Central funds||Rajasthan has sought adequate and timely release of funds for the Centrally sponsored schemes as well as enhancement of budget for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. The State has been waiting for the pending dues of Rs. 1,271 crore under the material component of the flagship employment scheme. Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Minister Ramesh Chand Meena said here on Monday that the State was also facing the issue of the eligible families being excluded from the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana because of a technical error in ‘Awas Plus’ mobile application. He said the State government should be empowered to conduct survey for selecting beneficiaries of the housing scheme. Mr. Meena raised these matters at a meeting with Union Panchayati Raj Minister Giriraj Singh at Krishi Bhawan in New Delhi. Option suggested He suggested that an option of getting employment for 200 days in a year, with four hours of work every day, under the MGNREGS could be given to the labourers, against the present norm of 100 days’ employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rajasthan-seeks-timely-release-of-central-funds/article38289642.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:16 IST,||BJP targeted our leaders with fake cases: Akhilesh||With Abdullah Azam, son of senior leader Azam Khan who is in jail, by his side, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday accused the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh of targeting his leaders with “fake cases” over the past five years. The police action against Nahid Hasan, SP’s MLA and candidate for the Kairana seat in west U.P. who was arrested under the Gangster Act and sent to 14-day judicial custody, was a part of that chain, Mr. Yadav said at a press conference. Mr. Abdullah Khan is expected to contest the 2022 Assembly election and by showcasing him at a press conference, he tried to indicate his support for the Khan family which has tremendous clout in Rampur. Mr. Azam Khan has often been described as the Muslim face of the SP and was key part of the previous SP governments. Mr. Abdullah Khan, who had won the Assembly election from the Suar seat in Rampur in 2017, was released from the Sitapur jail on bail on Saturday. He had been booked for cheating among other charges and in 2019, the Allahabad High Court declared his election as null and void on grounds that he was not of valid age, 25, when he filed his nomination. Mr. Azam Khan, Lok Sabha MP from Rampur, is still behind bars. He faces several cases lodged against him by the Rampur administration after the Yogi Adityanath government came to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-targeted-our-leaders-with-fake-cases-akhilesh/article38289640.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||Ashish Mishra’s bail plea: HC reserves order||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday reserved its order on the bail plea of Union Minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra alias Monu in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, in which eight people including four farmers were killed. The Lucknow Bench of the court reserved its order on Mr. Mishra's plea after concluding hearing through video-conferencing. The counsel appearing on behalf of Mr. Mishra told the court that his client was innocent and there was no evidence against him that he incited the driver of a vehicle to crush the farmers. Opposing the plea, Additional Advocate General V.K. Shahi said at the time of the incident, Mr. Mishra was in the car that crushed the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ashish-mishras-bail-plea-hc-reserves-order/article38289843.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:15 IST,||HC reserves order on bail||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday reserved its order on the bail plea of Union Minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, in which eight people were killed.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-reserves-order-on-bail/article38289632.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||NCP tries to woo young voters ahead of BMC polls||Ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporations (BMC) polls, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has started connecting with the youth by developing a mobile application and a youth carnival for students across Maharashtra.  Last month, popular Tamil movie Jai Bhim was screened in the Mumbai suburban area of Vikhroli. Nitin Deshmukh, NCP youth working president representing that ward said, “I decided to show this movie in Hindi to everyone in my ward as the movie highlights atrocities on minorities like Dalits and yet is an inspiration to them.”  After the film was appreciated by the local residents there, State president of NCP Yuvati Congress Aditi Nalawade decided to broadcast the film in theatres across Mumbai Suburban. She said, “we have decided to connect with the youth. The movie is expected to air in about 50 theatres starting from January 26. This initiative is being taken not only keeping the upcoming BMC elections in mind, but also for the Mahanagar Palika elections and for the 27 Zilla Parishads due soon. The entire plan commenced from the founder Sharad Pawar’s birthday on December 12.” The party also launched a mobile application called ‘NCP Youth’ for iphone and android users. The App has a chat box for common public to connect with their ward representatives, Members of Legislative Assembly and Members of Parliament of the party. The App also shows all the activities on various social media platforms of the party in English, Marathi and Hindi. Other than being accessible to all those who have a smart phone, the party also flagged a youth carnival in colleges across Maharashtra in the last week of December. Shows suspended The festival had stage performances, duet singing, ramp walks and several competitions. Due to the upsurge in the COVID-19 cases the activities of the Carnival are currently suspended. Ms. Nalawade said, “All these activities help connect with the youth not just online but also offline”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ncp-woos-young-voters-ahead-of-polls/article38289626.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||Param Bir fails to appear before ACB||Former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, now suspended, failed to appear before the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) here on Tuesday till noon to record his statement in connection with an open enquiry being conducted against him on a complaint lodged by a police inspector, an official said. Mr. Singh, who was suspended from service after extortion cases were registered against him, was summoned to appear before the ACB on Tuesday but he hasn’t appeared till noon, he said. Earlier he was summoned to appear before the ACB on January 10, but he had cited pendency of hearing in the Supreme Court as the reason for not turning up, he said. “Recently, our probe team went to his Mumbai residence and gave the notice of appearance before the ACB,” the official said, adding that the notice was received by Mr. Singhs cook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/param-bir-fails-to-appear-before-acb/article38289634.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||‘No curb on use of PM’s name, photo and emblem for PM CARES Fund’||The Prime Minister’s Office on Tuesday told the Bombay High Court there was no restriction on the use of the Prime Minister’s name and photograph as well as the image of the national flag and emblem for the PM CARES Fund. In an affidavit submitted before a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M.S. Karnik, PMO Under Secretary Pradeep Srivastava said the PM’s photograph, name and national emblem were also used in the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF). The affidavit was filed in response to a petition filed by Congress worker Vikrant Chavan seeking deletion of the PM’s name and photograph from the PM CARES Fund. It had also sought the deletion of images of the national flag and emblem from the official website of the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund. ‘Violates Constitution’ The plea claimed this was in violation of the Constitution as well as The Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act. In its affidavit, the PMO said, “PM CARES Fund and PMNRF are both chaired by the Prime Minister. As the name, photograph of the PM and National Emblem are being used for the PMNRF, they are also being used for the PM CARES Fund.” It said the Flag Code of India, 2002, which brings together all laws, conventions, practices and instructions regarding display of the national flag, provides that there shall be no restriction on its display by general public, private organisations, educational institutions and so on, except to the extent provided in Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act. The Bench posted the matter for next hearing after three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-curb-on-use-of-pms-name-photo-and-emblem-for-pm-cares-fund/article38289852.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:15 IST,||In a flux over smog towers||A walk of up to one km in three different directions from the smog tower in Connaught Place with a handheld air quality monitoring device has revealed fluctuating levels of the chief pollutant, PM 2.5. What is interesting is while the air closest to the tower should be cleanest, the device recorded the opposite in several instances — falling pollution levels as one moved away from the tower. The data was collected by this reporter on an air quality monitor of ‘Prana Air’ provided by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), and was shared with three experts, who observed that multiple factors influence the air quality at the height where the readings were taken. While a detailed study factoring in all sources of pollution is required to arrive at the final conclusion, the experts were unanimous about increase in levels of pollution as one moves away from the tower in an ideal situation. A paradox Anju Goel, a Fellow at the Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), said the air closest to the tower should be the cleanest because it sucks in the dirty air from the top of the tower and releases filtered air near the surface through fans on the sides of the tower. “Whereas the value of PM 2.5 decreased as you moved away from the tower, which is in contradiction to normal scenario. The readings indicate the efficiency of the smog tower is not enough to clean the air to the extent it is needed. At the height of 1.5 to two metres from the surface, it is a mixed zone with high turbulence. Your readings also fall under this category,” she responded. When approached, a Delhi government official held that multiple factors could be responsible for such variations and therefore, the data is not showing a clear trend of reduction in pollution with distance from the tower. This reporter walked towards RML Hospital, where the value of PM2.5 was 327.5 ug/m3 at 50 metres from the tower and 325 at 100 metres from the tower, but it dropped to 301 at 300 metres and raised slightly to 307 at 500 metres. Towards Connaught Place also a similar trend was observed, but towards Parliament House, there was a rise after the fall in values. The readings were taken on December 25, when the city’s air quality was ‘severe’. Multiple monitors A CEEW Fellow, Karthik Ganesan, said, multiple monitors should be ideally used to measure pollution at all points at the same time to get accurate results. “If at all the smog tower has an impact, then the pollution should increase as you move away from the tower. But the recorded values show a decrease. Which means that at different points along the road, there is an impact of different sources of pollution. This also shows that the impact of the smog tower is negated by all these sources,” Mr. Ganesan said.  Anumita Roychowdhury, Executive Director of Centre for Science and Environment, a research and advocacy NGO, said focus has to be on reducing emissions at sources than attempting to purify dynamic and voluminous air in outdoor conditions. She wondered how tiny whiffs of purified air mixed with polluted air could help to improve the quality of air in general. “Instead of spending Rs. 40 crore on two towers, the government could have spent the funds on several other options such as replacing the small and polluting industrial boilers or the chulhas burning dirty fuel in poor households,” she said.  Not viable The experts reiterated the smog towers are not a viable method to clean city’s air. The pilot project spending Rs. 20 crore was constructed following a Supreme Court order and was inaugurated by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on August 23, who had promised then that data analysis would begin immediately and a detailed performance report would be obtained within two years after the performance is examined by experts. Also, he said the government would get monthly trends to analyse how efficiently the tower is working. Earlier, the government had talked about 80% pollution reduction at inlet and outlet of the tower but never mentioned about the effect of distance from the tower. On October 1, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said that a committee constituted to look into the efficacy of smog tower would submit three reports to the government at the end of every three months. But the government is yet to release any data on what impact the smog tower has made on the quality of air when at a distance from the tower.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/in-a-flux-over-smog-towers/article38289638.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:15 IST,||DTC to add more wheels to its fleet||Over 1,400 buses are expected to be added to the Capital’s public transport fleet by the end of this year. Buses, in batches of hundreds, are expected to be inducted every three to six months which will eventually take the city’s bus fleet size to its highest in a decade. Having successfully tided over an apparent jinx in the procurement of buses, which persisted for over a decade, the Delhi government has pinned its hopes on the Centre’s ‘Grand Challenge’ scheme to fulfil its electric bus wishlist. Delhi has made an ambitious pitch for 1,500 electric buses under the scheme in which around 3,500 buses will be procured by the Government of India for allotment to State transport undertakings of nine mega cities. It hopes to get at least 1,000 of the 1,500 it has requested, sources said. Clean fuel technology “We expect a major augmentation of the public bus fleet this year. All the vehicles which will be part of this exercise will utilise clean fuel technology — that is electric and CNG systems,” said Ashish Kundra, Secretary-cum-Commissioner, Transport. It is turning out to be a good year for the city’s public transport infrastructure. The year began with the induction of the first bus since 2011, an electric one, by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) here on Monday. Furthermore, the number of public buses on the streets is expected to see an incremental increase at least thrice in 2022 by the end of April, October and December. According to a senior government official, a contingent of 650 buses, including 350 low-floor and AC CNG and 300 electric buses under the cluster scheme, are expected to be rolled out by the end of April. A batch of 100 among these was flagged off by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal last week. By the end of October, the Transport Department hopes to replace 450 buses retiring from the ageing DTC fleet with cluster buses. According to sources, a tender for this is in the final stages of preparation before being floated. As many as 330 electric buses, also under the cluster scheme, are expected to be inducted by the end of December. Currently at 6,900, the planned induction of more vehicles in phases will take the number of public buses beyond 7,300 in spite of the replacement of the 450 ageing vehicles on the DTC fleet. The fleet was at its strongest, with 6,342 vehicles, in 2010. Ambitious pitch With its eyes set on a target of 2,000 electric buses over the coming years, Delhi is among nine mega cities — that is those with a population of over 10 million — to be asked to pitch its demand for electric buses as part of the ‘Grand Challenge’ scheme. The other cities include Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai, Pune and Surat. The final call on the actual allotment of electric buses, in which the Centre will float a joint tender and procure almost 3,500 buses, will be taken after their procurement. “It is an ambitious pitch. Be that as it may, we hope Delhi will be allotted around 1,000 buses being procured by the Centre,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dtc-to-add-more-wheels-to-its-fleet/article38289621.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||HC grants bail to two in taxi app fraud case||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to two directors of an app-based taxi company, accused of duping hundreds of people of Rs. 250 crore after promising them huge returns on investing in the firm. The High Court granted bail to accused Sunder Singh Bhati and Rajesh Mahto, noting that they have been in custody for over a year now and their continued custody was no longer required. The court also said that the chargesheet as well as supplementary chargesheet have been filed, and all the evidence available is documentary in nature and in custody of the investigating agency While Mr. Bhati was arrested on December 9, 2020, Mr. Mahto was arrested on August 22 of the same year. The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police had arrested the two directors of ‘Hello Taxi’ for their alleged involvement in the multi-crore fraud case. According to the prosecution, the two, along with other business partners had duped hundreds of people by promising that if they invested their money, the firm would give them a 200% return within one year. It opposed the bail pleas saying the case is a “multi-victim scam” involving over 900 investors. The prosecution stated that the accused were dishonest from the inception and that at the time of the booking, the Hello Taxi scheme had not been sanctioned and requisite permissions had not been obtained. The prosecution stated that family members of the accused benefitted from the funds transferred from the company. “Whether or not the cheated money was entrusted to the petitioners (accused) is a matter of trial and cannot be taken into consideration at this juncture. This court is, therefore, of the opinion that continued custody of the petitioners is no longer required and that both the petitioners should be enlarged on bail,” the High Court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-high-court-grants-bail-to-two-in-taxi-app-fraud-case/article38289631.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||A mother’s long wait for justice||A week after being pulled up by the Delhi High Court for delay in identifying the persons responsible for the death of 23-year-old Faizan, who was allegedly assaulted by policemen and made to sing the national anthem during the north-east Delhi riots in 2020, the Delhi police have informed the court that they have identified the head constable who made a video of the incident. “It has been two years, you have been able to identify just some person?” the court asked. Faizan, who along with four other men was allegedly assaulted by policemen, later died of his injuries. The head constable, who allegedly made the video of the incident, has denied the charge. For their part, the police are awaiting the forensic report of his phone. As the case drags on, the 60-year-old mother of the victim has lamented the lack of progress in the matter. Kismatun, a widow, had moved the High Court seeking a court-monitored SIT probe into her son's death. “The police have been trying to defend the accused,” she said, adding that she is now devoted to fighting the case till her death “come what may”.  Sitting in her home at Kardampuri, she told The Hindu : “The lawyers keep informing me that the police are being scolded by the judge... I feel relieved on hearing that, as they are the ones who brutally assaulted my son. They should have identified and arrested some officer by now.”  “It's been two years since the incident, my tears have dried up remembering my son... It pains me every day as the case lingers on. I want the accused to be brought to justice,” the octogenarian said, showing Faizan's photograph kept in her pocket. “I have faith in my lawyers and the judiciary, only they can question the police for their wrongdoings.” Faizan, who worked as a butcher at the Ghazipur Chicken Mandi, was allegedly abused and thrashed by at least six policemen at 66 Foot Road in Kardampuri and was made to sing the national anthem on February 24. According to Kismatun's petition, Faizan was then forcefully kept at the Jyoti Nagar plice station and not provided the required medical treatment. He was eventually released the next day in an injured state, following which he succumbed to his injuries on February 26. Ever since the incident, Kismatun, who lives with her four other sons, has rued Faizan's absence as he was “among the youngest and the brightest child”. “He started working as a tailor when he was 12 years old and later took up the job of a butcher. We had a lot of hope from him as he used to earn well and was focused on his work… We had even fixed his marriage,” the mother recalled. ‘Cameras not working’ The police had earlier told the court that the cameras inside the Jyoti Nagar police station were not operating between February 25 and March 4, 2020 “due to technical reasons” and that Faizan and the four others were kept inside the police station “as per their own wish”. “When Faizan was alive, I used to work in a jeans factory nearby but after his death I don’t feel like doing anything… I still remember that before going to work he used to wake me up and wait till I locked the gate,” Kismatun added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-mothers-long-wait-for-justice/article38289630.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||Security increased in Capital ahead of R-Day celebrations||Operation of sub-conventional aerial platforms, including UAVs, paragliders and hot air balloons, over the national capital has been prohibited from January 20 to February 15 in view of Republic Day celebrations, Delhi Police said on Tuesday. The order has been issued by Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana in the wake of reports of the possibility of certain criminal or anti-social elements or terrorists posing a threat to the safety of the general public, dignitaries and vital installations, police said in a statement. According to the order, threat to the safety of the general public, dignitaries and vital installation could be through the use of sub-conventional aerial platforms like para-gliders, para-motors, hang gliders, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), unmanned aircraft systems (UASs), micro-light aircraft, remotely piloted aircraft, hot air balloons, small size powered aircraft, quadcopters or even by para-jumping from aircraft, among others. Hence, flying of all these have been prohibited and doing so shall be punishable, they said. Police have also increased vigil in the Capital with Special Cell, Special Branch, Traffic, SWAT and teams from the National Security Guard being a part of the security cover. Police said that only those fully vaccinated will be allowed to attend the Republic Day Parade on January 26 and of the 14,000 invitees, 4,000 passes have been given to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tight-vigil-in-capital-ahead-of-republic-day/article38289628.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:15 IST,||PhD scholar molested at JNU||The Delhi police have registered a case after a PhD student was allegedly molested on the JNU campus late on Monday, officers said, adding that efforts to arrest the accused are under way. According to DCP (South-West) Gaurav Sharma, around 12.45 a.m. on Monday, the Vasant Kunj North police station received a PCR call regarding the molestation of a student in JNU. Thereafter, a police team reached the spot and it came to the fore that a student pursuing PhD at the university was walking on the East Gate Road of the university, when a boy who came on a bike from inside the campus tried to molest her. “The girl raised an alarm and the bike-borne man fled. A case under IPC Section 354 pertaining to outraging the modesty of a woman has been registered and efforts are on to nab the accused,” the DCP said. Following the incident, there was an uproar at the university with students and teachers demanding action against the private security agency hired by the university administration. The students said that the campus was once a safe space for women but due to the police and JNU administration’s “callous approach to crimes against women”, it was no longer safe. There was a demand to reinstate the Gender Sensitisation Committee Against Sexual Harassment (GSCASH) that was replaced by the Internal Complaints Committee. “It is extremely concerning that such a grievous incident occurred on the campus premises, yet the JNU administration has shown callous attitude and is yet to issue any official statement in support of the survivor. Increase of such incidents on campus is an indication of the inept structure of ICC which is present on campus,” the All India Students’ Association said. It added that the ICC regularly indulged in victim blaming and siding with the assaulter. The JNU Students’ Union conducted a march from North Gate of the campus to Vasant Kunj police station on Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/phd-scholar-molested-at-jnu/article38289625.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:15 IST,||TPR falls to 22.47%, downward swing expected||The test positivity rate (TPR) of COVID-19 in the city fell from 27.99% on Monday to 22.47% on Tuesday, stated a Delhi government bulletin. The TPR had peaked on Friday — 30.64% — and remained at that level on Saturday and has been less than that since. Health Minister Satyendar Jain had last week said that COVID-19 cases have peaked and is expected to come down now. On Tuesday, the number of new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours also fell to 11,684 from 12,527 on Monday. Thirty-eight deaths were reported, taking the total deaths to 25,425, the bulletin said. A total of 52,002 tests were done in 24 hours, up from 44,762 a day earlier. Of the total 15,606 hospital beds for COVID-19 patients, 82.51% were vacant on Tuesday. On Thursday, 28,867 fresh cases were reported, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tpr-falls-to-2247-downward-swing-expected/article38289622.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:15 IST,||Govt. to begin first COVID vaccination camp for sex workers’ children today||The Delhi government will set up its first camp for vaccinating sex workers’ children near G.B Road here on Wednesday. Government sources said 100% of the 1,000-odd adult residents of the area had been administered the first dose and 90% had received their second dose. In addition to sex workers’ children aged between 15 and 18 years, the Central District Administration, under whose jurisdiction the red light area falls, hopes to include children from underprivileged backgrounds residing nearby for their first dose of vaccine at the Anglo Arabic School. According to government sources, around 70 to 100 children are expected to be covered on Wednesday. Sources said the camp will also serve as a means to cover adults — the remaining 10% of those eligible for the second dose — on Wednesday and over the days to come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-to-begin-first-covid-vaccination-camp-for-sex-workers-children-today/article38289624.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:15 IST,||Hospitality industry seeks waiver of statutory charges||Representatives of hotels and restaurants as well as traders have written to the Delhi government requesting for relief to their sector in view of the COVID-19 restrictions imposed on them. They have sought a waiver of statutory charges. The owners said that the current restrictions are akin to a lockdown and that business is less than 10% in all major locations. It will take nothing less than five years for the industry to return to the pre-pandemic levels, they said. “Frequent lockdowns and restrictions coupled with travel restrictions have resulted in the industry experiencing the worst phase,” said G.S Kohli, vice-president of the Federation of Hotels and Restaurants in India (FHRAI) in a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Meanwhile, traders have demanded the withdrawal of the odd-even opening system of shops as well as the weekend curfew as COVID-19 numbers are declining in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hospitality-industry-seeks-waiver-of-statutory-charges/article38289619.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:15 IST,||Case filed over ‘unsavoury’ remarks against women||The Delhi Police Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations Unit (IFSO) has lodged a case against unknown persons for making obscene remarks against women belonging to the Muslim community during a Clubhouse conversation, officers said on Tuesday. The chatroom on the application hosted around 20 participants who were allegedly heard discussing “why Muslim girls are more beautiful than Hindu girls”. The police took suo moto cognisance of the matter. The FIR has been lodged under IPC sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of caste, religion etc.), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 354A (sexual harrasment). The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) had earlier issued a notice to DCP (IFSO) K.P.S Malhotra to take an action in this regard. “In the conversation, participants can be clearly heard making obscene, vulgar and defamatory remarks over women and girls especially from the Muslim community,” DCW chief Swati Maliwal said in the notice. She has asked the police for an action taken report and details of accused, if arrested.  Participants can be clearly heard making vulgar and defamatory remarks over women and girls Swati Maliwal DCW chief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/case-filed-over-unsavoury-remarks-against-women/article38289623.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:15 IST,||Kin murders 5-year-old to take revenge||A five-year-old boy was abducted and killed by a relative in order to take revenge on his family, the police said. The boy was taken from east Delhi’s Ghazipur and his body was found in Etah in Uttar Pradesh. The accused has been arrested. A senior officer said that on January 15, one Rajan Singh approached the police and said that his five-year-old son had gone missing after which the police registered a case and started a probe. “During investigation, CCTV footages were analysed wherein it was found that the boy was going with one of Rajan’s distant relative Sunil,” the police said. Sunil was apprehended and it was revealed that his brother Manoj was married to Rajan’s sister. However, Manoj had died in 2015 and Sunil believed that Rajan had a role in Manoj’s death. Sunil also said that Rajan’s wife had borrowed Rs. 1,500 from him and was not returning it, the police said, adding that he wanted to take revenge on the family. Sunil, took the child to Etah and strangulated him, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kin-murders-5-year-old-to-take-revenge/article38289617.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||BJP missing Parrikar in Goa||While the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party is yet to announce its first list of candidates for the Goa Assembly election, the uncertainty over fielding Utpal Parrikar – son of late CM and BJP stalwart Manohar Parrikar – is indicative of fissures within the Goa BJP leadership. It also reflects the current leadership’s reported ‘policy’ of sidelining members of the once-formidable ‘Parrikar clique’ belonging to the Saraswat community from positions of influence. This process, which began a few months after Parrikar’s demise in March 2019 has alienated the influential Saraswat community. Bereft of Parrikar’s skillful leadership, the BJP is struggling to balance the aspirations of different communities and castes in the State, given that the party’s leadership under Mr. Sawant has already alienated Catholic minorities in a bid to consolidate the Hindu majority. According to analysts, denying Mr. Utpal a ticket in the election would be sending a negative signal to the Saraswat community, while undermining the credibility of the present BJP leadership which claims to be carrying forward Mr. Parrikar’s legacy. Last week, the BJP’s Goa election in-charge, Devendra Fadnavis, said the party did not give tickets merely because someone was the son of a former CM. Mr. Utpal Parrikar has been keen to contest from Panaji. Sources in the Goa BJP say Mr. Utpal’s lack of connect with the voters has made the party brass hesitant of giving him a ticket. Mr. Utpal, on his part, has hit out at the party leadership for considering a ticket to a man with criminal antecedents (Mr. Monserrate). The Opposition parties have rallied round the issue, with the Shiv Sena and the Aam Aadmi Party both promising Mr. Utpal a ticket. Sena MP Sanjay Raut said the Goa BJP was ‘insulting’ the Parrikar family and called upon all the Opposition parties to support Mr. Utpal by not fielding any candidate against him in Panaji. This has put the BJP in a fix: it cannot afford to lose Mr. Monserrate, an incumbent MLA considered a ‘winner’ given the recent exit of ex-BJP Minister Michael Lobo. But as the party top brass try and placate Mr. Utpal, offering him other avenues of rehabilitation, the BJP risks offending the Saraswat community. “The Gaud Saraswats, being a landholding, literate class active in the business and social fields have been known to shape political opinion in the coastal state,” says Goa-based academic and political analyst Manoj Kamat. The party has no leader who has Parrikar’s deft ‘social engineering’ skills, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-missing-parrikar-in-goa/article38289644.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||Four dead as excavator falls in gorge in H.P.||Four people died on the spot and three were injured as an excavator fell in a gorge in Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district on Tuesday, police said. The deceased have been identified as excavator operator Hom Raj and three people employed by the Public Works Department — Pyardasi, Dhabe Ram and Bhim Singh. They were natives of Kullu, District Superintendent of Police Gurdev Sharma said. The excavator fell in the gorge near Saminullah under the Banjar sub-division in the afternoon, Mr. Sharma said. He said the injured Pennu Ram, Chaman Lal and Tara Chand were admitted to Banjar Civil Hospital. Prima facie, it appears that the operator lost control over the excavator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/four-dead-as-excavator-falls-in-gorge-in-hp/article38289850.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:31 IST,||Oscar show||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/oscar-show/article38289849.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:07 IST,||Will do whatever it takes to keep MDP in power, says Nasheed||Mohamed Nasheed, Parliamentary Speaker and former President of the Maldives, on Tuesday vowed to do “whatever it takes” to ensure that the ruling Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP), which he leads, remains in power.   “I think it is getting more and more crucial that the MDP remains in government. There is a lot of bad blood, especially with President [Abdulla] Yameen, and his campaign and narrative against India that is making our people very uneasy,” Mr. Nasheed told The Hindu in Colombo, during his visit to address Sri Lanka’s National Youth Parliament.  ‘India out’ campaign He was referring to the ongoing ‘India out’ campaign in the Maldives that has acquired more momentum, with former President Yameen backing it, after the Maldivian Supreme Court recently overturned his conviction in a money laundering case. Mr. Yameen, who was in office from 2013 to 2018, is widely perceived as an ally of China. On Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s recent visit to the island nation, Mr. Nasheed said: “I have always had the view that you cannot play one country against the other.” It is important for Male “to be good and honest with its friend”, he said. “India is our neighbour and the first port of call in everything. I don’t think that Indian assistance in the Maldives needs to be shadowed with something else,” he said. Speaking of the economic challenge facing the Maldives, following the impact of the pandemic, Mr. Nasheed said: “We have to repay some $500 million outstanding debt this year,” while pointing to climate vulnerable countries’ specific predicament of servicing debt incurred on infrastructure assets, at the same time ensuring assets are not stranded due to climate-related calamities. Poll strategy While underscoring “the need to” keep the MDP in power, “to ensure that democracy continues”, Mr. Nasheed did not rule out running for the top office himself, something he has indicated earlier too. Asked if he had decided to contest the Maldives’s presidential elections due next year, he said: “Well, you know, there is always the thought of running, it doesn’t change.” Mr. Nasheed, who has also been pushing the idea of a parliamentary system of governance in place of the current presidential rule, observed that the current system makes it impossible for any political party to secure over 50% of the vote and win an election, without courting smaller political entities, some of them espousing “extremist” religious views. “And they have a disproportionate amount of power when we are in government,” he said. Mr. Nasheed’s party colleague President Solih, he said, appreciates the challenges facing the Maldives and the solutions being put forward by him, but remained non-committal on who the final candidate might be. “I can’t see both of us contesting each other. I don’t think he would, either.” It could be either of the leaders, or neither, he indicated, adding he will do “whatever it takes” to keep their party in power. The “most important thing”, he reiterated, was that the MDP remains in power. “It is very important that we have another term, because of democracy. That is paramount for me,” said the leader, who, in May, was targeted in an explosion outside his residence in what police called “an act of terror”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/will-do-whatever-it-takes-to-keep-mdp-in-power-says-nasheed/article38289383.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:07 IST,||Rising sea levels prompt Indonesia to relocate capital||Indonesia’s parliament on Tuesday passed a law approving the relocation of its capital from slowly sinking Jakarta to a site 2,000 kilometres away on the jungle-clad Borneo island that will be named “Nusantara”. The House of Representatives vote provides the legal framework for the move, which was first tipped by President Joko Widodo in April 2019, citing rising sea levels and severe congestion on densely populated Java island. Home to more than 30 million people in its greater metro area, Jakarta has long been plagued by serious infrastructure problems and flooding exacerbated by climate change. The new capital will cover about 56,180 hectares in East Kalimantan province on the Indonesian part of Borneo. Early plans for the new capital depict a utopian design aimed at creating an environmentally friendly “smart” city, but few details have been confirmed. Environmentalist critics of the capital’s move have warned it could damage ecosystems in the region. Budget details have not yet been revealed in a presidential decree, though previous reports have pegged the project’s costs at $33 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rising-sea-levels-prompt-indonesia-to-relocate-capital/article38289378.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:07 IST,||‘Foreign parcels spreading Omicron in China’||Chinese state media report parcels mailed from overseas may have spread the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in Beijing and elsewhere. Globally, health experts have stressed the virus mainly spreads through respiratory droplets when infected people breathe, speak, cough and sneeze. However, China has repeatedly emphasised the danger of infection from packaging, despite only trace amounts of the virus being found on such items, and it has boosted testing of items shipped from overseas.  The Communist Party newspaper Global Times cited the Beijing Center for Disease Control and virologists as making the link between the latest infections and packages from abroad.  Cases detected The report on Tuesday said investigators found people newly infected had picked up packages mailed from Canada and the U.S.. China has locked down parts of Haidian district following the detection of three cases, just weeks before the Chinese capital is due to host the Winter Olympics. Another person in the southern technology hub of Shenzhen who tested positive for Omicron had handled packages sent from North America.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/foreign-parcels-spreading-omicron-in-china/article38289379.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:07 IST,||Ex-Kazhak leader denies conflict with successor||Kazakhstan’s former leader released a video on Tuesday in which he talked about the violent unrest that engulfed the country earlier this month and rejected reports alleging that he fled the country amid tensions with the current President. It was the first time that Nursultan Nazarbayev spoke publicly about the protests. Mr. Nazarbayev also denied that there were tensions between him and his hand-picked successor, President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev. He also backed Mr. Tokayev’s move to take over as head of the National Security Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ex-kazhak-leader-denies-conflict-with-successor/article38289381.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:07 IST,||Blinken to visit Ukraine amid invasion fears||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken will fly on Tuesday to Ukraine in a show of support amid fears of a Russian invasion, the State Department said. Mr. Blinken, who will meet with President Volodymyr Zelensky, will “reinforce the United States’ commitment to Ukraine’s sovereignty,” State Department spokesman Ned Price said. Mr. Blinken will also head on Thursday to Berlin for four-way talks with Britain, France and Germany on the Ukraine crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blinken-to-visit-ukraine-amid-invasion-fears/article38289376.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:49 IST,||The cracks in U.P.’s ‘socially engineered’ caste wall||Of all the five State Assembly elections to be held soon, it is perhaps the one in Uttar Pradesh that is drawing the most attention. Expressing confidence that his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government and also party would retain power, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath alluded to this in his recent statement, ‘80 per cent versus 20 per cent’. The intention is clear — to polarise the upcoming elections on communal lines in order to win. After his controversial statement generated much political heat, Mr. Adityanath tried to give his statement a very different interpretation. Apart from such polarisation, he had great faith in the caste-based ‘social engineering’ of the BJP-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). But last week, the unthinkable happened when cracks began emerging in the famed ‘social engineering’ of the BJP-RSS in Uttar Pradesh. There was shock and surprise when several Ministers and MLAs, including BJP leader Dharam Singh Saini and senior Minister Swami Prasad Maurya resigned from the party. Many of them have joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) and there is much speculation about more BJP leaders resigning. Most of these leaders are from the non-Yadav Other Backward Classes (OBC). In recent years, the BJP-RSS combine, under their so-called social engineering agenda, had campaigned to connect the non-Yadav backward castes to ‘Hindutva politics’. There is no doubt that it was successful in this to a great extent. The BJP is a party that has not only won most elections in recent years but also has strong financial and organisational roots. In the last five years too, has not Uttar Pradesh been labelled the ‘new laboratory of the RSS’? Among the top leaders and strategists, Mr. Adityanath has also been considered the ‘most eligible face’ for the post of Prime Minister after Narendra Modi. Last year, an ‘RSS intellectual’, in an informal chat, told me that whether the Indian Constitution is changed or not, if Mr. Adityanath becomes the Prime Minister, India will effectively be called a ‘Hindu Rashtra’ due to his ‘saffron attire’ and ‘unwavering commitment to Hindutva’. It is under this Yogi Maharaj that we are now witnessing an exodus — with speculation of more resignations — of MLAs and even Ministers from his own Council of Ministers. The most surprising thing is that apart from the central and State agencies, the RSS’s own network did not seem to have any inkling of this rebellion by so many Ministers-MLAs from the backward classes. The key questions are: Is this ‘rebellion’ reflective of the typical pre-election party-hopping when MLAs do not get their preferred tickets? Or is this a sign of something deeper? That the social base of the BJP-RSS among the OBCs in U.P. is indeed fragmenting? From ‘Mandal’ to ‘Kamandal’ Sangh and BJP strategists have often proclaimed that even in a big State like U.P. — just as in Gujarat or Madhya Pradesh — they have split a large section of the backward population from ‘Mandal politics’ and brought them completely within the ambit of Kamandal politics, i.e., Hindutva. If this is true, then how does one explain why leaders such as Swami Prasad Maurya, Dara Singh Chauhan or Dharam Singh Saini, who have had no trouble regarding their own ticket or tickets for their supporters in the BJP, rebelled against the party?  A writer friend based in Lucknow who shares a very close relationship with Swami Prasad Maurya (they hail from the same social background) had this to say when I asked him about the Minister’s political mood; this happened when Mr. Maurya was still a Minister: “After Maurya ji joined the BJP, I stopped visiting him. The Minister talks of keeping in touch, but I have clearly told him that it is not possible to have an easy relationship with him till he remains in the Hindutva party!” This is just an instance of how these leaders were perceived to be turning untrustworthy and unpopular in their own social base. For the last five to seven years, Dalit and backward communities have begun feeling a sense of estrangement with the politics of Hindutva, especially on the question of a reasonable share in the economic and social spheres, and in governance and employment, instead of the dominant ‘communal-secular’ discourse. But top BJP leaders were not ready to understand this process or even address it, confident that Prime Minister Modi’s eloquent speeches, the RSS’s ubiquitous network, the BJP’s money power and its election management ability would be able to overcome these issues. But now, the BJP leadership is baffled and upset by the rebellion of OBC leaders.  Factors behind a waning My assessment is that the appeal of the BJP’s Hindutva politics among U.P’s backward classes has been gradually waning. First, there is an absence of an effective and authentic OBC leader at the Centre. In U.P. too, there is no such leader. Due to his ineffective reach under Mr. Adityanath’s chief ministership, Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya has remained irrelevant. The BJP only used him to deliver communal rhetoric. Mr. Modi may have called himself an OBC at one point of time. But now, no one in States with a dense population of OBCs, such as U.P. and Bihar, considers him an OBC. After the farmers’ movement, he is now seen by the OBC farming communities to be more a representative of big corporates and Hindutva, i.e., the ideology of ‘conservative upper-caste Hindus’. The 103rd Constitutional Amendment to give 10% reservation to upper caste Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) has also contributed in denting the Prime Minister’s ‘OBC image’. Such an extra-constitutional amendment was deemed to have been enacted under pressure from the RSS, leading to strong protests by OBC youth on social media. The manner in which the OBC reservation was thrown into jeopardy admission to the all India medical courses, etc., also created resentment against the BJP. In this case, the efforts of a regional party, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu, to restore reservation has drawn applause from among the backwards in U.P. and Bihar. Social media has been flooded with complimentary messages for Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin from the Hindi-speaking backward populations. Another episode related to reservation which has pitted the vocal section of OBCs against the BJP has been the initiative of dividing OBC reservation into categories, this time based on the report of Justice G. Rohini Commission — some backward leaders of the BJP have made critical remarks against this endeavour. Issues in agriculture, census OBCs, like every other community, have also been deeply troubled by inflation and unemployment. The official figures of unemployment highlight the alarming situation in U.P. Due to a controversial decision taken by the Yogi Adityanath government, farms are being affected by non-milch or surplus animals, causing damage to the agricultural profession. In a State like U.P., OBCs take up the largest share of the population in agriculture. In response to a Right to Information (RTI) query on the beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri KIsan SAmman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme, the Union Agriculture Ministry said that OBCs account for 41.5% of the people involved in farming in India. In my estimate, this number in U.P. will not be less than 52%. Apart from Punjab and Haryana, western U.P. was also one of the most affected by the farmers’ movement, but the entire farming community in U.P. experienced its fervour. OBC farmers have been angry with the way farmers were repressed during the movement. The third and important reason has been the BJP and the central government’s categorical denial of their earlier decision regarding caste census. There is now great resentment among the backwards and numerous rallies, seminars and press conferences on this issue have been held in many areas that include Varanasi, Ghazipur, Jaunpur, Azamgarh and Lucknow. Now, Ambedkar’s ideology The fourth reason is that in the last few years, a growing section of OBC youth in the entire Hindi-speaking region, including U..P, has come under the influence of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s ideology. Till a few years ago, the names of Narayana Guru, Ayyankali, Periyar, Jyotiba Phule, Shahu Ji Maharaj, Savitribai Phule, Fatima Sheikh, etc. were known to only a few intellectuals. Today, their names and their work resonate in almost every village in the Hindi-speaking region as a result of efforts made by educated youth from the Dalit and backward community. Social media too has been a catalyst. In the post-2014 era, the ideology of social justice has been publicised and disseminated more by the youth of these communities, and not by leaders such as the Bahujan Samaj Party’s Mayawati and the SP’s Akhilesh Yadav in U.P. Due to various reasons, these two leaders have not been very vocal about their basic politics of social justice. One of the reasons could be their worry about the reopening of cases by central agencies. But lakhs of Dalit and OBC youth community are obviously unafraid. The impact of their campaign has not only had an impact on officers, teachers, lawyers or farmers from a Dalit and OBC background, but also felt by leaders who have been continuously ‘bowing to’ the BJP after 2014 for reasons such as a government post (and its accompanying social prestige), or for economic and political success. All these factors have loomed large over the ‘social engineering’ of the BJP-RSS combine in U.P. What will happen next is hard to say. It can be safe to say that the ruling party in U.P. will not find this election to be easy. Urmilesh is a Delhi-based independent journalist and writer, and a former Executive Editor of Rajya Sabha TV (RSTV). His recent books (Hindi) are ‘Ghazipur Mein Cristopher Caudwell’ and ‘Mam Ka Gaon Godse Ki Gali’. The article was translated from Hindi by Awanish Kumar, British Academy Newton International Fellow, University of Edinburgh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-cracks-in-ups-socially-engineered-caste-wall/article38289368.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:49 IST,||Escalation of the ‘forgotten war’ in Yemen||The new year began badly for Yemen. On January 2, the Houthis hijacked a UAE-flagged ship, Rwabee , in the Red Sea, alleging that it was carrying military cargo. Seven of its eleven crewmen are Indians. The Saudis retaliated with massive bombardment of Sanaa airport and then diverted a ship carrying fuel to Yemen to its own port. The Houthis have refused to release the vessel despite a United Nations Security Council resolution and have criticised the United Nations for siding with “murderers who violate international laws”.  The two-year fighting to take the energy-rich province of Marib has intensified. The Houthis are just 20 km from the provincial capital, but now face freshly deployed crack troops mobilised by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) – the ‘Giants Brigade’ that is rapidly moving north after taking Shabwa province. The war in Yemen will complete seven years in March. As 2021 ended, nearly 3,50,000 Yemenis had died, with 60% dying because of being denied food, clean water and healthcare. Seventy-five per cent of Yemen now lives below the poverty line. After the Arab Spring After President Ali Abdullah Saleh, in place since 1978, stepped down in the wake of the Arab Spring uprisings in 2012, he was allowed to retain his ill-gotten wealth and stay on in the country. From the outset, he worked to undermine his successor, Abd Rabbo Mansour Hadi. Seeing the weak government in Sanaa, the Houthis, representing the disgruntled Zaydi/Shia community which had been marginalised in political and economic spheres by Mr. Saleh (under Saudi pressure), seized the opportunity to assert their claims for inclusion in national governance. The militants of the movement, Ansarullah, descended on the capital and, in January 2015, forced the Hadi government to seek exile in Riyadh. Large sections of the Yemeni armed forces loyal to Mr. Saleh now joined the Houthis to take control of the country. This raised serious concerns in Saudi Arabia – though the Zaydis had few doctrinal or political ties with Iran, the kingdom viewed them as surrogates of the Islamic Republic on the basis of their sectarian affiliation. Saudi Arabia commenced a bombing campaign on Yemen on March 26, 2015. In 2015-21, there were about 25,000 Saudi air attacks on Yemen, with the Houthis retaliating with about 4,000 missile and drone attacks. During the fighting, Iran-Houthi ties have strengthened, with substantial military supplies sustaining the Houthi war effort. Geopolitical competitions After seven years of fighting, the conflict has now mutated into a fierce regional competition for geopolitical advantage. While Hodeidah port is under Houthi control, it is blockaded by the Saudi navy, while its Yemeni partners are ranged outside the city. Again, while Taiz is with the Houthis, forces from Al-Islah, the kingdom’s Islamist partners, are in the west of the province. In the south, the UAE-supported separatist entity, Southern Transition Council (STC), controls Aden and much of the southern territory. The UAE and Saudi Arabia are now engaged in a major territorial re-ordering of Yemen. The former is seeking unchallenged influence over the strategically valuable Bab al-Mandeb strait. At its narrowest, this strait is just about 30 km wide; it links Asia with Africa and, through the Suez Canal, with Europe. Ten percent of global trade traverses these waters annually. By 2050, the value of this trade is expected to grow from $880 billion to $4.7 trillion, while the GDP of the littoral states is expected to go from $1.8 trillion to $6.1 trillion. The UAE has now taken control of littoral ports and islands on both sides of the Red Sea – in Eritrea, Puntland and Somaliland – besides Aden and Mocha in Yemen. While initially the UAE had sought to establish a military presence in the region, its priority now is to develop the ports to make the region a major commercial hub. However, it retains its objective of protecting the area from militants and flow of weaponry, and maintains a military presence at Perim Island, at the mouth of Bab al-Mandeb, and Socotra Island, off the Yemeni coast in the Gulf of Aden. The UAE is also partnering with Israel in this area to neutralise any effort by Iran to intervene in these waters through its Houthi allies. The Saudi geopolitical interest is at the other end of Yemeni territory – the Al-Mahra province that abuts Oman’s entire southern border and also has a 560-km coastline on the Arabian Sea. This province has so far been cut off from the conflict. The kingdom has been expanding its presence in this province since 2017 by taking control of Nishtun port, the Ghaydah airport, and two border crossings with Oman. The Saudi interest is to construct an oil pipeline from its Eastern Province to Nishtun port on the Arabian Sea, thus bypassing the Strait of Hormuz where Iran has a dominant presence. The Saudis have been pushing this proposal since the 1980s, but made no headway earlier as they insisted on placing their own security forces at a 4-km buffer zone along the pipeline. Taking advantage of the ongoing conflict, the kingdom is preparing for a long-term military presence in this province. The fight over Marib, the last province in north Yemen outside Houthi control, will decide the outcome of this seven-year conflict. The city now has two million people and provides 90% of the country’s oil and gas. With the Giants Brigade moving to the front, there could be some heavy civilian casualties. The Houthis have sought to deter the UAE-supported forces in Marib with drone attacks on Monday on an oil facility in Abu Dhabi and the airport. They have also condemned UAE efforts to control the shipping lanes in the Red and Arabian Seas to serve U.S. and British interests, and have threatened further attacks on Abu Dhabi. The Houthi game plan Victory in this conflict will give the Houthis the financial resources to consolidate their rule over the north of Yemen, possibly resurrecting the former North Yemen that had existed before unification with the south in 1990. North Yemen then had a Zaydi majority and had been ruled by Zaydi imams for a millennium, until the republican revolution of 1962. As of now, the Houthi game plan seems to be to consolidate itself in the north, put in place a functioning administration with Marib’s resources, and then seek international recognition and humanitarian assistance. Here, Saudi and UAE interests are likely to diverge. The UAE may find the de facto partition of Yemen acceptable as it would retain its control over the southern ports and the Bab al-Mandeb strait, and manage the south through the STC it has sponsored. But Houthi control of the north will not be acceptable to the kingdom as it will view this as an Iranian proxy planting itself along its porous 1,400-km border. To add to Saudi concerns, a former Lebanese general has also predicted that, after taking Marib, the Houthis could cross the border to “liberate” the former Yemeni provinces that are now part of the kingdom. Thus, continued fighting in Yemen is the most likely prospect for the country. And, with limited interest in the conflict in the international community, this will remain a “forgotten war”. Talmiz Ahmad is the former ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Oman and the UAE, and had earlier served as Charge d’Affaires in North Yemen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/escalation-of-the-forgotten-war-in-yemen/article38289373.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:48 IST,||The SilverLine project is anti-development||Six months after I first proposed in these pages that the Kerala government review its SilverLine rail project, critical voices have only grown in strength. The Chief Minister, however, has publicly affirmed his intention to proceed with it nevertheless, alleging that its opponents are against ‘development’. This response is no different from that of the Narendra Modi government when its economic policies are queried, and which nurtures its own vanity project, a superfast train between Mumbai and Ahmedabad. The stance is hardly credible though. Concerned voices Dissenters on the SilverLine project include ecologists, engineers, lawyers and activists to reckon with. Madhav Gadgil, E. Sreedharan, Prashant Bhushan and Medha Patkar are perhaps the best known among them but the list also has on it concerned citizens, who all want the best for their country. It also includes the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad, which is significant, as the body is perceived as a fellow-traveller of the Left parties now in power. Recently, Mr. Sreedharan, perhaps India’s most famous railway engineer, has described the proposed project as an invitation to environmental disaster, mainly through flooding. He had also expressed surprise that the Government has not yet made public the detailed project report, a standard practice, which brings transparency to large-scale public infrastructure projects. (Since then the Kerala government has hurriedly uploaded a related document on a restricted site), Professor Gadgil, India’s pre-eminent ecologist, has spoken of SilverLine being against the interests of the people of the State, on grounds of the ecological damage it is likely to cause. Based on his unmatched knowledge of Kerala’s topography, he has both explained how this could happen and pointed to the experience with the railways elsewhere in India, suggesting that the prediction is not mere speculation. A distant government The response of the Pinarayi Vijayan government to calls to reason on SilverLine has been disappointing. By stonewalling the concern expressed by citizens, a government shows itself to be distant and authoritarian. The dissenters are, after all, equal stakeholders in Kerala as anyone else, with the moral right to be heard on a matter with a bearing upon the ecological future of the State. In a democracy, the government must be guided by public opinion rather than attempting to manufacture consent on its schemes, as Kerala’s present government is doing. There are several instances of the state in India changing its mind when public opinion is arrayed against some grand project of its, but one stands out. In the 1970s, Indira Gandhi, a charismatic and strong leader, responding to a long-drawn agitation against a hydel project in Palakkad district, declared that the Silent Valley threatened by it will be protected. It took a little longer for the project proposal to be dropped altogether, but it finally was. A high cost While it is the threat to ecological security from it that has been flagged by our scientists and engineers, there is also the concern that the SilverLine project may end up as a white elephant. It is always difficult to figure out how much people are willing to pay for a new service to be publicly provided, in this case faster transportation. Even if a survey were to be conducted, the truthfulness of the stated willingness to pay would remain moot, undermining the reliability of the numbers in any project report. It is perhaps for this reason that light rail projects in many parts of the world have ended up making a loss. Even if break-even does materialise, the rate of return could end up being lower than anticipated. This often happens due to the cost overrun observed in such projects. A reason for this is that rather than padding costs, governments, determined to have their high visibility, technological marvels, manage to somehow ensure that the project cost is pitched unreasonably low. In the case of SilverLine, it has been hinted that the cost of the complementary infrastructure, such as underpasses, may not have been incorporated, and that they may be substantial. It is for this reason that independent external scrutiny of the detailed project report is essential. Global accountancy giants have in the past proved to be unreliable as a source of disinterested advice when high fees are at stake, but we are fortunate that there is available in India financial expertise of the highest class. It is hoped that advice from this source is sought, with the Kerala government having shown a surprising dependence on international management consultancy firms for advice in the past. With a public sector that still receives budgetary support, a State already strapped with high per capita public debt cannot afford to be saddled with another white elephant. Yet, financial viability cannot be taken as the sole criterion in investment planning. There is no universally accepted method for imputing a monetary value to the environmental threat posed by a project with so great a geographic reach as SilverLine, spanning as it will do the entire length of the State. It is essential that our judgment be deployed in this case. What Kerala does need When a proposed project meets pushback, its purveyors often respond with the challenge “So, what is the alternative?” In the present case, though, this would only beg a deeper question, which is whether Kerala needs another railway line at all. As the two extremities of the State are already connected by road and rail, a light rail built at an astronomical cost is hardly necessary, even when it promises to save some travel time. The State already has the highest road density in the country. It is odd, then, that the Government sees a second railway as the priority for the State today. On the other hand, there are several projects deserving of public investment. Among them would be the transition to a steady power supply based on green energy, the provision of safe drinking water and urban sewerage, and building infrastructure for the scientific disposal of waste. These projects would address our most pressing needs today, yield high social returns and contain progressive environmental degradation in the State. They are the ‘alternative’. Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches at Ashoka University. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-silverline-project-is-anti-development/article38289363.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:49 IST,||Preventing genocide||In the last few weeks, incendiary speeches by Yati Narsinghanand at a religious assembly have reignited discussion regarding hate speech, and the limits of the law. The speeches made include calls for the genocide of Muslims in India and can be seen as part of an ongoing pattern of targeting minorities. In discussions regarding the applicable law, a fundamental point must not be missed – the international legal obligations that are incumbent upon India, by virtue of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide of 1948, which India has signed and ratified. Objective of the Convention Raphael Lemkin is credited with the use of the term ‘genocide’ and campaigned relentlessly for it to become an international treaty. In 1946, Cuba, India and Panama co-sponsored General Assembly Resolution 96(I), which affirmed genocide as a ‘crime under international law’. As a result of this resolution, a convention on the prohibition of genocide was drafted, which was passed by the General Assembly in 1948 and came into effect in 1951, with more than 150 states party to the convention presently. The Genocide Convention has as its objective the prevention of genocide as well as the punishment of the crime. Legal obligations on states that are party to the convention include the obligation not to commit genocide, to prevent genocide, and to punish genocide(Article I), to enact legislation to give effect to the provisions of the convention (Article V); to provide for effective penalties for those found guilty of criminal conduct (Article V); and the obligation to try those charged with genocide in a competent tribunal (Article VI). It is no small irony that India was an early and key sponsor of the General Assembly resolution condemning genocide and confirming its status as an international crime. However, since signing the Genocide Convention and ratifying it, to date India has not enacted any legislation in accordance with Article VI of the Genocide Convention. At the outset, India is in violation of its international obligation to criminalise genocide within its domestic law per Articles V, VI and VII, and to take all means to ensure the prevention of genocide. An examination of Indian domestic law shows that there are no comparable provisions for the prosecution of any mass crimes, least of all genocide. Indian Penal Code provisions relating to rioting, unlawful assembly and ‘promoting enmity between different groups’ do not embody the basic elements of the crime of genocide, which is against a collectivity or a group, with the specific intent to cause its destruction. These also do not pertain to another key aspect of the Genocide Convention – that of prevention, and creating the conditions in which such hate speech and other associated acts are not allowed to flourish, which may facilitate the commission of genocide. Significant legal development  It is also worth noting a significant and recent international legal development relating to the Genocide Convention. The Gambia has initiated proceedings before the International Court of Justice (ICJ) against Myanmar on the basis of the Convention. While the case is still in the early stages, it is noteworthy for a key point – that the court seems to have, in its first ruling, taken note of a key argument of The Gambia – that the Genocide Convention embodies such a key concern that even a state that may not be specially affected can still raise a legal claim on the basis of being part of the community of states. This is a significant legal development and will have implications for the future. The ICJ, relying on a previous case of Belgiumv. Senegal , stated, “It follows that any State party to the Genocide Convention, and not only a specially affected State, may invoke the responsibility of another State party with a view to ascertaining the alleged failure to comply with its obligations erga omnes partes, and to bring that failure to an end.”   The ICJ previously addressed the question of violation of the Genocide Convention in the Case Concerning the Application of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( Bosnia and Herzegovina v. Serbia and Montenegro ). In its final judgment in 2007 the court found a failure to prevent genocide by Serbia. The breaches of the Genocide Convention related to the obligations to prevent and the lack of cooperation, but not for the commission of genocide.  In the overall analysis, it is more imperative than ever that international legal protections against genocide are incorporated in domestic legislation. Furthermore, the fact that India has international legal obligations under the Genocide Convention which it is not adhering to must be rectified. Priya Pillai is an international lawyer, who previously worked at the UN International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, The Hague||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/preventing-genocide/article38289375.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:48 IST,||Bad start||In recent times, the season-opening Australian Open has been played against sobering backdrops. If in 2020 the unprecedented bushfires marred the build-up, in 2021 it was the turn of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions to suffocate players. Nothing however compares to the saga that unfolded for 10 long days leading into the 2022 edition, which began on Monday. World No.1 Novak Djokovic, a nine-time winner in Melbourne, had his visa cancelled and was jettisoned over his decision to remain unvaccinated. Australia’s high inoculation rates have been credited for keeping its death rate low despite an ongoing surge in cases. In such a setting, the presence of an unvaccinated star, who has also not displayed COVID-appropriate behaviour in the past, was a tough sell. With Roger Federer also absent, the main drawcard is now Rafael Nadal, the only former Australian Open men’s singles champion in the fray. The Spaniard is locked with Federer and Djokovic on 20 Majors and can take sole possession of the record for most Grand Slam men’s singles titles with his second trophy Down Under. But by his own admission, Nadal is not in Slam-winning form, though he won a tournament last week in his first competitive appearance since last August. If the 35-year-old rediscovers his mojo to erase the pain of having lost four finals in Australia, it will be an achievement befitting his storied career. The favourites for the men’s title are thus Daniil Medvedev, the World No.2 and reigning US Open champion, and the third-ranked German Alexander Zverev, Olympic gold-medallist and the ATP Tour Finals winner last year. Closely following them are Wimbledon finalist Matteo Berrettini and French Open finalist Stefanos Tsitsipas. The women’s field on the other hand, despite the absence of Serena Williams, boasts of incredible depth, with no less than 10 Major champions still in the draw (Sofia Kenin, Angelique Kerber, Petra Kvitova and Sloane Stephens the ones to exit so far). Ferocious ball-strikers and consummate shot-makers abound, so do solid counter-punchers and crafty all-courters blessed with magic hands. Where men’s tennis has of late birthed a string of ‘Big Game’ players — armed with a cannonball serve and a crushing groundstroke — the women’s game has an eclectic feel, leading to suggestions that currently women’s tennis is the best tennis there is. The leaders of this pack are World No.1 Ashleigh Barty, the home favourite, and defending champion Naomi Osaka, who also wore the crown in 2019. There are also Garbine Muguruza, Victoria Azarenka and Simona Halep, all multiple Major winners with proven credentials. Closer home, Indians will again look to veteran doubles specialists Sania Mirza and Rohan Bopanna, as the nation goes a fourth straight Slam without a singles player in the main draw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bad-start/article38289361.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:49 IST,||Inflation conundrum||While North Block mandarins seek to conjure up policy levers in the upcoming Budget to spur India’s fragmented economic recovery along, the latest official data suggest industrial output is stuttering with a meagre 1.4% growth in November. More worryingly, inflation is re-emerging as a threat — retail prices surged to a five-month high of 5.6% in December from 4.9% in November. While urban India continued to record a higher incidence of price rise at over 5.8%, inflation faced by rural consumers was at 5.36% — the steepest pace since July 2021. A dozen States clocked higher inflation than the headline 5.6% level, with half of them recording well over India’s stated inflation tolerance threshold of 6%, led by Haryana and Tamil Nadu with an over 6.6% print. While the CPI cooled month on month by about 0.35%, this was offset by low base effects that pushed up inflation in food and beverages, and higher clothing and footwear prices. The deferral of a higher GST on textiles, and softening food and vegetable prices this month, may help rein in some of these pressures, but there are other headwinds. Fuel prices moderated after excise duty cuts in November, but this may not sustain for long as average prices for India’s crude oil basket are now at around $84. For now, retail fuel prices have remained static, but this may have more to do with the unstated tendency of not effecting such hikes in the poll season. By Monday, yields on government bonds had hit a two-year high which could upset the fiscal math over time. Inflation in wholesale prices offered little comfort in December even as it came off a record high of 14.2% in November to touch 13.6%, staying above double digits for the ninth successive month. Economists believe that the persistent gap between wholesale and retail inflation, now at eight percentage points, does not augur well for price stability ahead. Producers coping with high commodity prices and input costs will have to find ways to pass them on to consumers, feeding into retail inflation and squeezing household budgets further. For industry, inflation is as critical an obstacle to higher consumption and growth impulses as the new virus mutations and the third wave — which by itself is expected to further stoke retail prices. Consistently high inflation, as witnessed since the pandemic onset, constitutes not just a tax on the poor and the middle classes, but is also a potentially permanent wrecking ball for future spending capacity (and growth) amid a damaged job market. The Government, through its statement of intent in the Budget, and the RBI, which has noted that the waning of inflation spiralling across geographies may ‘take longer’ than expected and will review its monetary policy stance next month, need to communicate their inflation game plan to soothe expectations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/inflation-conundrum/article38289369.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:49 IST,||McNamara’s talks may cover U.S. aid||New Delhi, Jan. 17: The World Bank President, Mr. Robert McNamara, is expected to make a fresh assessment of the emerging needs of South Asia, especially with the birth of a new nation, Bangla Desh, during his tour of the region beginning next week. Mr. McNamara will be visiting India after a lapse of three years, and he is likely to take stock of the developments in the Indian economy which is poised for growth with a large measure of self-reliance. The World Bank President is due to visit Pakistan, Nepal and Ceylon, besides India. Mr. McNamara, who arrives here on January 23, will call on the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister and hold discussions with senior officials of the Government of India on general economic trends and external assistance with particular reference to the Bank group's role in fostering development. Mr. McNamara's discussions in New Delhi will, it is learnt, hinge on the stoppage of credits by U.S.A., a leading member of the Aid-India Consortium and rebuilding of the economy of Bangla Desh. Official circles have noted that despite the U.S. action, motivated by political considerations, other member-countries of the Consortium have, by and large, kept up their commitments. The Bank group has increased the volume and range of its lending operations. A significant feature of the Bank group’s lending in recent months is the assistance extended to public sector fertilizer projects — Cochin and Gorakhpur — which marks a break from the past. The Bank group is no more concerned with the ownership of the project and is guided by considerations of reliability of the scheme and material efficiency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mcnamaras-talks-may-cover-us-aid/article38289370.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:49 IST,||Letters||The Supreme Court of India’s concern for children being hit by the third COVID-19 wave in India needs to be looked into with real seriousness (Page 1, January 18). Children are most fragile and stand vulnerable. The staggering estimate, that there could be 15 lakh children on the streets, is a harsh reality. The challenges are Himalayan. Left under the open sky, without shelter, clueless and directionless, these children would need all possible help. While others can observe protocol — washing hands, social distancing, wearing masks and getting vaccinated — it is distressing that children on the streets are deprived of everything. In a nation which boasts of its development, there are unfortunate ones with no access to any facility. The Centre, State and various NGOs need to work in tandem to ensure that no child is left uncared for. Vaccinating them should be the foremost task. Balasubramaniam Pavani, Secunderabad The number of such children appears to be significantly under-estimated.The police, village-level health workers and the administration need to identify and rescue these children. The Government and Ministry of Women and Child Development can make a difference by focusing on foster care and even enabling monetary assistance to orphaned and abandoned child. This is a national emergency and the Supreme Court needs to be lauded for taking up this issue. Dr. Thomas Palocaren Vellore, Tamil Nadu   In the passing of Pandit Birju Maharaj, India has lost yet another legendary dance icon. The maestro’s immaculate display of a stellar dance form, with his dancing eyes and the footwork and rhythm, created visual splendour. He has left behind a rich legacy of Kathak with his unique style of ‘immersive dance’ to depict epic stories. G. Ramasubramanyam, Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/letters/article38289365.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:38 IST,||India extends $500-mn credit to Sri Lanka for fuel imports||India on Tuesday extended a $500-million Line of Credit (LOC) to Sri Lanka for urgent fuel imports, just days after providing $900 million relief to the island nation, which is facing one of its worst economic downturns. “External Affairs Minister Dr. S. Jaishankar extended this critical support in his letter addressed to the Foreign Minister of Sri Lanka Prof. G.L. Peiris,” the Indian High Commission in Colombo said in a statement on the emergency assistance Sri Lanka had sought to tide over its dollar crunch leading to a shortage of essentials, including fuel, medicines, and certain food supplies. The announcement followed a virtual meeting between Dr. Jaishankar and Sri Lanka’s Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa on Saturday, when they reviewed a $1.5 billion credit facility to help Sri Lanka augment its fast-depleting foreign reserves, crucial to importing essentials food items, medicines, and fuel. Of the $1.5 billion, a sum of $500 million was extended on Tuesday for fuel imports, the Indian mission said in its statement. “These measures are in line with India’s commitment to... contribute to Sri Lanka’s economic growth and impart greater momentum to bilateral economic and commercial partnership.” The balance is expected soon, Colombo-based official sources said, pointing to a total $2.4 billion assistance from New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-extends-500-mn-credit-to-sri-lanka-for-fuel-imports/article38289353.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:38 IST,||Akasa Air aims to begin flights by May-June: CEO||The country’s newest airline, Akasa Air, plans to get its first aircraft in April and begin operations by late May or early June. The airline plans to have a fleet of 18 planes in the first 12 months and focus on domestic routes before introducing international flights, according to its founder, MD and CEO, Vinay Dube. “We will be a low-cost carrier,” he said.  “We will have a single fleet type with all-economy seating and buy-on-board service. I would like to... correct the perception that we are an ULCC [ultra low-cost carrier]. We do not aspire or have any ambition to be an ULCC,” Mr. Dube told The Hindu in an e-mail interview.  Akasa has a firm order of 72 Boeing MAX aircraft, to be delivered over five years. In the first 12 months, it expects to have 18 aircraft in its fleet and, thereafter, add the remaining 54 at the rate of 12-14 per year. In the first 12-18 months the airline will fly domestic routes with a focus on connecting metros with tier 2 cities. The airline aims to start international operations in the second half of the 2023 calendar year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/akasa-air-aims-to-begin-flights-by-may-june-ceo/article38289343.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:38 IST,||‘Cyberattacks surge as COVID spurs digital push’||The accelerating pace of digitalisation, fuelled by the COVID-19 pandemic, has led to a record-breaking year for cybercrime with ransomware attacks rising 151% in 2021, and an average of 270 cyberattacks per organisation being faced, a new study showed on Tuesday. The World Economic Forum’s ‘Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2022’, released during its online Davos Agenda summit, further showed that each successful cyber breach cost a company $3.6 million (almost Rs. 27 crore) last year, while the average share price of the hacked company underperformed the NASDAQ index by close to 3% even six months after the event in case of the breach becoming public. The WEF said the global digital economy had surged on the back of the COVID-19 pandemic, but so had cybercrime. There is also a perception gap between business executives who think their firms are secure and security leaders who disagree. Some 92% of executives surveyed agreed cyberresilience was integrated into risk-management strategies, but only 55% of cyber leaders agreed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cyberattacks-surge-as-covid-spurs-digital-push/article38289345.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:38 IST,||Third wave to dent HFC asset growth by 200 bps||The pandemic’s third wave could shave off 100-200 basis points (bps) from asset growth at Housing Finance Companies (HFCs), Crisil said in a report. “The third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic could slash as much as 200 bps off ... [the] base case estimate of 9-11% compound annual growth rate (CAGR) in the assets under management (AUM) of HFCs for fiscals 2022 and 2023,” the rating agency said in the report. It said growth would still be higher compared with average of 2% over fiscals 2020 and 2021 though slower than the broad-based 24% logged between fiscals 2011 and 2019. That period had seen a near twofold increase in the number of HFCs fuelled by easy availability of equity and debt capital. “Growth this time around will largely stem from players with better credit profiles,” Crisil said. “Organic consolidation, which started in fiscal 2019, will continue,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/third-wave-to-dent-hfc-asset-growth-by-200-bps/article38289349.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:38 IST,||‘Two-pronged strategy to bolster CG Power’||Murugappa Group, which took over ailing firm CG Power and Industrial Solutions in November 2020, has drawn up a two-pronged strategy to address legacy issues and to evolve a robust framework for risk management and corporate governance. “Firstly, we are addressing legacy issues, besides making a fair assessment of value erosion in the recent past, especially in the backdrop of recent controversies the company was marred with,” said Chairman Vellayan Subbiah. “On the other hand, we are evolving a robust framework of risk management and corporate governance — one that corresponds to the nature and size of business that we aspire CG Power to grow,” he said. Over the last one year, CG Power, as a subsidiary of Tube Investments, was focused on restoring itself to its former glory and made significant progress in that direction. “Our decision to operate CG Power as a standalone entity while subtly integrating the cultural ethos of the Murugappa Group would help the company evolve in the near to medium term,” Mr. Subbiah added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/two-pronged-strategy-to-bolster-cg-power/article38289351.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:38 IST,||Reliance Retail buys 54% in Addverb Tech||Reliance Retail has acquired a 54% stake in domestic robotics company Addverb for $132 million (about Rs. 983 crore), a senior official of the robotic firm said Tuesday. Addverb Technologies co-founder and CEO Sangeet Kumar said that the company would continue to operate independently and use the funds received from Reliance to expand business overseas as well as set up one of the biggest robotic manufacturing facilities in Noida. “The strapartnership will help us leverage 5G and battery technology via new energy initiatives,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-retail-buys-54-in-addverb-tech/article38289339.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:38 IST,||Twin Star goes to SC over its Videocon bid||Vedanta Chairman Anil Agarwal-promoted Twin Star Technologies has moved the Supreme Court challenging the NCLAT’s order that set aside its Rs. 2,692-crore bid for 13 group companies of the debt-ridden Videocon group. Earlier this month, allowing the plea of dissented creditors, the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) set aside the orders passed by the Mumbai bench of the NCLT, which had approved Twin Star’s Rs. 2,692 crore bid with a 95% hair cut against total admitted claims of Rs. 64,637.6 crore. The NCLAT had asked the company’s resolution professional to re-run the process, which means a fresh bid has to be invited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/twin-star-goes-to-sc-over-its-videocon-bid/article38289340.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:38 IST,||Centre invites applications for IRDAI post||The Centre has invited applications for the post of whole-time Member (Non-Life) of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI). The post is set to fall vacant in May, as per the call for applications that the Union Finance Ministry issued on Monday. “The applicant should have a minimum of two years of residual service as on the date of vacancy i.e. 6.5.2022,” it said. February 15 is the last date for receipt of applications. The move comes even as IRDAI has been without a chairman for eight months now. Subhash C. Khuntia completed the three-year term as Chairman in May 2021. The post of Member (Finance and Investment) is also vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-invites-applications-for-irdai-post/article38289341.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:38 IST,||Cost of States’ debt funds surges to 7.24%||States are shelling out more for debt funds, with the weighted average cost for their debt auctions hardening by 9 basis points to touch 7.24%, the highest level so far this fiscal, during the auctions on Tuesday. Compared with the previous week, the cost has gone up by 9 basis points (bps). The weighted average cut-off for States’ 10-year debt auctions or state development loans has hardened by 9 bps to 7.24% at today’s auctions as the drawdown was 6% more than indicated earlier, yet overall down by 12.3% on annualised basis, Icra chief economist Aditi Nayar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cost-of-states-debt-funds-surges-to-724/article38289346.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:38 IST,||‘Chunk of workforce for shifting jobs’||Notwithstanding the pandemic, India’s workforce is optimistic about the future of work, and a significant percentage of professionals are considering changing their jobs this year, according to a report. LinkedIn, the leading online professional network, on Tuesday unveiled a new job-seeker research, which revealed that 82% of professionals in India are considering a job change in 2022. Based on the responses of 1,111 professionals in India, the survey showed that professionals are leaving their current jobs due to poor work-life balance, not enough money, or greater career ambitions. Professionals in India said flexible working arrangements will be the top priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chunk-of-workforce-for-shifting-jobs/article38289347.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||Tata Motors increases PV prices||Tata Motors Ltd. has announced a price increase of 0.9% on an average on its passenger vehicles (PVs) effective January 19. The price increase would be implemented depending on the variant and model. At the same time, the company has also effected a reduction of up to Rs. 10,000 on specific variants, in response to feedback from customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-increases-pv-prices/article38289359.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:39 IST,||Wabco India to be styled ZF CVS||Wabco India Ltd., which is into advanced braking systems, would be renamed as ZF Commercial Vehicle Control Systems India Ltd. About 99% of shareholders had voted in favour of the resolution, the company said in a regulatory filing. The name change would be done after approval from the Registrar of Companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wabco-india-to-be-styled-zf-cvs/article38289360.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:43 IST,||Rahul faces acid test as ODI series begins today||The mighty Virat Kohli’s presence in the Indian playing eleven as a mere player for the first time in seven years will be keenly followed while his potential successor in red-ball cricket, K.L. Rahul, will be judged for his captaincy in the three-match ODI series against South Africa beginning here on Wednesday. Rahul, who is leading the side in the absence of an injured Rohit Sharma, is expected to turn to Kohli for advice during the series. Not only Kohli has a major role to play as a batter, but as vice-captain Jasprit Bumrah said on the eve of the series, the star “will always be a leader” in the team. With Rahul opening with Shikhar Dhawan, Kohli will bat at his usual No. 3, while there will be a toss-up between Suryakumar Yadav and Shreyas Iyer for No. 4. Rishabh Pant is expected to come at No. 5, while Venkatesh Iyer is set to make his 50-over debut as the all-rounder at six. The two spinners likely to play are Yuzvendra Chahal and R. Ashwin. Bumrah and Bhuvneshwar Kumar will share the load in the pace department while for the third pace option, the management could pick Deepak Chahar, Shardul Thakur or Prasidh Krishna. On the previous tour, India hammered the hosts 5-1 in ODIs. South Africa will be in high spirits after the 2-1 victory in the Test series. Skipper Temba Bavuma played a few crucial knocks in the Tests and he will carry that confidence into his batting as well as his leadership. Quinton de Kock, who has retired from Test cricket, starts his life as a white-ball only player. Rabada rested However, lead pacer Kagiso Rabada was released from the team as part of his workload management. George Linde has been retained from the Test team as an extra spin-bowling option.  The teams (from):   India: K.L. Rahul (Capt.), Jasprit Bumrah (Vice-capt.), Shikhar Dhawan, Ruturaj Gaikwad, Virat Kohli, Suryakumar Yadav, Shreyas Iyer, Venkatesh Iyer, Rishabh Pant (wk), Ishan Kishan (wk), Yuzvendra Chahal, R Ashwin, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Prasidh Krishna, Shardul Thakur, Mohd. Siraj, Jayant Yadav and Navdeep Saini.   South Africa: Temba Bavuma (Capt.), Keshav Maharaj (Vice-capt.) Quinton de Kock (wk), Zubayr Hamza, Marco Jansen, Janneman Malan, Sisanda Magala, Aiden Markram, David Miller, Lungi Ngidi, Wayne Parnell, Andile Phehlukwayo, Dwaine Pretorius, George Linde, Tabraiz Shamsi, Rassie van der Dussen, and Kyle Verreynne.   Match starts at 2 p.m. IST .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-faces-the-acid-test-as-odi-series-begins/article38289454.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:38 IST,||India eyes improved batting performance||In-form batter and captain Yash Dhull will be expecting a much improved batting effort from his team when four-time champion India takes on Ireland in its second Group B match of the ICC U-19 World Cup here on Wednesday. Having started its campaign with a 45-run win over South Africa, the Indians are brimming with confidence and are expected to steamroll Ireland at the Brian Lara Stadium. Both India and Ireland have registered wins in their openers. While India beat South Africa, Ireland defeated Uganda by 39 runs. Anchoring the innings Dhull single-handedly anchored the innings against the Junior Proteas as India lost its openers — Harnoor Singh and Angkrish Raghuvanshi — early after being put in. Dhull would be looking for more support from his openers to ease the pressure on the middle and lower-order going into the knockout stages of the tournament. If the Indian batters were not up to the mark against South Africa, it was a completely contrasting performance from the bowling unit. Left-arm spinner Vicky Ostwal (five for 28) turned out to be the star performer with the ball while right-arm fast bowler Raj Bawa (four for 47) gave perfect support as India bowled out South Africa for 187. Meanwhile in the other match of the day, Australia will take on Scotland in a Group D game in Basseterre.  Monday’s scores:   Australia 175 in 50 overs (Campbell Kellaway 54, Dunith Wellalage 5/28) lost to Sri Lanka 177/6 in 37 overs (Wellalage 52).   Scotland 95 in 35.1 overs (Oliver Davidson 43, Shiva Sankar 3/17) lost to West Indies 96/3 in 19.4 overs.   Pakistan 315/9 in 50 overs (Haseebullah Khan 135, Irfan Khan 75, Mcgini Dube 3/68, Alex Falao 5/58) bt Zimbabwe 200 in 42.4 overs (Brian Bennett 83, Awais Ali 6/56).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-eyes-improved-batting-performance/article38289507.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:00 IST,||Petersen — a rare pearl||There is a new KP in town and he too is a South African. Yet, unlike Kevin Pietersen who turned out for England, Keegan Petersen represents the Proteas. The one against India was only Petersen’s second series and he is no spring chicken at 28. Years of consistent performances in the domestic circuit where he honed his skills diligently has paid off for the little batter sfrom Paarl. As a batter, the compact Petersen is a rare pearl for South Africa. In fact, the legendary Jacques Kallis, who watched him develop, predicted he would represent South Africa for a long period. Not the best start His start in Test cricket was shaky though. Petersen’s Test debut came against the West Indies at Gros Islet last year and his scores were 19, 7 and 18 in the two Tests at the venue. The South African selectors kept faith in him at the crucial No. 3 slot. Although he looked comfortable at the crease, scores of 15 and 17 in the first Test against India at Centurion did not reflect his talent. Skipper Dean Elgar stood by him. “He is himself worried why he is not converting these starts. He has been among our best batters in the nets. We believe in his ability,” the captain said. Then came the turnaround. Fighting demons Petersen, fighting demons in the mind, made a polished 62 on a seaming Wanderers pitch with variable bounce in the first innings. He appeared compact at the crease, with footwork, balance, timing and the ability to leave deliveries outside off. He stroked the ball on both sides — his square-drives, cover-drives and the flicks were impressive — and with this innings Petersen had ‘arrived’ in Test cricket. His purity of technique in a game that stems from a solid defence came naturally to him, said Petersen, whose father Eric was a decent club cricketer. And Petersen’s 28 during the chase was a vital effort in South Africa’s win in the second Test. Petersen, however, reserved his best for the decider. His first innings 72 on a tricky pitch at Newlands was all about fluency and balance in defence and attack. He coaxed the ball through the gaps. Man of the moment His 82 in a high-pressure chase in the second innings — the manner he absorbed the pressure with compelling footwork was remarkable — earned him the Man of the Match and the Player of the Series awards. Petersen finished as the highest run-getter among both sides with 276 in a bowler-dominated series. This KP promises to be around for long in the South African top order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/petersen-a-rare-pearl/article38289550.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:38 IST,||The question is, who will be vice-captain: and Rishabh Pant fits the bill||Let’s forget the statistics for a moment, or the impact or the legacy and consider our first reaction to Virat Kohli’s resignation from captaincy. Here is the most powerful man in Indian cricket — and by extension world cricket — quitting a job he manifestly enjoyed, and had been so successful in. How could we not feel a twinge of sadness and disappointment, and consider a slew of might-have-beens? Kohli provoked extreme reactions. Old-timers thought he represented the worst of youth. Youngsters thought he stood for the best, for the so-called ‘New India’, and even went about growing beards like him. Both were wrong. Respect and passion He loved and respected Test cricket and played it with a passion even the IPL generation could seldom whip up. He was old-fashioned but with a modern twist. You saw in him what you wanted to see, and that made him a media darling. The ‘Kohli-cam’ was focused on him, broadcasters aware of the value of a player who wore his heart on his sleeve. He could be a lot of things, but never boring and never still. He might yet conduct an audience (once spectators get back into the stadiums) of supporters, he might yet scream into the stump microphone. Or he might decide to play the role of the grey eminence. It will be fun to watch, whatever he chooses. Tactically Kohli wasn’t India’s most astute captain, but that didn’t matter. He had serious brains in his corner –Anil Kumble, Ravi Shastri, Rahul Dravid. It left him free to be himself and to convert the less-convinced to his way of playing with a fierce determination and much noise. Everybody played for a common cause; K.L. Rahul summed it up in England when he said, “If you go after one of us, eleven of us will come after you.” Intense How good a captain was Kohli? What he lacked tactically, he made up with result-influencing intensity. He seemed to be able to will a dismissal or influence the opposition into bowling to his strengths. Strength of mind can sometimes be more effective than strategic certainty. Cricket is a romantic sport mainly for those writing and reading about it or watching from outside. For players it can be brutal and unforgiving, and for captains even more so. Cricket teams today are like corporates, with a huge turnover, internal political manoeuvrers, and dismissals that happen because the team leader ran foul of people in authority. Perhaps he didn’t wish someone ‘good morning’, perhaps he implied that another was a liar. Indian captains don’t quit so easily. Kohli had his ear to the ground, and heard the rumbles of the approaching sacking. Soon, he will be taking instructions from a new captain, perhaps someone younger whom he might have chosen for India. This is the biggest test former captains have to face, and Indian captains haven’t done too well in these circumstances. Play as single unit They have tended to create separate power centres within the team — in the 1980s, there were Kapil Dev’s boys and Sunil Gavaskar’s boys in the team; before that the Pataudi boys and the Ajit Wadekar boys. If that doesn’t happen now, Kohli can take some credit for getting the team to play and respond as a single unit. The important question for Indian cricket now is who will be vice-captain of the team. It will have to be someone with a long tenure as captain when his turn comes. The likely captain Rohit Sharma is more than a year older than Kohli (although he has played fewer than half the number of Tests), which means these two players will quit the game around the same time. Having someone like Rishabh Pant as vice captain will give the 24-year-old wicketkeeper the time and space to grow into the top job. And let’s not forget that Kohli will be standing next to him at slip to continue this education. Look at Ashwin A candidate who has not been discussed in the captaincy stakes is R. Ashwin, who at 35 is seven months older than Rohit, has shown himself to be a thinker of the game, and could do a holding job efficiently. He will come up against the bias selectors have against bowler-captains, but he has the experience to slip into the role seamlessly. Pant could apprentice under him too. Thing of beauty Whether it is any of the above or K.L. Rahul or Jasprit Bumrah it will not matter to Kohli the batsman, still the finest India have had in the past decade or so. That attractive cover drive or the minimum-fuss drive between mid-on and mid-wicket should continue to charm us regardless. The captaincy legacy he has bequeathed the team — fitness, aggression, self-confidence, grace-under-pressure — will stand Indian cricket in good stead. The batting legacy — he is only 33 after all — can still be worked on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-question-is-who-will-be-vice-captain-and-rishabh-pant-fits-the-bill/article38289355.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:25 IST,||Shruti advances with ease||Top-seeded Shruti Ahlawat of India easily beat her first round opponent and compatriot Suhani Gaur to lead the seeded players in the next round of girls’ singles event of the Central Excise and CGST ITF Juniors Tennis, at the BTA Complex on Tuesday. Fourth-seeded Suhitha Maruri and seventh seed Sanjana Sirimalla also won their first round matches with comparative ease to see the Indian representation holding strong in the girls’ section. Denim moves up The rest of the seeded players held their own to progress to the pre-quarterfinals. Sixth-seeded Denim Yadav of India dropped just three games to beat Samrat Hada of Nepal in straight sets and joined his compatriots second seeded Aman Dahiya, third seeded Yuvan Nandal and fourth-seeded Saheb Sodhi in the pre-quarters.  The results (first-round, Indians unless specified): Girls: Shruti Ahlawat bt Suhani Gaur 6-3, 6-1; Vlada Mincheva (Rus) bt Madhurima Sawant 6-4, 6-2; Saijayani Banerjee bt Sreenidhi Reddy Amireddy 6-3, 6-1; Lanlana Tararudee (Tha) bt Tamanna Takoria 6-2, 6-0; Suhitha Maruri bt Maitree Diksha Rout 6-0, 6-1; Sanjana Sirimalla bt Chahana Budhbhatti 6-1, 7-5.   Boys: Denim Yadav bt Aarav Samrat Hada (Nep) 6-1, 6-2; Aayush P. Bhatt (USA) bt Wyatt O’Brien 6-0, 6-3; Gagan Rakesh Vimal bt Arunava Majumder 6-0, 6-0; Amir Mulushev (UZB) bt Chandan Shivraj 6-4, 6-1; Bushan Haobam bt Ananth Mani Muni 6-4, 6-4; Daksh Prasad bt Poonthong Komopisut (THA) 6-2, 3-6, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shruti-advances-with-ease/article38289612.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:43 IST,||Indefatigable Murray prevails in a five-setter; Raducanu outlasts Stephens||Former World No.1 Andy Murray turned back the clock in typically combative style and favourite Daniil Medvedev set up a blockbuster second-round showdown with Nick Kyrgios at the Australian Open on Tuesday. In the women’s draw, top-10 seeds Garbine Muguruza, Iga Swiatek and Anett Kontaveit all made comfortable starts to their title charges, while Simona Halep and Aryna Sabalenka also won despite struggling with their serves. Fernandez ousted Emma Raducanu, the U.S. Open champion, was also victorious on her tournament debut but there was defeat at the first hurdle for her fellow 19-year-old and Flushing Meadows runner-up Leylah Fernandez. Canada’s Fernandez, the 23rd seed, went down 6-4, 6-2 to Australian wildcard Maddison Inglis. Also exiting were former Major champions Petra Kvitova and Angelique Kerber. The 34-year-old Murray, here as a wildcard, showed all the fighting qualities that made him a three-time Grand Slam champion as he posted an epic 6-1, 3-6, 6-4, 6-7(5), 6-4 win over 21st seed Nikoloz Basilashvili. There was no such problem for Russia’s Medvedev who made light work of 91st-ranked Henri Laaksonen. Kyrgios took out Great Britain’s Liam Broady 6-4, 6-4, 6-3. Greece’s Stefanos Tsitsipas, seeded fourth, was a comfortable winner over practice partner Mikael Ymer. In the women’s draw, Spanish World No. 3 Muguruza, a finalist here two years ago, eased past 77th-ranked Frenchwoman Clara Burel 6-3, 6-4. Second seed Sabalenka, who was reduced to tears and serving underarm in a disastrous lead-up to Melbourne, had Mark Philippoussis to thank after she revealed the Australian former World No. 8 helped iron out some of her serving problems. She was far from perfect on her serve but survived to beat Storm Sanders 5-7, 6-3, 6-2. In the last action of the day, Raducanu ousted the American Sloane Stephens 6-0, 2-6, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indefatigable-murray-prevails-in-a-five-setter-raducanu-outlasts-stephens/article38289461.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,||Vidit stuns Dubov, takes sole lead||Displaying sound defence and a sharp eye for tactics, Vidit Gujrathi stunned Russian super talent Daniil Dubov to emerge as the leader after three rounds of the Masters section of Tata Steel chess tournament at Wijk aan Zee on Monday. Vidit (2.5 points) had to handle immense pressure but found the right continuation after Dubov erred decisively on the 32nd move. Vidit won five moves later. Magnus Carlsen and Jan-Krzysztof Duda, the other joint overnight leaders with Vidit, drew to reach two points. R. Praggnanandhaa (1), however, suffered his first loss after running into defending champion Jorden van Foreest. Ramesh tests positive In fact, Praggnanandhaa was lucky to test negative for COVID-19 after his coach R.B. Ramesh tested positive. Once the symptoms appeared, the organisers immediately shifted Ramesh to a separate room, got him tested and kept him in isolation. As Ramesh tweeted, “Pragg is safe. Proud of you Pragg for handling all this maturely.” Ramesh also tweeted, “Pragg is being tested on a daily basis and only in case of a negative result, he is playing that round. All precautions are being taken. He is wearing his mask throughout the game.” Meanwhile in the Challengers section, top seed Arjun Erigaisi defeated Daniel Dardha in 42 moves to share the lead at 2.5 points with overnight leader Volodar Murzin (Russia) and Nguyen Thai Dai Van (Czech Republic). Surya Shekhar Ganguly reached two points after local Max Warmerdam proved equal in 38 moves.  Third-round results (Indians unless stated): Masters: Daniil Dubov (Rus, 1) lost to Vidit Gujrathi (2.5); Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 2) bt R. Praggnanandhaa (1); Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 2) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 2); Nils Grandelius (Swe, 0.5) lost to Richard Rapport (Hun, 2); Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 1.5) drew with Sergey Karjakin (Rus, 1.5); Fabiano Caruana (USA, 1.5) drew with Sam Shankland (USA. 1); Anish Giri (1) drew with Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze, 1.5).   Challengers: Arjun Erigiasi (2.5) bt Daniel Dardha (Bel, 0.5); Surya Shekhar Ganguly (2) drew with Max Warmerdam (Ned, 1) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-stuns-dubov-takes-sole-lead/article38289503.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:00 IST,||Cosmo, TNGF in row over payment of arrears of rent||Cosmopolitan Club, in 2019, approached the Madras High Court against Tamil Nadu Golf Federation (TNGF) constructing a Club house at the Cosmo-TNGF golf course in Nandanam. After receiving an adverse judgement by a single judge of the Madras High Court in 2020, Cosmo went for an appeal whose verdict is expected next month. Lot of differences The Cosmopolitan Club and TNGF have lot of differences as to who should pay the arrears of rent for the area of 6.252 acres belonging to the Army and forming part of the golf course. In 2009, the State government granted a joint lease in favour of TNGF and Cosmo for an annual lease rent of Rs. 75 lakh to be paid by each party.  Earlier, TNGF agreed to vacate the part of the golf course belonging to Army at the Cosmo-TNGF course once the eviction orders came from Defence Estates Officer. “We are taking steps to vacate the land. We have no dispute with the Defence authorities,” N. Srinivasan, TNGF president, told The Hindu . However, he said the area lost is marginal and that TNGF would refashion the course. “Out of the total 18 holes, 17 will be available for members now. In six months time we will redesign the course with 18 holes,” said Srinivasan.  Srinivasan said he has issues with the Cosmopolitan Club, which he said he will deal with. “Cosmo has not paid the lease rent arrears of around Rs. 5 crore to the Army, and the Army asked me to pay the arrears. Why should I pay when Cosmopolitan Club is the lessee. We asked the Army to get into an agreement with us, but they refused,” said Srinivasan. Refuting TNGF’s allegations, K. Sundareswaran, president of Cosmopolitan Club, said: “This Army land is in sole possession of the TNGF as they have their office there. The toilet and cafeteria are situated there. “They took all subscriptions but have neither paid the Army nor Cosmo. The Army has told them to pay the money and they have vacated. “The arrears of Rs. 4,60, 91, 098 is from 1970 to 2008, but the major portion of the amount comes only after 2001, when the TNGF started to occupy the land. They have conveniently put the blame on us. However, Cosmo will pay the outstanding amount before 2001. But after 2001, the TNGF have to pay.” According to the Cosmopolitan Club president, the relationship between Cosmo and the TNGF is one-sided. “We have to pay all the past and present liabilities plus 50% of annual lease to the TN government and hence we are running on losses while there is no sharing of revenue. It is a fact that the TNGF has several crores as deposit.” The letter from Defence stated: “The outstanding government dues will be decided by the High Court, Chennai, in the pending court cases.”  Out of the total 18 holes, 17 will be available for members now. In six months time we will redesign the course with 18 holes N. Srinivasan TNGF president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cosmo-tngf-in-row-over-payment-of-arrears-of-rent/article38289552.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:42 IST,||Cried after loss in Worlds: Satwik||India’s premier doubles shuttler R. Satwiksairaj, fresh from his title-triumph partnering Chirag Shetty in the India Open last Sunday, said that they were glad to be back on track. The 21-year-old Satwik, now taking a break staying with his parents in his hometown Amalapuram (Andhra Pradesh), said they were desperate to win a title after a disappointing 2021.  “Honestly, we were at our best in terms of training, mental preparations three months before the 2020 Tokyo Games. Then came the setbacks in the Olympics and the World championships. You won’t believe me. I was crying for more than one hour after the loss in the Worlds,” the champion doubles specialist informed The Hindu .  “Everything looked so uncertain. Suddenly, I was asking myself ‘what kind of game I was playing. Where had that aggression gone? Why so much negativity?’ There was so much confusion,” recalled Satwik, who, with Chirag, is now ranked World No. 8 in men’s doubles. “But, once I was there in the stands cheering up Lakshya (Sen) in the World championships semifinal and saw how Srikanth anna [Kidambi] fought back from a recent low to be the silver medallist, I felt why can’t I do that,” Satwik said. “I felt a lot more positive after watching them,” he added. “Thankfully, Gopi sir [chief national coach P. Gopi Chand] saw to it that there was proper training with Vijaydeep Singh and Arun Vishnu taking charge of us. Somehow, there is a more comfortable feeling with them around,” he said. “They keep things simple, are very positive, motivate us in typical, easy-going Indian style — never putting pressure. Because, we got back the confidence to bounce back the few times we were down in the India Open,” said Satwik. “The Delhi win is definitely a morale-booster as we prepare for the German Open and the All England championships later this year,” Satwik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cried-after-loss-in-worlds-satwik/article38289446.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:12 IST,||‘First target is to reach last eight’||India head coach Thomas Dennerby on Tuesday said the hosts would aim to break down a strong Iranian defence with an attacking game to eke out a win in its women’s AFC Asian Cup opener here on Thursday. The match against Iran would be crucial for India in its bid to qualify for the quarterfinals. Iran is the lowest ranked team in Group A which also has China and Chinese Taipei. It is ranked World No. 70 as against India’s 55. “Our first target is to get to quarterfinals, we think we have a realistic chance to do that. Iran is going to be a real tough game,” Dennerby said in a virtual media interaction. A win against Iran will give India a big chance to make it to the knockout stages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/first-target-is-to-reach-last-eight/article38289903.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:14 IST,||TNPL: Sathish reports approach by bookie||Former Tamil Nadu First Class cricketer R. Sathish has reported an approach from a bookie to fix matches in the upcoming edition of the Tamil Nadu Premier League to the BCCI Anti-Corruption Unit. The Tamil Nadu Cricket Association in a media statement said, “R. Sathish, registered player of the TNCA and TNPL was approached by an unknown person on social media offering to pay him money for fixing matches in the upcoming TNPL. ACU informed R. Sathish has immediately informed the Anti Corruption Unit of the BCCI as per the protocol and has also informed TNCA of the developments.” Sathish plays for Chepauk Super Gillies in the TNPL and a formal police complaint has been lodged by a member of the BCCI Anti Corruption Unit in Bengaluru recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sathish-reports-approach-by-bookie/article38289548.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:43 IST,||Odisha blanks NEUFC||The Indian Super League returned to action after a brief hiatus as Odisha beat NorthEast United at the Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, moving awfully close to top-four in the league. NorthEast United had a further debilitated forwardline with Deshorn Brown, its highest goalscorer, and Rochharzela, both ruled out, and Marcelinho, its recent signing, unavailable. Odisha FC, on the other hand, looked hungry to get back to winning ways under new management. And it did. In the 17th minute, Daniel Lalhlimpuia, making his second start for OFC, scored from a tap-in, as Aridai Suarez delivered the ball on a plate from the left — his first goal in three years. Five minutes later, Javier Hernandez floated a ball in for Aridai Suarez from the right, as the latter shuffled to his right and shot, giving OFC a comfortable margin before the half-an-hour mark.  The result: NorthEast United 0 lost to Odisha FC 2 (Daniel 17, Aridai 22) .   Wednesday’s match: FC Goa vs SC East Bengal .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/odisha-blanks-neufc/article38289453.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:09 IST,||INRC races tomorrow||Over 100 entrants, with a clutch of teenaged talent, will line up on the various grids in the third round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Car Racing Championship 2021 commencing at the MMRT circuit here on Thursday, January 20, with COVID-19 safety protocols in place. Due to the ‘Sunday lockdown’ in Tamil Nadu, the promoters, Madras Motor Sports Club, have re-jigged the schedule for the programme to start a day earlier (Thursday), which will be devoted to practice sessions only, and conclude on Saturday afternoon. Teenagers Chirag Ghorpade (Bengaluru) and Shahan Ali Mohsin (Agra) have dominated the MRF F1600 category with two wins each in six starts with the former heading the championship table with 105 points. Veteran Arjun Balu (Race Concepts) from Coimbatore, meanwhile, showcased his vast experience in wet conditions in the second round to notch up a double in the ITC category where he enjoys a seven-point advantage over Rayo Racing’s Anindith Reddy (Hyderabad). The experienced Fahad Kutty from Mumbai, with two wins in three starts, is comfortably perched on top in the MRF Saloon Cars category that boasts of 21 competitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/incrc-from-tomorrow/article38289551.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:09 IST,||Gokulam FC seals Kerala Women’s League title||Gokulam FC sealed the title in Kerala Women’s League with a match to spare at the Corporation stadium here on Tuesday. Gokulam blanked Don Bosco Football Academy 3-0 to record its ninth consecutive win in the league.The win gave Gokulam an unassailable lead with 27 points. The second-placed Don Bosco has 16 points from seven matches and will not be able to overtake Gokulam even if it wins all the remaining matches. Gokulam will meet Don Bosco in its last league match on January 23. Gokulam, which had scored 90 goals in the league, struggled to find a breakthrough against the academy side. K. Manasa broke the deadlock in the 30th minute and Elshaddai struck a brace in the second half (84th & 94th) to complete a convincing win for Gokulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-fc-seals-kerala-womens-league-title/article38289854.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:42 IST,||Sameer, Saurabh exit; three more test positive||COVID-19 continued to play havoc with the $150,000 Syed Modi India International badminton tournament after three more players — Ashmita Chaliha, Rahul Yadav and doubles specialist Shruti Mishra — tested positive on the first day of the competition here on Tuesday. After a spate of withdrawals left just three seeded players in the men’s singles draw, the exit of Verma brothers — Sameer and Saurabh — meant H. S. Prannoy was the only surviving seed midway through the first round. Prannoy, seeded five, defeated Ukraine’s Danylo Bosniuk 21-14, 21-18 in 36 minutes but the Verma brothers were not so lucky. Sameer, seeded four, was trailing 2-7 to Ireland’s Nhat Nguyen when he complained of sheen pain and retired. His elder brother Saurabh, seeded seven, surrendered to Azerbaijan’s Ade Resky Dwicahyo. Saurabh was leading by a game and 15-11 in the second before Dwicahyo started a stunning comeback and completed a 15-21, 21-19, 21-18 victory. In women’s singles, Aakarshi Kashyap defeated Mugdha Agrey 21-13, 21-14. An official revealed that owing to large-scale last-minute withdrawals, quite a few wait-listed players made the draw but could not reach the city in time. As a result, a few first-round matches, across sections, were rescheduled to accommodate these players.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sameer-saurabh-exit-three-more-test-positive/article38289448.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:43 IST,||Rahul looking forward to leadership role||K.L. Rahul has had a fairytale ride in the last six months. From being a reserved opener in England who made the most of the opportunity he got in August due to a freakish injury in the nets to a teammate to leading India in two formats this month, Rahul wouldn’t have even dreamt of such a turnaround. Add to that the recent developments and Rahul is being touted as a possible successor to Virat Kohli as India’s Test captain. The articulate batter stressed that the turnaround in his fortunes hasn’t affected him individually. Nothing has changed “The only difference is I think I have been spoken about a lot or there’s been a lot written about me. Other than that, I don’t think personally a lot has changed. I don’t see myself any differently,” Rahul said on Tuesday. “I am not seeing the game any differently. I have always enjoyed playing the game and I have always wanted to go out there and enjoy my cricket as much as possible, be in a space where I give myself the best chance to do what is best for the team.” With Rohit Sharma having been sidelined due to a hamstring injury, Rahul confirmed he will be opening the innings, with veteran Shikhar Dhawan as his ally. “The last 14-15 months, I have batted at No. 5, No. 4, different positions. That’s what the team needed of me then. Now with Rohit not here, I think I’ll bat at the top of the order,” Rahul said. With India searching for a sixth bowling option who can bat in top six, Rahul hinted at a possible ODI debut for all-rounder Venkatesh Iyer. “He has been very exciting since he played for KKR and did really well over there. He joined us for the T20 series against New Zealand and did really well,” Rahul said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-looking-forward-to-leadership-role/article38289460.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,||Spezia stuns Milan||Emmanuel Gyasi scored a stunning 96th-minute winner as relegation-battling Spezia came from behind to beat AC Milan 2-1 in a controversial match at San Siro on Monday, putting a dent in the home side’s Serie A title hopes. In-form Milan winger Rafael Leao put his side in front at the end of the first half after Theo Hernandez missed a penalty, but the visitors struck back through substitute Kevin Agudelo.  The results: AC Milan 1 (Leao 45+1) lost to Spezia 2 (Agudelo 64, Gyasi 90+6); Bologna 0 lost to Napoli 2 (Lozano 20, 47) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spezia-stuns-milan/article38289504.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:38 IST,||Rule Of Engagement wins feature event||Pradeep Annaiah-trained Rule Of Engagement (Trevor up) won the Indian Army Day Trophy, the feature event of the races held here on Tuesday (Jan 18). The winner is owned by Mr. Rajan Aggarwal & Mr. Gautam Aggarwal. 1. NAGARJUNA SAGAR PLATE (Div. III) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25: HE’S THE ONE (Darshan) 1, Iconic Princess (P.P. Dhebe) 2, Altair (Sai Kumar) 3 and Elite Agent (Rajesh Kumar) 4. Not run: Flying Bolt. Snk, 1-1/2 and Hd. 1m, 29.19s. Rs. 62 (w), 18, 11 and 14 (p), SHP: 31, THP: 42, FP: 180, Q: 61, Trinella: 216 and 85, Exacta: 499 and 275. Favourite: Altair. Owners: Mr. H.K. Lakshman Gowda & Mr. Mahesh Gundu Rao. Trainer: V. Lokanath.  2. ARKAVATI PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45, 5-y-o & over: JACK RYAN (Vishal Bunde) 1, Hope Island (Antony) 2, Capable (Sai Kumar) 3 and Tenali (Dhanu Singh) 4. Not run: Secret Source. 2, Lnk and 3. 1m, 38.67s. Rs. 52 (w), 16, 12 and 20 (p), SHP: 39, THP: 48, FP: 107, Q: 49, Trinella: 466 and 235, Exacta: 1,629 and 989. Favourite: Hope Island. Owner: Mr. Saurabh Jetli. Trainer: Neil Darashah.  3. BECKET PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): LAST WISH (Dhanu Singh) 1, Star Admiral (Kiran Rai) 2, Ashwa Yudhvir (Darshan) 3 and Flaming Falcon (Trevor) 4. Not run: Disruptor. 3-1/4, 2-1/4 and 3/4. 1m, 14.95s. Rs. 49 (w), 15, 40 and 20 (p), SHP: 164, THP: 60, FP: 643, Q: 301, Trinella: 1,648 and 530, Exacta: 4,761 (carried over). Favourite: Flaming Falcon. Owner: Dr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: Neil Devaney.  4. NAGARJUNA SAGAR PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25: ECO FRIENDLY (Sai Kumar) 1, Perfect Justice (A. Qureshi) 2, Star Domination (Darshan) 3 and Divya Shakthi (Vishal Bunde) 4. Not run: Country’s Jewel and Flaming Orange. 1, 6-1/2 and 2. 1m, 27.52s. Rs. 31 (w), 14, 14 and 52 (p), SHP: 35, THP: 105. FP: 125, Q: 57, Trinella: 1,434 and 444, Exacta: 8,040 and 13,783. Favourite: Arathorn. Owners: Mr. Naresh Kumar Pawar & Mr. Dinesh Kumar K. Trainer: Sharat Kumar.  5. CHUNCHANAKATTE FALLS PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: TACTICAL COMMAND (S. Saqlain) 1, Twilight Fame (P. Siddaraju) 2, Planetary Joy (Vishal Bunde) 3 and Aircraft (Likith Appu) 4. Not run: Lucky Again. Nk, 4-1/4 and 2. 1m, 14.61s. Rs. 17 (w), 10, 89 and 22 (p), SHP: 202, THP: 47, FP: 556, Q: 483, Trinella: 2,333 and 733, Exacta: 33,926 and 2,908. Favourite: Tactical Command. Owners: Mr. Dean Stephens & Mr. P. Prasanna Kumar. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  6. INDIAN ARMY DAY TROPHY (1,200m), rated 40 to 65: RULE OF ENGAGEMENT (Trevor) 1, Obsidian (Dhanu Singh) 2, Alberetta (L.A. Rozario) 3 and De Villiers (P.S. Chouhan) 4. 3-1/4, 3/4 and Lnk. 1m, 13.40s. Rs. 45 (w), 14, 12 and 38 (p), SHP: 37, THP: 76, FP: 194, Q: 60, Trinella: 1049 and 615, Exacta: 1,816 and 340. Favourite: Obsidian. Owners: Mr. Rajan Aggarwal & Mr. Gautam Aggarwal. Trainer: Pradeep Annaiah.  7. SRIHARIKOTA PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45: ANALECT (Antony) 1, Lords Of Legend (Akshay K) 2, Twinkle Feet (Darshan) 3 and Own Legacy (Neeraj) 4. 4, 1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m, 27.00s. Rs. 103 (w), 25, 12 and 24 (p), SHP: 34, THP: 51, FP: 327, Q: 73, Trinella: 1,185 and 705, Exacta: 5,171 and 2,216. Favourite: Lords Of Legend. Owner: Mr. Rajan Aggarwal. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  8. NAGARJUNA SAGAR PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25: PEYO (Darshan) 1. The Inheritor (M. Naveen) 2, Defining Power (Akshay K) 3 and Chiraag (P. Siddaraju) 4. 1-1/4, 4-3/4 and 2-3/4. 1m, 27.42s. Rs. 139 (w), 42, 14 and 12 (p), SHP: 35, THP: 54, FP: 1,102, Q: 417, Trinella: 3,141 and 157, Exacta: 33,474 and 14,346. Favourite: Defining Power. Owners: Mr. Daulat Chhabria & Mr. S. Narredu. Trainer: S. Narredu.  Jackpot: Rs. 38,756 (carried over); Runner-up: 923 (18 tkts.); Treble (i); 602 (8 tkts.); (ii): 5,729 (carried over).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rule-of-engagement-wins-feature-event/article38289508.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:54 IST,||Kickstart FC lodges appeal||Kickstart FC has lodged an appeal with the Karnataka State Football Association (KSFA) against Bangalore District Football Association’s (BDFA) decision to dock the club nine points for not adhering to the U-21 player-rule during the recently concluded BDFA Super Division league. The BDFA had required every team to have two U-21 players on the playing field at all times, a rule which Kickstart was adjudged to have broken three times in the season. It is understood that the KSFA has now asked the BDFA to hold off all decisions and will soon form an enquiry committee to look into the issue. Decisions regarding promotion and relegation to and from the Super Division have also been put on hold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kickstart-fc-lodges-appeal/article38289505.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 04:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: Young Talents under-13 inter-academy final, Reddy’s Sumangali B ground (matting), 12.30 p.m.; Harrington CA-Jai Krishna memorial tournament, Reddy’s N.M. Greens, 1 p.m.  Motorsports: MRF-MMSC FMSCI Indian National Car Racing Championship, MMRT (Irungattukottai), 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article38289549.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 06:37 IST,||Sr. National basketball postponed||The senior National basketball championships scheduled to be held in Chennai from January 23 to 30 has been postponed due to the emerging spike in Omicron variant of COVID-19 all over India and the rapid surge in cases in Tamil Nadu and restrictions imposed by the State Government, according to a release from Basketball Federation of India. The Tamil Nadu Basketball Association is mulling hosting the Nationals in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sr-national-basketball-postponed/article38289547.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 07:20 IST,||Ahamkara, virtue and vice||It is held that there is dilution of dharma in the course of time as the yugas Krita, Treta, Dwapara and Kali, follow in succession. Dharma is the way of life of people and Krita Yuga is claimed to be a golden age when the people practise dharma by adhering to purity in all respects, in thought, word and deed. But it is also true that even in this Yuga, vices have coexisted along with virtue, says Vyasa by way of explaining how the strength of dharma is sullied, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. Vyasa describes in detail the cause of virtue and vice in creation as rooted in the ahamkara tatva and shows that this has existed since creation. It is very rare to find people who are pure in thought, word and deed, who are religious, and free from egoism, jealousy and anger. The world has been filled with feelings of deceit, jealousy and anger. This includes celestial beings as well. One can understand if a wronged person retaliates to consolidate his position and fights those who inflicted injury on him. But when peaceful people who are free of enmity are injured, is it not an unpardonable act, asks the sage. There are instances when disturbances are caused to the penance of devout ascetics knowingly as in the case when Indra feels there is threat to his position. Sometimes as in the case of Parikshit, the penance is thwarted inadvertently. People of different beliefs and temperaments, with varying degrees of virtue and vice, continue to exist in all yugas. Some believe in the sastras while some defy them openly. Others have mixed feelings on this matter. As far as individual dharma is concerned, laxity is caused by desire. If desire is sullied, impure and wrong, the way of life of the individual also sways in that direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/ahamkara-virtue-and-vice/article38289416.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 07:19 IST,||Sudoku — January 19, 2022||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-19-2022/article38290057.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:35 IST,||What caused the ‘rare’ volcano tsunami?||A rare volcano-triggered tsunami sparked by the eruption of Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha'apai in Tonga could have been caused by shock waves or shifting underwater land, experts have said. “A volcanic-source tsunami event is rare but not unprecedented," a post on the website for New Zealand's geological hazard monitoring system GNS said Monday. GNS Tsunami Duty Officer Jonathan Hanson said it probably occurred in part thanks to a previous eruption of the same volcano one day earlier. “It is likely that the earlier 14 January eruption blew away part of the volcano above water, so water flowed into the extremely hot vent,” wrote Hanson. “This meant that the Saturday evening eruption initially occurred underwater and exploded through the ocean, causing a widespread tsunami,” he said. Two days after Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha'apai's massive explosion, the nation's 100,000 population remained virtually cut off from the rest of the world with crippled communications and stalled emergency relief efforts. The volcano cloaked Tonga in a film of ash, sent a column of ash and gas 20 kilometres into the air and shock waves that could be seen from space rippling across the planet. It also triggered a Pacific-wide tsunami whose waves were strong enough to drown two women in Peru more than 10,000 kilometres (6,000 miles) away.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/what-caused-the-rare-volcano-tsunami/article38289177.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:32 IST,||For the love of the written word||When and why did you start the ‘V Love Writing’ community? One day I saw a social media post where people had shared their valuable feedback on a piece of art. Art is the visual representation of your mind and thought. The same way, writing is the text form of the writer’s mind. I wondered why I shouldn’t start a vibrant writing community where people can share their valuable feedback with one another. So I started ‘V Love Writing’ in 2020 with a group of talented writers. You can receive feedback for your content, and build relationships with other authors who can help you with your manuscript. Tell us about your experience of writing for a newspaper. As a writer, I love writing all sorts of pieces such as poems, short stories, and articles. I read each and every column in the newspaper, particularly those written by children. When I was in Class VI, this inspired me to write for the newspaper. I sent my articles, poems, and other work. It’s not easy to get them published, but one fine day, it happened! My first article to be published was on child rights. Following this, many of my articles on various subjects, including nature, the pandemic, and education were published. What was your role and responsibilities as an ambassador of the Schneider Electric project? Almost everything magical happened in my life while I was in Class VI. Yes, this too happened then. As an ambassador for the Schneider Electric project in my school, I collected details about the daily consumption of electricity in our school. In addition to this, we collected details on how much electricity was consumed in each and every student’s house. With those extensive reports and surveys, our team needed to give ideas on how to reduce the consumption of electricity. If our idea was good, the company would try to implement it. That was my dream project! Does writing help you overcome stress? Writing can help relieve stress by combating negative and intrusive thoughts. Writing about negative experiences can help you overcome them, and by putting your experience into perspective, you are able to concentrate on the positive. I usually write about my everyday happenings in my diary. This helps me with a retrospect of my life. Who is Dhanvi Manugunta beyond being a founder and writer? I love to listen to music, write songs, and play the keyboard. In my leisure time, I usually have fun conversations with family and friends. My sole inspiration would be my father, and he has always been open to whatever I want to do and become. What is your future plan? What do you want to be in life? Well, I have lots of future goals and plans. One of them is to start an organisation where students can get resources for their business ideas and career prospects because they generally don’t have such resources. This will be an organisation to help student start-ups. Another plan is to work in the field of learning disabilities and to raise awareness about them.  One of future plans is to start an organisation where students can get resources for their business ideas and career prospects because they generally don’t have such resources. This will be an organisation to help student start-ups. Another plan is to work in the field of learning disabilities and to raise awareness about them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/for-the-love-of-the-written-word/article38289208.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:33 IST,||Election facts from around the world||Sid: Hi Abhi, what’s your plan post exams?  Abhi: Oh, my parents are going to our hometown to cast their vote in the Assembly election. So, I am also going with them to spend a few days at my grandparents’ place.  Sid: Oh, that’s nice. My aunt will be travelling 800 km to cast her vote, isn’t that great? I am so proud of her.  Abhi: That’s amazing! Did you know in Estonia, a country in Europe, voters can cast their vote online? No travelling, no standing in queue, no hassle! Also, I have always wondered if astronauts aboard the International Space Station get to vote. Do you have any idea?  Sid: The U.S. astronauts can. Secure ballots are sent to them via email by the Mission Control in Houston, Texas. Once astronauts make their selection, their ballots are sent back to Earth, where clerks open the encoded documents and submit a hard copy of each ballot to be counted.  Abhi: In general, the U.S. has a very low voter turnout compared to other developed countries, however, in the 2020 Presidential election, it saw a record turnout of 66.3%. It is the highest turnout since 1900, when 73.7% of Americans cast ballots.  Sid: But I am sure no country can beat North Korea when it comes to voter turnout. It registers almost 100% every time.  Abhi: North Korea holds election? I am surprised!  Sid: Though the country is said to have an authoritarian regime, it holds elections every ﬁve years. It is mandatory for people to vote. And they don’t have a choice of candidates either. The candidates are selected ahead of time by the ruling party; North Korean voters simply have to drop a printout of the names in a box to indicate their support.  Abhi: That’s sad! Voting is compulsory in Australia as well. Anyone who doesn’t show up on Election Day is ﬁned AU$20 (around It is mandatory for people to vote in North Korea. Rs. 965).  Sid: Did you know Gambia used marbles to vote until 2018?  Abhi: What do you mean? Sid: Gambia had a unique way of voting for its President – instead of ballot papers, voters used marbles. Voters were each given a marble, which they would drop into colour-coded metal drums with pictures of the candidates. After the voting had ended, the drums were emptied and the marbles placed in special trays (with either 200 or 500 holes). This system enabled counting oﬃcials to quickly see the number of votes cast in each drum.  Abhi: Interesting!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/election-facts-from-around-the-world/article38289213.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:31 IST,||Lewandowski, Putellas take top FIFA ‘Best’ awards||Bayern Munich’s record-setting striker Robert Lewandowski retained FIFA’s top men’s player title Monday at “The Best” of 2021 ceremony as Barcelona captain Alexia Putellas collected the award for best women's player. The 33-year-old Lewandowski, who set a Bundesliga goal record last season, won the trophy for the second time, edging Argentine Lionel Messi of Paris Saint-Germain and Egyptian Mohamed Salah of Liverpool. “I'm happy and honoured to win this award, and I feel very proud,” said Lewandowski It was some consolation for the Polish striker who lost out to Messi for the Ballon d'Or in November. For Putellas, it marked an awards double as the Spaniard triumphed over Barcelona team-mate Jennifer Hermoso and Chelsea's Australian striker Sam Kerr, just as she did for the Ballon d'Or. The 27-year-old midfielder enjoyed an exceptional 2020-2021 season with Barcelona when she led the Catalans to the Spanish league and cup double as well as the Champions League. "This trophy is for everyone in the team," Putellas said. "The trophy will be an inspiration for us all." Cristiano Ronaldo won the Special Award for setting a record of most international goals scored for his country, beating Ali Daei's mark of 109 with Iran. The 36-year-old Ronaldo now has 115 goals from 184 games with Portugal. "I never expected to beat this record, and I thank my teammates from these past 20 years," said Ronaldo, who also holds the record for 140 Champions League goals. Chelsea's Edouard Mendy and Christiane Endler of Lyon won the goalkeeping awards. Chelsea picked up both coaching awards through Thomas Tuchel and Emma Hayes. Erik Lamela, now of Sevilla, won the best goal award for his trick rabona shot for Spurs in the North London derby. The medical staff and players of Denmark, who had to deal with Christian Eriksen's collapse on the field at the Euro won the "fair-play" award.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/lewandowski-putellas-take-top-fifa-best-awards/article38289162.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:31 IST,||Medvedev eases into second round||Title favourite Daniil Medvedev wore down Swiss Henri Laaksonen to win his opening match at the Australian Open on Tuesday with little fuss. The Russian, who is looking for back-to-back Grand Slam crowns after winning last year's US Open, prevailed 6-1, 6-4, 7-6 (7/3) in 1hour 54 minutes on Rod Laver Arena. “I tried to win the third set, I thought I'll wait (for the tiebreaker), it managed to work out, so I'm really happy about it,” the world number two said on court. “I started well in Australia last year, won the ATP Cup and managed to be in the final here. I like to play here, I like hardcourts and I want to do better than I did last year.” Medvedev is aiming to go one better than last year's losing final appearance against Novak Djokovic, but with the world number one back home in Serbia after his deportation, the Russian is the nominated favourite for the title. Medvedev dropped his opening service game against Laaksonen, but reeled off the next six games to take the first set. When the 91st-ranked Laaksonen finally held service in the opening game of the second set the crowd loudly cheered. The Swiss was more competitive in the second set, but the second seed was still controlling things with his methodical groundstrokes. Laaksonen raised his level and came out on top of several long rallies, but Medvedev's experience proved the difference in the third-set tiebreaker.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/medvedev-eases-into-second-round/article38289164.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:32 IST,||ARTIVITY||Read the newspaper and create an original artwork based on a news item that interests you and send your entry in JPEG format (not as PDF) to school@thehindu.co.in with the subject - Artivity. ONLY artworks based on current news or issues relating to Science, Space, Environment, Wildlife and Sports will be considered for publication. Please AVOID mailing other works. Mention your name, class, school and city in the same mail (not in separate mails).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/artivity/article38289205.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:33 IST,||Where does the sun get oxygen from?||The sun is mostly composed of hydrogen and helium, which are the most abundant elements in the universe and were formed shortly after the Big Bang. The sun also contains a small fraction of heavier elements such as carbon, oxygen and iron. These elements did not exist early in the history of the universe. They were formed inside stars, where temperature and pressure are so high that atoms merge to form bigger ones through powerful fusion reactions. Throughout their life or when they explode at the end of their life, stars disseminate these elements in space. The space between stars is thus far from empty and contains many atoms, molecules and ions, although at very low densities. When they assembled, both the Sun and the earth included some of these elements formed in previous stars. In fact, we are all made of this stardust!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/where-does-the-sun-get-oxygen-from/article38289215.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:35 IST,||Remembering ‘Supermom Collarwali’||‘Collarwali’ tigress, the pride of Madhya Pradesh’s Pench Tiger Reserve, died due to old age. Collarwali was born in September 2005, gave birth to 29 cubs and established her territory in the entire Pench border, setting a world record. Continuous monitoring was being done by the wildlife doctor for the last week.This tigress gave birth to five cubs simultaneously. A documentary film “Tiger: Spy in the Jungle” was made on her. On March 11, 2008, experts from the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun put a radio collar to the tigress, since then she was known as ‘Collarwali’. Aadhar Gupta, deputy director of Pench National Park, said, “The tigress died of age. Her contribution is immense in restoring back the ecological balance by improving the tiger population.” Legendary cricketer Sachin Tendulkar said, “Wildlife lovers and enthusiasts will understand how heartbreaking it is, when a majestic tigress goes into silence forever. Rest in peace, #Collarwali,” Tendulkar said in a tweet on Monday evening while sharing pictures of the big cat's last rites.AGENCIES||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/remembering-supermom-collarwali/article38289167.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:35 IST,||The beads of glass in meteorites||Scientists have been surprised and fascinated on finding what’s inside meteorites ever since they started peering at these with their microscopes. This is because most meteorites are made up of tiny beads of glass. These beads date back to the early solar system – even before the planets were formed – and thereby hold vital clues about those times. The tiny beads of glass inside meteorites are called chondrules and scientists have been puzzled as to how these are formed for at least half a century now. An analysis published by scientists from the University of Chicago in December 2021 lay out how these beads came to be. Proportion of isotopes The type of elements in a rock could tell us about the early solar system. Elements come in different forms called isotopes and the proportion of an isotope in each rock varies according to the conditions that existed when the rock was born. Researchers employed a unique angle to the isotopes to try and understand what had happened to the chondrules. They picked two elements, potassium and rubidium, which are depleted in meteorites, and took precise measurements of the concentrations and isotopes of these in meteorites. Extreme heating and cooling Based on this information, they have pieced together what must have been happening as the chondrules formed. Given these constraints, scientists have theorised that massive shockwaves could be the type of event that is sudden and violent enough to cause the extreme heating and cooling required to form the chondrules. For nearly 50 years, different scenarios like lightning or collision between rocks have been proposed for the formation of chondrules. The new evidence provided by these researchers tips the balance towards shockwaves as an explanation, making inroads into what has largely been a mystery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/the-beads-of-glass-in-meteorites/article38289173.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:35 IST,||Hello there...||• I am a warthog, a member of the Swine family and are related to pigs, boars and hogs, found in grassland, savanna, and woodland in sub-Saharan Africa. • I have large nostrils at the end of the snout, a mane that goes down the spine, and hooves. I am easily recognisable from my large tusks. My large, flat head is covered with "warts," which are actually protective bumps. They store fat and help protect me during fights. • I live in abandoned dens of aardvarks. • I am a herbivore and my diet includes roots, berries, bark, bulbs, grass and plants. I forage during daybreak and twilight hours. • I can run up to 48 km/h. This helps to outrun my predators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/hello-there/article38289179.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:35 IST,||Heritage trail||• It is an archaeological site in the Kutch District of Gujarat. • The site contains ruins of an ancient Indus Valley Civilization/Harappan city. • Recent research suggests that the site was occupied from around 3500 BCE (pre-Harappan) and continued until around 1800 BCE. • Archaeologists believe that the site was an important centre of trade between settlements in south Gujarat, Sindh and Punjab and Western Asia. • It became the UNESCO World Heritage Site in July 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/heritage-trail/article38289181.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:36 IST,||Fun fact||The Keibul Lamjao in Manipur, India, is the only floating wildlife sanctuary in the world. The national park is characterised by phumdis, which are circular, floating masses of vegetation, soil and decomposing organic debris. The Keibul Lamjao is the largest phumdi, measuring 40 sq km, on Loktak Lake. Q. The Keibul Lamjao is home to a rare species of deer called _______.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/fun-fact/article38289183.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:36 IST,||Unscramble...||1. FIREFAG __________________________ 2. BAREZ __________________________ 3. SHORE __________________________ 4. LAMEC __________________________ 5. PEESH __________________________ Answers:1. Giraffe, 2. Zebra, 3. Horse, 4. Camel, 5. Sheep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/unscramble/article38289198.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:31 IST,||LeBron scores 25, ends three-game skid||LeBron James scored 25 points and Stanley Johnson had 10 of his 15 points in the fourth quarter to lead the Los Angeles Lakers to a 101-95 win over the Utah Jazz. Russell Westbrook added 15 points and the Lakers snapped a three-game losing streak, rebounding after an ugly 37-point loss to the Denver Nuggets two days earlier. Mike Conley had 20 points and Rudy Gobert had a double double with 19 points and 16 rebounds for the Jazz. Johnson, who was just re-signed to another 10-day contract earlier in the day, scored six consecutive points in the fourth quarter. He tied the game at 83 with a 15-foot pull-up jumper. He scored a layup with a nice move around Rudy Gobert to give the Lakers a 89-87 lead. Austin Reaves had a tip-in basket off his own miss to put the Lakers ahead by four and Avery Bradley made a key 3-pointer in the corner, off an assist from Johnson, for a 95-89 lead. Johnson made 7 of 9 shots and also had seven rebounds. The Lakers got 44 points from their bench. James also had seven rebounds and seven assists. This was the first matchup of the season between the teams.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/lebron-scores-25-ends-three-game-skid/article38289165.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:33 IST,||Active COVID-19 cases in country highest in 230 days||With 2,38,018 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,76,18,271, which includes 8,891 cases of the Omicron variant, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The active cases have increased to 17,36,628, the highest in 230 days, while the death toll has climbed to 4,86,761 with 310 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 a.m. stated. There has been an 8.31 per cent increase in Omicron cases since Monday, the ministry said. Experts said it is not possible to undertake genome sequencing of each and every sample but stressed that the current wave is largely being driven by the Omicron variant. The active cases comprise 4.62 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has decreased to 94.09 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 80,287 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/active-covid-19-cases-in-country-highest-in-230-days/article38289217.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:33 IST,||Winter storm blankets eastern U.S. and Canada||A major winter storm blanketed a swathe of North America in snow as it sliced up the U.S. east coast into Canada, disrupting travel and cutting power to thousands of homes. Many Americans who had been without electricity -- about 120,000 of them since Monday -- seemed to be back online by the evening, according to the website PowerOutage.us. More than 1,700 flights within, into or out of the United States were cancelled. Large parts of the Canadian provinces of Quebec and Ontario remained under winter storm or blizzard warnings. In Toronto, up to two feet of snow was expected -- “a historic storm for the city,” tweeted Anthony Farnell, chief meteorologist of Canadian TV channel Global News. The US National Weather Service (NWS) said earlier it expected the storm to "slowly wind down." The heaviest snowfall was recorded in Ashtabula, Ohio, the agency said. "Significant impacts due to snow, ice, wind, and coastal flooding will persist across a large area," NWS said in a tweet. The storm spawned damaging tornadoes in Florida, while in the Carolinas and up through the Appalachian mountain region, icy conditions and blustery winds raised concerns. Powerful winds downed trees and caused coastal flooding, with a 12-foot storm surge reported in Boston. According to scientists, climate change could be an aggravating factor for extreme weather events like snowstorms, as well as deadly floods, typhoons and heat waves.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/winter-storm-blankets-eastern-us-and-canada/article38289219.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:33 IST,||43 drowned as migrant boat capsizes off Morocco||Forty-three migrants including three infants died after their boat capsized off the coast of Tarfaya in southern Morocco, Spanish organisation Caminando Fronteras said. Ten people were rescued from the shipwreck, the organisation's spokesperson told AFP. The survivors had called pleading for rescue in the early hours of Sunday morning, and were able to maintain communication for two hours. “It took hours for the (Moroccan) authorities to locate and save the boat,” Caminando Fronteras said, which tracks data from boats in distress. Only two bodies have been recovered so far from among the 43, said the organisation, which based its toll on the testimonies of survivors and the victims' families. The migrants were making their way to the Spanish Canary Islands, 100 km away from Tarfaya. The North African country is a key transit point on routes taken by migrants hoping for better lives on European shores.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/43-drowned-as-migrant-boat-capsizes-off-morocco/article38289222.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:33 IST,||R-Day parade invitee list cut down this year||The number of people that would be allowed to attend the Republic Day parade this year would be curtailed by 70-80 percent to approximately 5,000-8,000 due to the ongoing wave of COVID-19, senior officials of the defence ministry said on Tuesday. Approximately 25,000 people were allowed to attend the last year's parade. Moreover, the decision on whether chief guests will come or not for this year's parade is yet to be taken by the Ministry of External Affairs, the officials mentioned. There was no chief guest at the parade last year. Officials said the aim is to keep the people away and maintain social distancing at all times so that the parade should not become a super spreader event. While the exact number is yet to be decided, it would be anywhere between 5,000-8,000 people this year, they mentioned. The decision regarding chief guests is being handled by the Ministry of External Affairs and we will wait for their decision in this regard, the officials said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/r-day-parade-invitee-list-cut-down-this-year/article38289225.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:35 IST,||New exhibits at Delhi Metro Museum||A pantograph used by trains to draw power, along with models of eight metro trains operational across the country, are among the two new attractive exhibits displayed at the Delhi Metro Museum recently, officials said on Sunday. The Delhi Metro Museum, started in 2009 at the Patel Chowk Metro Station, has about 50 different panels, models, exhibits and photo galleries chronicling the illustrious journey of the the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), they said. What is a pantograph? Explaining a pantograph, a senior metro official said that it is an equipment which is mounted on the roof of the train and is used to draw power from the overhead electrification (OHE) wires. "One such pantograph, currently out of use, has been refurbished and put on display at the museum. An information board, along with photographs of pantographs used in metro trains, have also been displayed," he said. Growth of metro networks To trace the growth of metro networks in the country, models of eight different metro trains, including those used by the Delhi Metro, have also been displayed at the museum, the official added. "This exhibit will give an idea to visitors about how the Metro networks have grown rapidly in India over the last few years," the official said. Despite the constraints posed by the COVID–19 pandemic, the Delhi Metro Museum has added another exhibit displaying the prestigious Japan Society of Civil Engineers' (JSCE) Award received by the DMRC, he said. According to metro officials, a specialised agency has been roped in to ensure maintenance of the giant digital screen as well as other models of Metro trains, stations and the cutter-head of a Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM). PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/new-exhibits-at-delhi-metro-museum/article38289169.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:35 IST,||Word of the day||Gruff is an adjective which may refer to a person’s unfriendly voice or a person’s unfriendly or bad-tempered behaviour. A gruff voice sounds low and rough. Origin It comes from the 1530s usage in Middle Dutch word ‘grof’ meaning "coarse (in quality), thick, large." Usage Don't be fooled by his gruff manner, he's really very kind. Activity Use the word in a sentence of your own||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/word-of-the-day/article38289182.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:36 IST,||The W Corner||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/the-w-corner/article38289185.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:35 IST,||welcome this winter visitor||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/welcome-this-winter-visitor/article38289171.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:32 IST,||Three-minute fun reads||•Animals are categorised based on several aspects, including what they feed on. One of the ways in which they are categorised is based on their hooves. Ungulate is the scientific term for any hooved mammal. This group is spread across the world and includes deer, sheep, bison, moose, giraffes, and elephants. Ungulates have many similarities and differences too. •Some of the ungulates are even-toed or odd-toed. But sometimes this may not be right because it does not match up with the actual number of toes that they have. This is because it calculates how may toes they actually use. All living ungulates are herbivorous, such as deer, or omnivorous, such as pigs. Some of these animals are ruminants, and others are hindgut fermentors. Ruminants have to chew their food twice – the second time to get more valuable nutrients that are harder to digest. Animals known as hindgut fermenters have to keep eating constantly, and they get more nutrients from the low quality food they eat. Ungulates have horns or antlers. In some species only males have these, and in others, both males and females do. ACTIVITY CORNER 1. Both horns and antlers are shed. True or false? ________________________________________________________________ 2. Pigs are even-toed. True or false? ________________________________________________________________||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/three-minute-fun-reads/article38289200.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:36 IST,||ww.magicsquarepuzzles.com(9840662780)||Fill the empty cells using numbers from 1 to 64 each only once such that 1) Each row, column and two main diagonals of each 4x4 sub square gives the magic sum of 130. 2) Each 2 x 2 square marked in the same colour gives the sum of 130. 3) The center 2 x 2 marked in black border in each 4x4 sub square gives a sum of 130. 4) Group of cells in boxes within dotted lines is a cage. Cage sum is mentioned at the top in respective colours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/wwmagicsquarepuzzlescom9840662780/article38289196.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 03:33 IST,||FACE TO FACE||This American tennis player beat former champion Sofia Kenin in their women's singles match on day one of the Australian Open tournament. Send your entries by 11 a.m. to school@thehindu.co.in along with your name class, and school. [Subject: Person.]Yesterday’s answer: Pandit Birju Maharaj. Congrats to Yuvaansh Gupta, Class VII, GBN Sr. Sec School, Faridabad; K.P. Shrikrithika, Class III, Thammina Dhanush, Class VI, B. Shyamala, Class IX, KV, Nagercoil; J. Sriram, Class VII, KV, Meenambakkam; Yashvanth R S, Class X, Excel Central School, Thiruvattar; K.Mahima, Class VII, KV, Mandapam; Manasi Santhosh, Class VII, KV, Anna Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/face-to-face/article38289221.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:27 IST,||Books that motivate you to live well||Yuktahaar: The Belly and Brain Diet By Munmun Ganeriwal;Penguin Random House  Despite a continuing fling with fad diets, many people remain unsuccessful in shedding weight. Nutritionist Munmun Ganeriwal says it is because the diets focus on the individual and that defeats the purpose of dieting. Instead, it pays to understand the connection between an individual and his/her gut health. The objective of taking to low carbs, low-fat or vegan diets should never be a person’s weight loss. Rather, the aim should be to improve one’s gut health because that is where every chronic ailment is rooted. The author explains when someone suffers a jelly-belly following a diet plan, it indicates an imbalanced microbiome. “But the failure to connect the reason can have an adverse impact on the body such as mood swings, behavioural change, diminishing sense of well- being and happiness and even weight gain,” she writes. The nutrition and exercise consultant suggests an actionable 10-week science-based holistic programme for readers to encourage them to maintain a gut balancing lifestyle. A combination of healthy and traditional Indian foods, right amount of exercise, including yoga, good sleep hygiene, adequate sunshine and neural retraining collectively strengthens the body to fight diseases,” she says and describes the microbial balance of the body as a functional medicine that keeps weight-relatedissues under control . Unbeatable— Celebrating Life With Cerebral Palsy By Shikhi Sharma ; Silverspun  An engineer-turned-banker, Shikhi Sharma, was inspired by the true life story of a young boy, Tapasvi, suffering from cerebral palsy. Passionate about writing, she decided to tell the world his story to motivate children and parents who live and struggle with cerebral palsy on a daily basis.  Unbeatable  is a rollercoaster ride through setbacks, accomplishments and the power of unconditional love. The book shows how it is possible to achieve the impossible with a positive mind, hard work and an unbeatable spirit, and creates hope.  Young dreamer, Tapasvi, and his devoted father, Ajay, journey through the challenges of cerebral palsy and learn life lessons while navigating their way through a highly sceptical and closed society. It is possible due to the father’s resolve to make his son feel second to none and he makes him believe there is nothing more liberating than breaking your own boundaries. While celebrating life against all odds, the author also talks in detail about what causes cerebral palsy, the risk factors and the early signs. She also shares anecdotes from medical professionals and special educators for a comprehensive understanding of the condition. It’s Your Baby By Dr. Saroja Balan;Harper Collins India  The book is written specifically for Indian parents and tofind answers to their FAQs. What paediatrician-cum-neonatologist Dr. Saroja Balan experienced and learnt in 34 years of her clinical practice are compiled in a very conversational and readable style in the book to help parents figure out things on their own about their babies and not necessarily rush to a doctor for every little thing.  Covering the basics like sleep, breastfeeding, common ailments and up-to-date information on vaccines and COVID-19, Dr. Balan shares her own experience of raising a child in England with no family support. She writes that as a young mother, she only had the Nelson Textbook of Paediatrics to fall back on and sensed how a ready reckoner could help young parents to navigate the first two years of their toddlers with ease and confidence.  This prompted her to write the essential guide for parents on raising a safe and healthy child and it also works as a complete book for paediatricians beginning their practice. The author says it is normal for every new mother to have millions of questions and high levels of anxiety because parenting can be both terrifying and exciting. Excess information from the Internet, helpful advice from well-meaning grandmothers and old wives’ tales can often be confusing. While most parents try to be hands-on, a little help with simple, filtered and authoritative inputs can go a long way. According to her, babies are the best support for their parents; a healthy baby means happy and confident parents. Dr. Balan has tried to provide a solution to possible concerns of a new parent — from what to expect during delivery, care of the newborn baby, vaccinations, normal growth and development milestones. Smarter Tomorrow By Elizabeth R Ricker ; Hachette India  There is a growing global movement of neurohackers who arerevolutionising their careers and relationships. The book introduces Olympic athletes, game show contestants, CEOs and scientists who have unlocked success by romping through the cutting-edge world of neuroscience and biohacking. The author explains often self-improvement projects fail owing to excessive brain-based reasoning, whereas simple channelising of thoughts, regulating emotions, learning and strengthening memory and being creative are the four key areas that can help to achieve success in work and relationships. He says it is possible to supercharge one’s mental performance by focusing on these areas with research-tested tools. The book details how one can work better, think faster and get more done with low-tech (a surprising new mindset) to downright futuristic (an electrical device for at-home brain stimulation) and offers 20 customizable self-experiments. Based on interviews and research studies across the world, Elizabeth Ricker has charted a 12-week schedule after testing it on herself. Some experiments failed hilariously but others transformed her cognition, she writes. From video games and meditation to nicotine or a little-known beverage from the Pacific islands, things that helped her to sharpen her memory, increase her attention span, boost her mood, and clear her brain fog have been enlisted. The Age of A.I And Our Human Future By Henry A Kissinger, Eric Schmidt, Daniel Huttenlocher; Hachette India Three accomplished and deep thinkers have come together to explore Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the way it is transforming human society and what it means for us. They say we have to be alert to how we approach knowledge, politics, economics and even warfare because things are changing profoundly, and rapidly. To cite examples — an AI learned to win chess by making moves human grand masters had never conceived; another AI discovered a new antibiotic by analysing molecular properties human scientists did not understand; now AI-powered jets are defeating experienced human pilots in simulated dogfights; AI is coming online in searching, streaming, education, and other fields and also predicting and diagnosing diseases. And in all this, it will change societies in which we live and transform how we experience reality. According to the three authors — 1973 Nobel Peace Prize winner Henry Kissinger, Google’s CEO from 2001 to 2011 Eric Schmidt and founder Dean of MIT Schwarzman College of Computing Daniel Huttenlocher — it is wise to be future-ready and their book is an essential road map to our present and our future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/books-that-motivate-you-to-live-well/article38289830.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:14 IST,||Allu Arjun’s Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo to release in Hindi||The Hindi dubbed version of superstar Allu Arjun’s blockbuster Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo is set to have a theatrical release on January 26, the makers announced.   The 2020 Telugu action drama will be released in Hindi following the mammoth success of the actor’s last release Pushpa: The Rise . Production house Goldmines Telefilms shared the update on Twitter, which read, “Allu Arjun is coming back to break the box office”.   “After Pushpa , now Hindi dubbed versions of Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo in cinemas from January 26,” the tweet read.   Written and directed by Trivikram Srinivas, Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo also stars Pooja Hegde, Tabu, Jayaram, Sushanth, and Nivetha Pethuraj. The film follows the story of Bantu (Arjun), who, after being neglected by his father, learns that he was swapped as an infant and his biological father is an affluent businessman.  Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo is produced by Allu Aravind and S Radha Krishna. Actor Kartik Aaryan and Kriti Sanon-starrer Shehzada , which began production in October last year, is reportedly a Hindi remake of the film.   Arjun’s ‘ Pushpa: The Rise released in December and put up an impressive total of more than Rs. 80 crore from its Hindi version at the box office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/allu-arjuns-ala-vaikunthapurramuloo-to-release-in-hindi/article38289832.ece
19 January 2022||January 19 2022 05:27 IST,||A passable entertainer||The fun part of Bangarraju , the sequel to Soggade Chinni Nayana (2016), lies in what happens when senior Bangarraju’s (Nagarjuna Akkineni) soul enters the body of his grandson Bangarraju (Naga Chaitanya). This is when the junior who has inherited his grandfather’s traits of being a charmer, gets an extra swag and a tad worldly-wise, and does everything with ease — taking on opponents in action sequences or diplomatically settling family frictions. The father-son duo is good to watch in these portions.A usually restrained Chaitanya steps out of his comfort zone and has fun playing a flamboyant character.  Bangarraju feels like a throwback to the 1980s and 1990s with its plot of a family revenge drama accentuated by supernatural elements. Senior Bangarraju and his wife Satyabhama (Ramya Krishna), with the consent of Lord Yama, literally move between heaven and earth to help their grandson who is lonely and lost in a large joint family. Nagarjuna and Ramya Krishna bring in their vintage charm to the story and these are cakewalk characters for them. Another thread of the story has to do with the mysterious power in the village’s Shiva temple.   While Soggade Chinni Nayana packed in a lot of fun with Bangarraju teaching his nerdy son Ram (Nagarjuna in a dual role) a thing of two about being a charming husband and saving him from a foe, this story traces younger Bangarraju’s journey through strained familial ties, deceit and revenge.   But Bangarraju doesn’t have the easy, effortless fun of Soggade… And in its bid to keep things fairly happy and entertaining, the story never scratches beneath the surface to explore either the brewing familial discontent or the supernatural element.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-passable-entertainer/article38289833.ece
