20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||States weigh options on IAS cadre rule changes||The Union government is planning to acquire for itself overriding powers to transfer IAS and IPS officers through Central deputation, doing away with the requirement of taking the approval of the State governments. The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) wrote to the States on January 12 that the Union government proposes to amend Rule 6 (deputation of cadre officers) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules 1954.  The Centre’s move is set to put it in a collision course with the States, particularly those ruled by the Opposition. The Hindu has learnt that at least six State governments had written to the DoPT opposing any such move, which include the States governed by the BJP and its allies.  The letter comes in the wake of shortage of All India Services (AIS) officers in Union Ministries. The DoPT said in its communication that the States “are not sponsoring an adequate number of officers for Central deputation”, and the number of officers is not sufficient to meet the requirement at the Centre. The DoPT had earlier sent three letters on December 20 and 27 and January 6 seeking comments from the States but after six States opposed the move and the rest did not respond, it further revised the proposal. The States have been given time till January 25 to respond. A senior government official said if the States did not respond, the Ministry would send reminders and then notify the rules by publishing it in the Gazette of India. Bengal stand West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the proposed amendment is against the “spirit of cooperative federalism” and the “amendment unilaterally mandates the State government to make such a number of officers available for deputation as prescribed under [the] Central Deputation Reserve.” Last year, the DoPT had directed West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to report to its office hours after Ms. Banerjee allegedly skipped a review meeting on Cyclone Yaas with Mr. Modi. The 1987-batch IAS officer had never been on Central deputation and was to superannuate on May 31. He is now fighting a case against the Centre. Kerala’s Law Minister P. Rajeeve, said the government would oppose the Centre’s proposal to amend the IAS (Cadre) rules “if it infringed on the cardinal principle of federalism”.  Mr. Rajeeve told The Hindu that the Left Democratic Front government was yet to weigh the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-weigh-options-on-ias-cadre-rule-changes/article64948042.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||COVID deaths: SC to steer payments||The Supreme Court on Wednesday decided to take the reins and marshal the efforts to pay compensation to families that lost their relatives to COVID-19, after noticing that some States responded to the humanitarian move in a lukewarm fashion. A Bench of Justices M.R. Shah and Sanjiv Khanna told the States that many of these families were economically challenged. They may have been further crippled by the fact that COVID-19 took away their sole breadwinner. The court said payment of Rs. 50,000 each as ex gratia to the loved ones of every COVID-19 patient was a welfare gesture, and so, essential to a welfare State. Delays and bureaucratic red-tape to release the money or process the application did not augur well. Moreover, applications for compensation ought not to be rejected merely on technical glitches. Every reason for denying a claim should be recorded, it noted. The court earlier in the day summoned the Chief Secretaries of Andhra Pradesh and Bihar for non-payment of compensation to the kin of the victims. “It is unfortunate that we have to call out State after State like this... Every State believes the people are at its mercy,” it said. In the post-lunch session, however, the Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary said the State had received 49,292 applications for compensation, of which 31,000 were found eligible. Bihar had also received over 10,000 claims for compensation. The court ordered the States to reach out especially to children orphaned by the pandemic and whose details have been uploaded on the Bal Swaraj portal of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-deaths-sc-to-steer-payments/article64948044.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:19 IST,||New Haryana law may hit jobs, growth: stakeholders||With the law guaranteeing 75% reservation to locals in private sector jobs in Haryana coming into force earlier this month, the reigning sentiment among various stakeholders is one of “disruption”. Industrialists, migrant workers and contractors remain wary of its repercussions on businesses and employment prospects. The law was one of the major poll promises of Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the junior partner in the coalition government in Haryana. Matter in court Three industry associations from Gurugram, Faridabad and Rewari have sought judicial recourse. In a petition filed before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, they contended that the new law goes against constitutional provisions and the basic principle of merit underpinning private sector growth. The court has issued notice to the State government and scheduled the next hearing for February 2. “It is very, very myopic of the political class,” said Manmohan Gaind, general secretary, Manesar Industries Welfare Association, one of the petitioners in the case. “Almost 99% employees in a Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) earn less than Rs. 30,000 and fall under the purview of the new law. MSMEs hire and lay off workers based on the demand. Finding locals with requisite skills every time would not be possible,” he said. Mr. Gaind rued that a political decision was taken and implemented without any data or research. “If the migrants don’t find jobs in Haryana, they will straight away head to Noida. It is the industry that will suffer, not the politicians,” he said. Survey findings An internal survey by the Garments Exporters and Manufacturers Association last year had revealed that more than 82% may not consider Haryana for expansion in case the new law was not repealed or the industry not exempted from its provisions. An equal number believed that they would not be able to source adequate skilled workers from Haryana only. Though the law allows relaxation to hire non-locals in certain conditions, the industrialists are sceptical. “If I need people today, I cannot wait for three months for the DC office to grant me permission,” said one. Three-fourth reservation in jobs would also skew the workforce balance between locals and migrants and disrupt the smooth running of the businesses, feel industry insiders — the locals are by definition more entrenched vis-a-vis the migrants and “difficult to control”. The migrants too fear rampant job losses. Though the residency condition for a domicile certificate under the new law has been reduced to five years from 15, Jalauddin Ansari, member, Gurgaon Shramik Sangathan, said “it is a distant dream for a migrant who cannot even get a ration card or a voter identity card after staying here for years”. JJP’s chief media co-ordinator, Deep Kamal Saharan, however, said the law has enough caveats in place. “On exemptions, the authorities need to respond in a time-bound manner and pass the order within 15 days,” Mr. Saharan said. New start-ups and IT/ITES companies are exempted for two years under the new law and short-term works, extending up to 45 days, have been kept out of its purview. “The fears of the industry are unfounded,” said Mr. Saharan, justifying the law.  MSMEs hire and lay off workers based on the demand. Finding locals with requisite skills every time would not be possible Manmohan Gaind General secretary, Manesar Industries Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-haryana-law-may-hit-jobs-growth-stakeholders/article64948230.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||Mulayam’s daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav joins BJP||Aparna Bisht Yadav, the younger daughter-in-law of Samajwadi Party (SP) founder Mulayam Singh, on Wednesday finally joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after a prolonged period of display of political affinity towards the saffron party’s ideas, programmes and leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She was inducted into the BJP in New Delhi, and not Lucknow, as the party tried to project her as a big catch from the Yadav family ahead of the Assembly election. Ms. Yadav, who is the wife of SP president Akhilesh Yadav’s stepbrother Prateek Yadav, does not have any personal political base. In the 2017 election on SP ticket, she lost to the BJP’s Rita Bahuguna Joshi from the Lucknow Cantonment seat. ‘Nation comes first’  Ms. Yadav, who is known for having a different political view from that of the SP, said she had always been influenced by Mr. Modi and the BJP’s schemes and programmes. “In my thinking, the nation comes first. Rashtra dharma is most important for me,” she said while being inducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mulayams-daughter-in-law-aparna-yadav-joins-bjp/article64948043.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||Will ask Azamgarh’s people before contesting: Akhilesh||While keeping the suspense alive over contesting the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday indicated an interest in fighting the polls. Amid speculation that Mr. Yadav could contest a seat in Azamgarh, possibly Gopalpur, he said that as a representative of the Lok Sabha constituency, he would have to seek the people’s permission. “I will seek permission of the people of Azamgarh before fighting election, if I contest election,” he said at a press conference. Mr. Yadav’s statement could also mean that he could contest from a seat outside Azamgarh and was simply seeking the approval of voters in Azamgarh for a shift. While BJP leader Yogi Adityanath, who is the Chief Minister, and his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya were declared candidates from Gorakhpur and Sirathu seats, the saffron party has been building pressure on Mr. Yadav to reveal if he was going to contest election. Mr. Maurya said Mr. Yadav was scared to contest. “[He] took so long to find a safe seat. Akhilesh Yadav fears contesting on the ground of development,” Mr. Maurya had tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-ask-azamgarhs-people-before-contesting-akhilesh/article38295037.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:19 IST,||Icy cool||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/icy-cool/article64948231.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:01 IST,||‘Decision on Shiradi Ghat closure after inspection’||A decision on whether to close down the Shiradi Ghat or not for highway widening project will be taken only after the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada conducts an inspection of the stretch, according to Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP. Mr. Kateel said in a statement on Wednesday that the National Highways Authority of India (NHA) has informed that the widening of the-10 km highway stretch between Marnahalli and Donigal on Mangaluru-Bengaluru NH75 could be completed early if the stretch is closed for six months. But if the ghat is closed, it will affect the economy and life of people of the coastal belt. In addition, it will hit industrial activities. Mr. Kateel said that he has apprised the Union Minister for Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari of the same. The ghat stretch can be closed down for “some days” only if it is inevitable. A suitable decision will be taken after the Deputy Commissioner’s visit, the MP said. Tableau matter Meanwhile, Mr. Kateel said that the Congress and Left parties are making the matter relating to the Republic Day tableau of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru an issue as part of their political conspiracy. Both the parties are on misinformation campaign against the Union Government, he said, adding that the Kerala Government has not followed the guidelines laid down by a committee of the Union Home Ministry on the selection of tableaux for Republic Day Parade. The Congress and the Left parties are sending a wrong message to people by stating that the Union Government has denied a chance to the tableau of Narayana Guru in the Republic Day Parade. “The parties are indulging in low-level politics in the name of Narayana Guru who propagated equality in society, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-shiradi-ghat-closure-after-inspection/article38295421.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:58 IST,||Third wave fuelled by Omicron, says Veena||The State is heading towards a phase of intense COVID-19 transmission when new cases is expected to cross the peak load of 43,529 cases a day attained during the Delta wave. The current wave is expected to peak in the next three weeks, possibly before February 15, even though there could be district-wise variations over this timeline, depending on the transmission dynamics in each district. The caseload was likely to go up by at least 5% than what was reported during the Delta wave, Health Minister Veena George told the media here on Wednesday. Going by the high rate of transmission, the third wave seemed to be fuelled by the Omicron virus variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/third-wave-fuelled-by-omicron-says-veena/article38295324.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:07 IST,||Sashi Kumar moves SC on hate speech||Senior journalist Sashi Kumar has approached the Supreme Court contending that a “state-sponsored political agenda” may be at work behind hate speeches such as the one made in Haridwar, which is not an “isolated incident”. Mr. Kumar said that such communal incitements were followed by a “notable silence” from the law enforcement agencies, who did not “effectively” use the tools of law to stop hate in the country. Mr. Kumar drew the apex court’s attention to its judgment in the S.R. Bommai case, which cautioned the state against remaining mute in the face of actions that offend secularism. The judgment in the case had made it clear that the Constitution prohibited the establishment of a theocratic state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sashi-kumar-moves-sc-on-hate-speech/article38295367.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:46 IST,||Adulteration of ghee: Three more held||The Mysuru district police have arrested three more persons in the Nandini ghee adulteration racket, taking the total arrests to seven. Superintendent of Police of Mysuru district R. Chetan told reporters on Wednesday that inquiry was still under way and two more key persons involved were yet to be arrested. So far, the police had learnt that the accused had marketed adulterated ghee online and sold to several shops in different parts of the State. The racket was unearthed in a rented godown at Hosahundi last month. Even as the police had registered a case and were conducting an inquiry, the vigilance squad of Karnataka Milk Federation had been activatedto conduct raids across the State to identify fake and adulterated products of Nandini.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/adulteration-of-ghee-three-more-held/article38295449.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||10,000 cases, 8 deaths in 24 hours in State||The State reported 10,057 fresh cases of COVID-19 in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. It was the biggest single-day tally in the past 238 days since June 6, 2021. During the same period, eight deaths were reported taking the toll to 14,522. Active cases jumped to 44,935 and a majority (42.2%) of them were in Chittoor and Visakhapatnam districts. Visakhapatnam, which has been seeing the highest infections daily, reported three deaths in the past day. Visakhapatnam district reported 1,827 fresh cases. It was followed by Chittoor (1,822), Guntur (1,261), East Godavari (1,290), Anantapur (1,093), Prakasam (1,131), Nellore (1,062), Kadapa (644), Kurnool (452), Srikakulam (407), Vizianagaram (382), Krishna (332) and West Godavari (216).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10000-cases-8-deaths-in-24-hours-in-state/article38295030.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:02 IST,||Three deaths, 1,666 cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported three COVID-19 deaths and 983 new cases on Wednesday. After the discharge of 370 patients the active cases stood at 5,574. The test positivity rate was at 9.53 %. Four cluster cases were reported in the district on the day. Of them, 39 cases were reported from a private college in Mangaluru taluk. Another cluster was at Surathkal where 10 cases were reported. Eight cases were reported from the third cluster which was a hostel of a private college in Mangaluru taluk and six cases were reported from another hostel of a private college in Mangaluru taluk. Udupi reported 683 new cases. In all, 220 patients were discharged after treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-deaths-1666-cases-in-dk-udupi/article38295423.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:24 IST,||Six teachers, four students test positive||Six teachers and four girl students tested positive for COVID-19 at government high school in Neloor village in Afzalpur taluk in Kalaburagi district. A headmaster of the primary school also tested positive. The villagers demanded to get all the school staff and students tested and accused the Education Department of not visiting the school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-teachers-four-students-test-positive/article38295274.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:49 IST,||TS logs 3,557 COVID cases, spike in rural districts too||Another spike in COVID-19 cases in Telangana was observed, so were ICU admissions. The State recorded 3,557 COVID cases on January 19 (Wednesday). This is the highest daily case load from June 2021. The infections are surging in rural districts too. Three more COVID patients have died.The patients in Intensive Care Units (ICU) increased from 640 on Tuesday to 680, and oxygen beds occupancy increased from 1,033 to 1,135. With the spike in the cases, the beds occupancy too is increasing gradually. Majority of the daily case load was registered from urban districts of the State until a few days ago. This has changed from Tuesday as the cases are gradually surging in other districts too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-logs-3557-covid-cases-spike-in-rural-districts-too/article38295284.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:54 IST,||BBMP to bear 50% of funds sanctioned for city’s projects||The cash-strapped BBMP will have to bear half of the Rs. 6,000 crore funds the government had recently approved for developmental projects under CM’s Amrut Nagarothana scheme. Initially, the Cabinet had stated that the Government would release Rs. 2,000 crore as special grants annually over three years. The Department of Urban Development has issued an order on the revised funding mechanism. While the government will bear Rs. 3,000 crore, BBMP has to seek a loan of Rs. 2,400 crore from the Karnataka Water and Sanitation Pooled Fund Trust, under Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation. It will have to raise the remaining 10% from its resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-to-bear-50-of-funds-sanctioned-for-citys-projects/article38295077.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||School roof collapses, 3 students hurt in Vijayapura||Three children were injured when the roof of their classroom collapsed, in Nandihal village in Vijayapura district on Tuesday. The teachers shifted the children to a hospital in Bagewadi. They are said to be out of danger. Some parents complained to journalists that school authorities had not taken any step to repair the old building despite several complaints. The Deputy Director of Public Instruction has ordered an inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/school-roof-collapses-3-students-hurt-in-vijayapura/article38295270.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||Bajrang Dal leader among 4 held over murder||The police in Nargund town of Gadag district have arrested four persons on the charge of murdering a youth and assaulting another person. Among the arrested is Bajrang Dal leader and civil contractor Sanju Nalvade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bajrang-dal-leader-among-4-held-over-murder/article38295271.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:19 IST,||SC asks Maharashtra to submit data on OBCs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra government to submit its data collected on the Other Backward Classes to the State Backward Classes Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-asks-maharashtra-to-submit-data-on-obcs/article64948229.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:45 IST,||Opposition to night curfew grows in Mysuru||Stakeholders in the hospitality, tourism, and industrial sector in Mysuru have urged the State Government to help revive the economy ahead of a meeting on Friday to take a call on weekend curfew. The weekend curfew has been in place for the last two weeks to curb the surge in cases of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/opposition-to-night-curfew-grows-in-mysuru/article64948192.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:11 IST,||Will review curbs after 3-4 days: Satyendar Jain||The Delhi government will monitor the COVID-19 situation in the Capital for three to four days before reviewing the current pandemic-related curbs, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-review-curbs-after-3-4-days-satyendar-jain/article64948328.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:24 IST,||Temple festivals continue despite COVID-19 curbs||In an apparent violation of COVID-19 guidelines, several temples and mutts have organised annual car festivals and other events this fortnight. Most of them are in northern Karnataka. On Tuesday night, thousands of devotees gathered at the Gavi Mutt in Koppal to pull the decorated rath of the mutt across town. The ritual that began after midnight, was over before sunrise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/temple-festivals-continue-despite-covid-19-curbs/article64948213.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:01 IST,||YPR-Karwar Express is first to have electric loco||The Yeshwantpur-Karwar tri-weekly day express became the first passenger train to be hauled by an electric loco on the Konkan network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ypr-karwar-express-is-first-to-have-electric-loco/article38295422.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,||New COVID-19 cases cross 3 lakh mark||For the first time in the ongoing COVID-19 wave, the number of cases in India crossed the 3 lakh mark. The country recorded 3,13,603 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, a 27% increase from a week ago. The total number of infections has reached 3.8 crore, and the active cases have crossed the 18.9 lakh mark. Data for Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Ladakh, Lakshadweep and Tripura were not available as of 10 p.m. Maharashtra recorded 43,697 infections on Wednesday, followed by Karnataka (40,499) and Kerala (34,199). On Wednesday, 475 deaths were recorded in India, considerably higher than the average levels recorded in the last week. The total number of recorded fatalities has reached 4,87,505. Kerala reported the most deaths with 134 fatalities (89 were from a backlog), followed by Maharashtra (49), and West Bengal (38). On Tuesday, 18.6 lakh tests were conducted, the highest on a single day in the ongoing wave. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 16.4%. As of Wednesday, 90.4% of the eligible population has been vaccinated with at least one dose, while 65.7% have received both doses. In the 15-17 years age cohort, 51.8% of the population has received its first dose. Altogether, 92,05,14,321 first doses, 66,96,51,317 second doses, and 60,27,041 booster doses have been administered across India. Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph has been on a relentless climb since the beginning of the year and on Wednesday recorded another huge jump in cases, with 34,199 persons testing positive for COVID-19, when 91,983 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The new cases on Tuesday had been 28,481. Telengana saw another spike in COVID-19 cases on Wednesday when the State recorded 3,557 cases. This is the highest daily caseload reported in the State since June 2021. The infections, which were initially rising in the urban areas alone, have begun surging in rural districts too. Three more COVID-19 deaths were also reported. Andhra Pradesh reported 10,057 fresh cases of COVID-19 in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, the biggest single day tally since June 2021, when 41,713 samples were tested. Eight new COVID-19 deaths were added to the State’s COVID-19 fatality list on the day. The active case burden has risen to 44,935 cases, with Chittoor and Visakhapatnam districts accounting for 42.2% of the total cases. West Bengal on Wednesday registered 11,447 new cases when 67,404 samples were tested. New cases have been showing a dip in the State since the past few days. TPR has thus dropped from 30% to 16.98% now. Gujarat’s COVID-19 graph has been surging, with the State reporting 20,966 new infections on Wednesday, its highest ever single day case count since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020. The number of COVID-19 deaths reported on the day was 12. Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 43,697 new COVID-19 cases and 49 deaths. Of these, Mumbai reported 6,032 cases and 12 deaths. Currently as many as 23,93,704 people are in home quarantine and 3,200 people in institutional quarantine. Karnataka’s COVID-19 case graph showed a massive spike in new cases on Wednesday, with 40,499 testing positive for COVID-19 when as many as 2,15,312 tests were done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-covid-19-cases-cross-3-lakh-mark/article64948009.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||BJP announces alliances in U.P.||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday formally announced its alliance with the Apna Dal and the Nishad Party for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, with party president J.P. Nadda declaring that the alliance will fight all 403 seats in the Assembly together but declined to spell out the exact contours of the seat sharing agreement.  Flanked by Apna Dal leader and Union Minister Anupriya Patel and Nishad Party leader Sanjay Nishad, Mr. Nadda insisted that after the large-scale exodus of Other Backward Classes (OBC) MLAs to the Samajwadi Party, including three Ministers in the Yogi Adityanath government, the alliance was en route to victory.   “We are going to fight all 403 seats together, and keep to Prime Minister Modi’s goal of sabka saath , sabka vikas , sabka vishwas (all together, all for development, everyone’s trust),” he said.  Ms. Patel of the Apna Dal, which had contested 11 seats in the 2017 polls in alliance with the BJP, also stressed the social justice aspect of the alliance. “We have always struggled for justice for the common man. With PM Modi, we realised we can strengthen social justice. On issues like constitutional status for the OBC Commission, raising the limit for the creamy layer in OBC, reservations for OBCs in NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test), we got support from this government. So we decided this alliance will be taken forward in 2022,” she said. Mr. Nishad, who entered into an alliance with the BJP ahead of the general elections of 2019, also spoke on themes of social justice. Sources close to both alliance partners said that talks on seat distribution were satisfactory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-announces-alliances-in-up/article64948026.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||Close shave for two passenger aircraft over Bengaluru airport||Two IndiGo planes came within distance of colliding with each other while taking off from Bengaluru airport earlier this month. The incident happened on January 7, when IndiGo flights 6E 455 departing for Kolkata, and 6E 246 departing for Bhubaneshwar, were given permission to take off at the same time. Bengaluru airport has two parallel runways — a north runway and a south runway. One runway is used for departures and the other for arrivals. Parallel runway operations, in other words simultaneous departures from two parallel runways at an airport, are not permitted in India. “On the morning of the incident, the north runway was being used for departures and the south runway was being used for arrivals. Later, the shift in-charge decided to close the south runway but failed to inform this to the air traffic controller in-charge of the south runway,” a senior Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) official said. As a result, at the time of the switch to single runway operations, the Kolkata flight was given permission to depart from the runway otherwise declared closed. At the same time, the flight bound for Bhubaneshwar was also given permission to take off from the other runway, explained a source. After take off, both planes moved in the right direction, and came within seconds of colliding with each other. An alert radar controller saw the paths of the two aircraft converging and immediately intervened to separate the two aircraft. The incident raises serious questions over a lack of coordination among air traffic controllers of the Airports Authority of India (AAI), as well as highlights lapses in reporting the incident to the safety regulator DGCA. “It was during our surveillance that we came to know about the incident. AAI didn’t report the incident,” the DGCA source said. The DGCA will be probing the incident and said the strictest punishment would be given to those found guilty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/close-shave-for-two-aircraft-over-bengaluru-airport/article64948039.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||No foreign dignitary as chief guest at Republic Day event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will host a meeting with five Central Asian leaders virtually next week, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) announced on Wednesday, formally indicating that they will not travel to Delhi, as planned, as chief guests at the Republic Day celebrations. An official also confirmed that there will be no foreign dignitary as chief guest during the events around January 26. This is the second year in a row the government has had to cancel invitations to chief guests due to the COVID-19 pandemic after U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson was unable to attend the celebrations in 2021. The MEA had not officially confirmed their presence, but sources said the Presidents of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan had in December accepted an invitation to jointly attend the parade and Republic Day reception. They were due to also participate in the first India-Central Asia summit meeting during their visit to Delhi. Sources said proposals to this effect had been sent out to Presidents Kassym-Jomart Tokayev (Kazakhstan), Sadyr Japarov (Kyrgyzstan), Emomali Rahmon (Tajikistan), Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov (Turkmenistan) and Shavkat Mirziyoyev (Uzbekistan), suggesting changing the summit to the virtual format. The size of the marching contingents at Republic Day is down by about a third this year and the route taken by them has also been reduced to a few kilometres from Vijay Chowk to National Stadium, and the size of the audience is down from the usual 1.5 lakh to only about 5,000 special invitees including officials and diplomats this year. Boosting ties Announcing that the summit would be held via videoconference, the MEA called the India-Central Asia leaders’ meeting a “reflection of India’s growing engagement with Central Asian countries”, which will follow meetings of the National Security Advisor Ajit Doval with his counterparts in November to discuss Afghanistan, and the India-Central Asia dialogue hosted by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar in December. “During the first India-Central Asia Summit, the leaders are expected to discuss steps to take forward India-Central Asia relations to newer heights,” the statement issued by the MEA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-foreign-dignitary-as-chief-guest-at-republic-day-event/article64948031.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:04 IST,||Dip in eastern swamp deer numbers||The population of the vulnerable eastern swamp deer, extinct elsewhere in South Asia, has dipped in the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve. Officials attributed the decrease from 907 individuals in 2018 to 868 during the Eastern Swamp Deer Estimation on January 10 and 11 to two high floods in 2019 and 2020. On the brighter side, they said the animal is now distributed to areas beyond the park known as the world’s best address of the one-horned rhinoceros.  “The eastern swamp deer is endemic to Kaziranga and is not the primary prey of the park’s carnivores, primarily the tiger. But its population is crucial for the ecological health of the tiger reserve and the encouraging sign is the animal has now moved to other areas such as Orang National Park and Laokhowa-Burachapori wildlife sanctuaries,” Kaziranga’s field director P. Sivakumar told The Hindu .  The eastern swamp deer was once concentrated in the central Kohora and Bagori ranges of Kaziranga. The animal had numbered 1,161 in 2011 while the lowest of 213 individuals was recorded in 1966. In the last survey, the female eastern swamp deer outnumbered the males by more than three times. The female of the species recorded 557 individuals compared to 173 males. The 1,302 sq. km Kaziranga had an uptick in the number of waterfowl species from 112 counted a year ago to 126 during the fourth Wetland Bird Estimation carried out from December 21-27. The birds were counted in 211 different points in 157 waterbodies involving 35 enumeration teams, including volunteers from local educational institutes, NGOs and officers and frontline staff of the Forest Department. “The bar-headed goose topped the list with 16,552 birds followed by the northern pintail at 9,493 and the common teal at 5,631. Ferruginous duck, an important species with a count of 2,236, may be regarded as a highlight of this estimation,” Mr. Sivakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dip-in-eastern-swamp-deer-numbers/article64948140.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||Special camps to register workers on e-Shram portal||Union Labour and Employment Minister Bhupender Yadav on Wednesday said special camps would be organised to register brick kiln, plantation, forestry and other unorganised sector workers on the Centre’s e-Shram portal. While interacting with representatives of unorganised sector unions’ and associations virtually, Mr. Yadav acknowledged “the problems faced by workers employed in brick kiln, forestry, plantations etc. in getting themselves registered on the e-Shram portal”, a Ministry statement said. Mr. Yadav also thanked union leaders for their support in registering workers. The portal, which was launched in August 2021, has over 23 crore registrations so far and is eventually meant to lead to the creation of a national database of unorganised workers to be used to roll-out welfare schemes. In view of the rise in COVID-19 cases, he said the Ministry had re-activated its 21 monitoring centres on January 5. These centres were set up in 2020 to address problems of migrant workers during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/special-camps-to-register-workers-on-e-shram-portal/article38294969.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||Sashi Kumar moves SC on hate speech||Senior journalist Sashi Kumar has approached the Supreme Court contending that a “state-sponsored political agenda” may be at work behind hate speeches such as the one made in Haridwar, which is not an “isolated incident”. “In the instant case, the speech cannot be identified as an in isolated incident. It is the pattern of making use of state machinery to actively promote hatred and potentially incite violence against the members of the Muslim community,” he argued. Mr. Kumar said that such communal incitements were followed by a “notable silence” from the law enforcement agencies, who did not “effectively” use the tools of law to stop hate. “The pattern of such incitement and advocacy is also coupled with the notable silence of the state machinery to use tools at its disposal to effectively curtail them. There is a state-sponsored political agenda behind such activities,” Mr. Kumar, represented by advocates Kaleeswaram Raj, Thulasi K. Raj and Mohammed Sadique T.A., argued. S.R. Bommai case Mr. Kumar drew the court’s attention to its judgment in the S.R. Bommai case, which cautioned the state against remaining mute in the face of actions that offend secularism. The judgment had made it clear that the Constitution prohibited the establishment of a theocratic state. “It prevents the state from either identifying itself with or favouring any particular religions or religious sect or denomination. The state is enjoined to accord equal treatment to all religions and religious sects and denominations... By refusing to take cognisance of a call for genocide or incitement of violence against Muslims, the state is moving away from its secular foundation,” he submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sashi-kumar-moves-sc-on-hate-speech/article38294968.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||Bid to frame me by misusing Central agencies, says Channi||The politics surrounding the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids on the premises of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew on Wednesday escalated as the Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were embroiled in verbal attacks. Mr. Channi accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of attempting to target him ahead of the Assembly elections and ‘frame’ him by misusing the Central agencies. Relating the ED raids to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent event at Ferozepur that was cancelled, Mr. Channi said: “A conspiracy has been hatched to trap me in this case through the Central agencies. They are taking revenge as I stood for the people of Punjab during the Prime Minister’s recent visit. This is sheer vindictiveness.” Mr. Channi alleged that his nephew Bhupinder Singh alias Honey was tortured and pressured to take his name. “The ED has taken action based on a 2018 case, in which my nephew was not even named,” he said. Mr. Channi also alleged that former Minister and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who had been booked in a drugs case, and former Chief Minister Captain (retired) Amarinder Singh were behind the latest ED raids. Capt. Singh hits back Hitting out at Mr. Channi, Capt. Singh tweeted, “ED doesn’t report to me @CharanjitChanni. Nor did I plant the money seized from your kin. So, stop blaming me for your family’s crimes. As I always say, the law takes its own course, something that @INCIndia forgot when they accused me of shielding culprits.” BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh accused Mr. Channi of patronising his family members in clandestine sand mining in the State.  Mr. Chugh debunked the Chief Minister’s argument that it was the Centre’s vendetta, saying that the case was registered in 2018 only after due inquiry since the time the Congress was in power at the Centre. The ED had only completed the investigation in a long-standing case.  He said the recovery of Rs. 10 crore from the premises of the Chief Minister’s nephew clearly proved that he was involved in illegal sand mining for so long.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bid-to-frame-me-by-misusing-central-agencies-says-channi/article64948030.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||BusinessLine’s pre-Budget discussion tomorrow||The first of a series of discussions organised by The Hindu BusinessLine on the Union Budget will be held online on Friday at 10 a.m.   Every year, The Hindu BusinessLine brings together experts from diverse fields to discuss what the focus of the Budget should be and the critical measures needed. This year’s ‘Countdown to Budget 2022’ event, organised in association with Bank of Baroda Credit Card, will be on the theme ‘Accelerating India’s Economic Growth’.  Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways, will deliver a special address, followed by a keynote address by Suneeta Reddy, managing director, Apollo Hospitals. This will be followed by two panel discussions. The first panel will deliberate on balancing fiscal prudence with increased spending to accelerate growth. Ajit Ranade, president and chief economist, Aditya Birla Group; Sonal Varma, managing director and chief economist, Nomura Holdings; and N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor, B.R. Ambedkar Economics University, will be part of the panel. The second panel will have Martin Schwenk, managing director and chief executive officer, Mercedes-Benz India; Preet Dhupar, chief financial officer, IKEA India; and Hetal Gandhi, director, CRISIL Research. The panel will deliberate on what the government can do to revive private investment. Those interested can register at bit.ly/THBLPRE or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/businesslines-pre-budget-discussion-tomorrow/article64948033.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||Gen. Rawat’s brother joins BJP, praises Modi’s ‘unique’ vision||Colonel Vijay Rawat (retd.), younger brother of the late General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Defence Staff who died in a helicopter crash in December, joined the BJP here on Wednesday, ahead of the party’s decision on candidates for the February 14 Uttarakhand Assembly election. Col. Rawat, who met Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami earlier in the day, joined the party at the headquarters in presence of Mr. Dhami and BJP Uttarakhand president Madan Kaushik. Introducing Col. Rawat, Mr. Dhami said he had served in the Indian Army for 34 years and came from a family with three generations in the forces. Mr. Dhami said the BJP was the only party that respected the defence forces. He also said Gen. Rawat had wanted to work for the state of Uttarakhand, where he was born, and now Col. Rawat was taking that thought forward. Col. Rawat said his father had been “with the BJP” after retiring from the Army. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “unique” vision and “out of the box thinking” were reasons for his decision to join the BJP. He said the BJP was a “hard-working party” that wanted the good of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gen-rawats-brother-joins-bjp-praises-modis-unique-vision/article64948027.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:20 IST,||MVA strikes it rich in local body polls in Maharashtra||Three parties in Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) scored big in the municipal panchayat elections held in Maharashtra winning 944 seats out of 1,649. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 384 seats to emerge as the single largest party. Elections were held on 1,802 seats in 106 panchayats in December 2021 and January 2022. Results on the remaining seats will be announced on Thursday. According to State Election Commission data, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Congress and Shiv Sena won 344, 316 and 284 seats respectively while Independents won 206 seats. Among the MVA partners, NCP emerged biggest party by winning 344 seats, expanding its base beyond the traditional western Maharashtra region. “We travelled to every district , empowered our workers, held various programs and reached out to voters. We have won because of the trust shown on us by the people,” said NCP State unit president Jayant Patil. Among the big winners, Rohit Patil (NCP), son of late R R Patil — Maharashtra’s former deputy CM and Home Minister — made his victorious debut in the political arena by registering single-handed victory in Kavathe-Mahankal municipal panchayat while NCP MLA Rohit Pawar to led the party to victory in Karjat panchayat. Congress heavyweight and Public Works Department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan led the party to victory in two out of three panchayats in his home district while in third MVA emerged victorious. In Amaravati’s Tivasa, Women and Child Welfare minister Yashomati Thakur ensured comprehensive victory for the Congress. Shiv Sena unsettled Union minister for MSME Narayan Rane in his home district Sindhudurg by keeping BJP out of power in Kudal panchayat, even though BJP claimed victory in rest three. One of the interesting features of the results is the increased strength of Congress in politically vital Vidarbha region where it now stands toe-to-toe with the BJP. Congress state president Nana Patole expressed satisfaction at the results and said the lead in Vidarbha and opening of account in Konkan is the beginning of party’s revival. BJP on the other hand claimed victory saying people had reimposed their trust. “We have won more than 400 seats along with our allies. The ruling coalition has no coordination, there is mistrust and instead of working for development the leaders are busy in corruption,” said BJP state president Chandrakant Patil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mva-strikes-it-rich-in-local-body-polls-in-maharashtra/article38295179.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||Will ask people of Azamgarh, says Akhilesh||Mr. Yadav’s statement could also mean that he could contest from a seat outside Azamgarh and was simply seeking the approval of voters in Azamgarh for a shift. While BJP leader Yogi Adityanath, who is the Chief Minister, and his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya were declared candidates from Gorakhpur and Sirathu seats, the saffron party has been building pressure on Mr. Yadav to reveal if he was going to contest election. Mr. Maurya said Mr. Yadav was scared to contest. “[He] took so long to find a safe seat. Akhilesh Yadav fears contesting on the ground of development,” Mr. Maurya had tweeted. While Mr. Yadav has been an MP and also been nominated to the UP legislative council he has never contested an MLA election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-ask-people-of-azamgarh-says-akhilesh/article38294942.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||COVID deaths: Supreme Court to steer payments||The commission, through its web portal, is identifying and collecting information from across the country about children orphaned, abandoned or left with one parent as an aftermath of the pandemic.  The Bench said the States should take advantage of the portal and use the information available on it the portal to identify and pay children the ex gratia amount of Rs. 50000.  During the hearing, after a short discussion with Justice Khanna, Justice Shah told the lawyers present “we have decided to directly step in and see that payments are made.” He said the court would pass an order in the next few days to rope in the legal services authorities at State and district to act as ombudsmen. “In the 2001 earthquake in Gujarat, the High Court involved the legal services authorities as the ombudsman to identify and pay compensation to the victims,” he observed. Tracking applications The court said that it would intervene in every State where the applications received for compensation were lesser than the deaths registered.  It indicated that it would, in its proposed order, direct the State and district legal services authorities in these States to get the details of all those applicants to facilitate the payment of the ex gratia amount.   The hearing saw the Bench ask Gujarat why 4,000 applications for ex gratia payment were rejected.  In Kerala, the court noted that only 27,000 claims were received though there were 49,000 deaths. Maharashtra informed the court that it had paid compensation to over a lakh people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-deaths-supreme-court-to-steer-payments/article38294941.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||Full market approval for vaccines recommended||The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has recommended granting regular market approval to COVID-19 vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, in the adult population, subject to certain conditions, confirmed an official on Wednesday. Both the vaccines are currently only authorised for emergency use in India and their application was reviewed for the second time on Wednesday before the recommendations were made, he said. “SEC of CDSCO has recommended the upgrade of Covishield and Covaxin status from restricted use in emergency situations to grant of new drug permission with conditions in the adult population. The Drugs Controller General of India will evaluate the recommendation and give its decision,” tweeted CDSCO on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/full-market-approval-for-vaccines-recommended/article64948019.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||SC says notice on mobile phones only an advisory||The Secretary General of the Supreme Court on Wednesday clarified that a notice to avoid using mobile phones for virtual court proceedings was only an advisory and not a blanket bar. The letter from Secretary General Virender Kumar Bansal was in reply to a representation made by the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association (SCAoRA), through its secretary, advocate Joseph Aristotle. Dr. Aristotle had urged the Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana to ask the Registry not to insist on any particular kind of equipment or connectivity to participate in hearings. The Secretary General said the Chief Justice of India has always been alert to the multifarious hardships being faced by the advocate community and that he highlighted these issues in various public fora, urging all concerned to step up to help the needy. On January 17, the CJI had expressed unhappiness over disruptions during virtual hearings due to the use of mobile phones. Later that day, the top court registry, through a circular, had advised advocates and litigants to use a desktop or laptop with a stable Internet connection to join virtual court proceedings uninterruptedly. “ It is hereby clarified that in case any lawyer does not have desktop/laptop, etc., he/she can attend the proceedings through the mobile phone ensuring that the learned advocate appearing through the mobile phone is properly visible and audible to the Court,” Mr. Bansal clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-says-notice-on-mobile-phones-only-an-advisory/article38295021.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||Bhupesh Baghel calls on Rahul, Priyanka||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday called on former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to give poll feedback from Uttar Pradesh. He is said to have discussed strategy for the Assembly election. The meetings come ahead of a virtual meeting of the central election committee of the party to finalise the next batch of candidates for the U.P. polls. So far, the Congress has announced 125 candidates, out of which 50 (40%) are women.  Mr. Baghel, who is a senior observer for the U.P. polls, met Ms. Vadra at Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s 10 Janpath residence and Mr. Gandhi at his 12 Tughlaq Lane house.  A source close to him claimed that he shared his assessment after his three tours of U.P. and also discussed how some of the flagship schemes of the Chhattisgarh government could find a place in the party manifestos for the elections in five States. Since January 17, Mr. Baghel had carried out door to door campaigns in Noida, Ghaziabad and Mathura regions of western U.P. and wrapped up his tour on Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhupesh-baghel-calls-on-rahul-priyanka/article38294960.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||SC to consider listing plea to discard EVMs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to consider listing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition challenging the constitutional validity of a provision of the Representation of the People Act which had led to the introduction of electronic voting machines (EVM) in elections. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, in an oral mentioning made by advocate Manohar Lal Sharma, agreed to consider listing the case even as the lawyer sought an early hearing in view of the Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Punjab, Manipur and Uttarakhand. Mr. Sharma said the polling process should discard the EVMs and return to ballot papers. “We will see it... I may list it before some other bench as well,” the CJI said. Mr. Sharma said Section 61A of the Representation of the People Act, which permitted the use of EVMs, was not passed by Parliament and hence cannot be imposed. The petition wants the provision to be declared null and void. “ Let the election be held through ballot papers,” the lawyer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-consider-listing-plea-to-discard-evms/article64948038.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||SOP to operate trains after an earthquake likely||The Indian Railways is in the process of devising a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for operating trains immediately after an earthquake. The Railway Board has written to the General Managers of Zonal Railways to share their views on the safe operation of trains after the occurrence of an earthquake. Almost a year after the issue was flagged by Northern Railway Principal Chief Engineer C.P. Gupta, who pointed out that the Railways had not issued any guidelines or rules for running trains after the occurrence of an earthquake, the top management has decided to formulate an SOP, sources in the Southern Railway said here on Wednesday. The General & Subsidiary Rules (G&SR), the manual which is the fulcrum of passenger and freight train operations over Indian Railways, had not stipulated any action regarding running of trains after an earthquake. No guidelines Even the Indian Railways Permanent Way Manual and the Indian Railways Bridge Manual, which govern the creation and management of civil engineering infrastructure, had no mention of any inspection to be conducted after an earthquake as a mechanism to ensure that no damage had occurred to track, bridges, etc, the official said. Though the Research Designs & Standards Organisation, the R&D arm of the Railways, in its guidelines on the Seismic Design of Railway Bridges had suggested post earthquake operations and inspections, it was not incorporated as a rule in the G&SR book. According to a senior Railways officer, 58.6% of the country’s land mass was prone to earthquakes of moderate to very high intensity. Earthquakes are included in the list of natural disasters affecting train operations like floods, landslides, tsunami, snow avalanches, etc. Multiple effects “Some parts of the railway network like the Rajkot Division in Western Railway have some contingency plans to handle an earthquake. The Rajkot Division covers a large part of coastal Gujarat and lies on the Type IV and Type III earthquake prone zone parameter. Earthquakes can have multiple effects on train operations since they can trigger tsunami, flooding, landslides, etc…so it is absolutely essential to have an SOP for safe train operations after the occurrence of an earthquake,” the officer, who preferred not to be named, said. However, for metro trains, issued with the approval of the Indian Railways, it has been made clear that in the event of an earthquake, “the Traffic Controller shall instruct all trains to stop immediately and after earthquake has subsided, Traffic Controller may instruct each stranded train operation in Restricted Manual Mode at walking speed after examining that the track is safe for train movement and free from obstruction up to the next station…” The Railway Board in its letter said it was advisable to have safety provisions in the G&SR to guide actions post an earthquake. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sop-to-operate-trains-after-an-earthquake-likely/article64948010.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||Court asks Maharashtra to submit data on OBCs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra government to submit its data collected on the Other Backward Classes (OBC) to the State Backward Classes Commission (SBCC) and directed the commission to submit an interim report to the State on the same within two weeks. Senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, representing the Maharashtra government, urged a Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and C.T. Ravikumar to recall its order of notifying 27% of OBC seats to the general category. To which, Justice Khanwilkar said, “There is no question of recalling the order, it can be modified at best. There can be no reservation for OBC without the ‘triple test’ and a dedicated commission has to decide that ...” The order passed on December 6, 2021 directed the Election Commission (EC) to treat the OBC category as nullified and on December 15, the top court directed the EC to consider OBC seats as open category. Mr. Naphade informed the court that some data had been collected by the State on the basis of which reservation could be sustained. The Bench said the data could be shared with the SBCC. Mr. Naphade, along with advocate Sachin Patil, sought a direction from the court to the SBCC to submit its report in two weeks so that it could be acted upon for the elections in March. The Bench adjourned the matter to February 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-asks-maharashtra-to-submit-data-on-obcs/article64948032.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||BSP replaces seven candidates in U.P.||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Wednesday replaced its candidates in seven seats in western Uttar Pradesh, with the adjustment of new entrants and rebels. Former MLA and Gurjar leader Kartar Singh Bhadana was nominated as the candidate from the Khatauli seat in Muzaffarnagar. In Ghaziabad, Suresh Bansal, whom the BSP had named as candidate, was replaced by a new entrant from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Krishna Kumar Shukla, who was the saffron party’s western region vice-president but quit as he was not given ticket. Madan Chauhan, who won the Garhmukteshwar seat in Hapur thrice (2002, 2007 and 2012) as a Samajwadi Party member, will be the new BSP candidate. In Mathura, too, the BSP changed its candidate in favour of a rebel, this time with BJP’s Satish Sharma, who had unsuccessfully contested from the Mant seat in the last election. With five other names and the seven replacements, the BSP has now nominated candidates for all 58 seats in the first phase of voting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsp-replaces-seven-candidates-in-up/article38295022.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||The importance of being Keshav Maurya in BJP||A decade after he won his first election, BJP leader and Deputy Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Keshav Prasad Maurya is returning to his native Sirathu to contest the Assembly election. Sheetla Prasad “Pappu Patel”, present Sirathu MLA, had to be dropped from the candidate list to accommodate Mr. Maurya, whose relevance as the OBC face of the BJP government has been suddenly underlined by the recent rebellion of several party leaders from the community. Mr. Keshav Maurya is the RSS-BJP’s home-grown Maurya face, groomed in Hindutva as part of the party’s OBC project to appeal to non-Yadav backward class communities, in sharp contrast to rebel MLA Swami Prasad Maurya, who identifies as an Ambedkarite and has spent most of his political life in the BSP and socialist parties. In the Modi mould Born in 1969, Mr. Keshav Mauryasays he sold tea and newspapers during his childhood, details the BJP flaunts to liken him to Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a backward caste leader of humble origins. Mr. Maurya has been associated with the RSS and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) from an early age. Months before the 2017 election, the BJP appointed Mr. Maurya, then an MP from Phulpur, as the State president as it pushed the narrative of uniting the rest of the backward castes against the Yadavs. Mr. Maurya’s caste group, spread across the State and known by different names like Maurya, Morao, Kushwaha, Sakhya, Koeri, Kachhi, and Saini, is together estimated to account for around 8.5% of the State’s OBC population. Equations change Though the BJP contested the 2017 election without a declared CM face, Mr. Keshav Maurya was seen by his supporters as the person likely to occupy the post. However, after the BJP registered a majority, its central leadership nominated Yogi Adityanath, a Kshatriya by caste, as the CM. The Opposition, in particular the Samajwadi Party (SP), has used this sidelining to target the BJP and question its commitment towards the backward castes. In his introductory speech while joining the SP, too, on January 14, Mr. Swami Prasad cited Mr. Keshav Maurya to accuse the BJP of hoodwinking the backward castes for their votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-importance-of-being-keshav-maurya-in-bjp/article64948028.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||Chinese PLA abducted Arunachal youth: BJP MP||BJP MP Tapir Gao, who represents the Arunachal East constituency, has said members of the People’s Liberation Army took teenager Miram Taron captive on Tuesday. The boy is a resident of Zido village in the district bordering the Tibetan region of China. “Chinese #PLA has abducted Sh Miram Taron, 17 years of Zido vill. Yesterday 18th Jan 2022 from inside Indian territory, Lungta Jor area (China built 3-4 kms road inside India in 2018) under Siyungla area (Bishing village) of Upper Siang dist, Arunachal Pradesh,” he said in a tweet. The MP told local presspersons that he received the information about the teen’s abduction from one of his friends who escaped from the PLA and reported the incident to the local authorities. “This youth was taken captive from the Siyungla area of Bishing village when he had gone hunting along with his friend,” Mr. Gao said, adding that efforts were on to bring the teenager back. Bishing, on the left bank of the Siang river, is the last Indian village near the border with China. The village is about 260 km from Yingkiong, the headquarters of Upper Siang district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-pla-abducted-arunachal-youth-bjp-mp/article38295026.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||States weigh options on IAS cadre rule changes||The States have been given time till January 25 to respond. A senior government official said if the States did not respond, the Ministry would send reminders and then notify the rules by publishing it in the Gazette of India. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the proposed amendment is against the “spirit of cooperative federalism” and the “amendment unilaterally mandates the State government to make such a number of officers available for deputation as prescribed under [the] Central Deputation Reserve.” Last year, the DoPT had directed West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to report to its office hours after Ms. Banerjee allegedly skipped a review meeting on Cyclone Yaas with Mr. Modi. The 1987-batch IAS officer had never been on Central deputation and was to superannuate on May 31. He is now fighting a case against the Centre.  Kerala’s Law Minister P. Rajeeve, said the government would oppose the Centre’s proposal to amend the IAS (Cadre) rules “if it infringed on the cardinal principle of federalism”. He told The Hindu that the LDF government was yet to weigh the issue. Mr. Rajeeve said the administration would examine whether the proposed amendment was a bid to subvert the State’s authority guaranteed by the Constitution. It would oppose any proposal to concentrate all executive power in the Central government. “The government will study the matter and develop a calibrated response soon,” the Minister said.  ‘No State control’ Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had recently backed his Tamil Nadu counterpart M.K. Stalin’s strong opposition to the draft Indian Ports Bill. Kerala and Tamil Nadu felt the Bill weakened the State’s control over ports and harbours. Congress leader and former Home Minister Ramesh Chennithala said the proposed amendment would enfeeble the State’s political control over the bureaucracy. He said it would hobble effective governance and create avoidable legal and administrative disputes. Moreover, the Centre could weaponise the bureaucracy against an elected State government. Sources in the Maharashtra CMO said the government would be sending a letter opposing the proposed amendment. However, no official word was given on the content and grounds on which the amendment would be opposed. When contacted, Maharashtra Chief Secretary Debashish Chakraborty said he was not aware of any letter and the department concerned was the General Administration Department for the same, headed by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. A senior IAS officer in Telangana said, “This is yet another move to take away the control of the State. This will give scope for unwarranted developments.” The official said the Centre was encroaching upon every aspect of the States’ functioning and trying to remove the strengths of the States. Four amendments are proposed to Rule 6. One of the major changes proposed is if the State government delays posting a State cadre officer to the Centre and does not give effect to the Central government’s decision within the specified time, “the officer shall stand relieved from cadre from the date as may be specified by the Central government.” Presently, officers have to get a no-objection clearance from the State government for Central deputation. The other change proposed is the Centre will decide the actual number of officers to be deputed in consultation with the State and the latter should make eligible the names of such officers. According to existing norms, States have to depute the All India Servicesofficers, including the IPS officers, to the Central government offices and at any point it cannot be more than 40% of the total cadre strength. The third proposed amendment says that in case of any disagreement between the Centre and the State, the matter shall be decided by the Central government and the State shall give effect to the decision of the Centre “within a specified time.” The fourth change proposed is that in specific situation where services of cadre officers are required by the Central government in “public interest” the State shall give effect to its decisions within a specified time. (With inputs from  State bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-weigh-options-on-ias-cadre-rule-changes/article38294953.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||Aparna Yadav, Mulayam’s daughter-in-law, joins BJP||Ms. Yadav, who is known for having a different political view from that of the SP, said she had always been influenced by Mr. Modi and the BJP’s schemes and programmes. “In my thinking, the nation comes first. Rashtra dharma is most important for me,” she said while being inducted.   A thakur by birth, Ms. Yadav is the daughter of senior journalist Arvind Singh Bisht, and has been active in women empowerment campaigns through her NGO B-Aware. She has a Master’s degree in international affairs and politics from Manchester University and has also studied classic music.  Not only has Ms. Yadav expressed her admiration for Mr. Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, but also strayed from the SP’s political line on reservations, speaking out against caste-based reservation, and even donating money for the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. While SP workers celebrated Ms. Yadav’s formal shift to the BJP online, Mr. Akhilesh Yadav made light of the situation. “I am happy that the Samajwadi ideology is expanding. I hope our ideology will reach there [the BJP] and save the Constitution and democracy,” Mr. Yadav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aparna-yadav-mulayams-daughter-in-law-joins-bjp/article38294943.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||NCP-Sena set to name Goa candidates||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Shiv Sena on Wednesday officially announced their alliance ahead of the upcoming Goa Assembly election, with leaders of both parties underscoring that the NCP and the Sena would have a substantial role in forming a government after the polls. Expressing regret that a Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA)-like alliance with the Congress could not be formed in Goa (as in Maharashtra), NCP leader Praful Patel, the party’s Goa in-charge, rebuked the Congress for not taking “a constructive role” in seeking a pre-poll alliance that could have taken on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Both parties are likely to contest 10-12 seats each in the 40-seat Goa Assembly. Mr. Patel said the alliance would announce their candidates on Thursday. “The NCP has been contesting elections in Goa since the formation of the party in 1999. We have always been fighting alongside the Congress, with whom we had an alliance till 2017. The NCP has given Goa several Ministers in the past,” he said. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, too, rued the fact that despite both parties believing in an MVA-like tripartite alliance could only have benefited the Congress, the latter’s leadership in Goa had rebuffed the possibility of a ‘like-minded’ coalition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncp-sena-combine-to-reveal-candidates-for-goa-today/article64948022.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||Amit Palekar is CM face in Goa: AAP||Ahead of the Goa Assembly election next month, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday announced noted Goa-based lawyer and social activist Amit Palekar as its Chief Ministerial candidate. The announcement is in keeping with the AAP’s promise made in November last year that its Chief Ministerial face would be from the Bhandari community, which forms the largest electoral bloc in the coastal State (comprising more than 30%) and whose members fall under the Other Backward Classes (OBC) category. The AAP had also said that its party’s Deputy Chief Minister would be from the Catholic Christian community. Arvidn Kejriwal said that there was a feeling of deep hurt and injustice among the Bhandaris, which is the largest community in Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amit-palekar-is-cm-face-in-goa-aap/article38294964.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||SC reserves orders on plea from 12 MLAs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday reserved its orders on petitions filed by 12 BJP MLAs who challenged their one-year suspension from the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly for allegedly misbehaving with the presiding officer. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar wrapped up the arguments in the case. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for some of the MLAs, said the decision to suspend MLAs for a year was grossly irrational. The court had on Tuesday said there has to be an “overpowering” reason that the member should not be allowed even to attend the next session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-reserves-order-on-plea-from-12-mlas/article38294940.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||HAL signs contract for copter export||Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL) has signed a contract with the Government of Mauritius (GoM) for export of one Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH)-MkIII for the Mauritius Police Force, the firm said on Wednesday. Mauritius already operates one ALH and Dornier Do-228 aircraft built by HAL. “With this contract, HAL and Government of Mauritius have further strengthened the long-standing relations spanning over three decades,” a statement said. The ALH Mk III is a multi-role, multi-mission helicopter in the 5.5 tonne category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hal-signs-contract-for-copter-export/article38294970.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:22 IST,||ED seizes over Rs. 10 cr. in cash during raids||The Enforcement Directorate has seized over Rs. 10 crore in cash during the searches conducted at multiple locations in Punjab on Tuesday in connection with an illegal sand mining case. The agency also searched the premises of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew, Bhupinder Singh Honey. According to the ED, the premises of Kudratdeep Singh, Pinjore Royalty Company, its partners and shareholders Kanwarmahip Singh and Manpreet Singh, Sunil Kumar Joshi, Jagveer Inder Singh, Randeep Singh, Providers Overseas Consultants and its other directors were covered. Apart from the documents related to sand mining business and property transactions, the agency seized mobile phones, more than Rs. 10 crore in cash, gold worth about Rs. 21 lakh and a Rolex watch worth Rs. 12 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-seizes-over-rs-10-cr-in-cash-during-raids/article38294934.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||Cong. issues another list of Goa nominees||The Congress announced five more candidates on Wednesday for the February 14 elections to the 40-member Goa Assembly. The latest list, taking the Congress’s list of candidates to 29 in the 40-member strong Assembly, came on a day when a senior Trinamool Congress leader, who did not wish to be quoted, said the Congress will have to ‘share’ the blame if the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were to win the polls. However, senior Congress leaders dismissed aid the Trinamool’s ‘change of heart’ happened only after realising that the party’s campaign failed to take off. He argued that it is because of the Congress’s growing popularity that former Minister Michael Lobo quit the BJP and go niwhere else, but joined the Congress party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-issues-another-list-of-goa-nominees/article38294961.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||Air India continues to cancel flights to the U.S.||In a late evening development, Air India has decided to cancel eight flights to and from the U.S. for Thursday over concerns that the roll out of 5G wireless services there could intervene with critical aircraft functions, according to airline sources. This is the second consecutive day when Air India’s U.S. flights were hit. On Wednesday, the airline had cancelled flights to and from New York, San Francisco, Chicago and Newark. Throughout Wednesday, airline officials were busy co-ordinating with the U.S. aviation safety watchdog, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), to assess the impact of 5G services on its flights and the impact of mitigating measures being announced by telecom operators as part of ongoing negotiations with the U.S. government. As a result, the airline had not yet announced the status of its Thursday’s flights, leaving many passengers anxious. The airline has also not yet announced if U.S. flights for the rest of the week were being cancelled or rescheduled. Mobile operators agreed to defer turning on a limited number of towers around certain airport runways following warnings from U.S. carriers that there could be a massive disruption to flight connectivity. The FAA has warned that deployment of C-band 5G spectrum could cause interference with the radio altimeters used by planes to measure aircraft’s height above the ground and pose challenges while landing, especially in poor and low visibility conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/air-india-continues-to-cancel-flights-to-the-us/article38294935.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||TMC steps up attack on Meghalaya govt. over illegal coal trade||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Meghalaya has stepped up its attack on the Conrad K. Sangma government for “patronising” illegal coal mining and transportation in the State. After former Chief Minister Mukul M. Sangma, who joined the TMC with 11 other Congress MLAs in November 2021, TMC legislator Marthon Sangma said the government was misusing various departments to make money and denying revenue to the State. Mr. Mukul Sangma also demanded a court-monitored probe into the illegal coal trade in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tmc-steps-up-attack-on-meghalaya-govt-over-illegal-coal-trade/article38294975.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||Ban on regular international flights extended till Feb. 28||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation on Wednesday extended the ban on scheduled or regular international flights till February 28. However, international flights operating under bubble agreements (with 35 countries) will continue. The ban will not apply to international all-cargo flights and those approved by the DGCA. Scheduled or regular international flights to and from the country have been suspended since March 22, 2020 due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ban-on-regular-international-flights-extended-till-feb-28/article64948014.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||National Commission for Safai Karamcharis gets 3-year extension||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a three-year extension of the tenure of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis that was set to end on March 31. The Union Cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the extension of the body at a cost of Rs. 43.68 crore. The commission helps in coming up with programmes for the welfare of sanitation workers and also monitors the implementation of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/national-commission-for-safai-karamcharis-gets-3-year-extension/article38294971.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:23 IST,||Militants attack CRPF vehicle in Anantnag||Militants opened fire on a CRPF mobile bunker in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag on Wednesday evening, according to officials. However, there were no reports of any casualties. An official said gunmen opened fire on a mobile bunker of the CRPF near F.M. Gali on the Khanabal-Pahalgam in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir. Preliminary reports suggested that the militants fired three to four bullets at the vehicle and fled from the spot. The area was later cordoned off by the security forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/militants-attack-crpf-vehicle-in-anantnag/article38294978.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sreenivas murder: 2 PFI activists held||The police on Wednesday arrested two Popular Front of India (PFI) activists in connection with the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party's OBC Morcha State secretary Ranjith Sreenivas. The arrested have been identified as Anoop (30) of Aryad in Alappuzha and Imamudeen (41) of Chuttipara East in Pathanamthitta. The police said Anoop, a conspirator in the murder case, was taken into custody from the Popular Front of India Pathanamthitta district committee office. Imamudeen was booked for harbouring Anoop. They were arrested by a team led by Alappuzha DySP N.R. Jayaraj. The police have so far arrested 21 people in connection with the case. Sreenivas was hacked to death at his house at Vellakinar in Alappuzha Municipality on December 19 allegedly in retaliation for the murder of SDPI State secretary K.S. Shan at Mannancherry the night before.  The police have so far arrested 21 people in connection with the case||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sreenivas-murder-2-pfi-activists-held/article38295027.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||12-year-old negligence case against doctor quashed||While quashing a 12-year-old medical negligence case against a medical practitioner, the High Court of Karnataka has cautioned against the recent trend of cases of medical negligence launched recklessly by patients and their relatives. “Compensation culture, which obtains in other jurisdictions, is gradually gaining entry into the field of medical services in our society, affecting a healthy relationship of doctors and patients,” the court observed. Justice Krishna S. Dixit made these observations while quashing the warning given by the Karnataka Medical Council to Dr. Ganesh Nayak in May 2009 on the alleged procedural breach in accomplishing angioplasty to an aged and ailing lady. Pointing out that medical records, including the order of the KMC, prima facie show that the cause of death is a serious bacterial infection contracted by the woman after a huge time gap between the angioplasty and the demise of the patient, the Court said that “there is nothing on record to show that the alleged deficiency in professional service accelerated the process of health deterioration that eventually resulted into her death…; and there is no reasonable connect or nexus between the medical procedure done by Dr. Nayak and death of the patient.” Noticing that courts have been nowadays observing that an unscrupulous section of the people are prone to use slightest opportunity to sue the doctors and hospitals, in the hope of making fast buck, Justice Dixit said that “the motivation of people bringing action for medical negligence are more complicated: some sue for money, others sue for getting an acceptance of guilt, some others do it to ensure that errors would not be repeated. But a large chunk of cases does not involve bonafide dreams…” “The compensation culture,” the Court said, “be it truth or myth in varying degrees, has given rise to risk aversion as medical professionals having a complaint made against them gather impression that there is an unjustifiable attack on their professional integrity and reputation. This may lead to defensive response of the medicos ultimately resulting into enormous cost escalation in medical services.” While lauding the doctors and paramedics for serving the society, particularly during COVID-19 pandemic, the court said the society has to gratefully appreciate the valuable services rendered by them. The court, however, hastened to add that “doctors’ is a profession wherein service ought to be the motto and not the profit; as any professionals, they too are not immune from legal action for medical check negligence.”  Compensation culture, which obtains in other jurisdictions, is gradually gaining entry into the field of medical services in our society, affecting a healthy relationship of doctors and patients.High Court of Karnataka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-year-old-negligence-case-against-doctor-quashed/article64948091.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Elephant Gate bridge to be ready by July, says Minister||Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru on Wednesday said the Elephant Gate bridge work is expected to be completed by July this year. After inspecting the ongoing construction work with senior officials from Greater Chennai Corporation, he said the completion of the work depended on shifting 46 families living near the bridge. The families would be provided alternative accommodation. The overpass is being built after the demolition of the British era bridge. Though steps were initiated 10 years ago for the reconstruction of the bridge, it was demolished only in May 2020 because of delay caused by various factors, one of them being time taken to shift the power lines. The flyover was being constructed by the Southern Railway and the Greater Chennai Corporation with the former carrying out the work above the railway tracks and the latter on both sides of the bridge. The Minister said the present contract awarded by the Corporation would end in July. A senior official of the Corporation said the new alignment of the bridge warranted relocation of families that were residing there for many years. The enumeration of the families had been completed. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekar Babu, Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and Corporation Regional Deputy Commissioner (North) M. Sivaguru Prabakaran were present. Mr. Nehru laid the foundation stone for the construction of a new Urban Primary Health Centre in Tirupalli Street, Royapuram zone, on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-gate-bridge-to-be-ready-by-july-says-minister/article64948345.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Daily tally nears 27,000; cases rise in most districts||A total of 26,981 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, taking the State’s overall tally past 30 lakh. Cases rose in almost all districts. The number of deaths also rose, with 35 persons (23 in private hospitals and 12 in government hospitals) succumbing to the infection. This took the toll to 37,073. Cases were up by 12.94% after the daily tally remained around 23,000 for the last few days. However, Chennai recorded a dip in new cases for the third day in a row, with 8,007 people testing positive for COVID-19. On Tuesday, Chennai had logged 8,305 cases. But the city reported the most number of deaths, with 12 persons succumbing to the infection. Apart from Chennai, only Ranipet and Kallakurichi registered a dip in fresh cases. Cases rose either marginally or steeply in every other district. Coimbatore saw its daily tally breach the 3,000-mark. As against 2,228 cases on the previous day, the district logged 3,082 cases on Wednesday. In Chengalpattu, the number of people testing positive saw a small rise, from 2,143 to 2,194. From 830 cases on the previous day, Kanniyakumari’s daily tally crossed 1,000. While Tiruvallur reported 914 cases, Erode recorded 906, compared to 777 on the previous day. Five districts recorded 700-plus cases - Kancheepuram (718), Madurai (732), Salem (785), Tirunelveli (713) and Tiruppur (756). In Krishnagiri, the fresh cases jumped from 371 to 638. With this, the State has so far recorded 30,14,235 cases. All 35 persons who died had co-morbidities. The number of patients discharged in a day rose to 17,456. Presently, the State has 1,70,661 active cases. The State increased the number of samples tested to 1,50,635. Till date, a total of 5,99,80,920 samples have been tested in Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,48,838 people were vaccinated on Wednesday. The number of precaution doses administered so far crossed one lakh and stood at 1,17,136.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-tally-nears-27000-cases-rise-in-most-districts/article64948083.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||MNM is under pressure to perform||The Makkal Needhi Maiam must win some seats in the urban local bodies elections if it wants to be taken seriously in Tamil Nadu, according to its party leadership. The party hopes its founder Kamal Haasan, the big draw in the organisation, will launch a significant campaign to taste an electoral success that has eluded it since it was founded in 2018. The Makkal Needhi Maiam’s vote share came down from 3.69% in the 2019 Lok Sabha election to 2.62% in the 2021 Assembly election. It remains an urban-centric party. It fared better in the urban constituencies in 2021, especially in and around Chennai where it came third in 12 of the 16 constituencies. A senior leader said, “It is high time we won some seats” this time, given that the elections will be held in urban areas. Good support “We are hoping to field our candidates in all the seats in the urban constituencies. We believe it is possible to find good candidates as we have a good deal of support among the urban voters,” another senior leader said, adding the party was at a point where it had to win a few seats to remain relevant. After failing to prove its worth in the Assembly election, the party, which had until April last stayed away from protests and confined itself to litigation, has tried to change its tack. It launched a protest to highlight the rising fuel prices in July last. The party struggled to field candidates in the recent rural local bodies elections and many of its cadre admitted that the party had found it tough to penetrate into the rural areas. Mr. Haasan recently released a list of 47 candidates for the Coimbatore urban local bodies elections. He is expected to announce candidates soon for Chennai and other corporations.  The Makkal Needhi Maiam’s vote share came down from 3.69% in the 2019 Lok Sabha election to 2.62% in the 2021 Assembly election||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-is-under-pressure-to-perform/article64948087.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Miss Kerala not endangered: aquarists||A section of aquarists and ornamental fish breeders are surprised that the Denison barb (Miss Kerala), a native freshwater fish species commonly found in parts of Karnataka and Kerala, has been included in Schedule I of the Wild Life (Protection) Amendment Bill, 2021. The Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in December last. Aquarium enthusiast Beta Mahatvaraj of Chennai, who has been documenting the native Indian fish species for years, points out two issues in the Bill. ‘A ban, literally’  He says the scientific name Puntius denisonii , given against the common name Denison barb, is wrong; it should have been Sahyadria denisonii . Even then, the species is found in the States of Kerala and Karnataka. He doubts whether the species can be considered endangered based on the available data. “Inclusion in Schedule I is literally a ban. It is like how you cannot keep a tiger at home,” he argues.   Ornamental fish breeder and exporter Nikhil Sood of Bengaluru contends that the trade of ornamental fish is being vilified unnecessarily, though it has contributed immensely to the discovery of many species of native fish over the past 25 years. Denisonii itself is a re-discovery because of the ornamental aquatic trade.   “This campaign to ban Sahyadria denisonii is old and sadly outdated. This rule would have been applicable around 10-12 years ago when the fish was discovered,” Mr. Sood says. Sahyadria denisonii is found in almost 11 rivers of Kerala and Karnataka with some of the highest endemic aquatic fauna in the country.   The income from the collection of denisonii for the ornamental fish trade acts as an incentive for fishermen to protect habitats, he contends.  “It would have been preferable to better regulate the trade in wild collected fishes and promote captive bred fish perhaps by including the species in Schedule IV instead of Schedule I.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/miss-kerala-not-endangered-aquarists/article64948132.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Close down Tasmac outlets immediately: Palaniswami||The AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of the Opposition, EdappadiK.Palaniswami, on Wednesdaydemanded that the State government immediately close down Tasmac retail outlets and bars in the light of the rising cases of COVID-19. “When nearly 24,000 people are getting infected every day, is it fair to keep the Tasmac shopsopen?” Mr.Palaniswamiwondered. He recalled that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, while in Oppositionin the first week ofMay 2020, had sought the closure of the shops when the number of fresh cases was 775,on the ground that they were facilitating the spread of the disease. The Leader of the Opposition also referred to the reported observation of Health Minister Ma. Subramanian that there was a likelihood of a further rise in the number of cases in the coming days. Urging theDMK government “not to play” with people’s lives, the AIADMK co-coordinator said the ruling party should shed its double standards. In a separate statement, the AIADMK coordinator and former Chief Minister, O. Panneerselvam,asserted that it was his party, while in power during 1987, that took steps to establish a medical universitywhich was named after party founder M.G. Ramachandran.Only the nomenclature of the university underwent a minor changeafter the Assembly adopted an amendmentBill inJanuary 1991 when the DMK was in power, he added. Later, the two AIADMK leaders, in a joint statement, announced that the party would stage demonstrationson Saturday (January 22) in all Cauvery delta districts tohighlight the need for payment of adequate compensation by the State governmentto farmers affected by excess rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/close-down-tasmac-outlets-immediately-palaniswami/article64948081.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister unveils new buildings in several districts||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday laid the foundation for a new Collectorate in Mayiladuthurai at a virtual event. He also inaugurated buildings constructed by the Revenue Department in various locations at a cost of Rs. 26.66 crore. The proposed Collectorate building in Mayiladuthurai will be spread over 2.84 lakh sq.ft. on a 6.54 acre campus, an official release said. The building, to be constructed at a cost of Rs. 114.48 crore, would have seven floors. The new buildings are located in Madurai, Pudukottai, Ranipet, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruvallur, Tiruvarur and Vellore districts. Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan, Minister for Public Works E.V. Velu, Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, Minister for Dairy Development S.M. Nasar, Law Minister S. Regupathy, Food Minister R. Sakkarapani, Textiles Minister R. Gandhi, Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy, Minister for Environment and Climate Change Siva V. Meyyanathan and Deputy Speaker in the Assembly K. Pitchandi were among those who took part. At another event, the Chief Minister introduced five new products of Aavin. Meanwhile, Republic of Sudan’s Ambassador in India B.S. Mubarak called on Mr. Stalin at the Secretariat on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-unveils-new-buildings-in-several-districts/article64948077.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two asphyxiated while cleaning septic tank||Two men got asphyxiated while cleaning a septic tank at a house on Wednesday in Varadharajapuram near Tambaram in Manimangalam police station limits. This is the second such tragedy reported this week. On Sunday, one worker died in a similar manner at a house in Injambakkam The victims were identified as V. Rajesh, 35, of Indira Gandhi Nagar, Manimangalam and A. Ezhil, 35, of Mannivakkam. The police said Jayakumar, 34, sought the help of his neighbours to find somebody who could clean the septic tank at his house in PTC Quarters. Rajesh and Ezhil came to the house and agreed to do the work for Rs. 9,000, using their sewage suction truck. They removed one load on Tuesday evening. On Wednesday morning, they cleaned the tank using the suction tube. As septage remained in the tank, Ezhil fainted while trying to removetheblock in the tube using an iron rod. Rajesh, who tried to rescue Ezhil also fainted inside the tank. Both died after inhaling poisonous gas. The police, with the assistance of Fire and Rescue Services personnel in Tambaram, retrieved the body from the tank. The bodies were sent to Government Chromepet Hospital for post-mortem. Case registered A case has been registered against the house owner under Sections 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code and under the provisions of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-asphyxiated-while-cleaning-septic-tank/article64948259.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Citing COVID-19, retired govt. doctor moves HC for postponement of polls||A retired joint director of the Medical Services Recruitment Board has filed a public interest litigation petition in the Madras High Court, seeking a direction to the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission to postpone the urban local body polls till the COVID-19 situation improves. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu on Wednesday accepted a request made by senior counsel S. Prabakaran, representing the PIL petitioner, M. Nakkeeran of Chennai, to hear the case on Thursday or Friday. In his affidavit, the litigant stated that he had 35 years of medical experience, including 31 years in government service. Claiming that the COVID-19 positivity rate in the State had increased from 1% on December 30 to 17% on January 17, the petitioner said there was widespread community transmission of the novel coronavirus, and this was evident from a 17-fold increase in the positivity rate in 20 days. ‘Not the right time’ He said around 25,000 new COVID-19 cases were being reported in the State on a daily basis and contended that it was not the right time to conduct the local body elections, especially when 31% of the population in Chennai and around 40% in other districts had not been fully vaccinated. Referring to the flouting of COVID-19 norms in the election rallies being organised in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh despite strict guidelines having been issued by the Election Commission of India, the litigant said it would be difficult for the respective election commissions to ensure strict adherence to such norms in any election. Further, noting that the urban local body polls in the State had been long overdue, the petitioner said no harm would be caused if the elections were postponed till the COVID-19 situation improved. Conducting the elections in the present scenario might prove disastrous, he feared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citing-covid-19-retired-govt-doctor-moves-hc-for-postponement-of-polls/article64948085.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||Online counselling for MBBS, BDS in T.N. to begin on Jan. 30||This year, counselling will be held online for the general category candidates seeking admission to MBBS, BDS, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian has said. The admission process will begin on January 27 with counselling for special category candidates such as the differently abled; sportspersons; and wards of ex-servicemen. The results of the first round of All India Quota counselling are expected to be received on that day. On January 28 and 29, counselling will be held for for government school students under the 7.5% quota. “It will be an in-person counselling as two days have been allotted for them,” the Minister said while releasing the merit list for PG admissions on Wednesday. This year, at least 100 more seats, had been added to the 7.5% government school students quota. The detailed schedule for counselling would be released on the department’s website. The State government will fill up 6,999 MBBS seats and 1,930 seats for BDS through single-window counselling. This year there are 534 seats under the 7.5% reservation for government school students. Last year, there were 436 seats, the Minister said. From Thursday, counselling will begin for PG medical, dental aspirants, who would be allowed to register and key in their choices. Of the 2,216 seats for MD and MS programmes, the State government has surrendered 1,053 seats to the All India Quota and has 1,163 seats under State quota. The results of the first round of counselling will be released on January 23. Of the 16,693 seats in paramedical courses, 16,486 had been filled. As on date, 207 seats remain vacant, he said. “Counselling has been going on for the past month. We received 58,000 applications. At present only 207 seats are unfilled,” he said. Jan 20 – Counselling begins for PG medical, dental programmes. Jan 24 – release of merit list for MBBS, BDSJan 27 – Counselling for special categories – differently abled; sportspersons and wards of ex-servicemenJan 28, 29 – In-person counselling for candidates under 7.5% government school students, Jan 30 – Online counselling/choice filling for general category students.  It will be in-person counselling for govt. school quota students as two days have been allotted for them Ma. Subramanian Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-counselling-for-mbbs-bds-from-jan-30/article38295136.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Exploring gender, social aspects of climate policies||With a focus on climate change and gender, the Women’s Indian Association (WIA) has partnered with the Gender Into Urban Climate Change Initiative (GUCCI), and has been working on exploring the gender and social aspects of climate policies over the last two years. With their partnership on the project coming to an end next month, WIA is preparing to hand over their policy recommendations and strategy for climate action to the government. “While we are quick to speak about climate change and jump into relief work once natural disasters occur, there should be a lot more conversation both nationally and at the State level about climate policies in the long run. Gender and climate change in particular needs special attention - women and other vulnerable groups are severely affected during such events,” said Padma Venkataraman, President, WIA. The core of the project, WIA said, is the deeper examination and analysis of the existing State-level and national-level climate change policies through the gender lens. As part of their project with GUCCI, Ms. Padma said they carried out several awareness campaigns and training programmes for women belonging to different sections in the city. Stakeholder workshops with government officials, NGOs and academicians to discuss climate action policies for gender sensitivity were also held. Engaging women “An area of special focus for us was working with the women from the fishing community, who reside near the Marina Loop Road in Chennai, for over four months. We engaged with them on sea safety, hygiene, sanitation and climate change, and also conducted waste management and skill training programmes. They were also encouraged to form self-help groups,” Ms. Padma said. Greening initiatives such as tree planting and cultivating vegetable gardens were carried out, and the local community hall was equipped with solar panels. To help the women have a steady source of income when it is not the fishing season, they were guided on selling seafood pickles and fish manure. Based on the inputs received throughout the course of the project, policy recommendations will be prepared and handed over to the government. “The focus was on bringing the community together and working on adapting and mitigating the effects of climate change. “Our efforts to build climate resilience in the city and sensitize the public on the gender dimensions of climate change will continue post the completion of the project,” Ms. Padma added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exploring-gender-social-aspects-of-climate-policies/article38295142.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ten colleges chosen for language courses||In line with the Minister for Higher Education’s announcement last year that foreign languages like German, French and Japanese would be taught in engineering colleges, a total of 10 government engineering colleges have been shortlisted for the implementation of the scheme on pilot-basis. The shortlisted colleges are: Government College of Technology, Coimbatore; Government College of Engineering, Salem; Government College of Engineering, Tirunelveli; Alagappa Chettiar Govt. College of Engg. & Tech., Karaikudi; Government College of Engineering, Bodinayakanur; Government College of Engineering, Dharmapuri; Government College of Engineering, Bargur; Government College of Engineering, Srirangam, Tiruchi; Government College of Engineering, Sengipatti, and Thanthai Periyar Govt. Institute of Technology, Vellore. It has been proposed to conduct foreign language courses in German, French and Japanese for the students of these colleges, through online, offline and blended mode. The scheme aims at producing engineering students with multilingual skills to aid them in placements, and also become better research scholars. The Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC) is in the process of selecting firms to hold classes for students, and has issued a tender to select the firms. The TNSDC has issued another tender to select training service providers to impart ‘Personality Development’ and ‘Communicative English’ coaching to over 30,000 school and college students. The proposal is for offering these two courses to over 22,700 College/Polytechnic/ITI students, belonging to backward, most backward and denotified communities, and minority welfare hostels. It also aims at offering these courses to over 7,600 students in Class VIII and XII in Kallar Reclamation Schools across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-colleges-chosen-for-language-courses/article38295244.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:39 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Oxygen Auto’ woman is back with free ambulance service||Thirty-seven-year-old R. Seetha Devi, who helped over 800 people last year with her ‘Oxygen Auto’, is now busy taking COVID-19 patients in her free ambulance. In 2021, after waiting for hours outside a government hospital and finally getting admission for her mother, she lost her to COVID-19. Spurred by her personal loss, Ms. Devi started an auto fitted with oxygen cylinders and helped hundreds of patients. Now, she is back in action plying a free ambulance taking patients to and from government hospitals. “This was the van in which I brought my mother to the hospital; after she passed away, we didn’t know what to do with the van and decided to convert it into an ambulance. We have so far transported close to 120 patients, from those affected by HIV to the ones needing dialysis. We have paramedic staff in the ambulance as well. This is primarily for people who cannot afford personal transport,” she says. Last year, while taking patients in and out, one thing struck her. Women and girls are waiting for days outside wards for sanitary napkins. “I decided to create a napkin bank; so, in most of the government hospitals, I send 300 sanitary napkins which will be replenished as soon as I get a call. These will be placed near the reception,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-auto-woman-is-back-with-free-ambulance-service/article64948198.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 24,000 villages, 28,000 streets in urban areas affected’||Over 24,000 villages and 28,000 streets in urban areas in Tamil Nadu have COVID-19 cases, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. “There are a total of 1,29,000 hamlets in the State. Of them, 24,199 have COVID-19 cases. Of the 1,27,000 streets in urban areas, 28,219 have COVID-19 cases. In Chennai, 9,237 streets have COVID-19 cases. There are a total of 3,787 containment zones in the State, including 388 in rural areas and 3,399 in urban areas,” he told reporters at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on Wednesday. He said cases were gradually rising in all districts. He recalled his statement that cases could rise following the holidays and the festival season, during which nearly eight lakh people from Chennai had travelled to villages. “Though cases might rise, there is no need to panic. The State has a total of 1.92 lakh beds, of which only 9,000 are occupied,” he added. Of the actual caseload in the State, 94% were in home isolation and 6% were in hospitals, he added. He said those who get treatment for COVID-19 at private hospitals could lodge complaints about excess charges by calling the State health helpline 104. A team of the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services would inspect the hospital and take appropriate action. During the second wave, action was taken against around 40 private hospitals, he said, adding that no such complaints had been received this time around. Masking and jabs He noted that the State’s overall positivity rate remained below 20%, and urged people to wear masks and get vaccinated as cases were spreading rapidly. To a query on an all-party delegation meeting Home Minister Amit Shah regarding NEET, he said, “The Home Minister has said he will consult with the Union Ministers for Health and Education and arrive at a decision.”  Though cases might rise, there is no need to panic. The State has a total of 1.92 lakh beds, of which only 9,000 are occupied||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-24000-villages-28000-streets-in-urban-areas-affected/article64948076.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sports bodies should be manned by sportspersons only, says High Court||In a significant verdict, the Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered that henceforth, the positions of president, vice-president and secretary of all sports clubs, associations and federations in the State must be held only by sportspersons, and not by politicians or businesspeople. Justice R. Mahadevan also ordered that the selection of athletes for district-, State- and national-level events must be done strictly on the basis of merit, and it should be within the purview of the decision-making powers of selection committees comprising sportspersons only. The judge made it clear that all selections must be done after implementing an online registration system, and that every sports body in the State must publish on its website the details of funds allocated and the amount spent on each athlete for participating in such events. It would be mandatory for sports clubs and associations to disclose on their website the quantum of funds received from the Centre as well as the State government, apart from details of the money spent on the athletes. Further, making it mandatory for the sports bodies to get themselves registered with the State government, the court empowered the latter to initiate penal action against the clubs, associations and federations which select candidates on the basis of extraneous considerations. Any complaint regarding nepotism, favouritism and so on must be disposed of within a week, the court ordered, and suggested the enactment of a comprehensive law on the subject. Justice Mahadevan ordered that the slew of directions issued by him must be complied with in letter and in spirit, till the State legislature comes up with a law on similar lines. The court issued the directions while disposing of a writ petition filed by S. Nithya, a discuss throw champion, who complained of discrimination and non-selection for national events despite having won gold and silver medals in State-level championships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sports-bodies-should-be-manned-by-sportspersons-only-says-high-court/article38295121.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fire breaks out at an eatery on Ranganathan Street||A fire broke out at an eatery on the busy Ranganathan Street in T. Nagar on Wednesday morning. The Fire and Rescue Services personnel and the public quickly put out the fire and averted a disaster by evacuating the workers and a few customers from the building. No one was injured in the fire since it was non-peak hour. Sources said a short-circuit in the LED display on the first floor of the building could have caused the fire. S. Syed Mohammed Shah, District Fire Officer said: “Our personnel from T. Nagar and Teynampet stations were pressed into service. The fire was extinguished after breaking glass panels on the first floor.” A case has been registered in the Mambalam police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-breaks-out-at-an-eatery-on-ranganathan-street/article38295143.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Retired High Court judge C.T. Selvam to head police commission||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has issued orders to constitute a new police commission and named retired Madras High Court judge C.T. Selvam as the head of the panel. Retired IAS officer K. Alauddin, retired IPS officer K. Radhakrishnan, Dr. C. Ramasubramaniam and retired professor Nalini Rao are the other members, an official release said. Senior IPS officer Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal will function as the member-secretary. Focus areas The commission will examine measures for the welfare of police personnel and the aspects related to policing and submit its recommendations within a specific time frame. It will suggest measures to improve policing and the relations between the police and members of the public, prevent cybercrimes and promote policing with a humanitarian approach. In its election manifesto, the DMK promised the constitution of a police commission. In September last, the Chief Minister said the commission would be set up to recommend, among other things, new training methods for the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-high-court-judge-ct-selvam-to-head-police-commission/article38295120.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. doctors meet Health Minister||Members of the Federation of Government Doctors’ Association met Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Wednesday regarding their long-pending pay and promotion-related demands. According to a press release, the association said the Minister has called a meeting on January 27 to decide on compression of dynamic assured career progression through Government Order 354 and other issues. He has instructed the directors to send a circular not to take any action on GO 293.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-doctors-meet-health-minister/article38295132.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:39 IST,TAMIL NADU||PWD engineers’ handbook on M-sand||In a bid to help engineers and people using quality M-sand for wall plastering, a Public Works Department engineer has brought out a handbook that has simplified methods for wall plastering and for checking the quality of material at site. Written by C. Kalyanasundaram, Superintending Engineer, PWD, Vellore circle, the book was released recently by Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan. With a foreword by Public Works Minister E.V. Velu, the 30-page handbook elaborates on the simple steps for long-lasting wall plastering and to identify the quality of M-sand and Indian Standard Code guidelines. Mr. Kalyanasundaram said: “We decided to compile a handbook to detect and avoid poor quality M-sand and guide other field officers on correct methods of wall plastering using M-sand.” For obtaining copies of the handbook, people may contact the engineers at sathyamurthykp@ gmail.com and techbookvlr@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-engineers-handbook-on-m-sand/article38295482.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Timely intervention saves 3 elders||Doctors at Kauvery Hospital here have managed to save three senior citizens who suffered a cardiac arrest even as they were being brought to the hospital. According to a release by the hospital, a 76-year-old man, referred from another hospital, arrived with a barely recordable pulse. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was done and medications given to revive the heart’s rhythm. An angiogram revealed a block in an artery. A temporary pacemaker was inserted to maintain heart rate along with an intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation pump. to support blood circulation and stabilise blood pressure. Subsequently, a stent was placed. The patient’s condition stabilised in three days, the release said. Another patient, aged 73, was broughtin an unresponsive state. While being transferred from the emergency room to the Cathlab, CPR was done along with defibrillation. The block in his artery was removed through angioplasty. The third person, aged 63, who had severe chest pain and sweating, suffered a cardiac arrest on the way to the emergency room. After resuscitation, angioplasty was immediately performed. C. Sundar, senior consultant at the hospital, said the three were revived after suffering massive cardiac arrests and were presumed dead. “However, it was not just sheer luck, but timely administration of emergency procedures and intensive medical care support that bought these people back to life. These three incidents clearly illustrate the importance of time in such situations,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/timely-intervention-saves-3-elders/article38295145.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Officials begin probe into cremation row||Chengalpattu Collector A.R. Rahul Nadh has ordered an inquiry into the incident of locals not allowing a family to perform the last rites at the burial ground in Jameen Pallavaram on Sunday. Revenue Divisional Officer V. Arivudainambi held a meeting in Pallavaram on Wednesday. At the meeting, chaired by Mr. Arivudainambi and tahsildar Kanchana, the locals complained about the pollution caused by cremation and pleaded for shifting the burial ground to some other place. Social activist V. Santhanam said the burial ground had been in use for several decades and could not be shifted. In his representation at the meeting, he said to prevent pollution caused by cremation, the Tambaram Corporation should install a chimney.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-begin-probe-into-cremation-row/article38295135.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC upholds marks to govt. doctors in PG admissions||The Madras High Court on Wednesday upheld the State government’s decision to not only reserve 50% of postgraduate medical seats for government doctors serving in villages and hill areas but also to provide incentive marks for them so that they compete better even in the remaining 50% seats allotted under open category. Justice M. Dhandapani did not find any illegality in giving incentive marks for in-service candidates. The judge dismissed writ petitions filed by 12 MBBS graduates who contended that the government must stop reserving 50% seats for government doctors. The judge agreed with Additional Advocate General J. Ravindran and senior counsel P. Wilson, Isaac Mohanlal and E. Manoharan, representing various in-service candidates, that the incentive marks were awarded to encourage doctors to serve in remote and hilly areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-upholds-marks-to-govt-doctors-in-pg-admissions/article38295133.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:39 IST,TAMIL NADU||New facilities for hospital||The Government Stanley Hospital commissioned several facilities worth over Rs. 17.8 crore in its various departments. The Plastic Surgery Department has added a hand transplant operation theatre and a 20-bed post-operative ward at a cost of Rs. 9 crore. The hospital also commissioned a new Theratron Equinox 80 external beam radiotherapy machine with Cobalt 60 radioisotope in the Radiotherapy Department at a cost of Rs. 3 crore. The Cobalt - 60 radioactive source must be replaced every 10 years and benefit an average of 60 to 80 patients daily. The hospital has added a forensic block with cadaver skill lab, histopathology, toxicology, anthropology labs at an estimated Rs. 5.8 crore and a museum for medical students. The facilities were inaugurated by the Health Minister Ma. Subramanian and the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K.Sekar Babu. The Ministers also inspected the vaccination process and reiterated the need to follow COVID-19 protocols. They also visited the skin bank and were apprised of the skin harvesting and storage methodologies followed. Kalanithi Veerasamy, Member of Parliament, Idream R. Moorthy, MLA, and J. Radhakrishnan, Health Secretary participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stanley-hospital-gets-new-wards-operation-theatre/article38295137.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Scrap import duty on cotton’||Reiterating his request for the removal of the 11% import duty levied on cotton, among other demands, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday wrote to Union Textiles Minister Piyush Goyal, seeking his intervention to resolve the grim situation pertaining to cotton and yarn price volatility. In November and December 2020, the cost of cotton (29 mm) was Rs. 39,000 a candy, but it rose to Rs. 75,000 a candy during November and December 2021. “If this situation is not resolved, a large number of powerlooms and apparel and home textile units may soon become unviable, resulting in closures and consequent large-scale unemployment and industrial unrest in the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scrap-import-duty-on-cotton/article38295122.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||BIS to step up vigil on quality of toys||The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), Southern Regional Office (Chennai Branch Office-I), plans to conduct more raids in the city and neighbouring districts to ensure that only ISI marked toys are manufactured and sold. The Toys (Quality Control) Order that made BIS certification mandatory for toys came into effect from January last year to prevent sale of cheap quality goods in the market. Officials of the BIS said most toys, including electric and non-electric, such as dolls and slides, should carry ISI mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bis-to-step-up-vigil-on-quality-of-toys/article38295141.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. moots novel method to trap leopard holed up in warehouse||With the leopard that sought shelter in a warehouse at B.K. Pudur near Coimbatore on Monday was yet to come close to the trap cages that were placed at the building’s doors, the Forest Department was mooting for novel methods to lure it.  District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar told The Hindu that the Department has kept water can on top of the cages from which water will be dripped into the container placed inside.  It is an attempt to attract the carnivore to get into any of the trap cages.The Department had already placed water inside the cages. A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division, said that carnivores like leopards could remain without hunting for many days after having enough meat of a prey. However, like any carnivore, leopards cannot withstand without water as longas they can stay off from hunting, he said. The Department expects that the leopard will finally step into the cage for water. According to Dr. Sukumar, the leopard that holed up in the building had been roaming in residential areas like Sugunapuram and B.K. Pudur near Madukkarai forest range peripheries for over a month. It is believed to have preyed on dogs, both domestic and stray dogs. “It could have strayed into human habitation due to various reasons such as territory conflict with another leopard in the wild and easy availability of prey in the form of dogs and domestic animals outside forest. Once a leopard tastes dog meat, it is more likely to hunt dogs again. Stray dogs are in large numbers in the Madukkarai area,” he said. Mr. Ashok Kumar said that a total of six cameras were installed from various points at the building to get visuals of the leopard. Cameras were fixed on both cages too. The Department on Wednesday released visuals of the leopard captured by one of the cameras in the early hours of the day. “The animal looks healthy as seen in the visuals. It does not appear to be panicked. The Department is taking all efforts to capture the animal without harming it,” he said. Assistant Conservator of Forests C. Dinesh Kumar, forest veterinarians Dr. Sukumar, Rajesh Kumar from Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, forest range officers P. Santhiya, K. Jayachandran Arun Kumar were camping at the place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-moots-novel-method-to-trap-leopard-holed-up-in-warehouse/article64948308.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rwandan national held with 2.5 kg ganja||Coimbatore city police have arrested a Rwanda national on charge of possessing 2.5 kg of ganja. The police said that Ishimwe Stebbins (32) from Burera district in Rwanda was arrested with the contraband on Tuesday night. The foreigner, according to the police, came to Coimbatore in 2012 and did a postgraduate course in a private college at Saravanampatti. Illegal stay Stebbins completed the course in 2017 and his visa expired on July 7, 2021 after which he was staying illegally in the country. He had been residing in a rental room at Keeranatham. The man landed in the custody of a police team that was on a patrol on Saravanampatti – Keeranatham road on Tuesday night. Stebbins was found in suspicious circumstances near a liquor outlet and the police seized 2.5 kg ganja, two mobile phones and Rs. 1,300 and a motorcycle from him. He was arrested for offences under Sections 20 (b) (ii) (B) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, the police said. According to the police, Stebbins engaged in the sale of ganja and other contrabands after completing his course. He supplied the contrabands to buyers through WhatsApp communication. Stebbins was produced before a judicial magistrate on Wednesday afternoon and he was remanded in judicial custody. The police said that he would be lodged in Puzhal Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rwandan-national-held-with-25-kg-ganja/article38295168.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Study under way to ensure equitable water distribution across 100 wards’||The Coimbatore Corporation is engaged in a study to ensure equitable water distribution across the 100 wards, Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthilbalaji told journalists here on Wednesday. After the city’s residents in several places complained of once in nine or 10 days water supply, the Corporation had started a study to identify the problems and suggest possible solutions. Once the detailed project report was ready, he would take it to the notice of the Chief Minister to have the necessary funds sanctioned, the Minister said and assured the residents that the inequitable water distribution problem would be solved at the earliest. On the issue of cancelling the contract the Corporation had given to Suez India Pvt. Ltd. to improve the old city’s water distribution, he replied that during the previous regime there were several irregularities in the Corporation like diversion of funds, use of private lorries to transport waste, etc. A study and investigation was underway. Once it was out, the State Government would take a call on cancelling the Suez contract, if necessary. Liquor shops On former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s demand for closure of liquor shops, Mr. Senthilbalaji responded that it was the Chief Minister to take a call on closing the shops. There was no irregularity in auctioning the bars attached to liquor outlets. In fact, the number of applicants and revenue had increased from Rs. 16 crore to Rs. 28 crore a month. And, the number of applications for the auction had gone up from around 6,000 to 13,000, he said to underscore the point that the State Government had acted in a transparent manner in auctioning the bars. As far as the Tangedco was concerned, the Electricity Minister said of the 8,905 transformers that were to be installed, the power distributor had installed around 8,000. This was after the Chief Minister had ordered installation of new transformers to prevent low voltage problem.Within the next 30 days the Tangedco would complete installing the remaining transformers. Likewise, for constructing sub stations, the Tangedco had identified 216 locations. It was engaged in identifying places for 73 more. Once that was done, the government would fund the sub station construction.  Mr. Senthilbalaji said on Wednesday he had distributed financial assistance and gold under Thalikku Thangam scheme worth Rs. 21.65 crore to 2,800 women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/study-under-way-to-ensure-equitable-water-distribution-across-100-wards/article64948329.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Panel discussion on investment potential in Coimbatore||G Square presents ‘Coimbatore Unlimited: Collaborate, Co-create, Celebrate,’ powered by The Hindu. The event is a series of panel discussions on investment potential in Coimbatore and will begin on January 21. The panel discussion on Friday will be on ‘Coimbatore Bypass: the Next Big Investment Destination’. To be held at Taj Vivanta, Coimbatore, from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m., the event will have Gugan Ilango, president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India, Coimbatore, Jude Alex, founder of Synergy Realtors, and Eshwar N, Chief Executive Officer of G Square as panelists. The session will be moderated by Kanishka Arumugam, Chief Executive Officer of Ekki Pumps, and Head of CII FBN Next Gen. News 18 Tamil Nadu is the TV partner for the programme. Those who wish to attend can get an invite by logging on to http://bit.ly/GSQTH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-discussion-on-investment-potential-in-coimbatore/article64948110.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC sees a dip in revenue||The Coimbatore division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) has seen a dip in revenue by nearly Rs. 40 lakh from operation of special buses for Pongal, according to officials. The officials said on Wednesday that the revenue for Coimbatore division was around Rs. 11.29 crore this year, while it was Rs. 11.68 crore last year. The dip in revenue was despite the increase in the total number of kilometres covered by the special buses this year, officials said. The special buses covered a total distance around 49 lakh km this year, while the total distance covered in 2021 was around 45 lakh km. The patronage in buses that returned to Coimbatore after Pongal was low amid the rise in COVID-19 cases, according to the officials. TNSTC Coimbatore division operated 240 additional buses this year from January 12 to 14 from Coimbatore to clear the additional rush of passengers for Pongal. This comprised 100 buses via Madurai, 40 buses via Theni and 50 buses via Madurai and Salem each. The buses were operated with 75% seating capacity as per the COVID-19 restrictions of the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-sees-a-dip-in-revenue/article64948338.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation Commissioner, doctors and nurses test COVID-19 positive||Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, three doctors and as many nurses turned COVID-19 positive in the last couple of days, even as the city recorded 140 streets with over four positive cases each. Sources in the civic body confirmed that Mr. Sunkara, who had fever over the weekend, developed COVID-19 symptoms and was confirmed positive a couple of days ago. Three doctors, two urban health nurses and a staff nurse had also turned positive. This created panic among the health and other frontline workers in the civic body. After the doctors and nurses had turned COVID-19 positive, the Corporation had taken samples from their colleagues and was awaiting the results. Other than the commissioner, doctors and nurses, none had tested positive though the Corporation was monitoring the health of its frontline staff, the sources also said. As for the city was for concerned, there were 140 streets with over four COVID-19 positive cases each. The Corporation was not barricading the neighbourhood of positive persons; nor was it sticking bills to caution visitors, as it did during the last wave. Micro containment This time, the Corporation was going in for micro containment strategy to by and large restricting its work to the house concerned or two houses on either side. Besides, it was not lifting samples from all those in the neighbourhood of positive person. On January 18, the city recorded 1,221 positive persons. As on Tuesday, it had 5,367 active cases. There were 25 persons in COVID-19 facilities in government hospitals, 115 in private hospitals, 12 in COVID-19 Care Centres and 1,060 in home isolation. Given the increase in cases, the Corporation had kept ready 281 beds in the COVID-19 Care Centre in Government College of Technology, 400 in Bharathiar University and 120 in Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. The sources also said in the current wave, 80% of persons who had turned positive were family members of those who were positive, suggesting the spread was largely confined to the primary contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-commissioner-doctors-and-nurses-test-covid-19-positive/article38295164.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Call to improve facilities at Pollachi Railway Station||Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram on Wednesday wrote to Railways Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw demanding improvement of various facilities at Pollachi Railway Station. In the letter, he alleged that the railway station yard was being cleaned only during the visits of railway officials and was neglected otherwise. He pointed out the lack of facilities such as handrails for the stairs leading to Platforms 2 and 3, toilets for differently abled and reverse osmosis water purifiers. Mr. Shanmugasundaram alleged that the passenger rest room was locked and the dedicated water pipeline for the Pollachi Railway Station from River Ambarampalayam, which was available during the metre gauge era, was non-functional. “Palakkad Division is discriminating Pollachi Parliamentary Constituency by not restoring the trains, which were running before gauge conversion in Coimbatore/Palakkad – Pollachi – South Tamil Nadu section,” the MP charged in the letter. He further urged the setting up of pit lines that were available during the metre gauge era to enable operation of train services that originate from Pollachi Junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-improve-facilities-at-pollachi-railway-station/article38295153.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault||The All Women Police Station, Thudiyalur, on Tuesday arrested a man from Kerala for alleged sexual assault on an eight-year-old girl, his relative’s daughter. The police said that the man from Chittalancheri in Palakkad district was arrested late on Tuesday. The accused sexually assaulted the girl after taking her to his residence on January 9. The girl’s mother lodged a complaint with the police. The accused was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault/article38295167.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International will conduct an online meeting to improve public speaking skills at 6.30 p.m. on January21 (Friday). The meeting will be held via Zoom platform with the meeting number 870 8197 2333 and those interested may contact 95004 02317 or 97901 65041 via WhatsApp for the meeting’s password.   Due to monthly maintenance works at Somayampalayam sub-station, there will be no power supply on January 21 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the following areas: Yamuna Nagar, Kalappanaickenpalayam, GCT Nagar, KTN Palayam, Marutham Nagar, Navavoor Pirivu, Bharathiar University, Somayampalayam, Vasantham Nagar, IOB Colony, Maruthamalai, Agarwal Road, Kanuvai, KNG Pudur and Thadagam Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article38295161.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK condemns NLCIL’s rehabilitation and resettlement policy||The AIADMK, on Wednesday, alleged that Navaratna Public Sector Undertaking (PSU), NLC India Ltd. (NLCIL) had come forward to acquire lands for its third mines project in the district and provide compensation to farmers at an unreasonable price with the tacit support of DMK. In a statement, Bhuvanagiri MLA A. Arunmozhithevan condemned the recently unveiled NLCIL’s rehabilitation and resettlement policy and said the compensation worked out by the PSU for land acquisition was mere peanuts. When the DMK was the Opposition, it had sought a compensation of Rs. 1 crore per acre for lands to be acquired by NLCIL for its project. However, while in power, the DMK government was keeping mum, exposing its total support to NLCIL, he said. Mr. Arunmozhithevan said NLCIL had planned to acquire about 12,500 acres in 26 villages for the project. A major portion of the land, sought to be acquired, fell in Bhuvanagiri Assembly constituency in Cuddalore district. “It is imperative to seek the opinion of landowners and farmers, whose land was sought to be acquired for the project. However, this was not done,” he charged. “The proposed project is revenue-generating and NLCIL will be assured of huge returns over the next few decades. However, the compensation of Rs. 23 lakh per acre is grossly insufficient. Landowners and farmers will never accept the compensation amount proposed by NLCIL,’’ he said. NLCIL should ensure adequate compensation to the affected landowners and farmers, and a job for one person from each family, in the PSU, Mr. Arunmozhithevan demanded.  NLCIL should ensure adequate compensation to the affected landowners and farmers Arunmozhithevan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-condemns-nlcils-rehabilitation-and-resettlement-policy/article38295485.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||3 rice smugglers held under Goondas Act||Three persons, who were repeatedly involved in smuggling rice meant for distribution under the public distribution system (PDS), have been detained under the Goondas Act. Civil Supplies CID police said , Ranjith, 25 and Velmurugan, 30, of Cuddalore district, and Ramachandran, 40, of Vellore district, were arrested during a vehicle check at the Sirupakkam check-post on December 26. About 23 tonnes of ration rice was seized from them. Based on the recommendations of the Civil Supplies CID police, District Collector K. Balasubramaniam ordered their detention under the Goondas Act. The orders were served on them in the Cuddalore Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-pds-rice-smugglers-held-under-goondas-act/article38295490.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stagnant water in subway under construction adds to woes of residents||Inordinate delay in construction of railway subway on Old Karur Road here has put the local residents to untold sufferings. Stagnation of rainwater for more than two weeks in the subway site has added to their woes. The dark green rainwater with algae is posing health hazard as it is a fertile ground for breeding mosquitoes, fear the residents. Office-bearer of Tamil Nadu Consumer Protection Centre, H. Rajesh Kannan, said that construction of the subway on Dindigul- Palani railway line which began more than three years ago was going on in a slow pace. “There is no sign of the work getting completed any sooner,” he said. The residents of MVM Nagar had demanded construction of road over bridge in lieu of a railway gate on the Palani railway line due to increased road traffic congestion as the gate is closed frequently for rail movement. However, the State Government and Centre decided to construct the subway at a cost of Rs. 17.45 crore. Consequently, the Old Karur Road was closed for vehicular traffic between Nehruji Nagar roundabout and TWAD Board office. As a result, all the vehicles that were using the Old Karur Road have been diverted through Gandhiji Nagar, Cooperative Nagar, NGO Colony and Trichy Road to reach the heart of Dindigul town. The roads on the lanes and bylanes could not withstand over usage by increased vehicular traffic leading to frequent accidents. Despite repeated pleas by the traders and residents for early completion of the subway work, nothing has been done to expedite the work, Mr Kannan said. Besides, many educational institutions located on this stretch of road, the residents of the area had to use the Old Karur road to reach Collectorate and District Police Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stagnant-water-in-subway-under-construction-adds-to-woes-of-residents/article64948312.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ensure all facilities are available for patients in hospitals: Collector||Collector H. Krishnanunni on Wednesday inspected the Covid Care Centre (CCC) established at Vellalar College of Engineering at Thindal and held discussions with officials.. There is a sharp increase in the cases reported in the district in the past one week and the administration is intensifying containment measures. Cases reported were 542 on January 15, 570 on January 16, 613 on January 17 and 777 on January 18. So far, a total of 1,12,283 cases were reported while 3,360 were undergoing treatment or in home isolation in the district. A total of 716 deaths were reported in the district, while the positive rate stood at 14.6 as on Tuesday. Mr. Krishnanunni inspected the 100-bedded centre and held discussions with the City Health Officer in-charge Sujatha and officials concerned and asked them to ensure that all facilities are available for patients. He said that oxygen-supported beds are available at the District Headquarters Hospital, Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai and government hospitals in the district. Also, CCC’s were kept ready across the district, he added. Health Department officials said that of the total 1,574 oxygen-supported beds, 79 were occupied and 1,495 were vacant. Likewise, of the total 849 non oxygen-supported beds, 104 were occupied and 745 were vacant. Of the total 437 ICU beds that were earmarked for treating COVID-19 patients, 10 beds were occupied and 427 beds were vacant. Thus, a total of 2,667 beds remain vacant in the hospitals in the district. Of the total 825 beds in the Covid Care Centres, one bed was occupied, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-all-facilities-are-available-for-patients-in-hospitals-collector/article64948301.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 500 spot fine imposed for not wearing mask in Erode||With COVID-19 active cases crossing 3,300 in the district on Tuesday, the Corporation has started to act tough on people who violate protocols, including imposing a fine of Rs. 500 on persons for not wearing masks in public places. Over 1,600 cases were reported in the district in the last three days of which two-third of the cases were reported in Corporation limits. Containment measures The Corporation began to intensify containment measures and officials were asked to ensure that stern action is taken against persons violating COVID-19 protocols. A fine of Rs. 500 is levied on persons for not wearing masks in public places. Officials levied fines on bus drivers and commuters at the bus stand for non-compliance and advised them to wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-500-spot-fine-imposed-for-not-wearing-mask-in-erode/article64948296.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||15th Century hero stone discovered in Erode||A 15th Century hero stone, without inscriptions, was discovered by a team of archaeological enthusiasts at Thanthondreeswarar Sivan temple in Nambiyur, Erode district, recently. A team from the Tiruppur-based Virarajendran Archaeological and Historical Research Centre, led by its director S. Ravikumar, and members K. Ponnusamy and priest B. Shanmugasundaram, discovered the hero stone inside the temple that is believed to be 600 years old. Based on the information given by head priest Balathandapani, the team visited the temple and found the hero stone measuring 80 cm in height and 65 cm in width.  The hero is seen holding a sword in his raised right hand and a shield in his left hand. His tufted hair is seen standing straight, and he wears kundalam in his ears and a long chain on his chest and a three-fold outfit is seen on the lower part of the body. The hero also holds a small sword at his hip. A tiger is seen biting the hero’s right hand and its forelegs are on the hero’s chest. The tiger’s left hind leg is on the hero’s right leg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15th-century-hero-stone-discovered-in-erode/article64948310.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cow killed in attack by wild elephants||A cow was killed in an attack by two wild elephants at Talavadi in the early hours of Wednesday. Puttusitha (60) of Mallankuzhi village has three cows that were kept at the shed at the backyard of the house. Two elephants from Jerahalli Forest Range entered the village and damaged the cow shed. On hearing the sound, Puttasitha came out of the house and found the cow dead. He raised an alarm and villagers chased the elephants into forests. Villagers said that since crops are in the harvesting stage, wild elephants frequently invade their crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cow-killed-in-attack-by-wild-elephants/article38295259.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers take out protest march against Mekadatu project||Farmers led by the Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam on Wednesday took out a protest march to the inter-State border slamming the Karnataka government’s Mekadatu dam project. The march was, however, scuttled by the police, with the rallying protesters indulging in a scuffle with the policemen deployed en route. A little over 50 farmers led by P.R. Pandian, general secretary, Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam, had begun the rally from Tiruvarur at the tail-end of Cauvery delta on January 18, intending to cross over the inter-State border in Hosur to march to Mekadatu, the site of the contested project. According to the farmers, the Centre should revoke the permission given to that State government to prepare a draft project report, and reiterate the rights of lower riparian States that would be hit, if the project came to fruition. ‘Construct dam’ Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam also demanded that the Tamil Nadu government construct a dam in Rasimanal near Hogenakkal, a project long conceived by the government but was not taken forward for implementation, according to the protesters. The protesters also slammed the Karnataka’s opposition, led by the Congress, that had commenced a march of its own to urge their State government, led by the BJP, to expedite the dam in Mekadatu.The protesters were stopped near Mookandapalli..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-take-out-protest-march-against-mekadatu-project/article64948299.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in mudslide||Two women were killed trapped under a mudslide in an illegally mined poramboke site here in Thally on Wednesday. The incident occurred in Samanatham village, where government land was illegally mined for making bricks.The site was excavated of its soil for upto 10 feet, according to sources. Four women, upon information that the floor of the mined site was bedded with limestone that could be ground to make kolam powder, reached the site to collect stones. According to the police, the site caved in. Radha, Lakshmi, Umi, and Vimalamma were trapped under the mudslide. Two of the victims died. Two others injured have been admitted to Hosur government hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-mudslide/article38295255.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kavitha, Damodar Reddy take oath as MLCs||K. Kavitha and K. Damodar Reddy took oath as MLCs at the Legislative Council. Protem chairman Syed Aminul Hasan Jafri administered them the oath at his chambers on Wednesday. Minister for Legislative Affairs Vemula Prashant Reddy, Home Minister Mahmood Ali, Minister Satyavati Rathore, Legislative Council Whip Prabhakar Rao, Rythu Bandhu Samithi Chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, were present at the oath-taking ceremony. Ms. Kavitha thanked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Nizamabad district local representatives for electing her unopposed to the Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kavitha-damodar-reddy-take-oath-as-mlcs/article64948131.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Tree felling in Mullaperiyar a long-standing practice’||The Kerala government has been allowing Tamil Nadu to fell trees and clear jungle growth around the baby dam of the Mullaperiyar dam since early 1980s, according to documents. Incidentally, the State government had in November suspended Bennichan Thomas, Chief Wildlife Warden, Kerala, for permitting the felling of 15 trees in the area adjacent to the baby dam and revoked the order for cutting the trees. Three weeks later the official was reinstated to the same post. The practice In his reply to the charge memo, Mr. Thomas pointed out to the government that “in earlier years, the permissions for tree felling for the strengthening and allied works of Mullaperiyar Dam were issued by the Wildlife Preservation Officer/Deputy Director, Thekkady, or by the Field Director (Project Tiger), Kottayam.” He also produced government orders permitting the cutting of trees and jungle growth in the area adjacent to the baby dam from 1982 to 2012 to prove his point. In one such order, the office of the Field Director, Project Tiger, Kottayam, had directed the Wildlife Preservation Officer, Thekkady, on September 24, 1984 that “action can be taken to cut trees essentially required in connection with the dam works” under the Periyar Dam Lease Agreement. Transporting materials Another order issued by the Deputy Director (Project Tiger) of the Periyar East Division, on September 25, 2012, had permitted the Assistant Executive Engineer of the PWD/WRO of Tamil Nadu to transport the materials from the jungle clearance around the main dam, the baby dam and spillway shutters through the Vallakadavu forest check-post. Mr. Thomas said the tree-felling order was issued in good faith and based on the directives of the Supreme Court, the decision of the supervisory panel on the Mullaperiyar dam, the written directive from the government and the decisions of the meeting held by the Additional Chief Secretary (Water Resources), attended by the Principal Secretary, Forests and Wildlife. The order was also communicated to the Additional Chief Secretary (Water Resources) and the Principal Secretary, Forests and Wildlife, through email and through a special messenger, he said. He pointed out that the State Forest Minister “was not the Minister in Charge of the Mullaperiyar leased area.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tree-felling-in-mullaperiyar-a-long-standing-practice/article64948090.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Meeting discusses awareness drive||Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy held a consultative meeting on COVID containment measures and awareness drive on the pandemic at the Collectorate on Wednesday. Addressing the line departments involved in COVID containment, Dr. Reddy underlined strict enforcement of COVID guidelines and as an extension, penalties for violations of the protocols. The Collector also reviewed the arrangements ahead of the 19th mass vaccination camp scheduled to be held in 732 centers across the district on Thursday. According to the Collector, 13,18,371 people have taken the first dose, and 8,15,759 people have taken the second dose. As of date, 21,34,130 doses have been administered in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-discusses-awareness-drive/article38295256.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shutdown in Krishnagiri||Monthly maintenance works will be carried out in Krishnagiri, Boganapalli, Bayanapalli, Alappatty, Marikkampatty and Madepalli electricity substations on Thursday. Hence, there will be a power shutdown in Krishnagiri town, Rajaji Nagar, Housing board 1 and 2, Collectorate, Pazhayapettai, Kattinayanapalli, government arts college, KRO dam, Kundalpatty, Katheri, Alapatty, Sulagunda, Mittapalli, Gangaleri, Thalapatty, Semtamuthur, Bellarampalli, K.M.Patty, Kulium, Kundarapalli, Sudekuppam, Madepatty, Bayanampalli, Thirumalainagar, Danampatty, Kondepalli, Billanakuppam, samanthamalai, Thalavaipalli, Nedumaruthi, K.Thippanapalli, P.Kothur, Kallukurukki, Melpatty, Poosaripatty, Veppanapalli, Sigaramaganapalli, Chinnaboommarasanapalli, Naduvanapali, Madepalli, Naranikuppam and Ramasandhiram from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.   Officials at the Central Prison here seized a mobile phone from an inmate on Wednesday. Prison officials received a tip-off that a mobile phone was used by an inmate following which special teams were formed and searches were conducted at the sixth block. The team seized a mobile phone, a charger and a SIM card from the prison cell. Inquiries revealed that three prisoners, who were detained under the Goondas Act, had allegedly paid 20,000 to a prison official and obtained the phone. A complaint was lodged with the Hasthampatti police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shutdown-in-krishnagiri/article38295266.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown leaves puppetry’s future hanging by a thread||T.S. Murugan calls his clan a ‘ kalai kudumbam ’ (artistic family). As the third-generation exponent of the ancient folk art of Bommalattam puppetry based out of Kumbakonam, Mr. Murugan has grown up in a family steeped in the tradition for several decades. “My grandfather, father, mother, younger brothers, my wife, and even my sons, have been performing Bommalattam , even though things have been precarious during the pandemic.” The lockdown is just one of the more recent challenges facing this niche performing art, once an integral part of Tamil Nadu’s folk tradition.   Mr. Murugan’s family-run Sri Murugan Sangeetha Bommalatta Sabha is the last surviving puppet theatre troupe of its kind in Kumbakonam, a far cry from the days when at least four companies were kept busy by patrons in the small temple town, and several more entertained audiences all over Tamil Nadu. “We were thriving when our troupe got booked for temple festivals or social occasions. But with the lockdown’s restrictions on public gatherings, we have lost the opportunity to showcase our art,” Mr. Murugan told The Hindu in a telephonic interview.   While the troupe would be busy with at least 15 engagements in a month during pre-pandemic days, it has been able to perform just two live shows in the past year. Once known primarily for its devotional themes, Bommalattam has modernised its repertoire with social plays, incorporating elements of variety hall entertainment and slapstick comedy to keep audiences engaged. “Several artisans, puppeteers, tailors, carpenters and musicians depend on us for their livelihood. We have been relying on donations from philanthropists and educational institutions for our survival. It is a sad development for an ancient art that finds mention in the Thirukkural ,” Mr. Murugan said. Mr. Murugan dropped out of school to join his father, Kalaimamani awardee T. N. Sankaranathan, a legend in the field, especially for his talent in adapting Carnatic music to the puppetry idiom. Mr. Sankaranathan, who passed away in 2019, learned the art from his foster father Mani Iyer, and was trained formally in music by ‘Violin’ Rajamanickam Pillai.  He rued the cancellation of many signature events in the Sabha’s calendar due to lockdown. “We had been conducting programmes at Sri Saptharishishwarar Temple, Lalgudi, for 80 years from my grandfather’s time; we had to miss it this year due to the pandemic. The Illam Thedi Kalvi (Education at the Doorstep) scheme also left us out for the school remedial sessions; puppetry could have been easily incorporated into the curriculum, and more children could be trained in the art,” said Mr. Murugan.  To keep themselves in form, the troupe’s members rehearse often. Mr. Murugan trains young children in Bommalattam , and is open to the idea of going online. “We could stream our shows online with support from other theatre companies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-leaves-puppetrys-future-hanging-by-a-thread/article64948107.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) seeks 4 more industrial estates in Madurai district||The CPI (M) has sought four new industrial estates in Madurai district to solve unemployment problem. The party’s Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan and district secretaries M. Ganesan and K. Rajendran handed over a memorandum containing a charter of demands to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in Chennai on Wednesday. In the memorandum, the party said less than 5% of the industrial units in the district were functioning inside the three industrial estates. Therefore, four more industrial estates, including one at Melur, should be set up. The party also wanted to classify 10% of the land in the district for industrial use by the newly-created Madurai City Development Authority. The present classification of 4% of land for industrial use was inadequate. The memorandum also demanded appointment of a senior bureaucrat to implement Madurai-Thoothukudi Industrial Corridor Project, which has not taken off for several years. The government should set up two or three industrial parks along the corridor. Textile marketing The party also sought marketing facility in Madurai for textile and handloom goods being produced in southern districts. It demanded shifting of Madurai Central Prison from the heart of the city to the outskirts. A museum on Tamil civilization can be set up at its present location. On the infrastructure front, the CPI (M) sought seamless road facilities on either sides of the Vaigai connecting Fatima College junction and Kalavasal junction with Ring Road. Besides, its sought new bridges at Viraganoor junction, Mandela Nagar junction, Melamadai and elevated corridor on Government Rajaji Hospital Road, at Mattuthavani, South Gate and Goripalayam. The party also wanted repair works on Mayor Muthu road overbridge taken up on a priority basis. Metro service Seeking Metro train services in Madurai, the memorandum appealed to the government to identify the route. Underground drainage system should be provided for the uncovered areas along with additional pumping facility. Efforts should be made to prevent sewage water being let into Vaigai river. The memorandum also sought Rs. 150 crore special funds for improving roads and pedestrian pathways. The other demands include building of a modern gallery for jallikattu at Alanganallur, setting up of new government arts and science college in the district, ITI college at Kottampatti and conversion of Madurai Kamaraj University College into a government college. It also wanted construction of the underpass across Inner Ring Road expedited to facilitate extension of airport runway. Special funds to the tune of Rs. 10 crore should be allocated to make National Cooperative Sugar Mills at Alanganallur functional. Diversion of water through Periyar Main Canal to Sathiyar dam to irrigate an additional 2,000 acres was also sought.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-m-seeks-4-more-industrial-estates-in-madurai-district/article64948258.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes FIR against advocate||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday quashed an FIR registered against an advocate from Kamuthi in Ramanathapuram for allegedly passing certain remarks against Kamuthi Bar Association. The court was hearing a petition filed by S. Ramanathan, who sought quashing of the FIR registered against him based on a complaint lodged by the then president of Kamuthi Bar Association, N. Muniyasamy. Mr. Ramanathan had sent a voice note on WhatsApp to another advocate, Muthu Irulappan, after it was brought to light that Mr. Muniyasamy in May last had sexually assaulted a woman court staff. He had condemned the Kamuthi Bar Association. Irked by the remarks, Mr. Muniyasamy lodged a complaint and police registered the FIR against Mr. Ramanathan under Section 294 (b) of the IPC (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words in or near any public place). Justice G.R. Swaminathan noted that the petitioner had sent a voice note to his friend, who, in turn, forwarded it to the WhatsApp group of the Bar Association. He had only sent a private message, the judge said. The court said the offence under Section 294 (b) of the IPC was not made out and quashed the FIR. However, the advocate was directed to submit a written apology to Bar Association members. The court, on an earlier petition filed by Mr. Ramanathan, had directed the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to take action against Mr. Muniyasamy for sexually assaulting the court staff. Based on the direction, he was prohibited from practising as an advocate pending disciplinary proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-bench-quashes-fir-against-advocate/article38295239.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||High Court upholds appointment||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed a 2014 petition challenging the qualification and appointment of a person as Reader/Associate Professor in the Department of Education and Management in Tamil University, Thanjavur. The court was hearing the petition filed by S. Ravivarman, president of Tamil University SC/ST Teacher Employee Development Association, who challenged the appointment of K. Chinnappan as Reader in Tamil University. At the time of appointment in 2007, Mr. Chinnappan did not possess the mandatory and minimum qualification of Ph.D in Education and completed it only in 2011, the petitioner said adding that he sent representations to authorities. Justice S. Srimathy observed that the petition was hit by latches. The promotion was granted in 2007, then a representation was made in 2011 and a petition was filed in 2014. The court took note of the fact that Mr. Chinnappan had Ph.D in Tamilology (Drama). The petitioner contended that the university prescribed one of the qualifications as Ph.D in Education, but Mr. Chinnappan held Ph.D in Tamilology (Drama). Therefore, he was not qualified. However, Tamil University submitted that it had never published such a notification. As per the prescribed qualification, the Reader could be appointed if the candidate had a good academic record with a doctoral degree or equivalent published work. The court held the appointment of Mr. Chinnappan as valid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-upholds-appointment/article64948098.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea for grant of leave to prisoner dismissed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed a petition filed by a woman seeking a direction to the State to grant leave of two months to her husband serving time in Madurai Central Prison. The court was hearing the plea filed by K. Muthulakshmi of Usilampatti in Madurai district, stating that prison authorities had denied her request to grant leave of two months to her husband O. Kasirajan. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran observed that the prisoner could not ask for leave as a matter of right. In view of the pendency of another case against him, he was not entitled to the relief. In 2020, a Special Court convicted Kasirajan in cases booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act in Madurai and sentenced him to 10-year imprisonment. The State told the court that yet another case was pending trial against the petitioner’s husband before the Sessions Court in Kollam. The court dismissed the petition as devoid of merits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-grant-of-leave-to-prisoner-dismissed/article38295418.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Constable electrocuted||A police constable, C. Mahendran, 36, was electrocuted at his residence near Vadipatti on Wednesday. The deceased, who was attached to Alanganallur police station, came into contact with electricity when he tried to restore power supply at his house in Katchaikatti.He was rushed to Vadipatti Government Hospital where he was declared brought dead. The 2008-batch constable is survived by his wife and a son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-electrocuted/article38295417.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea seeks to protect tank||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Department of Fisheries and the Public Works Department on a PIL petition that complained about activities such as fish fingerlings being let into Madakulam tank in Madurai for breeding purposes. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan sought the report from officials on January 24. The authorities denied the allegation that irregular activities were taking place in the tank. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate K. Suriyamoorthy of Madurai. He said that Madakulam tank was the main source of groundwater in Madurai and it was used for irrigation purposes and as a drinking water source. Without any authority/ licence/permit, a few people slipped in fish fingerlings into the tank for breeding. In order to catch the fish, they opened the shutters and this resulted in wastage of water. The authorities must protect the tank and ensure that water was used judiciously for the purposes of irrigation and drinking water only. They should take action against those who were involved in the irregularities and wasted water, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-seeks-to-protect-tank/article38295413.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coconut-cum-copra secret auction held at Vadipatti||A coconut-cum-copra secret auction was held on Tuesday at the Vadipatti regulated market for the benefit of farmers. The auction was conducted adhering to COVID-19 guidelines, said the Madurai Market Committee. Six lots of coconuts were traded and the total number of coconuts was 17,095. The trade value was Rs. 1.5 lakh. Sixteen traders participated in the auction and six farmers benefitted. A total of 25 lots of copra was traded at the auction. The total quantity was 1,410 kgs and the trade value was Rs. 1.16 lakh. Six traders participated in the auction and 14 farmers benefitted, said a release by the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coconut-cum-copra-secret-auction-held-at-vadipatti/article38295416.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Conduct CMC admissions after counselling by Selection Committee, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed Tamil Nadu to conduct postgraduate admissions to the Vellore Christian Medical College (CMC) from the NEET merit list of students belonging to the Christian minority, after counselling is conducted by the State Selection Committee. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao said the order was passed taking into consideration the peculiar circumstances of the case. "We are of the considered view that for present academic year 2021-2022, students shall be allotted for PG admissions by the State government from the NEET merit list of students belonging to Christian minority, to all the PG seats from the list after counselling is conducted by Selection Committee," the court ordered. Taking into consideration the urgency of the matter involved, the court said the case would be listed again in March or April. A date would be conveyed. The court restrained itself from "expressing any views on the merits of the contentions, raised by the petitioner or the respondents". The court was hearing a writ petition filed by the CMC, to quash the Selection Committee's communication that the 2021-2022 admissions for UG and PG courses would be conducted purely on the basis of religious minority (Christian minority) as per NEET scores, following the 50-50 seat sharing policy. The petition sought non-interference from the State in the admission process to CMC Vellore. Appearing for CMC, senior advocate Shyam Divan and advocate Krishna Srinivasan, argued that it has been conducting admissions by taking students only after they have qualified NEET. The students have been admitted to the CMC after they have been recommended by the Selection Committee following counselling. This, according to him, would show that admissions were made on a merit basis. He said for the past three years admissions to the CMC for UG and PG courses were permitted through common counselling for 74% seats in UG and 70% for PG courses. He requested for the practice to continue. Additional Advocate General for Tamil Nadu, Amit Anand Tiwari, countered that the UG and PG courses' admissions were governed by the regulations of 1997 and 2017 respectively. Admissions to UG and PG courses ought to be on the basis of merit in the NEET. Mr. Tiwari argued that it was well-settled that government regulations were permissible in admissions to minority institutions too. He said the selection of candidates from the particular sect (Protestants) of the Christian minority was contrary to law and would not be permitted from 2021-2022. He argued that though from 2018-2019 students nominated by the petitioner from the particular sect were granted admissions, such candidates were found to be lower in merit than the other members of the Christian minority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conduct-cmc-admissions-after-counselling-by-selection-committee-says-supreme-court/article64948084.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Perambalur Collector tests COVID-19 positive||Perambalur District Collector P. Sri Venkata Priya has tested positive for COVID-19. Since the symptoms of the viral infection have been mild, the Collector has subjected herself to home isolation, said official sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perambalur-collector-tests-covid-19-positive/article38295227.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three women die in wall collapse in Perambalur||Three women died in a wall collapse in Perambalur town on Wednesday. Police identified the deceased as V. Ramayee (44), R. Poovayee (70) and K. Karpagam (55). The three women were sitting near a wall made of hollow blocks for a cow shed, when a portion of the wall collapsed all of a sudden and fell over them. The incident occurred at Kamban Nagar in the evening. The locals immediately rushed the three women to the Perambalur government hospital. Police sources said Ramayee died on the way to the hospital, while Karpagam and Poovayee succumbed to injuries later. The Perambalur Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-women-die-in-wall-collapse-in-perambalur/article38295216.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:39 IST,TAMIL NADU||A learning experience for budding artists in Puducherry||Artists from southern States are here for a five-day painters camp hosted by the Bharathiar Palkalaikoodam and the South Zone Cultural Centre, Thanjavur, Ministry of Culture. Over the five days, 20 established painters from the southern States will compose works and share tips on techniques with the students of the Palkalaikoodam and the local community of artists. The ‘Colours of South’ event is being conducted in compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols, said P.V. Bose, Principal-in-charge of Bharathiar Palkalaikoodam. Artists from Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are participating in the camp. The camp provides budding artists an opportunity to interact with and learn from leading practitioners of the visual arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-learning-experience-for-budding-artists-in-puducherry/article64948201.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:39 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 1,849 fresh cases; 3 deaths take total toll to 1,896||The Union Territory recorded three COVID-19 deaths and 1,849 fresh cases on Wednesday. All three deaths were reported in Puducherry, which took the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,896. Of these, Puducherry accounts for 1,479, Karaikal 254, Yanam 109 and Mahe 54. Of the fresh infections, Puducherry logged 1,316, detected from 6,116 tests, followed by 447 cases in Karaikal, 58 from Yanam and 28 from Mahe. With 895 patients recovering from the virus in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 11,344, of which 127 were in hospital and 11,217 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 30.23%, the case fatality rate 1.33% and the recovery rate 90.71%. The Union Territory has registered an aggregate of 1,42,559 cases and 1,29,319 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 21.05 lakh tests carried out till date, over 17.81 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 4,808 persons took COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered a total of 15,08,290 doses. Other districts Cuddalore reported one COVID-19 death and 494 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 67,591. The official toll stood at 878. Villupuram recorded 272 cases, taking the total number of cases to 48,018. Kallakurichi recorded 190 fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-1849-fresh-cases-3-deaths-take-total-toll-to-1896/article64948196.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||NEP will make a big change in the education sector: L-G||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday said the National Education Policy (NEP) held the potential to make a huge difference in the education sector. In a virtual address at a seminar on “National Professional Standards for Teachers,” co-hosted by the National Council For Teacher Education and the School of Education, Pondicherry University, the Lieutenant Governor said the NEP lay emphasis on the need to create world-class multi-purpose educational institutions that focus on students’ secular knowledge. Gandhi’s vision The NEP embodies Mahatma Gandhi’s vision of education as a means to bring out the best in the human body’s mind and soul and at the same time is designed to meet the needs of the 21st century, she said. No discrimination The Lieutenant Governor added that under the Prime Minister’s Skill India mission, each student will be taught the vocational course of their choice at a school-level, without any discrimination between art and science streams. Noting that the COVID-19 pandemic had a major impact on education, the Lieutenant Governor said the crisis also afforded an opportunity to modernise and infuse technology into the e-learning space. She urged teachers to develop their skills to keep abreast of changes and be versatile in adapting to newer technologies. Kesang Yangzom Sherpa, Member Secretary, and Santhosh Kumar Sarangi, chairperson NCTE, Gurmeet Singh, Vice Chancellor, Pondicherry University and School of Education faculty spoke during the occasion.  The NEP embodies Mahatma Gandhi’s vision of education as a means to bring out the best in the human body’s mind and soul Tamilisai Soundararajan Lieutenant Governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nep-will-make-a-big-change-in-the-education-sector-l-g/article64948119.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Colleges told to collect tuition fee fixed in 2018||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has issued an order, directing private medical colleges in Puducherry to collect the tuition fee fixed in 2018. The order was issued after Pondicherry State Students and Parents Welfare Association raised objection to the decision of the present fee committee, headed by a retired judge of the Madras High Court, Justice T. Sudandiram, to increase the fee for the current academic year. The fee committee, in its meetings held in October, decided to revise the fee structure for MBBS/BDS/B.Sc nursing/B.Pharm courses for three years, starting 2021-22 academic year. In an order, issued last week, the Lieutenant Governor said “in the larger interest of the students and the fact that medical colleges are conducting classes in hybrid mode, both offline and online, the continuation of the fee fixed by the earlier committee for the academic year 2021-22 may not be detrimental to the institution.” Hence, the fee fixed by the earlier committee will continue. In 2018, it had fixed Rs. 3.80 lakh for government-sponsored students in private medical colleges, president of the association V. Balasubramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-told-to-collect-tuition-fee-fixed-in-2018/article64948122.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:39 IST,TAMIL NADU||Takeover of Press Club condemned||The Puducherry Print and Television Journalists’ Association has condemned the hostile takeover of the Kashmir Press Club by a group of journalists with the assistance of police and administration. R. K. Raja, Association president, in a statement, urged Union Home Minister Amit Shah to institute an investigation into the incident. He said the incident was aimed at subverting elections in the press club and asked the Union Minister to ensure democratic norms were re-established.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/takeover-of-press-club-condemned/article38295489.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||20 injured in jallikattu held in Pudukottai||Twenty people were injured in a jallikattu held at Kulamangalam in Pudukottai district on Wednesday. Law Minister S. Regupathy inaugurated the event, which lasted nearly four-and-a-half hours. A total of 606 bulls were released one after the other into the arena, and 150 tamers took part in batches. Police sources said 16 of the injured were treated as out-patients at the venue, while four were referred to the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital. Nine tamers, seven bull-owners and four spectators were injured. Elaborate arrangements were made for the event, which attracted a large number of spectators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-injured-in-jallikattu-in-pudukottai/article38295232.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat president held on cheating charge||A panchayat president in the district was arrested on Wednesday on a charge of cheating after he allegedly failed to arrange employment abroad for many persons as promised. Police gave the name of the accused as P. Rajamanickam (38) of Mudukupatti in Rayavaram. He was the president of the Ayankudi panchayat and also the student wing deputy organiser of the DMK. Police sources said Rajamanickam had allegedly collected around Rs. 30 lakh from many persons promising them employment abroad. However, he neither arranged employment nor returned their money. The Pudukottai Town police have registered a case against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-president-arrested-on-cheating-charge/article38295214.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||CPI cadre stage stir||A group of about 30 members of the Communist Party of India staged a demonstration here on Wednesday condemning the Central government for rejecting the Tamil Nadu’s tableaux for the Republic Day parade to be held in New Delhi on January 26. The party members assembled near the Anna statue where they raised slogans against the Centre. The demonstration was led by the party’s district secretary Madhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-cadre-stage-stir/article38295219.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lighthouse work in final stage||The construction of a modern 50-metre-high lighthouse at Dhanushkodi, at a cost of Rs. 7 crore, is at an advanced stage and is expected to be completed soon. The work began two years back. Besides providing navigational guidance to fishermen and vessels passing through the Gulf of Mannar and Palk Strait, the lighthouse would be a huge tourist attraction amidst the ruins of Dhanushkodi seashore. A visitors’ gallery that would give an aerial view of the beautiful beach and the sea and the ruins of 1964 cyclone to the tourists is coming up in the tall structure. Children play area and landscaping will provide additional attractions. The lighting facility of the lighthouse will have a range for up to 20 nautical miles. Another speciality is that it would use clean energy as it would be electrified by solar power. Dhanushkodi lighthouse will be the fifth such facility in the coastal district of Ramanathapuram after Pasipattinam, Pamban, Rameswaram and Keelakkarai. Coast Guard will have its radar facility at the lighthouse to improve its monitoring system on movement of vessels and fishing boats in the Gulf of Mannar and Palk Strait.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lighthouse-work-in-final-stage/article64948137.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Burning of garbage a cause for concern for residents||Indiscriminate burning of garbage dumped at a vacant land in Sivaya Nagar in Ward 3 has caused concern among the residents and road users who urge the corporation to intervene immediately so that garbage was disposed of properly. Hundreds of households are located in the area and conservancy workers collect garbage from the houses every day and transport it to the street corner, dump it and set it on fire. Residents claim that this is done regularly by the workers causing pollution in the area. “Two-third of the waste comprise plastics that are burnt causing respiratory problems to many”, said a resident. They say that workers are unmindful of the effects of burning garbage as they focus only on dumping and burning it off. “It is almost an everyday process done here”, said a resident speaking on anonymity. Residents said that burning plastic waste in residential areas led to release of toxic gases affecting all, particularly elders and children. Since garbage mounds on street corners are burnt, many residents prefer dumping the waste at the spot round-the-clock. Also, dark fumes pose hardship to the residents and road users who have to cover their face while crossing the stretch. Residents said that garbage collected in pushcarts should be transferred to trucks for effective disposal. “The problem is perennial and we want the corporation to take necessary steps to stop dumping and burning of garbage”, residents added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burning-of-garbage-a-cause-for-concern-for-residents/article64948303.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three more trains get unreserved coaches||With the easing of COVID-19 restrictions, the Railways have restored unreserved coaches in a phased manner in three trains. A release from the Salem Railway Division said that unreserved accommodation will be restored in the following train services. Train No. 12678 Ernakulam Junction – KSR Bengaluru Intercity Express will have four general second class coaches and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches from January 20. Train No. 16235 Tuticorin – Mysore Express will have two luggage-cum-brake van coaches from January 21 while Train No. 22616 Coimbatore Junction – Tirupathi Express will have six general second class coaches and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches from February 8, the release said. Timings revised Palakkad Railway Division on Wednesday revised the timings of Train No. 16732 Tiruchendur – Palakkad Express between Pollachi and Palakkad Junctions from January 24. As per the revised timings, the train will arrive at Pollachi Junction at 8.30 p.m. and depart by 8.35 p.m. Stoppages Following stoppages at Anamalai Road (8.40 p.m.), Minatchipuram (8.51 p.m.), Muthalamada (9.02 p.m.), Kollengode (9.12 p.m.), Pudunagaram (9.24 p.m.) and Palakkad Town (9.34 p.m.) railway stations for a duration of one minute each, the train will arrive at Palakkad Junction at 10.05 p.m. from January 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-more-trains-get-unreserved-coaches/article38295160.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special camps at 22 hospitals to administer booster dose||Special camps to administer booster dose vaccine for persons who have completed the second dose 39 weeks or nine months ago will be held at 22 hospitals in the district from Thursday. Collector S. Karmegam in a release said that COVID-19 vaccine is administered to eligible persons in the district from January 16, 2021. So far, 25,70,070 persons above 15 years have received their first dose while 16,68,534 persons received their second dose. Thus, 88% persons above 15 years have received their first dose while 57% received their second dose, the release said. Of the total 58,024 persons eligible for receiving booster dose vaccine, 5,336 have received the booster dose, so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camps-at-22-hospitals-to-administer-booster-dose/article38295267.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Foundation stone laid for Bharathi Centre at Kadayam||Speaker M. Appavu on Wednesday laid the foundation stone for Bharathi Centre to be built at Kadayam, the native place of the poet’s wife Chellammal, on an outlay of Rs. 2 crore. Two statues The centre, to be built by Sevalaya, a non-governmental organisation, will come up on Kadayam library premises, where life-size bronze statues of Bharathi and Chellammal will also be installed. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Appavu recalled Bharathi’s contribution to Tamil literature and his sustained struggle against inequality, especially the oppressive measures in vogue during his days against women and the members of different communities. “Bharathi never led a life for his family… He, a proud Indian, lived for Tamil. Hence, the Tamil Nadu government is celebrating his memories and contributions,” Mr. Appavu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharathi-centre-at-kadayam/article38295412.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||1 tonne of ration rice seized, one arrested||Civil Supplies CID police have seized 1 tonne of ration rice and arrested a man in this connection. The police said they stopped a mini cargo vehicle at Vengadampatti near Kadayam during a vehicle check on Wednesday, and found 1,050 kg of ration rice loaded in it. They arrested driver R. Sivakumar, 24, of Keezha Pappakudi near Cheranmahadevi in Tirunelveli district. The police are searching for vehicle owner G. Thiraviya Velan of Veerakeralampudur, who purchased the ration rice from the public and smuggled it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ration-rice-seized/article38295411.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Due to slow pace of work UGD project may miss the deadline||The phase-II of the underground drainage (UGD) scheme is unlikely to be completed within the stipulated schedule as the works are progressing slowly. The project was aimed at bringing hitherto unserved areas under the underground drainage network in the city. The project, estimated to cost Rs. 344 crore, is being implemented under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. Out of the estimated cost, the share of the Centre, State and Tiruchi Corporation is in 50:30:20 ratio. For the speedy completion of works, the Commissionerate of Municipal Administration had divided the project into three packages. They were awarded to three different contractors one after another. One of them began the construction work in June 2018. Other two contractors too started their respective works subsequently. Many streets and residential colonies of 25 wards, which were omitted in the phase-I of the UGD project, were included in the phase-II project. Devathanam, AUT Colony (Woraiyur), Fathima Nagar, Vekkaliamman Nagar, Cauvery Nagar, John Thoppu, Ananda Avenue, Dharanallur (North), Pichai Nagar, Viswas Nagar, Mahalakshmi Nagar, Akilandeswari Nagar, Natharsha Pallivasal, Maris Avenue, Friends Enclave, Raja Colony, Ammaiyappa Nagar, Geetha Nagar, Annamalai Nagar and Jayam Nagar were among the residential areas, where the phase-II UGD project were under way. The project was supposed to be completed within four years from the date of issue of work orders. One of the packages was due for completion by August 2022. Going by the slow progress of work, the work is likely to drag on beyond the scheduled period of completion. While most of the works in Raja Colony, Maris Avenue, SBI Officers Colony, Annamalai Nagar, Devathanam, Kattur and Ariyamangalam were completed, works were still in progress in several other areas. According to official sources, more than 65% of works have so far been completed. Sewer lines for about 230 km have been laid. Similarly, 9851 manholes have so far been erected. Three lifting stations and 18 civil works have been completed. Extended spells of rain in 2021 during the northeast monsoon, shortage of manpower mainly in total lockdown in 2020 and delay over mandatory clearances from the few departments for lying sewer lines across major roads were said to have delayed the works.  Corporation Commissioner P. M. N. Mujibur Rahuman told The Hindu that the progress of the works in three packages of phase-II underground project was being monitored and reviewed frequently. Works could not be carried to the expected level for three months from October due to heavy rain. The Corporation was committed to completing the project as early as possible. The contractors had been asked to expedite the works by employing more workers. The progress would be reviewed every week.  Mr. Rahuman said that instructions had been given to the contractors to relay road works in the areas, where UGD works were over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/due-to-slow-pace-of-work-ugd-project-may-miss-the-deadline/article64948094.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||88% of teenagers have got their shot||Around 88% of children in the age group of 15 - 18 have been administered the COVID-19 vaccine. With the closure of schools due to sudden increase in cases, authorities have urged the children, who have not taken the shot so far, to go to the nearest Primary Healthcare Centre (PHC) to get the jab. Health officials in the district attributed the speed of the drive to taking the vaccine directly to schools, wherein children could get it easily. Between January 3, which is when the drive began, and January 19, 88% of the 1,26,000 eligible population had been given the vaccination. Most children were able to get the jab at schools, but since the schools were closed in order to prevent the spread of the viral infection, the PHCs across the district have been readied to inoculate them.  Speaking to The Hindu , A. Subramani, Deputy Director of Health Services, said that PHCs in all 14 blocks in the rural and semi-urban parts of the district, and 18 PHCs within Tiruchi Corporation limits would give the vaccine to students who produce their Aadhar card. Dropouts and those enrolled at skill training institutes can utilise this facility too, he said.  Within Tiruchi city alone, 34,520 of the 41,341 children have been inoculated with the vaccine. The PHC at Teppakulam has inoculated the highest number of children- 6,502, while Ramalinga Nagar PHC inoculated 3,595. Beerangikulam PHC has inoculated the lowest- with only seven children taking the vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/88-of-teenagers-have-got-their-shot/article64948101.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi may get its first male Mayor||The de-reservation of the Mayor’s post of Tiruchi Corporation has opened upon the possibility of a male contender coming to occupy the position for the first time. All those who had occupied the position since the first election for the post held in 1996, two years after Tiruchi’s upgradation as a corporation, have been women. In the first election, late Punithavalli Palaniyandi of the Tamil Maanila Congress was declared elected. The then Deputy Mayor Emily Richard of the Congress was in charge briefly following Punithavalli’s demise. Sarubala R.Tondaiman was elected to the post twice in 2001 and 2006. Although the post was de-reserved and converted as a general seat in 2006; Ms.Tondaiman got elected to the post as the DMK alloted the seat to the Congress. S. Sujatha held the position for a couple of years after Ms. Tondaiman resigned to contest the Lok Sabha elections in 2009. The AIADMK won the post for the first time in 2011 with A. Jaya being elected to the post. The DMK, which has never occupied the position so far, is keen to wrest control of the civic body and is expected to field a strong candidate. The party’s principal secretary and Municipal Administration K. N. Nehru has already held a meeting with local leaders of the alliance parties. Representatives of some of the alliance parties, who attended the meet, observed that there were clear indications that the DMK is keen on gaining a majority in the civic body and wrest the Mayor’s seat in what is expected to be an indirect election for the post. “It is quite apparent that the DMK had been waiting for this opportunity for long and is faced with the compulsion of having to satisfy its functionaries. Given the large number of allies, we may have to settle for fewer seats (wards) in the alliance this time around,” conceded, a representative of an alliance party. In M. Anbazhagan, former two-time Deputy Mayor and four-time councillor, the DMK has an experienced candidate in its ranks. Alliance compulsions had put paid to his aspiration to become the Mayor in 2006. A staunch supporter of Mr. Nehru, Mr. Anbazhagan could well be the DMK’s choice for the Mayor’s post unless the party’s south district secretary and Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi manages to push through his nominee. Mr. Anbazhagan, who is quietly confident of his credentials, however, maintained that the party will decide on the candidate. The AIADMK, which opted for a new face in 2011, does not have a clear frontrunner for the post as of now, as it is faced with the task of recovering some of the lost ground from the resurgent DMK-front which swept all constituencies not only in the city but the entire Tiruchi district in the 2021 Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-may-get-its-first-male-mayor/article38295231.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi needs more Corporation Higher Secondary Schools||Educationists expect Tiruchi Corporation to initiate measures for upgrade of some of its high schools into higher secondary schools in the interests of the working class. Currently, there are only two Corporation Higher Secondary Schools in the city. Students in the Corporation schools, after their upper primary classes, mostly pursue their education in government-aided higher secondary schools. There are quite a number of government-aided higher secondary schools in the city, and a chunk falls under the minority category institutions. The number of applicants are several times more than the available number of seats at the higher secondary level in these institutions. The stand of the managements of government-aided schools, in general, is that there are difficulties involved in accommodating higher number of students from corporation schools in classes IX due to factors such as shortage of teachers and classrooms. The presence of a sole government higher secondary school in the city limits (Syed Murtuza Govt. HSS) has been a solace to the working class. "The scope for upgrading corporation high schools into higher secondary schools must be explored by the civic body in right earnest," S. Sivakumar, a Tiruchi-based educationist and former Principal of DIET, Kancheepuram, said. The presence of a good number of government higher secondary schools in the city's peripheries including Sholamadevi, Thuvakudi, Somarasanpettai, and Arasangudi are indeed favourable to the working class. But, the start of government higher secondary schools by the Corporation by upgrading high schools in places such as Ariyamangalam will be of immense benefit to the economically backward families, according to a headmaster of an upper primary school in Tiruverumbur block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-needs-more-corporation-higher-secondary-schools/article38295527.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Photography contest||The Department of Forests will conduct a district-level online photography contest as part of the World Wetlands Day observed on February 2. Participants can upload their entries to https://forms.gle/6xWFy2t NJQ4PWBYq5 by 5 p.m. on January 24. A committee headed by the Collector would select the winners, a release issued by G. Kiran, DFO, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/photography-contest/article38295230.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gazette notification issued for women wards||A gazette notification has been issued on the reservation of wards for women and Scheduled Castes (SC) in Tiruchi Corporation. According to the notification issued in the district gazette, out of the 65 wards, seven wards such as 17, 42, 65, 6, 8, 15 and 62 have been reserved for candidates from Scheduled Castes. Of them, wards-17, 42 and 65 have been made as SC general. Wards 6, 8, 15 and 62 have been reserved for Scheduled Castes (women). However, no ward has been reserved for Scheduled Tribes. The notification reveals further that wards-1, 3, 4, 7, 9, 11, 13, 18, 21, 22, 24, 26, 30, 31, 32, 33, 37, 44, 45, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 56, 58, 59, 63 and 64- have been reserved for women (general). In all there will be 33 women councillors in Tiruchi Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gazette-notification-issued-for-women-wards/article38295221.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nearly 2,000 positive cases in central region||The central districts on Wednesday reported 1,960 fresh COVID-19 cases. Two deaths were reported in the region - both in Tiruchi, according to the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Tiruchi and Thanjavur continued to report a large majority of the cases in the region. On Wednesday, Tiruchi reported 580 and Thanjavur 459. The other seven districts reported less than 200 cases each. A total of 184 persons tested positive in Tiruvarur, 154 in Karur and 140 in Mayiladuthurai. In Pudukottai, 128 patients reported positive, and in Nagapattinam 124. Perambalur district registered 103 cases and Ariyalur 88.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nearly-2000-positive-cases-in-central-region/article38295226.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 1 kg of smuggled gold seized at Tiruchi airport||Officials of the Customs Air Intelligence Unit seized a little over one kilogram of gold at the international airport on Tuesday. Acting on intelligence received, the officials intercepted a passenger who arrived from Sharjah. Officials found three packets of gold, in paste form, concealed in his rectum. A gold ingot of 24 karat purity which weighed 745 grams and valued at Rs. 36.49 lakh was recovered. Officials also found 66 gold pieces concealed in a Wi-Fi router, projection lamp and an electric kettle from another passenger who arrived from Dubai. The value of these was put at Rs. 15.33 lakh. Officials also seized foreign currency of 10,000 USD equivalent to Indian currency of Rs. 7.37 lakh from a Sharjah-bound passenger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1-kg-of-smuggled-gold-seized-at-tiruchi-airport/article64948106.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 112.42 feet on Wednesday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,138 cusecs and the discharge 8,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article64948097.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen warned against using purse seine nets||Collector V. Vishnu has warned the country boat fishermen of the district that using purse seine nets banned by the State government would lead to serious legal consequences, besides seizure of nets, boats and the entire catches. The State government, as per the Tamil Nadu Fishing Regulation Act 1983, has banned purse seine net as it seriously harms marine life. However, country boat fishermen continue to use manually hauled purse seine nets since this fishing method ensures better catch. Moreover, the uncontrolled use of purse seine nets triggers intense clash between the fishermen from different coastal villages. When the fishermen, who do not use this banned fishnet, brought the violation to the knowledge of officials, the ban was strictly imposed and the State government ordered surprise checks of vehicles carrying fish to markets in the coastal districts including Tirunelveli. Based on information, police and fisheries department officials seized purse seine nets. Although the affected fishermen protested against the drive and urged the government to allow them to use at least a modified version of the net, it was not allowed. When the fishermen grievance redrassal meet was recently held at Radhapuram, some of the participants, who do not use the banned nets, complained that most of the country boat fishermen were still using the banned nets. Mr. Vishnu, who chaired the meet, has warned that the purse seine net and its variants should not be used any more in the district. “It is a punishable offence under the existing norms in vogue. Fishermen living in coastal hamlets of Tirunelveli district between Kooduthaazhai to Koottappanai are advised against using the banned purse seine nets. If they dare to violate the ban, the nets, the country boat used for fishing and the catch will be confiscated. Legal proceedings will be initiated against the violators. Moreover, the welfare schemes being given to these fishermen will also be withdrawn,” he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-warned-against-using-purse-seine-nets/article38295238.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||New scheme to supply water||The Radhapuram Assembly segment, which recently got Rs. 271 crore for implementing a drinking water scheme for the benefit of 8 town panchayats in the constituency, is all set to get one more drinking water project. The new scheme, to be implemented under the Jal Jeevan Scheme, will benefit 179 habitations in Radhapuram union and 181 villages in Valliyoor union. “A detailed project report has been submitted to the Collector for his approval and forwarding it to the Department of Rural Development for the final nod. Since this region, which is close to the seashore, villages of this area are facing seawater intrusion threat so that these villages are badly in need of a drinking water scheme,” Speaker Appavu said on Wednesday. Another drinking water scheme, to be implemented under the Minimum Needs Programme (MNP) fund on an outlay of Rs. 12.80 crore, is expected to benefit Kaavalkinaru and the nearby Vadakkankulam village panchayats. “We’ve planned to sink the drinking water supply wells for this project at Kannimaaraathoppu near Panagudi, which will be a perennial source,” he said. The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD Board) will implement these projects. When asked about the failed Tsunami Drinking Water Scheme that has its drinking water source in the Tamirabharani at Ponnankurichi near Srivaikundam in Thoothukudi district, a TWAD Board official said the drinking water pipes were being damaged by the residents of Kaalvaai village for drawing water illegally. “Though we’ve taken so many measures to check this menace to ensure uninterrupted drinking water supply to the coastal areas of Tirunelveli district, the villagers continue to damage the pipes of Tsunami Drinking Water Scheme and draw water illegally. So we’ve designed an alternate route to lay drinking water pipes so as to take the water to the beneficiaries effectively,” said the official adding that this project would need Rs. 6 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-scheme-to-supply-water/article64948133.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mentally ill youth from Bihar reunited with family||A mentally-ill youth from Bihar, who was rescued in August last, has been rehabilitated and reunited with his family, thanks to the efforts of Collector V. Vishnu. When some people noticed a youth who swooned on the roadside in Tirunelveli Town during the lockdown, they informed Mr. Vishnu, who alerted Emergency Care and Rescue Centre (ECRC) authorities. Brought to the ECRC at Kandigaiperi, the mentally-ill youth was given rehabilitation measures and counselling that gradual improved his physical and mental health. As he performed ‘namaz’ one day and started crying in search of his parents, the counsellors tried to get more information from him, but in vain. Even though the video of the youth was shared on social media, no clue about his family was received. In subsequent counselling sessions, the youth told the counsellors that he was from Darbhanga in Bihar. Mr. Vishnu immediately contacted the Collector of Darbhanga district and shared the photos and videos of the youth. After an intense search, Darbhanga police located the youth’s father, Noor Mohammed, and identified the youth as Mohamed Riyaz. “We confirmed that Riyaz is the son of Mr. Mohammed through a video call and requested Darbhanga Collector to make arrangements for Mr. Mohamed’s travel to Tirunelveli. It was an emotional reunion when the father met his son after several months on Wednesday,” said Mr. Vishnu, who handed over the boy to his father in the presence of ECRC officials Saravanan and Usha. Mr. Vishnu appealed to Darbhanga Collector to help the youth start a business venture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mentally-ill-youth-from-bihar-reunited-with-family/article38295517.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Drive for booster dose in Tiruppur||The Health Department will organise a COVID-19 vaccination drive for booster dose across the Tiruppur district on January 20 (Thursday). A release issued by the district administration on Wednesday said the drive would be held in 77 vaccination centres comprising all government hospitals and primary health centres from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. A total of 4,08,600 eligible beneficiaries have been identified by the Health Department for the booster dose, who had taken their second dose of COVID-19 vaccines (Covishield or Covaxin) nine months or 39 weeks ago. The beneficiaries comprise 12,400 healthcare workers, 37,000 frontline workers and 3,59,200 persons aged over 60 years. The booster dose will be administered free of cost, the release noted. Meanwhile, Tiruppur Corporation urged the residents aged over 60 years to get the booster dose vaccines as per schedule. The eligible beneficiaries within the Corporation limits can contact the COVID-19 control room at 0421-2240852 for further details, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-for-booster-dose-in-tiruppur/article38295169.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Former govt. school headmistress arrested||The Tiruppur District Police on Wednesday arrested the former headmistress of Government High School in Iduvai near Tiruppur, who was booked under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, for allegedly discriminating against Scheduled Caste (SC) students in December 2021. The police said that Geetha (51) was booked by the Mangalam police under sections 3 (1) (r) (Whoever, not being a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe, intentionally insults or intimidates with intent to humiliate a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe in any place within public view) and 3 (1) (s) (abuses any member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe by caste name in any place within public view) of the SC/ST Act on December 24, 2021. As the investigation led by the Deputy Superintendent of Police – Palladam was progressing, the accused had applied for anticipatory bail at the Madras High Court and was subsequently directed to approach the District Court in Tiruppur, the police said. On Wednesday, Principal District and Sessions Judge Swarnam J. Natarajan dismissed her petition seeking anticipatory bail. She was arrested on the court premises following the issue of an arrest warrant and was remanded in judicial custody at Coimbatore Central Prison in the evening, according to the police. The accused woman was booked based on a complaint lodged by B. Saravanakumar, a member of the Vigilance and Monitoring Committee of the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, who alleged that she had verbally abused several SC girls studying in Classes IX and X using casteist slurs and allegedly forced them to clean the toilets in the school during her tenure as the headmistress. Prior to this on December 17, 2021, Chief Educational Officer for Tiruppur district R. Ramesh received a complaint from a group of Class IX and Class X students from the school, based on which he conducted an inquiry and placed Geetha under suspension till further notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-govt-school-headmistress-arrested/article38295157.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Burglars break into T. R. Baalu’s house||The Paravakottai police have registered a case of burglary attempt at the house of T. R. Baalu, Sriperumpudur MP and the DMK treasurer, at Thalikottai hamlet near Mannargudi. The burglars had also reportedly broken open the house of Mr. Baalu’s neighbour, Ganesan. Sources said the police received information on Wednesday afternoon stating that the MP’s house on the South Street in Thalikottai hamlet was found broken open. Subsequently, a team of policemen visited the scene of the crime and picked up the fingerprints found on the doors and other movable wooden/steel items in the house. Meanwhile, the police also noticed that the backdoor locks of Mr. Baalu’s neighbour, Ganesan’s house was also broken in. Mr. Ganesan stays in London with his family. The police were yet to ascertain whether any valuables or other properties have been stolen from the two houses, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burglars-break-into-t-r-baalus-house/article38295215.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Online registration can be done at DPC itself’||The Minister for Food and Civil Supplies, R. Sakkarapani, has said that farmers can register their names at the direct purchase centres (DPCs) for selling their paddy. Disclosing this to reporters at Mannargudi on Wednesday, he said that the new procedure of registering names online had been introduced by the Union Government. In case, farmers were unable to register their names online they could do so at the DPCs. It had been decided to open more than 1,000 DPCs across Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Mayiladuthurai, he said and added that more than 14 lakh tonnes of paddy would be procured during this season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-registration-can-be-done-at-dpc-itself/article38295211.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Good response to farmers’ grievance meet organised by the police||A meeting organised by the Tiruvarur District Police here on January 19 to help farmers air their grievances, has elicited a good response. Around 40 farmers attended the meeting convened by Superintendent of Police C. Vijayakumar. Farmers were asked to bring issues such as dispute over farm bunds, encroachment of irrigation channels and others which could be solved legally by the police. Receiving the petitions, the SP said that hereafter such meetings would be conducted in the first week of every month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-response-to-farmers-grievance-meet-organised-by-the-police/article38295208.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: mini war rooms set up across the Nilgiris||Mini war rooms have been set up in four municipalities, panchayat unions and 11 town panchayats in the Nilgiris district to handle the rise in number of COVID-19 cases. Meeting held Recently, the monitoring officer for the district and additional chief secretary to the State Government, Supriya Sahu, chaired a review meeting which was attended by District Collector S.P. Amrith and officials from the district administration. Following the meeting, the district administration said that Ms. Sahu had studied the number of COVID-19 cases being recorded in the district since the beginning of the month, which now stands at over 200 cases a day on an average.  She instructed officials to ensure that people living in containment zones in the district were given immunity-boosting medication and concoctions such as kabasura kudineer . The mini war rooms set up in the municipalities, panchayat unions and town panchayats have been tasked with ensuring that people have access to treatment as well as any assistance they may require.  Violators to be fined Ms. Sahu also asked officials to ensure that people venturing outside wear masks and practice personal distancing, failing which they should be fined. Shops and businesses that flout standard operating procedures would have action initiated against them, said Ms. Sahu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-mini-war-rooms-set-up-across-the-nilgiris/article38295170.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bull races keep veterinarians busy in Vellore, nearby districts||Bull races in Vellore, Tirupattur and Tiruvannamalai have kept veterinarians busy, especially since Pongal holidays, with an average of eight to ten injured bulls being treated in each village, where races are being held everyday. At present, bull races are allowed in all 670 villages in Vellore district in a phased manner. Everyday, three villages, shortlisted by the district administration, are permitted to conduct the race as per Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). The races will be held till the end of March.  “Each bull is examined mainly on its fitness to participate in the race. Bulls aged two and above are eligible. Most injured bulls are treated at the medical camp in the race village,” Dr. G. Andhuvan, Assistant Director (AD), Animal Husbandry Department (Vellore), told The Hindu .  Veterinarians said most of the bulls are allowed to run on the earmarked runway in the village, as part of the race. However, many bulls get nervous because of noise and excitement of the crowd, which makes them run to extreme ends of the runway and injure themselves, hitting wooden barricades. These animals are treated at the medical camp in the village and also transported to the hospital in key towns in the district. A five-member medical team, comprising a surgeon, two livestock inspectors and two animal husbandry assistants, has been deployed in each village where races are being held. They treat the bulls at the camp and shift them in an ambulance to the district hospital in Vellore for major injuries. Apart from injuries that bulls sustain, the waiting time to finish the race is long, as many bulls take part in each race. This causes fatigue to the bulls, veterinarians said. Tiruvannamalai and Tirupatur have also organised bull races in farming villages within major towns.Veterinarians said at present, no deaths of bulls were reported in all the races been held so far. A few spectators were killed due to accidents in such races, especially in Vellore, since last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bull-races-keep-vets-busy-in-3-districts/article64948123.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 251 fresh COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 54,762 with 251 fresh cases reported on January 19. With a total of 51,472 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 2,139. The district’s toll is 1151. Ranipet district reported 150 fresh infections and the total number of cases stood at 47,326. In Tirupattur district, 230 fresh case were reported on Wednesday and the overall cases stood at 31,279. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of fresh infections was 474, which took the total to 58,664. Of these, 55,547 have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-251-fresh-covid-19-cases/article38295520.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Submit registration certificates, farmers’ associations told||Representatives of registered farmers’ associations have been asked to submit copies of their registration certificates to the Personal Assistant (Agriculture) to Collector before January 21 to enable the district administration submit to the State Government the details of registered farmers’ associations that are active in the district, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/submit-registration-certificates-farmers-associations-told/article38295251.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Parties want single-phase polling in Tamil Nadu||AIADMK leader Pollachi V. Jayaraman said his party favoured single-phase voting. “We have also requested the Commission to follow all guidelines to check the spread of the infection while conducting the polls.” Congress functionary Damodaran said his party wanted the polling to be held between 7 a.m. and 6 p.m., with the last one hour reserved for COVID-19 patients to vote. BJP functionary Karu Nagarajan said that almost all parties, except the Trinamool Congress, insisted on single-phase polling. “We have insisted on deploying the Central police forces in Tamil Nadu for the elections. We have requested that sensitive areas be manned by paramilitary personnel.” The representatives of the Trinamool Congress, the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Communist Party of India, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam, the Nationalist Congress Party, the National People’s Party also took part at the meeting. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Director of Municipal Administration P. Ponniah, Commissioner of Town Panchayats R. Selvaraj, TNSEC Secretary E. Sundaravalli and senior officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parties-want-single-phase-polling-in-tamil-nadu/article38295117.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Daily caseload crosses 3,000 mark in Coimbatore||The daily caseload of COVID-19 crossed the 3,000 mark in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The district reported 3,082 new cases on Wednesday, two days after it crossed the 2,000 mark. There were 2,228 new cases on Tuesday. The Health Department said that 955 persons recovered from the disease on Wednesday and the district had 13,728 active cases. An 82-year-old woman from Coimbatore died of COVID-19 on January 17, taking the district’s toll to 2,537. After a decline in the daily caseload for three consecutive days, Tiruppur district witnessed a surge in cases on Wednesday with 756 persons testing positive. Having reported 667 cases on Saturday, the caseload declined on the subsequent days with 619 fresh cases on Sunday, 605 cases on Monday and 517 cases on Tuesday. The Health Department did not report any new deaths and the district’s toll remained at 1,033. The district had a total of 3,918 active cases and 269 persons recovered on Wednesday. In the Nilgiris, 224 people tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. The total number of people who have tested positive for COVID-19 in the district so far stood at 36,702. The number of deaths increased from 221 to 222 on Wednesday, while 1,674 people were under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-caseload-crosses-3000-mark-in-coimbatore/article64948334.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 906 new cases||Erode district on Wednesday reported 906 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,13,191. While 317 persons were discharged, 3,955 continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll in the district to 718. Salem district reported 785 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 1,07,555. While 268 persons were discharged, 3,706 continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 359 cases taking the tally to 57,058. While 139 persons were discharged, 1,843 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 523. Krishnagiri recorded 638 cases, and 195 cases discharged. The total number of COVID cases in the district stood at 2524 cases as of Wednesday. A total of 47,463 cases were reported in Krishnagiri. Dharmapuri recorded 221 fresh cases, 82 cases discharged. The total number of COVID cases in the district was 1138. As of date, a total 30,541 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-906-new-cases/article38295263.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||20-01-2022-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA ANUSHAM ARTS ACADEMY- 98841 90454 Today R.R.Sabha Hall-2, Mylapore. B/N 4.30 pm Rashmika Kannan Guru Dharini Ramakrishnan, 5.45 pm Poornima Guru- Charles, 7.15 pm Shruthi S Bhat & Party-Vocal. All are Welcome. https://livewebcast.in/anusham Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha (Regd) Vani Mahal. Ph 28152166 Vanimahal@gmail.com 42nd ISAI, IYAL, NATAKA VIZHA 2021-2022 32ND BHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 42nd ISAI, IYAL, NATAKA VIZHA 2021-2022 at Sri Chandrasekarendra Saraswathi Mahaswami Auditorium (Dedicated to the memory of Sri P.Obul Reddy & Smt. P.Gnanamba). Today: 02.00 p.m Ms. Lakshmipriya (Vocal), Sri. Visvesh Chandrasekar (Violin) Sri. Sriram Srinivasan (Mrudangam). 04.00 p.m Sri. Kashyap Mahesh R (Vocal), Sri. Pappu Gyandev- (Violin), Thirucherai Sri. Kaushik Rajagopal (Mrudangam). ALL ARE WELCOME. 06.30p.m. Sri. K. Bharat Sundar (Vocal), Mysore Sri. V. Srikanth (Violin), Neyveli Sri. R. Narayanan ( Mrudangam), Sri. V. Anirudh Athreya (Kanjira). (Note: Scheduled program by Malladi Brothers Sri. Sriram Prasad & Sri. Ravi Kumar (Vocal) has been cancelled) Tomorrow: 6.30 pm Scheduled program ATM- Drama by Stage Creations has been cancelled. FESTIVAL MAIN SPONSORS: Rajalakshmi Institutions, Nippo Indo National Limited, Sri. P. Obul Reddy & Smt. P. Gnanambal Trust, MGM Health Care, SBI, Indian Bank, Bank of Baroda, Ministry of Culture New Delhi, Arun Excello -Ziva, Bhaggyam Constructions, Shriram Capital Ltd, Textan, Sastra, Union Bank of India, Bank of Maharastra, Thejus, Indusind Bank, JB Cultural Foundation, GRT Jewellers, DBL Medias, Canara Bank, The Federal Bank, Karur Vysya Bank Ltd., Bank of India, Sundaram Finance Ltd, Catholic Syrian Bank. 32ND BHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 at Sri P. Obul Reddy Hall Today 04.00 pm Bharathanatyam by Ms. Yogitha. P & Ms. Ranjani V Guru: Smt. Padmapriya Manikantan. 06.30 pm Bharathanatyam by Ms. S. Nandhika & Ms. B. Kaviya Guru: Smt. Bhavani D. Tomorrow: 04.00pm Bharathanatyam by Ms.Durga Hariharan & Ms. M. Varshini Guru: Smt. D. Bhavani. 06.30 pm Bharathanatyam by Ms. B. Sadhakshi & Ms. V. Shruthi Guru: Smt. D. Bhavani. Entry as per Govt. SOP Guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-01-2022-city-cinema/article64948347.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Adithya School of Business Management: Lead Talks 2022 – CEO Meet, 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article38295163.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:26 IST,KARNATAKA||Temple festivals continue despite COVID-19 restrictions||In an apparent violation of COVID-19 guidelines, several temples and mutts have organised annual car festivals and other events this fortnight. Most of them are in northern Karnataka. On Tuesday night, thousands of devotees gathered at the Gavi Mutt in Koppal to pull the decorated rath of the mutt across town. The ritual that began after midnight, was over before sunrise. The district administration had issued orders banning the annual jatra and rath yatra in Gavi Mutt and festivities in other temples and mutts. The five-day annual jatra in Mukti Mutt in Bhootaramanahatti ended on Wednesday. Each day’s rituals saw hundreds of people gather at the mutt. The inauguration on Sankranti day and the valedictory function on Wednesday drew the largest crowds. The Bagalkot police have filed a case against the organisers of the Banashankari temple’s annual Jatra in Badami taluk. The jatra held on the temple premises two days after Sankranti, drew thousands of farmers from nearby villages. Some persons broke open the barricades and entered the temple premises to participate in the rituals. Police had a difficult time to control the crowd. They had to resort to caning to stop the crowd from entering the front porch of the temple. Estimates of the crowd on Monday vary between 60,000 and 1.5 lakh. In Saundatti in Belagavi district, the police had to use force to stop the huge crowd that tried to enter the Yallamma temple on Banada Hunnime on Monday. Some cultural events have also been held in violation of the COVID-19 rules. The Belagavi city police filed a First FIR against Chavat Galli Yuva Sanghatana that organised a buffalo race in Chavat Galli in Belagavi on Friday. The Sambhaji Youth Association organised a celebration to commemorate the ascension of Sambhaji, son of Shivaji on Sunday. MLA Anil Benake participated in both the events. Similarly, there was a big crowd in the Huligemma Devi temple in Munirabad in Koppal district on Tuesday. Most of the festivities were followed, but the other rituals like curing those overcome with evil spirits that are held on the weekends, were not held. Other festivals held in January include the annual car festival in Ambai Devi temple in Sindhanur in Raichur district. At the Mailara Mallanna temple in Hoovina Hadagali on the border of Haveri and Vijaya Nagara district, fasting of the Goravas, the self -flagellation, and other rituals were held. Temples and mutts in other parts of Karnataka also organised festivals. They include the Rangantha Swami temple in Chikkamagaluru, the Sri Kanteshwar temple in Nanjangudu. Ravi Kotargasti, Assistant Director of the Department of Endowment, lamented that despite repeated reminders and prohibitions, people continued to form crowds in temples. “Some devotees argue that they have remained at home for two years, without celebrating any festivals, and that they can no longer remain isolated. Some say that they are weary of continued restrictions. But it is difficult to argue with them that health concerns,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-festivals-continue-despite-covid-19-restrictions/article64948208.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:26 IST,KARNATAKA||Imrapur selected for award||The Dr. Da Raa Bendre National Memorial Trust has selected Someshekhar Imrapur, folklore expert and researcher, for the annual Ambikatanayadatta award for 2022. Trust chairman Danayya Mahantayya Hiremath said a committee of scholars, Gurudevi Huleppanavarmath, Venkatagiri Dalawai, and M.B. Hugar, had selected Mr. Imrapur for the award. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh and a citation. It will be presented at a function in Dharwad on January 31. The winner of the annual youth prize will be decided soon, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/imrapur-selected-for-award/article38295276.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||New transfer rule riles senior engineering cadre in PWD||Senior engineering cadre in the State, which is already feeling the heat of trifurcation of the Public Works Department, is now riled at a change of rule that they fear would not only cause confusion on deputation but also truncate their promotion avenues. More than a dozen Engineering-in-Chiefs and Chief Engineers have written to the Government to withdraw the changes brought through the notification of The Karnataka Government (Allocation of Business) (Amendment) Rules, 2021, which now vests the power of transfers with the respective departments, taking away the power from Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) that was in place since 1977. “The trifurcation process has not been completed yet and confusion is still around in the engineering cadres. We do not understand the rationale behind bringing new rules even before completion of the four-decade-long trifurcation process,” said sourcesin the PublicWorks Department. “The allocation of business is silent on deputation to other departments. There are nearly a dozen posts of chief engineers in other departments. So far, DPARhas beeninvolved in such postings. Individually can departments sendtheirengineers on deputation?” Over the last one year, the State Government has been in the process of finalising division of engineering resources among Public Works, Water Resources, and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj departments that is yet to reach a finality. The letter to the Government also pointed out 20% of engineers have not yet exercised their preference for departments whilePWDhas 40% excess engineering strength than the sanctioned posts. Fearing the holding up of promotions, they pointed out that the new rule that removes the power of deputation from DPAR also provides scope for confusion in promotion. “The quality of the departmental promotion committee that was earlier headed by Chief Secretary will now be diluted at the department level. With the confusion, our fear is that promotions will be held up,” sources said. Government sources said that more than 50 chief engineers, who have retired before May 31, 2018 are yet to receive pension for the cadre of chief engineers, and these have gone to court. “The DPAR wants to wriggle out of the court cases.” Meanwhile, refusing to comment on the issue, Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar said that the issue was an internal matter of the Government and it will be dealt with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-transfer-rule-riles-senior-engineering-cadre-in-pwd/article64948202.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Third wave affecting more adults than children: War room||Amidst suspension of most offline academic activities in view of the third wave of the pandemic, data has revealed that the infection is spreading more rapidly among adults than in children. According to the data shared by Munish Moudgil,Head, State COVID War Room, as of Tuesday, a comparison of the COVID-19 infection spread in children (0 to 18 years) versus adults (above 18 years) showed that the ratio has declined from the second wave to the third wave. This means that manifested COVID-19 infection spread among children in the third wave is lower thanit was during the second. “In other words, COVID-19 is spreading more among adults than among children during the third wave as compared to the second wave,” it says. The positivity rate among children and adults was calculated for different months during the two waves. For the0 to 18 years age group, while the positivity rate for January has been5.69% against7,64,198 tests, in May 2021, it had shot up to24.61% against4,11,631 tests during the second wave. In comparison, for adults, the positivity rate this month has been13.31% against21,26,797 tests, while it was26.68% in May 2021 against35,49,968 tests, the data shows. Across all months of comparison, adults have been more impacted by the infection than children.  However, doctors have advised caution.Sanjay D. Swamy, Chief Paediatric Intensivist, SPARSH Hospital, told The Hindu this might be because not everyone who has a cold, cough and fever is getting tested this time. “We might be underestimating the numbers. This year’s Omicron virus is easy to spread, but less dangerous. In other words, it has low virulence, meaning it causes less severe illness. In such an easy spreading variant, I am sure the numbers are very high. However, the testing rate might be low,” he said.  He pointed out that not everyone who is coming to hospitals is getting tested. “Because of the social taboo of testing positive, many are even refusing to undergo the test. Many are getting treated at home through video consultations. That’s another reason why so many people are getting better at home,” he said. He added that many are isolating and know what to do,probably because they are more educated this time. But he urgedall parents to get vaccinated. “Children above the age of 15 should also get vaccinated. Additionally, other precautions such as social distancing, isolation, and masks must be strictly followed. It’s best if children can avoid going to school because that’s the only way to avoid COVID-19 without a vaccination. Another option is to take the flu vaccine which offers some protection for children. If children haven’t taken the annual flu vaccine, it might be good to get it done,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/third-wave-affecting-more-adults-than-children-war-room/article64948180.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Civic body has to bear 50% of Rs. 6,000 cr. sanctioned for projects||The State Government will bear only 50% of the Rs. 6,000 crore of funds it had cleared towards a slew of infrastructure projects for Bengaluru under the Chief Minister’s Amrut Nagarothana scheme over a period of three years. For the remaining Rs. 3,000 crore, the civic body has been asked to seek a loan for 40% or Rs. 2,400 crore from the Karnataka Water and Sanitation Pooled Fund Trust, under the Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation. It will have to raise the remaining 10% (Rs. 600 crore) from its own resources. The State Cabinet, earlier this month, had cleared Rs. 6,000 crore for projects aimed at decongesting traffic at Hebbal junction, road widening, construction of skywalks, etc. Initially, the Cabinet stated that the Government would release Rs. 2,000 crore as special grants each year (for three years) to the BBMP. However, the Chief Minister himself has, on various occasions, claimed that all was not well with the State’s financial condition. An order has been issued by the Department of Urban Development on the revised funding mechanism. Mounting bills While the Government’s commitment has been halved, the order has added to the BBMP’s financial burden. Apart from mounting pending bills of Rs. 3,229 crore, the Government already has to sanction Rs. 9,000 crore for various ongoing works. With property tax as its major revenue source, it will be a challenge for the financially starved civic body to not just raise funds, but also take on another loan. Sources claimed that the State Government has approved this mega scheme with an eye on polls to the civic body expected some time this year. The civic body has not had an elected council since September 2020. The Supreme Court is hearing a case pertaining to the civic polls. This being the case, it is to be seen if these ambitious projects, for which an action plan will have to be submitted, will be implemented on ground or if they will remain on paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-body-has-to-bear-50-of-rs-6000-cr-sanctioned-for-projects/article64948354.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:27 IST,KARNATAKA||ISEC-Bengaluru glows in golden halo on completing 50 years||The Institute for Social and Economic Change (ISEC) in Bengaluru, a premier research and training institute in social sciences in India, is organising programmes throughout 2022 to mark its golden jubilee. On January 19, Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot, who is the president of the ISEC society, inaugurated the celebrations in a virtual event. Heappreciated the institute’s role in formulating policies in various social and economic sectors, which contributed to the upliftment of weaker sections in Karnataka. The institute played the role of a catalyst while guiding the Karnataka Government in formulating policies in agriculture, finance, rural development, administration, governance and poverty reduction. “The institute completed 50 years of its existence, and has contributed significantly towards social science research in Karnataka and in India,” the Governor said. In his welcome address, Sukhadeo Thorat, chairman,Board of Governors,said that Prof. V.K.R.V. Rao started the institute in three rooms of his residence on January 20, 1972. The institute started functioning from its present campus on April 11, 1976. Prof. Thorat urged the government to upgrade the status of the institute to a State public research university or a deemed public State university or institution of national importance, such as IIT, with the right to award a degree. Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan congratulated ISEC faculty members for their academic achievements and research. Professor D. Rajasekhar, director of ISEC, proposed the vote of thanks. Located on a 16-hectare campus at Nagarabhavi, ISEC is an autonomous research body.Prof. V.K.R.V. Raohad handpicked the best social scientist from across India while developing the institute in the initial years. During its 50-year journey, the institute completed 934 projects in various aspects of social sciences. Faculty members published 237 books and nearly 2,000 research papers. A total of 257 candidates obtained doctoral degrees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/isec-bengaluru-glows-in-golden-halo-on-completing-50-years/article64948206.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||Don’t be complacent with pandemic, HDK tells Govt.||Expressing concern over the State witnessing fresh COVID-19 cases in upwards of 40,000 a day, the former Chief Minister H. D. Kumaraswamy has appealed to the Government not to be complacent with respect to the present way of the pandemic. He described the episode of the States’s daily COVID cases crossing the 40,000 mark on Tuesday as a warning bell for the Government. He expressed concern that there was no consensus among the ruling BJP leaders themselves on the COVID-19 precautionary measures being taken up such as night and weekend curfew. “I wonder how will they manage the COVID situation when they themselves are in a state of confusion over precautionary measures being implemented in the State,” he remarked while interacting with the press here on Wednesday. Strike a balance He said the Government had to strike a balance by preventing the spread of the virus while ensuring that the livelihood of common people was not affected. Taking serious exception to the Centre stating before the Supreme Court that no one had died due to hunger in the country in the recent years even during the pandemic, Mr. Kumaraswamy alleged that the Centre was trying to mislead people. He maintained that there were people dying due to lack of food and in fact the pandemic had made people to struggle to earn their livelihood. He said it was the primary duty of all governments to help people during a crisis. Otherwise, what was the need for a government to exist, he wondered and demanded that measures be taken to ensure marketing facilities for farmers besides extending financial help to street vendors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-be-complacent-with-pandemic-hdk-tells-govt/article64948204.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||NCB uncovers drug ring operating in South India||Officials with the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) uncovered an inter-State drug trafficking network and arrested four persons — a foreign national from Nigeria and three suspected dealers from Tamil Nadu — on Monday. One of the three dealers arrested is reportedly wanted in connection with a 2015 high-profile case in Kochi where a Malayalam film actor was caught in possession of cocaine, said sources. Raid During a raid on Monday at Electronics City, an NCB team seized 84 grams of cocaine, 40 grams of MDMA and a small quantity of hashish and ganja. The total cost of the seized drugs is estimated to be around Rs. 50 lakh. “The dealers hail from Chennai and had come to Bengaluru to purchase drugs. They are known suppliers and habitual offenders, already involved in NDPS cases registered in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. They were planning to sell drugs procured from the Nigerian national to their customer base in hotels, pubs and colleges in Chennai and other parts of Tamil Nadu,” said an NCB official. With their arrested, the NCB Bengaluru Zonal Unit has effectively neutralised a major drug syndicate which was operating inthe States of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala,” said Amit Ghawate, zonal director, NCB. ‘An expert’ The Nigerian national arrested was not only a regular supplier of drugs but also an expert in manufacturing them. Sources said that he often taught his buyers ways to mix illegal substances to improve their potency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ncb-uncovers-drug-ring-operating-in-south-india/article64948349.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Decision on relaxing curbs after tomorrow’s meeting with experts: Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said a decision on relaxing COVID-19 restrictions, particularly weekend curfew, would be taken after discussingthe issue at a meeting with experts on Friday. The number of patients requiring hospitalisation is less in the current wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “So there is an opinion that it will be better to carry on with daily life while adhering to COVID-19 guidelines. The experts are examining the suggestion. They are set to present a comprehensivepicture at the meeting to be held on Friday. A suitable decision would be takenafter getting clarity about the issue,” the Chief Minister told reporters in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Besides opposition Congress, some BJP leaders, including Ministers, have been opposing the weekend curfew imposed by the Karnataka Government. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha has been demanding removal of weekend curfew since it is causing a lot of inconvenience to the public and business establishments. Referring to his videoconference with Deputy Commissioners of various districts to review the progress of the vaccination drive, Mr. Bommai said instructions have been issued to intensify the vaccination drive in districts which are lagging. Apart from ramping up vaccination of both doses and covering the 15-18 age group, special emphasis was being given to vaccinating corona warriors. As 94% of the infected persons were in home isolation, the Health Department should maintain constant contact with them and distribute medical kits and conduct triaging, Mr. Bommai said. The Health Department has been instructed to restart the ‘Vadyara Nade HalligalaKade’ programme for doctors to go on door-to-door service in rural areas, and also administer booster dose, Mr. Bommai said. Though the number of cases is on the rise, the number of patients getting admitted to hospitals is low. Officials have been instructed to strengthen the OPDs, the Chief Minister said. Peak in February Experts, who have studied the trend in various States, have estimated that the COVID-19 wave in Karnataka could peak by January end or February first week. The Chief Secretary has already ordered booking of cases and legal action against those who violate Covid-19 rules. “There will be no bias against any person or organisation,” Mr. Bommai said.He refused to respond to a question on cabinet expansion. Mr. Bommai, who was in home quarantine for the past 12 days, said, “The quarantine period is over. COVID-19 test result has come negative. I resumed normal public activities on Wednesday.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-relaxing-curbs-after-tomorrows-meeting-with-experts-bommai/article64948184.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Drug case: Two police officials suspended||The arrest of two police personnel, who were deputed on security duty at the Chief Minister’s residence on 80ft Road in R.T. Nagar, for allegedly dealing with drug peddlers, has left the Bengaluru City Police and the State Government red in the face. A day after the incident, Police Commissioner Kamal Pant on Wednesday suspended the R.T. Nagar inspector and his junior for failing to probe the case in detail. “R.T. Nagar police inspector Ashwath Gowda and sub-inspector Veerabhadra, who investigated the case, tried to protect the police personnel who were caught with drug dealers, which led to their suspension,” said a senior police official. With this, a total four police personnel have been suspended in connection with the case, including head constable Shivakumar and constable Santosh attached to Koramangala station who were caught by the Hoysala patrolling police with two peddlers. At the time of their arrest, the police recovered 400 grams of marijuana from them. The probe so far has revealed that the duo used to source the drugs from the peddlers regularly, said a police officer. Mr. Pant also issued show-cause notice to Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP-South East) Srinath Joshi and DCP VVIP Security Manjunath Babu in charge of the CM’s security. Strict action, dismissal The incident has caused much embarrassment to the Home Department. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Wednesday warned that strict legal action would be taken against the police personnel involved in the crime. The department would not tolerate such incidents, he said. He expressed concern over the negative image of the police force due to the criminal activities of a few bad apples. “Directions will be given to not only suspend such police staff, but also to dismiss them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-case-two-police-officials-suspended/article38295089.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Water adalat today||A water adalat has been organised on Thursday by BWSSB to settle grievances. According to a BWSSB release, the adalat will be held at the following sub-divisions: South East 6, East 2-2, East Village 2, South Village 1, West 3, South West 3, South East 3, North West 6, Central 3, North West 2, North 3, and North East 2. Call helpline 1916 or Whatsapp 8762228888.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-adalat-today/article38295079.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:56 IST,KARNATAKA||Guard, son electrocuted while cleaning sump||A security guard and his 10-year-old son were electrocuted while they were cleaning a water sump on the premises of a residential apartment in Sultan Palya near R.T. Nagar on Wednesday morning. Sainath was helping his father Rajiv, 32, with some housekeeping work. According to a senior police officer, around 7.30 a.m., Rajiv, who had entered the sump to clean it, came in contact with a live wire that was connected to the motor. When Sainath saw his father collapse, he tried to help him, and fell into the sump and was electrocuted. Rajiv’s wife Annamma who was busy with the day’s chores heard a sound and came out to investigate. When she saw their bodies, she called for help. The supervisor of the apartment, who had assigned Rajiv the job, rushed to their help. Both father and son were taken to a hospital in the area where they were declared brought dead. Based on a complaint filed by Annamma, the police have registered a case of death due to negligence against the owner and supervisor of the apartment. “The management had not provided any safety measures, which led to the mishap,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guard-son-electrocuted-while-cleaning-sump/article38295082.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||New guidelines for testing, quarantine, isolation issued||Guidelines for testing, quarantine, and isolation have been revised in view of the third wave driven by the highly transmissible Omicron variant of coronavirus. In a circular dated January 18, the Commisionerate of Health and Family Welfare Services, has said that for the general population, while those with symptoms will be tested by RAT, and RAT negatives followed up by RT-PCR, all primary contacts at home and at the workplace, irrespective of age, will be tested. The home isolation period will be seven days from the date of testing positive, and the patient will be released if there is no fever for three successive and preceding days. There is no need for retesting, the circular states. Primary contacts will also be subjected to seven days quarantine. For healthcare and frontline workers, administrative, statutory, and constitutional functionaries, the isolation period is five days in home isolation or at hotels or CCCs in the case of asymptomatic or mild symptoms. Primary contacts will be required to undergo three days of home or institutional quarantine. The commissionerate has also revised the contents in home isolation kits provided to COVID-19 positive persons in home isolation. Precautionary dose A day after the State Government expressed unhappiness about the lukewarm response to the precautionary third dose of vaccine from the healthcare fraternity, the National Health Mission (NHM) has directed all district health authorities to ensure that eligible beneficiaries in their jurisdiction are vaccinated. On Tuesday, Health Minister K. Sudhakar revealed that only 39% of the eligible beneficiaries from the fraternity had taken the precautionary dose. The NHM has said district health authorities would be responsible for getting beneficiaries in their jurisdiction jabbed with the third dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-guidelines-for-testing-quarantine-isolation-issued/article38295083.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||Confusion in BJP on imposition of night curfew: Congress||Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee president M.S. Raksha Ramaiah on Wednesday said there was confusion among the BJP leaders on the State Government’s decision to impose night and weekend curfew. The Central and State BJP leaders have issued contradictory statements on imposition of night and weekend curfew in the State and this has exposed lack of unity among them, he told reporters here. He alleged that the Central BJP leaders’ statements against the imposition of night curfew had once again proved a lack of trust and confidence in their own party Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. “The State under Mr. Bommai’s rule is shrouded in confusion and chaos created by the BJP Central leaders,” he said. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and Mysuru MP Pratap Simha had urged the State Government to withdraw night and weekend curfew, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/confusion-in-bjp-on-imposition-of-night-curfew-congress/article64948205.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||4 IPS officers transferred||The State Government on Wednesday transferred four IPS officers. Santosh Babu, who was Deputy Commissioner of Police, Intelligence, Bengaluru, has been posted with immediate effect as Superintendent of Police, Ramanagaram. IPS officer S. Girish, who held that post, is now Deputy Commissioner of Police, Whitefield. G. Radhika, who held the post of Superintendent of Police, Chitradurga, is the new Director, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (Security & Vigilance). The post in Chitradurga will be held by K. Parashurama, who was Superintendent of Police, Directorate of Civil Rights Enforcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4-ips-officers-transferred/article38295095.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||40,499 new COVID-19 cases, 21 deaths in State||The State recorded 40,499 new COVID-19 cases and 21 deaths on Wednesday. Of this, 24,135 cases were registered in Bengaluru Urban district. Other districts that registered over a thousand new cases were Tumakuru (1,804), Hassan (1,785), Mandya (1,341), and Mysuru (1,340). As of Wednesday, there are 2,67,650 active cases across the State. As many as 23,209 people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 30,23,034. Of the 21 people who succumbed to the infection across the State, five were from Bengaluru Urban, three from Dakshina Kannada and four from Mysuru. The positivity rate for the day dropped to 18.8% as against 22.3% on January 18, while the case fatality rate was 0.05%. The cumulative number of positive cases across Karnataka stands at 33,29,199, while the total number of COVID-19 deaths is 38,486. Over 2 lakh samples tested Data from the Health and Family Welfare Department’s bulletin showed that a total of 2,15,312 tests were conducted so far, including 164015 RT-PCR tests. With this, the cumulative number of tests conducted to date rose to 5,96,06,693.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/40499-new-covid-19-cases-21-deaths-in-state/article38295086.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||CM to hold meeting on inter-State water disputes||Close on the heels of the Opposition Congress raising the issue of demand for expediting work on the balancing reservoir across river Cauvery in Mekedatu, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has convened a meeting to discuss Karnataka’s inter-State water disputes on Saturday. The meeting would be attended by Ministers for Water Resources and Law. The legal team representing Karnataka before the Supreme Court is also participating in the virtual meeting. It may be noted that the Chief Minister had assured the Congress leaders of protecting the interests of Karnataka with respect to water disputes, while appealing to them to withdraw their padayatra in the interest of public health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-to-hold-meeting-on-inter-state-water-disputes/article38295104.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Revised rules for containment zones||The Health and Family Welfare Department has revised the criteria for containment zones. It said a cluster will be declared if there are five or more cases reported from one location. If there are 15 or more cases, the location will be declared as a large cluster, it stated in a circular issued on Tuesday. If cases are reported from a house/group of houses, 100m radius or in case of apartment complexes, the tower/ block will be declared containment zone(s). In urban areas, micro-containment zones will be declared in a 50m radius if a positive case is from a house/ group of houses, or the floor in case of apartment complexes. In rural areas, micro containment zones will be declared in the 50m radius of the affected house/group of houses. The circular added that in the event of practical or operational difficulties in notifying areas as micro-containment or containment zones, local health authorities will work in consultation with district authorities. Micro-containment and containment zones may be denotified after seven days of the last positive case reported from that location.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revised-rules-for-containment-zones/article38295090.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:56 IST,KARNATAKA||CREDAI urges Govt. to remove night, weekend curfew||CREDAI, a premier body representing real estate developers, has urged the State Government to remove the night and weekend curfew imposed in the State. In a letter to Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, it said, “Night and weekend curfews are killing businesses and lower-level jobs. Instead of closing restaurants at 10 p.m., they should, in fact, allow them to remain open till 1 a.m. so that they are able to cater to the same number of customers with limited seating and physical distancing”. Business hours With regard to shops, markets, and malls, it said crowding happen when business hours were reduced by imposing a curfew. By increasing the business hours, crowding of people would be reduced, it said. It said the Government should allow businesses to function so that economy and livelihood are not strangulated further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/credai-urges-govt-to-remove-night-weekend-curfew/article38295087.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Hassan reports 1,819 new COVID cases||Hassan district reported 1,819 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, increasing the total number of active cases to 7,937. Among them 10 people are being treated in ICU. Of the fresh cases, 796 were reported in Hassan taluk, 513 in Channarayapatna, 184 in Arsikere, 136 in Belur, 63 in Arkalgud, 43 in Alur, 56 in Holenarasipur, 27 in Sakaleshpur and one more case was from other district. The district administration has declared holiday for classes 1 to IX in Hassan and Alur taluks in view of increasing cases. In the last seven days, 6,451 people tested positive for the infection in the district. As many as 750 people have been discharged from hospital. The average test positivity rate stood at 13.62%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hassan-reports-1819-new-covid-cases/article38295454.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Residents of Shivamogga to get 24/7 water supply, says Eshwarappa||RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa has said that residents of villages on the outskirts of Shivamogga will get 24/7 drinking water supply by next year. Mr. Eshwarappa, who is Minister in charge of Shivamogga district, spoke after laying a foundation stone for civil works for the drinking water distribution system for Rs. 96.5 crore on the premises of Guddekal Subrahmanya Temple in the city on Wednesday. The Minister said the works for distribution of water in the city and villages on the city outskirts would be completed in a year. Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board chairman Narasimha Nayak said the board would complete the work in a year. It would fulfil the drinking water requirement of villages up to 2035, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-of-shivamogga-to-get-247-water-supply-says-eshwarappa/article38295457.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Elderly man dies in accident||An aged person died after his bike was hit by a truck on Salagame Road in Hassan on Tuesday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Krishne Gowda, 84, reisdent of Jayanagar. He was on his way to the market to purchase vegetables. He was rushed to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences, where he succumbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elderly-man-dies-in-accident/article38295453.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:26 IST,KARNATAKA||Three sentenced to life imprisonment for murder||The III Additional District and Sessions Court in Kalaburagi has sentenced three people to life imprisonment for murdering Gurappa Gollar in Afzalpur station limits in 2018. As per the information provided by Gurulingappa Srimantha Teli, a public prosecutor, Gangavva, the wife of the deceased, had filed a complaint against Siddappa Gollar, Ashok Gollar, Bhimu Gollar, Sunil Gollar, Anil Gollar, Jagappa Gollar, Jangappa Gollar, Rama Gollar, and Ramesh Gollar accusing them of murdering her husband. Acting on the complaint, a case was registered and Mahanthesh B Patil, Circle Inspector of Police attached to Afzalpur filed a charge-sheet after completing the investigation. Jagadish V.N., III Additional District and Session Judge, found three of the accused, Siddappa Gollar, Sunil Gollar and Ramesh Gollar, guilty of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced them to life imprisonment and fined them Rs. 66,000. The judge clarified that Rs. 50,000 should be paid to Ms. Gangavva as compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-for-murder/article38295278.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:26 IST,KARNATAKA||Eight goats die after drinking from stream||Eight goats died after drinking water from a stream near Banamagi village in Jewargi taluk, Kalaburagi district, on Wednesday. Ten more goats, which fell ill, were later treated by a veterinary doctor. Villagers suspected that the farmers must have washed pesticide cans in the upper reaches of the stream and contaminated the water. “My mother was grazing the goats in the field when the tragedy struck at about 2 pm. There are 30 goats in the herd and eight of them died soon after they drank the water in the stream. Each goat was worth around Rs. 12,000. I incurred a loss of around Rs. 1 lakh for no fault of mine,” Hanamantha, the farmers who owned the goats, said. Local officials, along with a veterinary doctor, visited the spot. After the post-mortem was done, the diseased goats were buried in the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-goats-die-after-drinking-from-stream/article38295275.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:04 IST,KARNATAKA||YPR-Karwar Express is first to have electric loco on Konkan network||The Yeshwantpur-Karwar tri-weekly day express (Train No. 16515) went into the annals of Railway electrification history for being the first passenger train to be hauled by an electric loco on the newly electrified stretch of Thokur near Mangaluru to Karwar of the Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. A few freight trains were being hauled by electric locos between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar since May last while the Karwar day express became the first passenger train on Wednesday when it left Mangaluru Junction at 5 p.m. Railway personnel from Southern and Konkan Railways performed a symbolic puja before flagging off the train on the occasion. The Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur Express undergoes loco reversal (changing of direction of the loco) at Mangaluru Junction upon its arrival from Yeshwantpur and Karwar for its onward journey. Henceforth, the train would be hauled by electric loco between Mangaluru Junction-Karwar-Mangaluru Junction and diesel loco between Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur-Mangaluru Junction as the Mangaluru Junction-Chikkabanavara stretch of South Western Railway is yet to be electrified. According to KRCL’s Regional Railway Manager, Karwar, B.B. Nikam, the 240-odd km KRCL network between Thokur (off Jokatte near Mangaluru) and Karwar was already electrified and certified by the Commissioner of Railway Safety for operation of freight as well as passenger trains. As of now, loco change from electric to diesel was being done at Karwar. As many as six electric sub stations were constructed along this stretch to energise locos. The stretch between Karwar and Verna too was electrified and trial runs were recently conducted. KRCL was awaiting inspection and certification by the CRS for this stretch facilitating operation of electric loco hauled trains till Madgaon, a major junction on KRCL network. Electrification of Verna-Ratnagiri stretch too would get completed soon and the entire KRCL network of 716 km gets electrified by this March, Mr. Nikam said. Expressing happiness over the development, Divisional Railway Manager of Southern Railway’s Palakkad Division Trilok Kothari said introduction of electric loco till Karwar saves considerable time in loco change at Mangaluru Junction thereby reducing congestion. “We will start sending more passenger trains with electric loco one by one,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ypr-karwar-express-is-first-to-have-electric-loco-on-konkan-network/article64948248.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:04 IST,KARNATAKA||YPR-Karwar Express speeded up by 50 minutes||Close on the heels of Yeshwantpur-Karwar tri-weekly express becoming the first train to be hauled by an electric loco between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar from Wednesday, the train will be speeded up by 50 minutes on the stretch with effect from January 24. Chief Public Relations Officer of South Western Railway E. Vijaya in a release here announced revision of timings of the train between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar. There would be no change in timings of the train between Yeshwantpur and Bantwal however. The train would reach Karwar by 10.30 p.m. instead of 11.20 p.m. Train No. 16515 would arrive Mangaluru Junction at 4.35 p.m. instead of 4.40 pm and depart at 4.45 p.m. instead of 5 p.m; it leaves Surathkal at 5.32 p.m.; Udupi at 6.02 p.m.; Kundapur at 6.32 p.m.; Byndoor at 7.06 p.m.; Bhatkal at 7.30 p.m.; Murdeshwar at 7.46 p.m.; Honnavar at 8.12 p.m.; Kumta at 8.42 p.m.; Gokarna Road at 9.04 p.m., and Ankola at 9.24 p.m. to reach Karwar at 10.30 p.m., the release said. Further scope The major chunk of reduction however comes between Ankola and Karwar where the train was made to take nearly two hours, leaving Ankola at 9.24 p.m. to reach Karwar at 11.20 p.m. The two hour buffer has now been reduced to one hour thereby allowing the train to reach Karwar at 10.30 p.m. Rail fans claim there is scope for further speeding up the train as it normally arrives Mangaluru Junction at 4.10 p.m. as against the public timetable of 4.35 p.m. If the train is allowed to depart Junction at 4.20 p.m., it could enter KRCL jurisdiction by 4.45 p.m. and reach Karwar by 10 p.m. SWR authorities should work on this proposal, they demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ypr-karwar-express-speeded-up-by-50-minutes/article38295426.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:04 IST,KARNATAKA||Kidu research centre will not be shifted: Union Agriculture Minister||Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar has said that there is no plan before the Union Government to shift the National and International Coconut Gene Bank for South East Asia established at the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute’s (CPCRI’s) Research Centre at Kidu near Kukke Subrahmanya in Dakshina Kannada. In a letter to Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel on January 11, a copy of which was released to media by Mr. Kateel on Wednesday, the Minister said that the centre will not be shifted to any other place. Staff at the centre The Minister said that the centre has presently employed two scientists, five technical staff, one assistant administrative officer in addition to one administrative staff, and another 16 skilled assistant staff who are running the station properly.“...At present there is no proposal to set up a Regional Station of the CPCRI at Samalkot, Andhra Pradesh, or any other place...” the Minister further added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kidu-research-centre-will-not-be-shifted-union-agriculture-minister/article38295430.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:04 IST,KARNATAKA||Briefly||A COVID-19 helpline has been opened in the office of Deputy Director of Public Instruction. Its toll free number is 1800 4251 1017. It functions from 10.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. except on government holidays. Students and parents can call the helpline to get information on COVID-19, educational institutes and can also give suggestions to the department.   Those who do not have electricity connection to their houses can apply for it under the Belaku scheme of the Government by January 31. Applications can be submitted in gram panchayat offices and at the sub-division offices of MESCOM, a release said.   There will be no power supply to Adyar, Adyar Padavu, Valachil, Merlapadavu, Meremajalu, Kulashekara milk dairy, Saripalla, Kannagudda, Kulashekara Chowki, Kudupu temple, Umikana, Neerumarga, Kelarai, Manur, Kannur, Kodakkal and Balluru on January 20 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.    Power supply to Arya Samaj Road, Bunder Police Station, Azezuddin Road, J M Road and Mukhya Prana Temple Road in the city will be disrupted on January 21 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.   MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath performed bhoomi puja for building an open air auditorium on the premises of Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy at Urwa Stores here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article38295425.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Opposition to night curfew grows in Mysuru amidst rise in cases||Stakeholders in the hospitality, tourism, and industrial sector in Mysuru have urged the State Government to help revive the economy ahead of a meeting on Friday to take a call on weekend curfew. The weekend curfew has been in place for the last two weeks to curb the surge in cases of COVID-19. However, business and trade organisations have argued that despite the outbreak, the severity of the infection is less due to high rate of vaccination and, hence, does not warrant a lockdown. The Federation of Organisations and Associations of Mysore (FOAM) said despite the rapid surge of cases in the third wave, not manypatients have opted for hospitalisation and the infection, according to FOAM, is “mild in nature”. FOAM favours lifting weekend curfew while ensuring adherence to COVID-19 Appropriate Behaviour. FOAM comprises representatives from the hospitality, tourism, travel, trade, and hotel sectors in Mysuru. It has argued that even medical experts have opined that COVID-19 cannot be eradicated. That being the case, steps should be taken to ensure that daily activities are not affected. B.S. Prashanth of FOAM said the vaccination rate in Mysuru is nearing cent percent. All staff, employees and owners of business and trade establishments were fully vaccinated, and they are also getting themselves tested periodically. “Mysuru is a tourist destination. Weekends are important from the business and economy point of view. Hence, the Government should lift the weekend curfew and pave the way for revival of economic activities,” said Mr. Prashanth. The Karnataka Tourism Society, an organisation representing the travel and tourism sectors, said the night curfew should be revised to be in place from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. and the weekend curfew should be lifted.K. Syama Raju, president of the society, said the most effective instrument of containment is vaccination and observing COVID-19 protocols. The society said there was a need to limit the disruption in economic activity and pointed out that Karnataka was the first State to include tourism sector under priority list for vaccination, and multiple camps and drives have been held to cover the workforce. The Hotel Owners’ Association also petitioned to the government saying economic disruption is unwarranted given the high coverage of vaccination and added that 80% of the revenue of Karnataka came from trade and businesses. Persisting with weekend curfew will affect revenue inflow of the Karnataka Government and its capacity to implement welfare programmes. Similar arguments have been put forward by industrial organisations. Suresh Kumar Jain of Mysore Industries’ Association said Small Scale Industries, which generate bulk of the employment, were taking a hit due to the weekend curfew and, if persisted with, could result in large-scale unemployment aggravating the economic crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/opposition-to-night-curfew-grows-in-mysuru-amidst-rise-in-cases/article64948189.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Police arrest cattle thieves||The police has arrested two persons involved in cattle theft in Nanjangud rural and Varuna police station limits on the outskirts of Mysuru and recovered 12 cows and one calf from them. Addressing a press conference in Mysuru on Wednesday, Superintendent of Mysuru district police R. Chetan said the menace of cattle theft had become a major source of concern for the police of late with many farmers complaining that their cows were going missing from the cattle sheds in their respective villages. However, their personnel intercepted two motor cycle-borne suspects, who were moving suspiciously in Nanjangud rural police station limits on the night of January 14. They have admitted to stealing cows in five cases – four in Nanjangud rural police station limits and one in Varuna police station limits. After committing the crime, the accused had taken the cows to cattle fairs and sold them to buyers. The police has managed to recover a total of 12 cows, one calf, one two-wheeler and one four-wheeler from the accused. The value of the recovered items is Rs. 7.85 lakh. Meanwhile, the police arrested four persons in another case of abduction and robbery registered in Hunsur town police station. The complainant was a motorist, whose vehicle was hit by the accused. According to the complaint, the accused had also extorted Rs. 17,000 and a mobile from the victim. During interrogation, the accused had confessed to their involved in one case of dacoity, one two-wheeler theft, besides five cases of cattle theft – two in Hunsur town police station limits and three in Bilikere police station limits. Mr. Chetan said the police was yet to recover the stolen cattle from the accused arrested by Hunsur town police. Responding to queries from reporters, the Superintendent of police refused to identify the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-arrest-cattle-thieves/article64948187.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Drive against hookah bars in Mysuru||The Mysuru district Tobacco Control Cell launched a drive against hookah bars in the city. After closing a hookah bar on HUDCO Main Road, close to JSS Medical College in Bannimantap on January 17, a team comprising officials from Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), Mysuru City Police, Education and Health Departments inspected four more such establishments in Jayalakshmipuram police station limits on Wednesday following complaints of alleged violation of provisions of Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA), 2003. “After closing the hookah bar in Bannimantap on Monday, we inspected four more in Jayalakshmipuram police station limits on Wednesday. We closed one of them and warned three others that their premises will be closed if they violated the provisions of COTPA, 2003. We will carry out the drive across Mysuru police station-wise,” said an official of the Cell. Cases were booked under Sections 4 and 6B of COTPA against the owner of the hookah bar in Bannimantap. While eight students, including a minor, were let off with a warning, the owner of the café was penalised Rs. 3,500. “We can also book patrons under COTPA. In case they are minors, they will be booked under Juvenile Justice Act. But, we let them off,” said an official of the Cell that co-ordinated the raid. The Cell will continue its drive in all the 18 police station limits in Mysuru in the coming days and ensure that all hookah bars in the city are closed. Apart from targeting hookah bars, the Cell will also ensure that no tobacco products are sold within a radius of 100 metres of an educational institution as per Section 6 B of the COTPA. The crackdown coincides with the decision taken in the MCC Council by Mayor Sunanda Palanetra on January 17 after members complained against the health hazards posed by hookah bars. Former mayor Ayub Khan, who spoke on the issue, feared that the younger generation could also be exposed to consumption of drugs if there was no proper monitoring of hookah bars. In view of the threat to health, he urged authorities to cancel the licences given to hookah bars in Mysuru.  Officials from the Cell told The Hindu that the Health Department had already asked the MCC to issue notices to hookah bars for violating various provisions of COTPA.  The Cell had contended that hookah bars were violating Section 4 of COTPA that prohibits smoking in public places. Section 4 of COTPA provides for setting up a designated smoking area in hotels and restaurants having a capacity of more than 30 seats. “Hookah is also a tobacco product. A separate area should be earmarked. There is a condition that no service of any kind should be provided in the designated area...,” said Shivakumar, consultant, Mysuru district Tobacco Control Cell. COTPA also makes display of ‘no smoking’ signages compulsory. Officials said the Mysuru police was in receipt of a letter from their counterparts in Bengaluru that referred not only to ill-effects of using hookah, but also the possibility of use of hookah causing spread of COVID-19.  After closing the hookah bar in Bannimantap on Monday, we inspected four in Jayalakshmipuram on Wednesday. We closed one of them and warned three others that their premises will be closed if they violated the provisions of COTPA, 2003. Official, Tobacco Control Cell||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drive-against-hookah-bars-in-mysuru/article38295280.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:26 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Yadgir dist. second in State in disbursement of loans’||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya said that Yadgir district was second in the State in distributing loans under the Prime Minister Svanidhi Yojana. She was speaking at a programme in Yadgir on Tuesday. Under this scheme, the eligible beneficiaries will get Rs. 10,000 loan which has to be repaid in one year on installments. In Yadgir, the target was 2,424 and loans were distributed 2,050 beneficiaries.“Street vendors, fruits and vegetable vendors, pan shoppers, small businessmen, laundry owners were sanctioned the loan and the district was second in the State by achieving this target,” she added. C.B. Vedamurthy, Superintendent of Police, also spoke and said that skilled youths in the district were offered jobs during the job mela organized by the various companies. “ Each youth should have a goal and put efforts to reach it. The benficiries under the Prime Minister Svanidhi Yojana should utilise the loan sanctioned and return it within the period stipulated,” he said. Prashant Hanagandi, Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir Sub Division and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-dist-second-in-state-in-disbursement-of-loans/article38295279.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:04 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Decision on Shiradi Ghat closure only after DC’s inspection’||Mr. Kateel said that he has apprised the Union Minister for Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari of the same. The ghat stretch can be closed down for “some days” only if it is inevitable. A suitable decision will be taken after the Deputy Commissioner’s visit, the MP said. Tableau matter Meanwhile, Mr. Kateel said that the Congress and Left parties are making the matter relating to the Republic Day tableau of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru an issue as part of their political conspiracy. Both the parties are on misinformation campaign against the Union Government, he said, adding that the Kerala Government has not followed the guidelines laid down by a committee of the Union Home Ministry on the selection of tableaux for Republic Day Parade. The Congress and the Left parties are sending a wrong message to people by stating that the Union Government has denied a chance to the tableau of Narayana Guru in the Republic Day Parade. “The parties are indulging in low-level politics in the name of Narayana Guru who propagated equality in society, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-shiradi-ghat-closure-only-after-dcs-inspection/article38295431.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:38 IST,KERALA||Cong. backs Wayanad tunnel road project with a rider||T. Siddique, MLA, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president, has said that his party will not oppose the construction of the proposed Anakkampoyil-Meppadi tunnel road, an alternative to the Thamarassery Ghat Road linking Kozhikode and Wayanad districts, if the project did not damage the biodiversity of the region. The project envisages the construction of a 6.8-km tunnel on the Anakkampoyil-Kalladi-Meppadi route to decongest the Ghat Road. Speaking to mediapersons here on Wednesday, Mr. Siddique said the party would not oppose the proposed project if the social and environmental impact studies favoured it. “It is the responsibility of the State Government to conduct the studies prior to the execution of the project”, he said. There were positive and negative opinions regarding the project now, but there was no scope for opposing it before conducting the studies, he said. Meanwhile, the environmental organisations in the district have decided to launch an indefinite agitation against the tunnel road and the SilverLine project of the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (K-Rail). Both the projects would cause serious social and ecological impacts in the State, Thomas Ambalavayal, secretary, Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana Samithi, said. The government said the proposed tunnel road would give a fillip to tourism, industry and agrarian sectors in the region, but the project would not have any positive result, he said. The project was really focused on how to exploit the immense potential of granite on the Western Ghats for the construction works of the K-Ril project in Malabar region, he alleged. The organisation will convene a meeting of the public at Vayojana Park at Sulthan Bathery at 2 p.m. on Sunday adhering to the COVID-19 protocol and it would decide the course of the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-backs-wayanad-tunnel-road-project-with-a-rider/article38295326.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:38 IST,KERALA||86.89% of students vaccinated in Wayanad||The Wayanad district Health Department has administered the vaccine against the COVID-19 to 86.89% of the students between the age group of 15-18 in the district.  When the vaccination drive started in the district for the age group on January 3, the department had targeted to vaccinate 30,245 students in the district, of whom 25,327 in the age group were vaccinated till Wednesday evening, District Medical Officer K. Sakeena told The Hindu .  The department had organised special vaccination drives across the district, Dr. Sakeena said. Special vaccination drives would be organised to vaccinate the remaining students with the support of Health and Education Department officials, she said. Special drives would also be organised in tribal hamlets with the support of civic bodies, tribal, health, and education department officials, she said. Booster doses of vaccine were provided to 7,582 persons, including citizens above 60 years’ old and health workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/8689-of-students-vaccinated-in-wayanad/article38295333.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||TPR remains high as district logs 5,953 fresh COVID-19 cases||Ernakulam district reported 5,953 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. The test positivity rate was 44.59%. As many as 5,924 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection was not confirmed in 27 cases. The number of active cases in the district is 32, 886. Doctors in Ernakulam warned the public to step up alert against the spread of the disease after a weekly analysis of the situation. The Omicron variant was spreading fast. Even those without symptoms were turning positive for SARS-CoV-2. The number of health workers getting infected has also gone up, a release quoting the representatives of Indian Medical Association, Kochi chapter, Kerala Govt. Medical Officers Association and National Health Mission, Ernakulam, said. Those having symptoms should immediately isolate themselves in their homes. Health workers should be alerted if the elderly or middle-aged members of a family get infected. The infected need to ensure that they drink lots of water. V. Jayasree, District Medical Officer, said that two domiciliary care centres will be opened immediately at Mattancherry and Ernakulam. The plan is to have seven such centres under the Kochi Corporation. P. Rajeeve, Minister for Industries, who reviewed the pandemic situation, recommended deploying members of voluntary organisations and Kudumbashree workers in the ongoing efforts to check the spread of the disease. The authorities requested the public to comply with the health guidelines and protocols prescribed by the Health department. Those who have come in contact with COVID-19 patients should not hesitate to carry out COVID-19 tests, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-remains-high-as-district-logs-5953-fresh-covid-19-cases/article64948275.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:54 IST,KERALA||Social media reaches out to complainant nun||Hundreds of women took to social media on Wednesday to write letters — handwritten notes in most cases — to the Catholic nun who had accused bishop Franco Mulakkal of raping her in a show of solidarity, sistership, empathy, and resistance. There were also those who addressed their letters to all the nuns who have been at the receiving end of the Church’s wrath for standing up for one of their own. A campaign takes shape Such personal notes, posted with hashtags such as #WithTheNuns and #Avalkkoppam, soon evolved into a campaign. Some of them encouraged others to write to the sisters at solidarity2sisters@gmail.com. The campaign was in the wake of a trial court, the additional sessions court in Kottayam, acquitting the bishop of all charges against him. “In the darkest of times, we feel a kind of scorching loneliness that cannot be done away by any words of solace or any promises of better days ahead. It can get deafeningly loud, the injustice and the hopelessness we feel…. I wish to sit with you only to remind you that all you need to do at the moment is honour your breath. Your breath is invaluable! Stay here. And when you can or feel like, look around you. You will find us, an army by your side. We are here to walk this thorny path with you, holding space for you, fighting for you and breathing with you. In a world that has gotten used to treat us as dispensable nothings, it is a revolution just to stay right here and breathe…. (sic),” wrote actor Parvathy Thiruvothu, vowing never to give up the fight for justice and dignity. She describes herself as the nun’s sister/friend/person. Actor Rima Kallingal wrote a shorter note to the sisters, thanking them for inspiring her “in the deepest dark moments”. Note of gratitude Actor-director Geetu Mohandas’s was also a note of gratitude for “for showing grit and determination to fight and never give up even when the odds are against you…(sic)”. Filmmaker Leena Manimekalai quoted Maya Angelou to stress that “your voice is ours, your strength is our lantern”. Playback singer Chinmayi assured the nun of support and told her that “there will be light at the end of this really dark tunnel”. In a letter in Malayalam, writer N.S. Madhavan said he was among those who sympathised with the nun in the wake of the trial court verdict. “Render unto Caesar what’s his and unto God the things that are God’s is said in the Bible. It’s natural to feel dejected when unsavoury experiences come from both those who claim to be representatives of the God and from the Caesar’s court. But there’s no need to feel weak. There’re others too, to walk alongside in the path of truth,” he said. Many men too There were film personalities, journalists, academics and other users of social media who joined the campaign pledging solidarity with the nuns. Many men, including popular historian Manu S. Pillai, also showed support by tweeting some of the letters with the hashtag, #WithTheNuns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/social-media-reaches-out-to-complainant-nun/article64948265.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:41 IST,KERALA||Discussions continue on Mass celebration issue||Discussions on the issue of celebration of the Mass continued as a fast by members of the laity and priests in the Syro-Malabar Archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly continued for the eighth day on Wednesday. The priests and laity of the Ernakualam-Angamaly archdiocese are insisting that that the more than half-century-old system of Mass celebration with the celebrant (priest) facing the congregation should be continued. Synod’s stance But a decision by the Synod of Bishops of the Syrian Catholic Church had said in August last year that the celebrant should face the people for the first half of the Mass and then face away from the people in the second half. Father Babu Kalathil, who was shifted to the Lisie Hospital on health grounds, continued his fast for the eighth day on Wednesday along with Almaya Munnettam (combine of lay people) leaders Prakash P. John and Thomas Keercheri. Father Tom Mullanchira is on a fast in front of the Cardinal's House. They are demanding that the Synod should issue an order permanently allowing the continuation of the tradition of fully people-facing Mass in the archdiocese.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discussions-continue-on-mass-celebration-issue/article38295348.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||Fire breakout exposes gaps in waste management||The latest incident of a major fire breakout at the waste dumping yard of the Kalamassery Municipality in north Kalamassery has once again exposed the gaps in the solid waste management scenario in the civic body. Despite repeated incidents of serious violations of the norms under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, the authorities and the enforcement agencies have not been able to act tough against violations and find a scientific solution to the vexed issue, according to the timeline of events and official records. Compensation The Kerala State Pollution Control Board had slapped a penalty of Rs. 2.47 crore as environment compensation on the municipality for its failure to comply with the provisions of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 in 2019. The fine was imposed as per an order issued by the National Green Tribunal. The study by the board had found that only one-fifth of the waste generated was disposed of as per rules. Tall claims The municipality authorities received a stay from the Kerala High Court against the payment of penalty. Even though the authorities and officials of the civic body had made tall claims, no concrete steps were taken to remove the heaps of legacy (old) waste, mainly plastic, lying at the yard for long. As per the norms, the civic body should have ensured bioremediation or capping of old and abandoned dump sites. They should have identified suitable sites for setting up solid waste processing facilities, besides procuring sanitary landfill facilities. The continuing lethargy on the part of the municipality had forced the State Level Monitoring Committee on Solid Waste Management appointed by the tribunal to recommend stringent measures against those responsible for non-compliance of rules. However, there was no major improvement and it was only in December that the civic body decided to entrust the government’s Clean Kerala Company with the task of removing the legacy waste. The agency had clarified that it had not yet received a reply from the civic body authorities on the exact quantity of legacy waste lying at the site despite removing about 400 to 500 tonnes since December, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-breakout-exposes-gaps-in-waste-management/article38295357.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:41 IST,KERALA||Maker Village, shipyard sign MoU for indigenisation of tech||Maker Village, one of the largest electronic hardware incubators in the country, has signed a memorandum of understanding with Cochin Shipyard (CSL) for the development of indigenised technology and related areas in marine engineering. The MoU was signed in Kochi by Deepu Surendran, general manager of CSL, and Nizam Mohammed, CEO of Maker Village, said a press release here. The hardware ecosystem set up by Digital University Kerala, IIITMK, and Kerala Startup Mission with support from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India and Government of Kerala, Maker Village will collaborate with CSL in the indigenisation of products and services through mutual support in research and development, design verification, marine technical services, and digital services. Through the MoU signed on Wednesday, the Maker Village companies will collectively make use of their product expertise in solving challenging marine engineering problems faced by the CSL. The startups will get exposed to problems that require a local solution. CSL will avail the services of startups incubated at Maker Village working on various new and upcoming technologies in the field of robotics, navigation, artificial intelligence and nano-based devices for development of indigenised products in the field of marine engineering, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maker-village-shipyard-sign-mou-for-indigenisation-of-tech/article64948281.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:57 IST,KERALA||HC grants anticipatory bail to Chief Airport Operator||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday granted anticipatory bail to Giri Madhusoodana Rao, suspended Chief Airport Operator of Adani Thiruvananthapuram International Airport Limited, in a case of rape filed by a woman employee of the airport. The prosecution charge was that he had seduced the woman working under him to visit him in his flat and had sexual intercourse with her without her consent. ‘Blackmail bid’ He alleged in the plea filed in the High Court that the complaint was lodged to blackmail him. Counsel for the petitioner argued that the WhatsApp chats between him and the woman till January 14, the day she lodged the complaint, indicated that even after the alleged rape on January 4, they had a cordial and friendly relationship. Opposing the bail plea, the public prosecutor submitted that the petitioner’s custody was absolutely essential and that the actual relationship between the accused and the woman could be ascertained only after a thorough investigation. The court ordered that in the event of his arrest, the petitioner be released on his executing a bond for Rs. 1 lakh. The court also directed him not to leave Thiruvananthapuram district without the permission of the investigation officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anticipatory-bail-granted-to-airport-official/article38295346.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||Thrikkakara Municipality to launch mass cleaning campaign||The Thrikkakara municipal authorities will hold an online meeting with residents’ associations, hospital authorities, voluntary agencies, traders and shop owners, NCC, members of the Haritha Karma Sena, schools and students’ organisations and other stakeholders on Thursday to decide on a mass cleaning campaign of the municipality to be launched on Sunday. The effort is to launch a mass cleaning campaign with people’s support, said Rashid Ullampally, health standing committee chairman of the municipality. He said the aim is to have a totally ‘green’ municipality with people from all walks of life participating in the campaign to get rid of waste from their localities in a coordinated manner. “It will be possible to maintain the status of a green municipality with the support of the residents’ associations and participation from each of the wards in the municipality,” he said. The programme, called ‘Haritha Bhavanam, Haritha Nagaram’, will aim to inculcate the practice of proper waste disposal and clean environment. The meeting on Thursday will finalise the date for launching the mass cleaning campaign, which is expected to begin on Sunday. The municipality, which hosts the headquarters of the district administration, had come under criticism for its failure to implement proper waste disposal facilities. The effort now is to address the long-standing issue. Land to be identified The municipal authorities are also on the look out for a piece of land for proper disposal and treatment of waste, said the health standing committee chairman. He said the land, once identified and acquired, will be turned into a green park. The municipality, he said, wanted most of the waste to be treated at source so that the common problem of dumping of waste in public places can be avoided. Shopping complex Meanwhile, the municipality is going ahead with plans to set up a major shopping complex attached to its proposed new administrative complex close to the present municipal office near the district collectorate. The proposal is to demolish the old shopping complex, which is about 30 years old, and erect a new complex with space for the municipal administrative offices as well as space for shops, said Ajitha Thankappan, Municipal Chairperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrikkakara-municipality-to-launch-mass-cleaning-campaign/article38295359.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||Committee to chart out vaccination plan||The Kochi Corporation will set up special vaccination centres for school students who are unable to receive the jab from schools. Besides the vaccination for youngsters in the 15 to 18 age group, booster doses of the vaccine will also be available in the centres. The coordination committee of the Kochi Corporation for the COVID-19 vaccination drive will meet on Thursday to speed up the vaccination campaign for the youth, according to Mayor M. Anilkumar. It is estimated that there are 31,020 students in the 15 to 18 age category who are eligible for the vaccination. Of this, 27,266 are students of various city schools. A schedule for the vaccination drive will be drawn up for the city schools. The details of the programme will be discussed at the coordination committee meeting, which includes the corporation councillors, on Thursday, the communication said. The decision was taken at a meeting of medical officers convened by the civic body on Wednesday. A meeting of various organisations in the city will be convened on Saturday to discuss the COVID situation and the steps to be adopted to tackle it. The civic body will extend all possible support for overcoming the health crisis, said the communication. Dr. V. Jayasree, District Medical Officer; Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for the vaccination drive; Dr. Sajith John, District Project Manager, National Health Mission; Dr. S. Sreedevi, Additional District Medical Officer, and T.K. Ashraf, chairman of the health standing committee of the Kochi Corporation, attended the meeting that was held at the chamber of the Mayor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/committee-to-chart-out-vaccination-plan/article64948279.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||ATM fraud: two arrested||The police have busted an inter-State gang which is suspected to have stolen more than Rs. 10 lakh from various ATMs in the city. They have arrested Ashif Ali, 26, and Shahid Khan, 30, both belonging to Alwar and Bharatpur respectively in Rajasthan. The theft was allegedly carried out by tampering with the machines. The police said that the duo stole money from the ATMs of the State Bank of India (SBI) in Ponekkara, Elamakkara and Palarivattom on December 25 and 26. They left for Rajasthan after the heist. The chances of more persons involved in the crime cannot be ruled out, they said. The police launched a probe after the bank authorities reported the loss of money. The gang was found to have targeted ATMs operated by the SBI and they had around 44 debit cards secured in the name of their relatives and friends with them at the time of the arrest. V. U. Kuriakose, Deputy Commissioner, Kochi, said on Wednesday that the accused locate the power unit of the ATM machine first after entering the cabin. The money is withdrawn using the debit cards. They used to shut down the power unit immediately after the cash is released from the machine, he said. The police said the power was switched off to ensure that the withdrawal was not reflected in the software of the ATM. However, the withdrawal will be registered in the account concerned. The gang will then lodge a complaint before the bank claiming that they could not retrieve the money from the ATM, but the amount was deducted from the account owing to the technical error in the machine. Mr. Kuriakose said that the bank used to pay the money in five days, when such a complaint is received. CCTV visuals The police identified the accused based on the CCTV installed at the ATMs. Their contact number, home address and Aadhaar cards were recovered without much delay as the two had taken a bike on rent from a private firm. The investigating team went to Rajasthan after getting a clear picture and recorded their arrest. The arrested admitted that they had stolen about Rs. 1.15 lakh from the ATM in Ponekkara. They had also targeted ATMs in other parts of the city. The police said that the duo had stolen over Rs. 10 lakh. Some of the banks may not have yet reported it before the police, it is learnt. The investigating team said that the gang would have carried out similar operations in other parts of the country too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-on-charge-of-atm-fraud/article38295356.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||HC directive to conduct inquiry into bribe demand by police officers||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) to conduct a preliminary inquiry into all the allegations levelled by a migrant family in Kochi including the one that police officials had demanded Rs. 5 lakh as bribe for releasing their daughters who were lodged in a care home after being traced from Delhi. Justice Devan Ramachandran, while hearing a suo motu case registered following the allegations, observed that the VACB should look into all the allegations involved in the case and the inquiry should not merely confine to the demand of bribe alone. The court directed the VACB to submit a comprehensive report by February 11 in a sealed cover for further orders after the inquiry. The court observed that only if the indiscretions of a few individuals in the force were taken note of and stringent action taken, it will “serve as an example for others, leading to the force being a truly worthy one.” The court made it clear that if, after such an inquiry, the VACB was convinced that further action was required, it could initiate action, “notwithstanding the fact that this Court has not seen their report until February 11”. The court observed that as long as the police officers even obliquely obtained the impression that they would be supported in spite of their misdemeanours, the eventual requirements of a strong policing and honest law enforcement would remain a “chimera”. ‘Harrowing experience’ The counsel for the victims in the case said that if a proper inquiry was conducted by the VACB or by any other competent authority, the truth will certainly come out, particularly the harrowing nature of the incidents and experience which the family had to go through. Therefore, exemplary action should be taken against the erring police officers as otherwise such incidents would take place in the future too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-orders-inquiry-into-bribe-demand-by-cops/article38295358.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||Councillors’ meet to discuss housing scheme stalemate||The Kochi Corporation will soon convene a meeting of the councillors to find ways to solve the stalemate regarding the Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana (PMAY), the housing scheme for the urban poor. Around 20,000 beneficiaries of the housing scheme are in the lurch after the delay in getting the Central funds for the housing scheme. The Central share of Rs. 31 crore is long overdue and the shortage of funds has hit the project. Besides the Central share, the State government and the urban local body have to make contributions to the housing scheme. The maximum support that one beneficiary can get under the scheme is Rs. 4 lakh. A large number of beneficiaries are unable to complete the construction of their houses for want of Central support, said Antony Kureethara, the leader of the Congress in the council. The civic administration should take steps to release the funds and support the urban poor to complete the construction of their dwelling units, he demanded. As the Central funds got delayed, the Kochi Corporation had disbursed its contribution of Rs. 81.58 crore to the beneficiaries. The fund was released by the State to the corporation by way of an interest-free loan, he said. Mayor M. Anilkumar said the Central share was delayed due to the backlog of applications that were processed during the earlier years. Decisions could not be taken in the case of a large number of applications. Some of the applicants had not provided the documents that were required to be submitted along with the applications. The Central funds would be released only when the backlog was cleared, he said. The financial support for the eligible applicants cannot be delayed due to the backlog. A meeting of the councillors would be convened in a day or two to decide on the issue and appropriate decision would be taken, said Mr. Anilkumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/councillors-meet-to-discuss-housing-scheme-stalemate/article38295360.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:55 IST,KERALA||Forum seeks halt to all K-Rail works||Samsthana K-Rail SilverLine Virudha Janakiya Samithi, a group protesting against the implementation of the K-Rail (SilverLine) semi-high speed railway project, has demanded that the government halt all works related to the project immediately. Leaders of the samithi told a press conference here on Wednesday while the government had prohibited all gatherings under the threat of the third COVID-19 wave, it was going ahead with meetings with leaders of society on the K-Rail project. M.P. Baburaj, chairman of the samithi, and S. Rajeevan, general convenor, were among those who addressed the press conference here. They said the government was under the impression that people could be bound to their homes in the name of the pandemic and the protest against the rail project could be derailed. If the government continued with the K-Rail project activities, including marking boundaries for land acquisition, a protest on the lines of the "historic" farmers’ protest would be organised to resist the project, they said. The government was forcing the people to put their lives in danger and come out into the streets against the project, they alleged. They demanded that all activities related to the project should be halted and all offices opened in connection with the project closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forum-demands-immediate-halt-to-all-k-rail-works/article38295347.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:54 IST,KERALA||Appointments to minorities’ panel upheld||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has upheld the appointment of P.K. Haneefa and Muhammed Faisal as chairman and member respectively of the Kerala State Commission for Minorities. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali passed the verdict on Wednesday while dismissing a public interest litigation filed by Justine Pallivathukkal of Palakkad challenging the appointments to the posts of chairman and members of the commission from the same community. According to the petitioner, the action of the State government was arbitrary and amounted to negation of interests of the other minority communities. The petitioner also challenged the Kerala State Commission for Minorities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017 which allows the government to appoint the chairman and members from the same minority community. As per the 2014 Act, the chairman and the other members of the commission should be from different communities. The court said what was relevant and important was the purpose for which the commission had been constituted and not the community of the members of the commission, which had no role to play in discharging the functions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appointments-to-minorities-panel-upheld/article38295400.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:54 IST,KERALA||Tableau row: MP asks Modi to intervene||Communist Party of India (CPI) leader Binoy Viswam, MP, has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reverse the decision of rejecting the Kerala government’s proposal to display the tableau of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru in the upcoming Republic Day parade. The official response of the Centrel that it had no role in the selection process and a committee of prominent persons took the decision was unsatisfactory. The selection of tableaux clearly showed a favourable bias towards the States ruled by the BJP governments, Mr. Viswam pointed out in a letter to the Prime Minister. Condemning the rejection of the tableau, Mr. Viswam said the decision was not only an insult to the legacy of Guru, but also reeked of political partisanship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tableau-row-mp-asks-modi-to-intervene/article38295405.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Rapid response teams to be strengthened in Kozhikode||The Kozhikode Corporation will strengthen its rapid response teams (RRTs) against the backdrop of the rising number of COVID-19 cases spurred by the Omicron variant. This was decided at a review meeting held here on Wednesday. Mayor Beena Philip said ward-level RRTs and Kudumbashree volunteers would monitor the quarantine cycle of those returning from abroad. Newly appointed Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) will be roped in for COVID containment work. Ward-level committees and ward RRTs will monitor people with co-morbidities and those who cannot take the vaccine. Medical shops will be asked to record the names and mobile numbers of those buying test kits. It was reported that a majority of people who test positive for the virus using the kits do not register themselves anywhere. Such details will have to be marked in a register, which should be forwarded to the corporation health circle offices. Private labs have been told to record the names of local bodies to which the infected persons belong and their ward numbers. More antigen test kits will be sought from the government to increase the number of tests. A second-line treatment centre will be opened at the Government Homoeo College, Karaparamba. Hostels in the city will be asked to set aside a section of their premises for accommodating infected persons. They should inform the health wing of the corporation as well as the District Medical Officer about the facilities. A meeting of hospital managements in the city will be called soon. S. Jayasree, chairperson of the standing committee on health, cited difficulties in managing the facilities, since there were separate health centres run by the corporation, National Health Mission (NHM), and the Health department. It was decided to hold a meeting of the corporation authorities, District Medical Officer, and the District Programme Manager, NHM. Distribution of food to street dwellers will be only through the Akshaya Pathram scheme, as food items have been found dumped in public places. A joint inspection will be carried out by the police and the health wing of the corporation to regulate roadside vendors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rapid-response-teams-to-be-strengthened-in-kozhikode/article64948288.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Cabinet approves Rs. 222 crore for Kinfra Knowledge Park||A meeting of the State Cabinet held on Wednesday approved Rs. 222.83 crore for the proposed Kinfra Knowledge Park at Ramanattukara in Kozhikode district. This will be used for taking the project forward, including settling the compensation for those who gave away their land for it. Land acquisition The government ordered the acquisition of 80 acres of land in Ramanattukara in 2008. Of this, 76.66 acres were acquired in 2010. At that time, the government paid only one-tenth of the fair value of the land. Fifteen of the 140 land losers died in the past 13 years. Wednesday’s decision is a follow-up to the meeting held between government representatives and functionaries of the Ramanattukara Kinfra Knowledge Park Land Losers’ Action Committee on December. Compensation Welcoming the decision, committee convener K. Mohammed Fysal said that the authorities should deposit the compensation amount in the head of account of the Kozhikode Sub-Judge, in whose court a case related to the land acquisition was pending. The committee functionaries said they had to wage a long legal battle in various courts to get their due. To be ready in 2 months Meanwhile, a government press release said that a park was coming up on two acres of the acquired land for In formation Technology and IT-enabled industries. Work on a five-storey building spread over 1.15 lakh sqft was on. It would be thrown open to the beneficiaries in two months after arranging parking facilities. 700 jobs As many as 700 direct jobs are expected to be generated here. This is the third biggest IT park in Kozhikode district after the Government Cyber Park and the UL Cyber Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cabinet-approves-rs-222-crore-for-kinfra-knowledge-park/article38295337.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||3,386 test positive; TPR rises to 40.53% in district||The test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19 rose to 40.53% in Kozhikode district on Wednesday when 3,386 persons tested positive for the virus. Hospitalisations too are increasing. 8,637 samples According to the District Medical Officer, 8,637 samples were tested. There are 25 health workers among the infected people. The active caseload in the district rose to 17,055. 329 under treatment A total of 329 people are undergoing treatment in private hospitals and 158 others in government hospitals. As many as 13,140 people are in home isolation in the district. Meanwhile, at a district-level review meeting, District Medical Officer V. Ummer Farooq said that the number of beds at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, and the Government General Hospital would be increased. Right now, 58% of beds in government hospitals and 26% in private hospitals are occupied. Second-line treatment centres will be opened at ESI Hospital, Feroke, and Government Homeo Medical College. ICU support Mr. Farooq said intensive care unit support, ventilators, and liquid oxygen facilities were available in government and private hospitals in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3386-test-positive-tpr-rises-to-4053-in-district/article38295344.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||COVID threat: principals seek closure of colleges||A section of principals have sought immediate closure of colleges in the wake of the rapid spread of COVID-19 in the State. Varughese Mathew, president of the Kerala Unaided Colleges Principals’ Council, said on Wednesday that the universities should also postpone the semester exams scheduled to begin in the next few days. The University of Calicut, the biggest university in the State, is planning to hold the fifth semester exams for undergraduate courses on February 27. Almost all universities are right now holding centralised camps for evaluation of answer scripts for both postgraduate and undergraduate courses. Teachers in Calicut University have been attending the camp since January 15. Mr. Mathew demanded that the evaluation be changed to decentralised home system, which was in vogue before 2000. Functionaries of the council also urged parents to discourage their children from going for study tours. Many students are demanding that they be allowed to go because this is the end of the academic year. The principals claimed that though the college authorities were not keen on this, some students were found to be going on journeys without their approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/principals-seek-closure-of-colleges/article38295335.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Temporary job vacancies at NITC||The National Institute of Technology-Calicut (NITC) has invited applications for temporary appointment (on ad hoc or contract basis) to several posts such as research associate, junior research fellow, project associate, faculty, technical assistant and library helper. For more information on eligibility, qualification, job profile, and application procedure, visit the job opportunities’ link of NIT Calicut website: https://www.nitc.ac.in/, a press release said here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/temporary-job-vacancies-at-nitc/article38295342.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Woman alleges assault by hospital security staff||The security staff at the Institute for Maternal and Child Health (IMCH) at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, have been accused of punching in the face of a woman caregiver. According to sources, Sakkeena of Sulthan Bathery, had gone to the hospital with her grandchild and mother on Wednesday morning. She went to the IMCH after consulting a doctor for her mother’s treatment at the superspecialty block. The security staff reportedly did not permit Ms. Sakkeena to enter the building citing pandemic restrictions. Later, when she wanted to hand over the doctor’s prescription to those who had gone inside with the child, an altercation broke out between Ms. Sakkeena and the security staff. She alleged that she was punched in the face twice. “When I tried to shoot a video, they snatched my mobile phone and smashed it,” she alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-alleges-assault-by-hospital-security-staff/article38295341.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Two held in honeytrap case||The Pantheerankavu police have arrested two persons, including a woman, on the charge of involvement in a honeytrap case. A team led by Station House Officer Baiju K. Jose arrested Faijas Usman, 30, of Pokkunnu, Kozhikode, and Shabana, 21 of Mananthavady, Wayanad, based on a complaint from the man whose money and mobile phone were allegedly extorted by a gang at an apartment on the Kozhikode Bypass at Thondayad. The police have launched a manhunt for three others who are at large, Mr. Jose said. The officer said the complainant had established friendship with Shabana via Facebook. She had reportedly asked him to reach the apartment while passing through the Kozhikode Bypass on Tuesday night. While he was at the apartment, Faijas and three others barged in, threatened him of tarnishing his image in public and forced him to part with his cash and mobile phone, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-in-honeytrap-case/article38295343.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Over a lakh students get jab in Malappuram||Students of 53 schools in Malappuram district were given COVID-19 vaccine, as the Health department began focusing on school campuses across the State on Wednesday. Students aged between 15 and 18 are being given vaccine on campuses. District Medical Officer (DMO) R. Renuka said 1.19 lakh students between 15 and 18 years of age in the district had been administered the vaccine since January 1. Until Wednesday, the students got the jab at the respective vaccination centres. Dr. Renuka said the Health department had tied up with the Education department and respective local bodies with the support of the National Cadet Corps, National Service Scheme, and other youth organisations in the vaccination drive. Meanwhile, the DMO and team visited MMET Higher Secondary School at Alathurpadi near here on Wednesday, where the vaccine was administered under the supervision of Government Taluk Hospital, Malappuram. District Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) Officer A. Shibulal, District Education Media Officer P. Raju, Government Taluk Hospital Superintendent C. Aligarh Babu, Deputy Education Media Officer P.M. Fasal, MMET Higher Secondary School headmaster Usman, and several other teachers attended the programme. Call for vaccination Dr. Renuka called upon people to get themselves vaccinated against COVID-19, as the number of cases in the district was going up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-a-lakh-students-get-jab-in-malappuram/article38295345.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:55 IST,KERALA||Skill development centre||V. Muraleedharan, Union Minister of State for External Affairs, said on Wednesday that the Centre was aiming at the country’s development by taking all sections of people into confidence. Speaking after laying the foundation for a skill development centre sanctioned by the Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakram (PMJVK) at Nilambur on Wednesday, Mr. Muraleedharan said that the world was demanding the country’s human resource and its skills. “In Kerala alone, the Centre sanctioned Rs. 41 crore for uplift of the minorities,” he said. While Mr. Muraleedharan laid the foundation for the skill development centre through videoconferencing, P.V. Abdul Wahab, MP, laid the foundation stone for a girls’ hostel sanctioned under the PMJVK on the Nilambur Orphanage campus. He thanked the Centre for sanctioning the skill development centre and the girls’ hostel under the PMJVK. The Centre sanctioned Rs. 7.92 crore for the skill development centre and Rs. 9.97 crore for the girls’ hostel in response a minority skill development project submitted by Mr. Wahab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/skill-development-centre-to-come-up-at-nilambur/article64948262.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||‘Rolling stir’ to draw attention to their plight||The Chakliya residents of Ambedkar Colony at Muthalamada, Palakkad, who have been staging a satyagraha for over three months demanding land and homes, celebrated the 100th day of their protest by rolling on the ground in front of the district Collectorate here on Wednesday. Bharatiya National Janata Dal State president John John inaugurated the protest. Agitation council patron Vilayodi Venugopal presided. The protesters accused the government of dishonouring its promises to give land and homes for them. The Ambedkar colony residents were on the agitation in front of the Muthalamada grama panchayat office for over three months. They shifted their protest to the Collectorate premises seeking to get better attention for their cause. Several women and children joined the protesters and volunteers to do the ‘shayana pradakshinam’ in front of the Collectorate. As many as 34 Scheduled Caste families of Ambedkar Colony were agitating for over three months demanding land homes. Some families have more than a dozen members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chakliya-residents-intensify-stir/article64948143.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||Vaccination for students begins in schools across State||The COVID-19 vaccination for students got under way in 125 schools in the State on Wednesday. As many as 27,087 children received the vaccine. Vaccination will begin in more schools on Thursday, Minister for Health Veena George said. Wednesday, she said, was the day when other vaccinations were administered in all primary centres. Vaccines are being administered in schools that have more than 500 eligible students. Once those were covered, schools with lesser number of students would be considered, the Minister said, after visiting the vaccination centre at Karthika Thirunal Government Girls Vocational and Higher Secondary School, Manacaud. The response from the Manacaud school where more than 500 children were unvaccinated was good. Both the Health and the General Education departments were together making the vaccination exercise possible for student safety, she said. Services of doctor, nurse The vaccines were being administered by adhering to COVID-19 protocols. Services of a doctor and a staff nurse had been ensured. Waiting area, vaccination room, observation room plus the services of an ambulance were arranged in schools. In schools where clusters had been reported, the vaccination would be undertaken once they reopened. Students who had been infected need get the vaccine only after three months, Ms. George said. Till date, 86,68,721 (57%) students in the 15-18 age group have received the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-begins-for-students-in-schools/article64948115.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:54 IST,KERALA||K-FON Internet for BPL families by May||The first of the below the poverty line (BPL) families in the State are set to get free Internet connections under the State government’s ambitious K-FON (Kerala Fibre Optic Network) project in May this year. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan says in a Facebook post that 100 BPL families in each of the 140 Assembly constituencies will get free Internet connection in the initial stage. The K-FON project aims at providing such connections to 20 lakh households in the State, in a bid to ensure universal Internet access and address the problem of digital divide, which has now become acute after the COVID-19 outbreak. The previous Left Democratic Front government had declared Internet connection as a basic right when the Rs. 1,548-crore K-FON project was launched in 2019. But, the project, earlier scheduled to be completed in December 2020, has been delayed due to the pandemic and the delay in getting right of way permissions for cabling from various departments. Linking govt. offices In addition to providing connectivity to all houses, the project aims at linking all government offices. Out of the 30,000 government offices, in which end-office connectivity has been aimed at, work was completed in 3,019 offices by December 2021. The government hopes to take the network to 3,000-5,000 offices each month and complete the work by June this year. Cable laid Out of 34,961 kilometres of All-Dielectric Self-Supporting fiber optic cable required to be laid, 11,906 km has been completed across the 14 districts. Out of a total of 2,600 km of optical ground wire required for the project, 2,045 km has been completed. The work on 114 Points of Presence (POP), the local access point that allows users to connect to the Internet, has been completed, while work on 216 more is progressing. At KSEB substations These are being set up in Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) substations. The KSEB and the Kerala State IT Infrastructure Limited are implementing the project. The Network Operating Centre has been completed. The centre will monitor round the clock the Statewide optical fibre network, and can detect faults through fibre monitoring system software. K-FON officials have made it clear that it is neither a telecom service provider nor an Internet service provider but will set up as a “vendor-neutral” optical fibre network that will serve as the infrastructural backbone that can take high-speed Internet services to the public. To be leased Cable operators, Internet service providers and telecom operators can lease a portion of the core network from K-FON and provide high-speed Internet to consumers, while the government will subsidise the same for the BPL families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-fon-internet-for-bpl-families-by-may/article38295403.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:57 IST,KERALA||Eettimoodu settlement gets ‘kuttipallikoodam’||Eettimoodu, a tribal settlement at Pallippura Karikakkakom in Vithura grama panchayat, has got a ‘kuttipallikoodam’ (mini-learning centre) and career studio. The ‘kuttipallikoodam’ has been set up by the Student Police Cadets (SPC) of Government Vocational and Higher Secondary School, Vithura, to provide children in the settlement academic support. The kuttipallikoodam project has been launched under the Vithura Janamaithri police station. It is the fourth kuttipallikoodam in tribal settlements in Vithura. One has been set up in Tholicode too. The project was launched during the first lockdown period after tribal people expressed the desire to see their children continue their learning. The first kuttipallikoodam, at Kalloopara, came up as a temporary structure of bamboo and reed, but with facilities such as TV, D2H connection, whiteboard, and furniture for online education. Soon came the demand for another centre at Kongamarathinmoodu, inside the Kallar forests. At the beginning of the second lockdown, the centre there was catering to students from the Kongamarathinmoodu and Mullammoodu settlements. The third learning centre came up at Elavinmoodu and the fourth at Eettimoodu. During the lockdown, schools were closed but these centres were up and running by adhering to COVID-19 safety protocols, setting a model. Schools reopened in November, but the kuttipallikoodams continue to function. Vithura Station House Officer S. Sreejith and his team too have been extending their support. Career guidance The career studio is intended to provide students and their parents career guidance and increase their awareness of various subjects and opportunities available. The SPC is also trying to set up a reading room and a library there to promote reading habit among children and adults. Temporary teachers have been appointed to the learning centres as part of the Vanajyothi project. The learning centre and career studio were inaugurated by Thiruvananthapuram Rural Additional Superintendent of Police E.S. Bijumon. Vithura grama panchayat vice president Manjusha Anand presided. Mr. Sreejith, SPC district assistant nodal officer Anil Kumar T.S. and school teacher and community police officer K. Anver were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuttipallikoodam-set-up-at-settlement/article64948153.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||District registers 5,684 cases, TPR at 45.8%||The district registered 5,684 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 45.8%, slightly below Tuesday’s 47.8%. Of the total cases, contact transmission accounted for 5,487 cases and the source remained unknown in 157. While the district reported 1,206 recoveries on Wednesday, 40,701 people are currently under treatment for the infection, according to official figures released by the district administration. In all, 12,391 tests were carried out over 24 hours. With the steep rise in infections, District Collector Navjot Khosa issued a new set of guidelines for private and cooperative hospitals. The guidelines require these hospitals to set apart 50% of the beds for COVID-19 patients. Beds equipped with oxygen supplies and ventilators are to be earmarked for COVID-19 patients. All COVID-19 care centres in the district have been instructed to maintain contact with the District Programme Management and Support Unit functioning at the District Collectorate, the administration said. Update on portal The centres are required to update information on infrastructure, including ICU and ventilators, COVID-19 patients seeking treatment, discharged patients, and referred patients every four hours on the COVID-19 Jagratha portal. Failure to comply will attract action under the Disaster Management Act 2005, the district administration said. Treatment centres are not permitted to refer patients to government hospitals or other private hospitals without contacting the District Programme and Support Management Unit and ensuring that adequate facilities are available. The number of health-care workers in the daily COVID-19 caseload continues to be alarmingly high in the district, even as the district administration scrambles to tackle the third wave. 350 staff in 10 days More than 350 health-care workers tested positive in the past 10 days alone, show official figures. This included 38 new cases reported on Wednesday. More than 40 cases each were reported from Saturday to Tuesday. On Tuesday, the number was as high as 67. Given the increase in cases, the District Collector has urged the people to observe COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and undergo testing even if the symptoms are mild.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-logs-5684-cases-tpr-at-458/article64948118.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:54 IST,KERALA||CM to chair COVID-19 review meeting today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will chair an online COVID-19 review meeting on Thursday to calibrate a response to the accelerated spread of the suspected Omicron-driven variant of the coronavirus. Mr. Vijayan will join the meeting remotely from the U.S., where he has gone for treatment. Soaring COVID-19 infections have resurrected old fears of harsher restrictions on life, loss of livelihood, economic downturn, overstretched health-care resources, critical staff shortage in hospitals, emergency services, public utilities and government offices. A Cabinet meeting reportedly felt the pestilence had reached a critical stage and warranted stricter regulations. The uncertainty surrounding the third wave posed a new set of challenges for the government. An official privy to pandemic review meetings said the government was likely to strike a balance between mitigating the contagion and protecting the economy. CM’s call Mr. Vijayan might take a call on whether to reimpose weekend lockdowns, night curfew and restrict business timings. Meanwhile, the government drew flak from the United Democratic Front for not preparing for a third wave. Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan said the administration appeared to give more emphasis to short-term political compulsions than public health. It had limited gatherings to a maximum of 50 persons. But the restriction remained largely on paper. The government allowed elections to Kudumbashree, prompting 300 to 400 women to line up to vote across the State. The focus was on organising public spectacles and closed-door meetings as part of the CPI(M)’s upcoming State conference. The government had not closed educational institutions despite many turning into COVID-19 hotspots, he said. ‘No strategy in place’ Ramesh Chennithala, MLA, said the government seemed to have left the COVID-ravaged populace to its fate. It lacked a coherent strategy. Health Minister Veena George has largely confined herself to doling out advice to the people. He said the CPI(M) conferences had turned into Petri dishes for the pestilence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-chair-covid-19-review-meeting-today/article38295404.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:54 IST,KERALA||At 34,199, State sees a surge in cases||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph recorded another jump in cases on Wednesday with 34,199 persons testing positive when 91,983 samples were tested in 24 hours. The relentless climb of the case graph is typical of the surge in case graphs witnessed in Europe when Omicron variant was in wide circulation. The State’s active case pool, which had fewer than 20,000 patients in the beginning of the year, now has 1,68,383 patients, of whom 3.2% are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like first-line/second-line treatment centres. The Health department’s data say during January 12-18 the average active cases were 93,466, out of which an average of 0.7% were admitted in oxygen beds and 0.6% in ICUs. New cases increased by 211% (88,062 cases), while active cases increased by 192% during this period, in comparison to the previous week. Hospitalisations increased by 60% and ICU occupancy by 38%. 8,193 recoveries The number of recoveries has gone up and 8,193 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on Wednesday. Even when Omicron is said to cause fewer hospitalisations, the number of patients getting admitted in hospitals every day has been rising exponentially this past one week. On Wednesday, the number of patients who newly entered the hospitals rose to 1,094. Total number of patients admitted with COVID in hospitals has risen to 6,203. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals has been rising steadily every day. On Wednesday, it jumped from 722 to 794. The number of patients requiring ventilator support has also been rising and stands at 175. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 51,160 with the State adding 134 deaths to the official list of COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday. These include 49 recent deaths and 85 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 54,64,457 cases. Highest in Ernakulam Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 5,953, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 5,684, Thrissur 3,604, Kozhikode 3,386, Kottayam 2,333, Pathanamthitta 1,944, Palakkad 1,920, Kannur 1,814, Kollam 1,742, Malappuram 1,579, Idukki 1,435, Alappuzha 1,339, Wayanad 798, and Kasaragod 668 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-34199-state-sees-a-surge-in-cases/article64948269.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:57 IST,KERALA||BJP creates pseudo-euphoria in one section: Kafeel Khan||Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of creating a “pseudo-euphoria” among followers of one religion using various methods of communal polarisation, paediatrician and activist Kafeel Khan has said that he will continue his fight for justice.  Speaking at the Press Club here on Wednesday as part of a multi-city tour for the release of his book The Gorakhpur Hospital Tragedy: A Doctor’s Memoir of a Deadly Medical Crisis , he said he wanted to spread a message of humanity and communal harmony from Kerala, where people were not discriminated against on the basis of religion or caste.  “I am not personally against Yogi Adityanath and Narendra Modi. I am against the divisive ideology of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), which they represent. Using political vendetta and oppression and scare tactics against Muslims, they create an artificial euphoria among the followers of another community. They had earlier promised everything from Rs. 15 lakh in bank accounts to job creation, but none of these have been fulfilled. They are diverting the attention of the people with this pseudo euphoria in the name of pseudo Hinduism,” said Dr. Khan. The Uttar Pradesh Police arrested Dr. Khan a few days after he alleged that oxygen shortage led to the deaths of several children at BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur in 2017. Though he was released on bail after nine months of imprisonment, and later cleared of all charges, he was again arrested in 2019 for a speech during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests and had to again spend several months more in jail. Against corruption “I have written this book to tell the story of those 80 families who lost their children, to speak about the corruption in the health system and to point out how politicians hide their misdeeds by finding a scapegoat. I have also written about the difficult prison life I had to undergo and about how a section of the media has now become a source of misinformation. My brother was shot at, my family was victimised and we are financially broken. Even after getting clearance from the courts, I got terminated from my job,” he said. Dr. Khan said the country always had a broken health system, considering that hardly 1% of the GDP was spent on health. COVID-19 just exposed the already collapsed system. He said that there was no comparison between Uttar Pradesh and Kerala, which ranked high in health, literacy rate, development, harmony, humanity and education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-creating-pseudo-euphoria-among-a-community-kafeel-khan/article64948150.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:56 IST,KERALA||Call to reconsider question patterns of SSLC, Plus Two||The release of focus area and question paper patterns for the SSLC and Plus Two examinations has led to calls by teachers’ organisations for reconsidering both. The All Kerala School Teachers Union (AKSTU) State committee has demanded that the government direct that the decision to include a majority of a textbook for the SSLC and Plus Two examinations be re-examined in the wake of limited in-person learning for students this year. In a statement here on Wednesday, the AKSTU alleged that that the focus area and the guidelines for setting the question papers had been decided without considering the current situation and consequently, the limited time available for the learning process. It sought that the General Education Department take a decision that kept in mind the students and helped ward off anxieties during the pandemic. The Aided Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association questioned the reason for increasing the focus area to 60% instead of last year’s 40%. While questions for double the maximum score were provided last year, that too had been reduced this year. Studying the focus area would fetch only 70% marks. Students who were unable to study the non-focus area portions would lose 30% marks. Students had only 25 hours to complete the syllabus, which normally would take all working days in a year to be completed. The question paper pattern should be changed so that students could appear for the examinations without any stress, the association demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-reconsider-question-patterns-of-sslc-plus-two/article38295508.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:57 IST,KERALA||1,815 inoculated in district||As many as 1,815 students in the 15-18 age group were administered the COVID-19 vaccine through schools in the district on Wednesday. Minister for Health Veena George visited the vaccination centre at Karthika Thirunal Government Girls Vocational and Higher Secondary School, Manacaud, to review the arrangements. The school with nearly 3,500 students had nearly 510 unvaccinated students across the high school, higher secondary, and vocational higher secondary sections. 117 receive jabs Of them, 200 were scheduled to receive the vaccine. However, with a number of students reporting cold or cough or having family members who were COVID-19 positive, 117 students — 70 in the higher secondary and the remaining in vocational higher secondary and high school sections — were administered the vaccine. Doctors from the Rajaji Nagar primary health centre and the one at Kalippankulam, along with vaccinators and nurses, reached the school, which had arranged a waiting area, registration room, vaccination room, and observation room for the students. ID card or Aadhaar Students had to present their Aadhaar or ID card so that their registration could be verified. Spot registration facility was also made available with the help of teachers and health workers. The vaccination began at 9.30 a.m. and was completed by 1.30 p.m. Everything went off smoothly, with no adverse events being reported, school authorities said. At Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Cotton Hill, the vaccination was postponed on the directions of the Health department. Students who had contracted COVID-19 need to get vaccinated only after three months. At a boys’ school in the city, where the vaccination is scheduled for Thursday and Friday, over a 1,000 students are unvaccinated, but only 150 have registered, say the school authorities. Other schools In the capital district, Venjaramoodu GHSS; Keezharoor GHSS; Vithura HSS; Ayiroor MGM School; Palayamkunnu GHSS; Vellarada Velayudha Memorial HS; Chakrapanipuram SN HSS; Nellimoodu New Higher Secondary School; Jagathy Rotary Special School; Thembamoodu Janata HSS; and Meenankal High School were the other schools where COVID-19 vaccination was administered on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1815-inoculated-in-district/article38295510.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||Calicut University bid to bend norms to promote Bindu, says SUCC||The Save University Campaign Committee (SUCC) has accused the University of Calicut of adopting illegal means to promote Higher Education Minister R. Bindu as professor even as she has retired from service. SUCC chairman R.S. Sasikumar and secretary M. Shajirkhan has submitted a complaint to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan in this regard. ‘UGC norms violated’ They alleged the “CPI(M)-led Syndicate” in the university had been trying to award Ms. Bindu professorship by bringing a resolution. It was intended to provide promotions retrospectively to teachers, including Dr. Bindu, who had retired from service, in violation of the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations, they claimed. A resolution passed on December 30 purportedly decided to process proposals to promote retired and relieved teachers whose professor promotions were due on or after July 18, 2018. Dr. Bindu had opted for voluntary retirement from service at Sree Kerala Varma College in March 2021 in order to contest the Assembly elections. She had retired as an associate professor. For poll campaign The SUCC stated that Dr. Bindu had illegally used the title of professor throughout the election campaign and later while swearing in as Minister. While the government later brought out a Gazette notification that stated the Minister could not use the title, a writ petition is pending before the Kerala High Court challenging her election since she had allegedly used the title of professor to “influence voters”. The move is intended to help her counter the writ petition, they alleged. They added that Kerala University had denied promotions to retired teachers in the past.  Kerala University had denied promotions to retired teachers in the past Save University Campaign Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cu-bid-to-bend-norms-to-promote-bindu-succ/article38295325.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:54 IST,KERALA||Village-level people’s panels to be revived||The Revenue department is reviving the village-level people’s committees across the State in a bid to create a better rapport between village offices and the public. Originally constituted through a government order in 2008, the panels had fallen inactive over the years. Orders have now been issued for reconstituting them on the basis of a report submitted by Commissioner of Land Revenue K. Biju, which said these panels were either partially or fully defunct. With village officers as conveners, the committees are designed to ensure better public participation in the work carried out by the 1,665 village offices in the State. Activities related to land conservation and welfare measures aside, the committees are expected to ensure speedy redressal of public grievances about land-related issues and contribute to improving the efficiency of village offices, the department said. The members The panels will have as its members the local MLA or his/her representative, the head of the local body and the grama/block/district panchayat member within the village jurisdiction, the deputy tahsildar, representatives of political parties, a woman nominated by the State government, and a representative of the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes nominated by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/village-level-peoples-panels-to-be-revived/article38295409.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||Containment zones in Karakulam||Twelve wards in Karakulam grama panchayat have been declared containment zones given the increase in COVID-19 infections. The wards declared containment zones are Vattapara West, Vattapara East, Karayalathukonam, Plathara, Vencode, Aramkallu, Karakulam, Mukkola, Enikkara, Kallayam, Maruthoor and Kazhunad. Micro-containment zone The Kowdiar residents association in the Kowdiar ward in the city Corporation has been declared a micro-containment zone, the district administration said. In the above areas, shops selling provisions, fruits and vegetables, milk and milk products, fish and meat, and bakeries, can remain open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Ration shops, Maveli stores, Milma booths and Supplyco outlets can stay open till 5 p.m. Restaurants can function from 7 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. for home delivery of food. Dine-in and take-away are not permitted. E-commerce delivery services are permitted between 7 a.m. and 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/containment-zones-in-karakulam/article38295522.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||Entry restrictions at Corporation offices||The city Corporation has imposed restrictions on the entry of the public at its main office and zonal offices in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the capital. The restrictions have been imposed as there has been no decrease in the number of people visiting these offices, despite warnings to avoid non-essential visits. Entry to the Corporation office has been completely restricted for those aged above 60 years, pregnant women and children. In case two or more people are coming together for the same purpose, only one person will be allowed in. Those who are entering the office will be checked for COVID-19 symptoms and their personal information noted down in a register. Wearing masks is compulsory. People who have various symptoms, including fever, cough or cold will not be allowed into the office. Those who approach the Corporation with various complaints should avoid visiting the office and send them through e-mail or deposit them in the mail box placed at the front office. Work from home Corporation employees who have symptoms have been asked to remain at home. Those who have family members with symptoms have also been asked not to come to the office. Pregnant employees have been asked to opt for work from home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entry-restrictions-at-corporation-offices/article38295524.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:54 IST,KERALA||No need to cut KSRTC services, says Minister||A high-level meeting that assessed the impact of the third wave of COVID-19 on the State’s transport sector has ruled out the need to cut down services, Minister for Transport Antony Raju said on Wednesday. However, the State-level COVID-19 review meeting scheduled for Thursday will have the final say, he added. Most of the employees in the transport sector had received both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, Mr. Raju said. “The current assessment is that there is no need to trim services. It will be presented at the review meet and fresh arrangements will be subject to the decision of the committee.” The Minister termed baseless the reports that claimed that the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) had curtailed services on Tuesday many employees tested positive. The KSRTC, in a phased manner, plans to press more more buses into service to reduce crowding, he added. KSRTC employees will be administered the booster doses on a priority basis. Conductors will receive the jab in the first phase and drivers and ministerial staff in the next phases, he said. Explanation sought The department has sought an explanation from the Regional Transport Officer (RTO), Ernakulam, for calling off driving tests citing the pandemic. Instructions were issued for restarting the tests from Wednesday, the Minister said, adding that none of the RTOs should be kept closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-need-to-cut-ksrtc-services-says-minister/article38295399.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||543 title deeds cancelled||The Kerala Revenue department has cancelled 543 allegedly bogus title deeds issued in Idukki in 1999. A subsequent investigation blamed deputy tahsildar, Devikulam, M.A. Raveendran for the suspected land fraud. The Revenue department-backed “land-grab” had occurred during the E. K. Nayanar government. Resort owners and well-heeled people looking to build holiday homes had benefitted from the so-called “Raveendran pattayams”. Subsequently, the V. S. Achuthanandan government, which probed illegal constructions and usurping of ecologically fragile land in Idukki, had unearthed the “fraud”. A four-year investigation by the Revenue department resulted in the cancellation of the title deeds. The government also decided to issue new title deeds to eligible people who would lose out on account of the cancellation of the title deeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/543-title-deeds-cancelled/article38295363.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:55 IST,KERALA||CM praises efforts behind good show in education||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said collective efforts of the Education department, parents, teaching community and society have helped to ensure that the education process of the State continued unhindered during the time of COVID-19 pandemic. He has made the remark in the wake of a recent India Case Study on the effects of COVID-19 on education, conducted by UNICEF, which lavished praise on the State. In a series of tweets, the Chief Minister quoted some excerpts from the study report, which mentioned the State’s achievement. “Kerala is an exception: about 70 per cent of parents of both younger & adolescent students believe that overall learning progress is the same or better than it would be in school,” he tweeted, quoting the UNICEF survey. “Kerala has the greatest technology access, & it has also been among the most proactive states in supporting students: it is the only State where nearly everyone who used remote learning, reports that the government has provided remote learning resources,” the study further said. Mr. Vijayan thanked everyone who stood by the children to overcome hurdles and ensure hassle-free learning during the time of the pandemic. “Wholehearted thanks to everyone who has made this possible. Education Dept., teachers, parents & society have stood together with the children to overcome hurdles and ensure that our education process continues unhindered,” he further tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unicef-survey-cm-thanks-those-behind-good-show-in-education-amid-pandemic/article38295328.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||Attack on police station: two held||The police on Wednesday arrested two men in connection with the hurling of petrol bombs at the Aryancode police station in the district. The men were identified as Ananthu, alias Keshu, of Veliyannur, Kunthalakkode, and Nithin, 19, of Vanarathala, Kattakada. The police had registered a case against the accused on charges of assaulting a student of the LMS Higher Secondary School, Chembur, on Monday. Two petrol bombs were hurled at the station on Tuesday. Following the incident, Superintendent of Police (Rural) Divya V. Gopinath visited the area and formed a special investigation team. Cases have been registered against the duo for attempt to murder, destruction of public property and under the Explosives Act. A team led by Kattakada Deputy Superintendent of Police (Dy.SP) K.S. Prasanth, Narcotics Cell Dy.SP V.T. Rashith and Aryancode Inspector Sreekumar arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-held-for-petrol-bomb-attack-on-police-station/article38295387.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||Guidelines for online classes||The Director of General Education has issued guidelines for online education of students in Classes 1 to 9 from Friday in the wake of the COVID-19 surge in the State. The guidelines say the situation will be reviewed after two weeks. Students of Classes 10 to 12 will continue in-person learning in schools. All teachers should attend school. School offices should function as per the current COVID-19 restrictions. Through Victers Digital classes will continue through KITE Victers channel as per the new timetable. Cleaning and disinfection should be conducted in high school, higher secondary, and vocational sections of all schools on Saturdays and Sundays. In case of clusters in secondary, higher secondary and vocational higher secondary schools, Health department authorities should be informed, and Principals or head teachers should close down the institution for two weeks. Learning continuity should be ensured during online classes. Activities should be given to students to ensure their active participation in studies. Heads of institutions should ensure students have the devices to view the digital classes. Review progress Digital platforms should be used to communicate with parents. Worksheets provided by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, and the State Council of Educational Research and Training should be used effectively. School resource group should meet and review students’ progress and give feedback. Higher secondary and vocational higher secondary lab activities should be held in compliance with COVID-19 protocols. Online support for digital classes should be ensured. Steps should be taken to bring out students’ creativity and promote their reading. If need be, steps should be taken to alleviate students’ mental stress and pressures. A suitable scientific approach should be taken in the case of differently abled students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guidelines-for-online-classes-issued/article38295336.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||Honour for NIIST scientist||Suresh C.H., Senior Principal Scientist, Chemical Sciences and Technology Division, CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST), Thiruvananthapuram, has been elected fellow of the Indian Academy of Sciences, Bengaluru. He has been selected for his contributions to chemistry, particularly in the area of theoretical and computational quantum chemistry, the NIIST said. Dr. Suresh did his PhD at Savitribai Phule University, Pune. He did his postdoctoral trainings at Nagoya University, Japan; Indiana University, U.S., and the Marburg University, Germany.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recognition-for-scientist/article64948113.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:09 IST,KERALA||Train partially cancelled||Train 16346 Thiruvananthapuram Central – Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Netravati Express leaving Thiruvananthapuram Central onFridaywill be short-terminated at Panvel, accroding to a release here. The train will not run in the Panvel - Lokmanya Tilak Term section. The pairing train (16345) will commence service from Panvel instead of Lokmanya Tilak Term onSunday (January 23).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-partially-cancelled/article38295394.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||Kala Utsav winners||T.S. Suraj, a higher secondary student of Perunkulam PV Higher Secondary School, Kottarakara, Kollam, has secured the top spot in the traditional folk instrumental music category at Kala Utsav, a national competition organised by the Union Ministry of Education for students of public schools. In the visual arts 2 D category, Akshaya Shameer of Azhikode HSS, Kannur, and in the indigenous toys and games category, Baneeta Varghese of Kallodi SJ HSS, Wayanad, bagged the second position. In the classical dance category, Niranjan Sreelakshmi, a class 10 of SNM High School, Chazhoor, Thrissur, bagged the third position. As many as 18 students took part in nine events at the Kala Utsav. Awards will be presented in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kala-utsav-winners/article38295327.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:57 IST,KERALA||Check waste dumping near airport: SHRC||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the city Corporation to put in place a monitoring mechanism in association with the police to prevent dumping of waste, including slaughter waste, in places near the airport such as Vallakkadavu Pathinarekaal Mandapam grounds, NS depot parking and Bangladesh Colony road. Acting on a complaint, commission chairperson Antony Dominic issued the direction to the Corporation Secretary. Lights installed The report of the Secretary to the commission said nearly 20 lights had been installed to prevent dumping of waste in the area. Illegal slaughterhouses had been shut down. However, there was no change in the practice of dumping of waste, the complaint by human rights activist Ragam Rahim said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/check-waste-dumping-near-airport-shrc/article38295509.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||Sharp rise in cases in Thrissur||Thrissur recorded a sharp increase in COVID-19 patients with 3,604 testing positive on Wednesday. The test positivity rate is 32.86%. The district recorded 2,622 patients on Tuesday and 1,861 on Monday. Test positivity rate on Monday was 36.57% and 31.01% on Tuesday. It is festival season in central Kerala. Most of the temple and church festivals take place from the month of January. The police have imposed stringent measures to control crowd at festivals. Religious institutions have been asked to avoid celebrations and conduct the festivals as rituals. The health department too has strengthened preventive measures. There are 39 active clusters in the district. They included educational institutions, hostels, health institutions, and police stations. Nodal officers have been appointed to coordinate preventive measures at the assembly constituency level. Student vaccination Meanwhile, the vaccination programme for students in schools will not be implemented in the district. This is because 85% of the students between the age of 15 and 18 have already been vaccinated. The facility for vaccinating the remaining 15% of students will be arranged at health camps itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sharp-rise-in-cases-in-thrissur/article64948145.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Demand for haematology centre at Kozhikode MCH||There is a demand to set up a specialised haematology centre at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, to cater for patients from the Malabar region in the wake of the death of two haemophilia patients in three days recently. According to Kareem Karassery, convener of Kerala Blood Patients Protection Council, the deaths of Abdussamad, 27, a native of Kuzhimanna, and Unais, 24, of Kondotty, both in Malappuram district, on January 14 and January 12, respectively, are a cause for concern. Mr. Karassery claimed that Abdussamad had been admitted to the MCH with severe back pain, but was discharged soon. Since he did not get any relief from pain even later, he was again taken to the MCH. However, he died on the way at a private hospital at Kondotty. Unais had been undergoing treatment at the MCH. But he died due to cerebral haemorrhage. Functionaries of the council alleged that Sharafuddeen, a native of Puthuppanam in Kozhikode district, and a haemophilia patient, had died without getting expert treatment some time ago. They claimed that special care was not being provided to blood cell affected patients. Ten thalassaemia patients and as many people suffering from sickle cell anaemia from across the State, a majority of whom from Malabar, had died in similar circumstances in a year. Mohammed Jareesh, Abdussamad’s elder brother, had passed away in March 2003 at the MCH. Mr. Karassery said the council had been seeking a specialized treatment centre at the MCH for the past 25 years. The government should probe the deaths and ensure treatment for patients, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-for-haematology-centre-at-kozhikode-mch/article38295338.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||Grabbing eyeballs||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/grabbing-eyeballs/article64948280.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:38 IST,KERALA||Torn apart||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/torn-apart/article64948292.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:54 IST,KERALA||‘Wave fuelled by Omicron’||However, both Delta and Omicron are currently in circulation in the State, Ms. George said. If the R factor (reproduction number or the number of people to whom the virus can transmit) during the peak of the Delta wave was estimated at 2.68, the current R number was put at 3.12. This indicates that the current speed of transmission is at least 1.5 times more than that of Delta. She said that apart from the high transmissibility of the virus, it was the lax behaviour of the people which was now driving the transmission. This behaviour seemed to be prompted by the massive misinformation on social media that Omicron is mild and that it could act as the natural vaccine against the virus, bringing an end to the pandemic. “Omicron can be said to be mild only in comparison to Delta. The basic ailments caused by SARS-CoV-2, including the respiratory disease, fever, headache and myalgia, are the same, so are the post-COVID issues. Hence, everyone should do his/her best to protect themselves from contracting the infection,” Ms. George said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wave-fuelled-by-omicron/article38295398.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||Cleaning act||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cleaning-act/article64948144.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bajrang Dal leader, 3 others held over youth’s murder||The police in Nargund town of Gadag district have arrested four persons on the charge of murdering a youth and assaulting another person. The arrested persons are Bajrang Dal leader and civil contractor Sanju Nalvade, Mallikarjun alias Gundya Muttappa Hiremath, Channabasappa alias Channu Chandrashekar Akki, and Sakrappa Hanumanthappa Kakanur. All of them are from Nargund. They are charged with killing Sameer Shahapur, 19, a server in a roadside eatery in Nargund, and assaulting Shamsher Khan Pathan, 19, a photographer. The accused allegedly attacked the victims on January 17 night. Sameer Shahapur died in KIMS) in Hubballi the same night. He was attacked by a mob of around 15 persons who are alleged to be members of the Bajrang Dal and RSS. The mob attacked Sameer and his friend Shamsher near their shop. The mob allegedly stopped the duo, who were on a motorbike, and attacked them with rods and knives. Sameer’s family members have complained to Nargund police that this was a hate crime. They have accused some local leaders of killing Sameer. “My son was targeted only because of his faith,” his mother told the police. On January 17 evening, Sanju Nalvade had addressed a crowd in front of the police station where he had called upon the gathering to beat up Muslim youth wherever they encountered them. The Bajrang Dal leader dared the circle inspector of police to come out and arrest him. A case was filed against Nalvade and others on January 17 night.  Trouble began five days ago in Nargund following an altercation between two groups. Police filed two cases against 75 persons, including some Bajrang Dal members and some Muslim youth who were charged with insulting Lord Ram and Lord Krishna. On Tuesday, thousands turned up for the namaze janaja (prayer for a deceased) and burial of Sameer in Nargund.  Gadag SP Shiva Prakash Devaraj said investigation is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bajrang-dal-leader-3-others-held-over-youths-murder/article38294986.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parties want single-phase polling||A majority of the 11 recognised political parties in Tamil Nadu have favoured single-phase polling for the urban local bodies elections. They spelt out their stand at a meeting chaired by State Election Commissioner V. Palanikumar here on Wednesday. The Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (TNSEC) is expected to announce the elections for 21 municipal corporations, 138 municipalities and 489 town panchayats in a few days. DMK functionary R. Girirajan told reporters that his party favoured the same polling timings that were followed for the rural local bodies elections. “We have insisted on single-phase voting and measures to avoid the spread of COVID-19.” AIADMK leader Pollachi V. Jayaraman said his party favoured single-phase voting. “We have also requested the Commission to follow all guidelines to check the spread of the infection while conducting the polls.” Congress functionary Damodaran said his party wanted the polling to be held between 7 a.m. and 6 p.m., with the last one hour reserved for COVID-19 patients to vote. BJP functionary Karu Nagarajan said that almost all parties, except the Trinamool Congress, insisted on single-phase polling. “We have insisted on deploying the Central police forces in Tamil Nadu for the elections. We have requested that sensitive areas be manned by paramilitary personnel.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parties-want-single-phase-polling-in-tn/article38295110.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank takes possession of jewellery shop||Indian Bank on Wednesday, took over physical possession of two properties of Saravana Stores (Gold Palace) in T. Nagar, as per a court direction. The bank took over the possession of the store for non-payment of dues, under provisions of The Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act. In May 2021, Indian Bank had declared Saravana Stores Gold Palace a fraud account and said the nature of the fraud was in the form of diversion of funds. The bank had said the account was a NPA (non-performing asset) and the outstanding amount at that time was Rs. 230.74 crore and it had made a provisions of Rs. 115.32 crore as on December 31, 2020. According to sources, the dues now amount to Rs. 480 crore along with interest. The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate at Egmore had appointed R.S. Dhuriyan as Advocate Commissioner in the case, via an order dated September 8, 2021. Based on the order, the Advocate Commissioner and bank officials had affixed notices on the said properties on December 31, to handover possession within seven days. Since the possession was not handed over, the properties were taken over on Wednesday morning with police protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bank-takes-over-jewellery-outlet/article64947994.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor’s active cases near 10k mark, highest in State||Chittoor district on Wednesday has recorded 1,822 COVID-19 cases, and one casualty, taking the district’s active caseload to 9,919, the highest in the State. The Tirupati and Chittoor municipal corporations registered 715 cases, the municipality of Srikalahasti recorded 76, followed by Madanapalle with 66 cases, Puttur, 40 and Palamaner, 37. Of the 65 mandals in the rural side, 63 mandals recorded as many as 860 cases. ‘Few serious cases’ Attributing the disturbing scenario to unchecked public movement across the inter-State borders and large-scale violation of the COVID-appropriate behaviour, the officials on COVID duties have intensified steps to enforce the protocols at public places.  Joint Collector N. Rajasekhar told The Hindu that though the number of COVID infections was on the rise, the number of people getting admitted to the hospitals was under control, with a “negligible” number of them needing oxygen support.  “We have 15 centres ready with the strength to accommodate 3,500 patients. At present, over 500 people are under going treatment in hospitals,” he said. The official said that the field personnel were instructed to regularly inspect the commercial establishments and public places and impose a heavy fine on those violating the face-mask norm. “The police authorities have been told to post their personnel at all busy centres and vital junctions to enforce the face-mask rule. We have also mooted steps to set up facilities for collection of samples at all primary health centers and sub-centres to obliterate the need for rural people to travel all the way to urban areas for COVID tests,” Mr. Rajasekhar said. Deputy District Medical and Health Officer (Deputy DM&HO) P. Ravi Raju, who inspected the COVID centres in Nagari and GD Nellore Assembly constituencies, said that there was no need for any panic among the public. ‘Avoid self-medication’ “Except for those with known co-morbid conditions, others can opt for home isolation if tested positive to the virus. Symptomatic persons should immediately go for the tests to check the spread. We advise the public to strictly avoid self-medication,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-logs-1822-covid-cases-active-caseload-inching-closer-to-10k/article64948075.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held in decapitation case||The Madanapalle taluq police on Tuesday night arrested the accused, Talari Chalapati, in the decapitation of a youth at Valasapalle on the night of January 16. DSP A. Ravi Manohar Achari told the media that the act was deliberate and not an accident during an animal sacrifice ritual as suspected initially. A dispute over who should sacrifice the animal at the Gangamma temple led to Chalapati attacking his cousin Suresh (35), the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-in-decapitation-case/article38295474.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain-hit farmers in Telangana await relief||On Tuesday at Parakala and Narsampet divisions in Warangal district, farmers were seen touching the feet of Panchayat Raj Minister E. Dayakar Rao and Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy, who visited their fields the crops on which were damaged after heavy rains in the first week of this month. “We have lost our crops due to heavy rains. Please rescue us and help us clear our debts,” was what they urged the Ministers. The two Ministers admitted that the crop loss was heavy and promised that the issue would be taken to the notice of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. “There was heavy rain and hailstorm in the beginning of January and crops got damaged. We have never seen such rains in January. Even the weather forecasting department failed to predict it,” said Mr. Niranjan Reddy while speaking to the farmers during his visit. Back in September 2021, the High Court had directed the State government to take steps to assess the crop loss that took place in September and October 2020 and extend relief to farmers, including tenants.  “Take steps in 3 months to assess the extensive crop loss across the State due to excessive and incessant rains in the months of September and October 2020. And extend, within one month thereafter, the relief/assistance in the form of agricultural input subsidy from (NDRF)/(SDRF) under National Disaster Management Act 2005 to all the farmers, including tenant farmers, across the State of Telangana, affected by the rains. Also take steps for providing additional and appropriate relief to small and marginal cultivating farmers, who suffered huge economic loss in the absence of crop insurance coverage within four months,” read the orders issued by the High Court on September 28, 2021.   Vissa Kiran Kumar, one of the persons who filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the court, informed The Hindu that the government had failed to implement the court order so far and requested the government to help farmers who incurred heavy loss due to rains.  “The government has approached the SC against the direction delivered by the High Court and we are waiting for the judgment,” said a senior government official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-hit-farmers-in-telangana-await-relief/article64947997.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:43 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Botcha lays stone for KMC buildings||Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana on Wednesday laid the foundation stone for various developmental works worth Rs. 348 crore in the city. The State government has granted Rs. 38 crore for the construction of the Kakinada Municipal Corporation (KMC) buildings on the existing campus. Mr. Satyanarayana laid the foundation stone for the proposed structures. He inaugurated three overhead tanks in the city, which were funded by the World Bank. Accompanied by Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop, Mr. Satyanarayana inspected the Cultural Centre and Science Bhavan and the G+1 housing facility in Rellipeta area. He opened a one-km cycling track developed by the KMC around Vivekananda park. A skating rink is also being constructed inside the park. Mr. Satyanarayana promised to give a fillip to the development of infrastructure facilities in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/botcha-lays-stone-for-kmc-buildings/article38295498.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No word from PMO on SilverLine project||Amid mounting protests from Opposition parties and organisations in Kerala, the BJP-led government at the Centre is weighing its options before giving a green signal to the SilverLine project of the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (K-Rail). While the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front government is aggressively pushing the proposed Rs. 63,941-crore semi-high-speed rail project, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has still not favourably responded to the ambitious initiative in Kerala. Perhaps, this may have prompted Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan to comment that he had no idea whether the PMO would give approval for the project. Now it remains to be seen whether the project will get a mention in the Union Budget 2022-23 to be presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1. Last year, the Union Finance Ministry had approved the debt-fund raising plan for the project as well as approved the funding of Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). In fact, Ms. Sitharaman had also asked the K-Rail, a joint venture company under the State government and Ministry of Railways, to expedite land acquisition projects after obtaining necessary clearances. The project connecting Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod, proposes to cover 529.45 km in four hours. It is to be completed in 2025. HC directive However, the project has apparently put the BJP State unit in a catch-22 situation even as it outwardly opposes the high-speed rail corridor. The State BJP leadership believes that if it publicly supports the project, it may bolster the Congress-led United Democratic Front campaign that the BJP and the CPI(M) are on the same page. Already the High Court of Kerala has directed the Centre to make its position clear on the project while staying the process of laying boundary stones of the project. Simultaneously, counsel for the Union Railway Ministry informed the High Court that the State government did not require any sanction from the Railways for conducting the survey and social impact study and land acquisition under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act. It also said Railways had given on-principle approval for the project. Incidentally, of the eight board of directors of the K-Rail, four of them, including managing director V. Ajith Kumar, are attached to the Ministry of Railways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-keeps-options-open-on-silverline/article64947998.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB raid on Tahsildar office in Kurnool||Sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau on Wednesday conducted surprise checks on the Tahsildar office at Gadivemula in the district and seized unaccounted cash of Rs. 43,980 from the possession of six officials. According to DSP J. Shiva Narayanaswamy, 33 passbooks, including 23 with the Tahsildar and 10 with the Village Revenue Officers (VROs), were found to be not disbursed to the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-raid-on-tahsildar-office-in-kurnool/article38295042.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:07 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP to hold meet on Jan. 22||The Bharatiya Janata Party will hold “Praja Nirasana Sabha”, a public meeting, on January 22 in Kurnool in protest against the attacks on party cadres at Atmakuru recently. According to the party’s Rajampeta parliamentary constituency in-charge, the protest would be organised at 11 a.m., while party cadres from all over Andhra Pradesh would be attending the event. Meanwhile, a delegation of Social Democratic Party of India led by State president Md. Athavulla Khan and Kurnool district president Jahangir Ahmed on Tuesday met Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha at her chambers at Velagapudi and sought her to take action against the culprits in Atmakuru incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-to-hold-meet-on-jan-22/article38295043.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Honorary Consulate of Sri Lanka to reopen in Thiruvananthapuram||Keralite businessman Biju Karnan has been appointed Honorary Consul of Sri Lanka in Thiruvananthapuram. The Honorary Consulate is reopening here after a gap of three years. Mr. Karnan is the second Honorary Consul of the island nation to be posted here. Joemon Joseph, who first held the post after the office opened in February 2014, passed away on October 12, 2018, after which the post had remained vacant. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan will inaugurate the reopening event at 3.30 p.m. on Friday Minister for Revenue K. Rajan will preside. Shashi Tharoor, MP, will deliver the keynote address. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, senior officials of the Sri Lankan High Commission and other dignitaries will be present. The Honorary Consulate will strive to strengthen the bilateral relationship between India and Sri Lanka, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/honorary-consulate-of-sri-lanka-to-reopen-in-thiruvananthapuram/article38294992.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:08 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD Vigilance and Security staff awarded||Awards were presented to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Vigilance and Security personnel for exhibiting professional skills in discharge of duties. At a brief function at the Command Control Room at the Pilgrim Amenities Complex (PAC)- IV on Wednesday, TTD CVSO Gopinath Jatti gave away the awards to 15 personnel. The personnel were honoured for their services in assisting the management and pilgrims when torrential rains lashed the hill town, regulation of vehicular traffic on ghat roads, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-vigilance-and-security-staff-awarded/article38295049.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:08 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD told to embrace new tech to render better services||The Engineering Staff College of India (ESCI) said that the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) and its employees could render better service to devotees by embracing technological advances made in software and allied fields. Addressing the staff at a six-day refresher training programme for the TTD employees at SVETA Bhavan here in Tirupati on Wednesday, an ESCI expert, Praveen Kumar, said that employees in other sectors had made use of the the new technologies in maintenance of roads, buildings, plugging leakages, technical knowledge in tenders, etc. ‘Skill upgradation’ Superintending Engineer (TTD) Satyanarayana said such training programmes would benefit the employees to update their skills. SVETA Director Prashanti expressed happiness over the ESCI experts training TTD employees. She said the civil engineering wing was playing a dominant role in offering the best possible services to devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-told-to-embrace-new-tech-to-render-better-services/article38295050.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:08 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forum highlights environmental damage, urges TTD to drop third ghat road plan||Tirumala Tirupati Samrakshana Samithi, a private forum of intellectuals, on Wednesday sought the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to rethink on the proposed third ghat road to Tirumala through Annamayya Marg in Kadapa district and drop the same to protect the biodiversity of the Seshachalam hills. ‘Disturbance to wildlife’ At a meeting of the forum held at Tirupati, the speakers felt that construction of the third ghat road by widening the Annamayya pedestrian route would only prove detrimental to the free movement of wildlife besides causing extensive damage to the forest cover. The forum, however, felt that the TTD’s scheme of providing privileged darshan for the people of SC/STand fishermen colonies across the State was in the right direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forum-highlights-environmental-damage-urges-ttd-to-drop-third-ghat-road-plan/article38295051.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No downward revision in salaries, says CS||Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma has asserted that there will not be downward revision of salaries with the implementation of the new Pay Revision Commission (PRC) report. “There will not be any change in the gross salary of the employees. The expenditure on the employees in the State budget is the highest,” Mr. Sharma said while addressing the media on Wednesday. Mr. Sharma said the expenditure on Human Resources was the highest in Andhra Pradesh compared to other States. “While the expenditure on HR as a percentage of overall expenditure is 36 in Andhra Pradesh, it is between 21 and 32 in States such as Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Odisha, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, and Telangana. Similarly, the HR expenditure as a percentage of State Owned Resources (SOR) has increased to 111% in 2020-21 against 84 in 2018-19,” Mr. Sharma said. ‘IR not part of wages’ “It is not correct on the part of the employees to level allegations against the State government. They know that the Interim Relief (IR) is not a part of the wages. The IR is paid as there has been a delay in the PRC. The Dearness Allowance is calculated from 2019. The employees have to look into the gross salary paid to them. There is a growth in the pension and gratuity as well,” the Chief Secretary asserted.. Stating that COVID-19 had impacted the State’s finances badly, the Chief Secretary said the SOR was Rs. 60,933 crore in 2020-21. Had the growth rate been 15% per annum, the resources would have been Rs. 82,620 crore. “Now, there is a gap of Rs. 21,933 crore,” he said. “Despite this, A.P. is implementing welfare schemes and has done justice to the employees and pensioners,” he said. The Ashutosh Mishra Committee report was not kept in cold storage. The officers’ committee had studied all aspects scientifically, he added. “It is natural for the employees to make personal comments. As a head of the family, I take all the allegations. The employees need not agitate. We feel that justice has been done to everyone,” the Chief Secretary said. ‘Scientific measures’ Principal Secretary to Government (HR) Shashi Bhushan Kumar said the HRA slabs were fixed as decided by the Central government. The CCA was done away with. These measures were done scientifically, he said. “The State government has decided to do away with Rs. 40,000 HRA to the All-India Service officials. Implementation of the PRC will entail an additional burden of Rs. 10, 247 crore. The salary of every employee will increase significantly with the new PRC. Every employee will get an additional benefit of Rs. 24 lakh per two years. This is in addition to the Rs. 7 lakh towards the house sites offer,” Mr. Kumar said. Special Chief Secretary (Finance) S.S. Rawat was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-downward-revision-in-salaries-says-cs/article64947976.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Committed to providing clear title deeds: CM||Terming the ‘YSR Jagananna Sashwata Bhoo Hakku and Bhoo Raksha’ scheme as a “great reform and a revolutionary step,” Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said the resurvey of lands has been taken up after 100 years and that the government is committed to providing clear title deeds to the rightful owners after a proper and scientific exercise. The Chief Minister was speaking after dedicating the land records prepared as part of the resurvey conducted in 51 villages under Phase 1 of the project on Tuesday. The Chief Minister, who also inaugurated the registration process in 37 villages of Guntur district, said the process would be completed in 11,501 villages by December 2022. The reforms have been taken up as 90% of the disputes are civil litigations, and there are complaints of tampering with the land records, The boundaries too are not well marked. These problems can be solved if the markings are done scientifically and an identification number is given to all the land holders. The resurvey had been started with a budget of Rs. 1,000 crore by pressing 4.500 survey teams, 70 CORS base stations, and 2,000 rovers into service employing modern technology. In the first phase, the resurvey covered 29,563 acres in which 3,304 objections had been resolved. The remaining lands will be resurveyed by June 2023 in phases. Registrations will be carried out in the respective village secretariats. Mandal Mobile Magistrate teams will clear the objections. Once the resurvey is completed, the State will take forward the Permanent Land Right Certificate issuing programme. This will put an end to the middlemen and the data can be viewed online from their respective villages. This will also help in speedy disposal of Field line applications in 15 days and sub-division applications in 30 days. “After the resurvey is complete, registrations will be done at village secretariat level,” the Chief Minister said.Ministers P. Ramachandra Reddy, B. Satyanarayana, and A. Suresh, and Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/committed-to-providing-clear-title-deeds-cm/article64947980.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lift ban on ‘Chintamani’, say poets, artistes||Poets, writers, artistes, and art lovers have appealed to the State government to lift the ban on the staging of the historic ‘Chintamani’ play as the story narrates how a social evil ruins lives. “A century ago, playwright Kallakuri Narayana Rao had vividly portrayed how a family was dragged onto the street due to a social evil. He had created the characters based on the tradition then, without any intention to insult any person or community. But a few persons have added vulgarity and used objectionable language in the play, causing disrepute to the art,” they averred. “A few artists have penned songs and dialogues based on the Chintamani Padya Natakam that are insulting, which eventually turned the tide against the 100-year-old play,” said Jayachandra Varma, artiste and secretary of the Sri Venkateswara Surabhi Theatre. Govada Venkat, another artiste, urged the government to censor the objectionable dialogues, if any, and lift ban on the play. “Along with the plays such as ‘Sri Krishna Rayabaram’, ‘Maya Bazaar’, ‘Bala Nagamma’, ‘Satya Harischandra’, ‘Bhakta Prahallada’, ‘Jai Patala Bhairavi’, and ‘Bobbili Yuddham’, ‘Chintamani’ too commands great patronage from connoisseurs even today. It is not correct to ban the play just because of one character,” Mr. Venkat said. The artistes, writers, and poets formed the ‘Chintamani Parirakshana Samithi’ in Srikakulam on Wednesday. At a meeting, they expressed concern over the government’s decision to ban the play. Poet Nalli Dharma Rao is the convener of the samithi, while advocate Boddepalli Dharma Rao and stage artiste Chitti Venkatrao are its co-conveners. The office-bearers vowed to take up an agitation seeking that the ban on the play be lifted immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lift-ban-on-chintamani-play-artists-urge-ap-govt/article38294995.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employee outfits blame CM for predicament||The employees’ associations have squarely blamed Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the predicament over the implementation of the Pay Revision Commission (PRC). “The Chief Minister did not give us an opportunity to speak on the second day of the talks. The Chief Minister had left the premises by merely making a statement,” leaders of the associations told the media soon after Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma’s press conference on Wednesday. The AP JAC and the AP JAC Amaravati leaders Bopparaju Venkateswarlu, Bandi Srinivas and others said they had not entered into any agreement with the State government on PRC announced by the Chief Minister.“We have not signed any papers agreeing to the government’s offer,” said Mr. Srinivas. “The associations will not accept any talks until the government withdrew the G.O.s. The Chief Secretary has presented false statistics on the State’s revenues. An additional burden of Rs. 10,000 crore is not true,” Mr. Venkateswarlu saids. Secretariat Employees’ Association president K. Venkatrami Reddy said there was nothing new in the Chief Secretary’s statements. “The government has been saying it for the past two months,” he said. “It is not correct to club the PRC and the DAs, and say that salaries are increasing. It is a false calculation. The 23% fitment is a loss to the employees,” he said. A.P. Government Employees’ Association president K. Suryanarayana called upon the employees to form a ‘PRC Sadhana Samithi’. “The employees have been waiting for the PRC for the last 42 months. The government is denying the lawful benefits to the employees,” he said. Meanwhile, BJP State president Somu Veerraju said the government had turned out to be the employees’ enemy going by its “arbitrary decision” on the PRC recommendations. “In fact, the government has cheated the employees,” Mr. Veerraju said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/employee-outfits-blame-cm-for-predicament/article64947982.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Expedite work on digital libraries: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday directed the officials to complete the first phase works on the digital libraries project by June-end. In a review meeting to assess the progress in the project, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said digital libraries would facilitate ‘work from home’ system. The libraries should be equipped with desktops, UPS and internet connection, proper tables and computer chairs, fans, tube lights and iron racks, he said and wanted the works to be expedited. The officials informed him that in Phase-I, the target was to set up digital libraries in 4,530 villages across the State. The net connectivity for the libraries would be completed by February, they said. Minister for Energy and Science and Technology Balineni Srinivas Reddy, Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Chief Secretary Gopala Krishna Dwivedi, Energy Secretary N. Srikant, APGENCO Managing Director B. Sridhar, Finance Secretary S.S. Rawat, Andhra Pradesh Technology Services Managing Director M. Nanda Kishore Reddy, AP State Fibernet Limited Managing Director Madhusudhan Reddy, Village and Ward Secretariats Department Director S.S. Mohan and other officials attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/expedite-work-on-digital-libraries-jagan/article38295468.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister lauds APCO’s marketing strategies||Minister for Industries, Commerce, and Handlooms and Textiles Mekapati Goutham Reddy on Wednesday complimented the role of the A.P. State Handloom Weavers’ Cooperative Society (APCO) in the uplift of the industry with innovative marketing strategies. Speaking after unveiling a catalogue of the APCO clothing range, the Minister said, for the first time in the history of the cooperative society, an attempt was being made to raise the wholesale business to the national level. He said the handloom workers in the State would get full-time employment if the marketing of handloom textiles could be promoted with the support of the wholesale markets. APCO chairman Chillapalli Mohana Rao said a list of handloom garments in the States of Telangana, Karnataka, and Chhattisgarh as well as the States such as Maharashtra and Gujarat had been compiled. “We are developing different handloom products in line with the current trend in collaboration with the Department of Handlooms and Textiles,” he said. Managing Director of APCO and Director, Department of Handlooms and Textiles, Chadalawada Nagarani informed the Minister that besides door and window curtains that had been made available to the customers, honeycomb towels and handkerchiefs would be launched soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-lauds-apcos-marketing-strategies/article38295475.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dates for payment of SSC exam fee released||The due dates for payment of examination fee for regular and once failed candidates appearing for the SSC Public Examinations scheduled to be held in April/May 2022 have been released. A statement by the Director, Government Examinations, D. Devananda Reddy on Wednesday said the headmasters would pay the fee and make the online submission of nominal rolls along with other documents without late fee from January 24 to February 4, with a late fee of Rs. 50 on February 8, with a late fee of Rs. 200 on February 14 and with a late fee of Rs. 500 on February 16. They should also submit the hard copies of the manual nominal rolls (MNRs) in the office of their respective District Education Officers from February 5 to 17 while the DEOs must submit the same to the office of the DGE by February 21. Payment should be done only through the school login from www.bsc.ap.gov.in website and payment through CFMS and bank challans would not be accepted, he clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dates-for-payment-of-ssc-exam-fee-released/article38295469.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siddhartha college establishes Centre of Excellence in AI||P.B. Siddhartha College of Arts and Science in the city on Wednesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Hyderabad-based IT firm Blackbuck Engineers Pvt. Ltd. to launch Alan Turing Center of Excellence (CoE) in Artificial Intelligence. In a statement, college Principal M. Ramesh said it was the first non-engineering institute to launch the initiative. As part of the collaboration, experts from the IT firm will train the students and faculty of the college in emerging technologies like AI/ML, Data Science and Blockchain Technology etc. CEO of Blackbuck Engineers Anuradha Thota said the partnership was to leverage benefits to the college. The CoE would promote research by enabling cutting-edge research in AI and Machine Learning relevant to industry and academia, foster strong industry-academic synergy for AI adoption and execute impactful projects with industry and government and state-of-the-art AI courses, training and workshops catering to students and outreach programmes for re-skilling. Raj Kumar from the Blackbuck team, college Director Vemuri Babu Rao, Dean Rajesh Jampala and Placement Officer Sridhar Kavuri were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/siddhartha-college-establishes-centre-of-excellence-in-artificial-intelligence/article38295048.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||IAS Officers’ Association condemns remarks on CS||Andhra Pradesh IAS Officers’ Association general secretary P.S. Pradyumna condemned an allegation by the Government Employees’ Association leader K. Suryanarayana that Chief Secretary (CS) Sameer Sharma was misleading the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on issues related to the Pay Revision Commission (PRC). He said in a press release that the Chief Secretary was the head of the State administration and would be responsible towards the employees. The Chief Secretary or any other government officer would give impartial advice in a professional manner on any problem brought to their notice. “The IAS Officers’ Association, therefore, hopes that such unwarranted comments would not be passed in future,” Mr. Pradyumna added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ias-officers-association-condemns-remarks-on-cs/article38295528.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Talent search exam postponed||The National Talent Search Exam (NTSE) (Level-I) that was scheduled to be conducted on January 23 in the State, has been postponed following instructions by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). In a statement on Wednesday, the Krishna District Education Officer said in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 infections and due to certain administrative reasons, the exam was being postponed. The fresh date of the exam would be announced soon. For more details, people could visit the website of the Director of Government Examinations www.bse.ap.gov.in or consult the office of the Krishna District Education Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/talent-search-exam-postponed/article38295530.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||RT-PCR test rate reduced to Rs. 350||The State government has reduced the rate of the RT-PCR tests at the ICMR-approved private NABL laboratories to Rs. 350, which is inclusive of the cost of COVID-19 tests, viral transport medium and personal protective equipment, according to G.O. Rt No.28 issued by Principal Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) Anil Kumar Singhal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rt-pcr-test-rate-reduced-to-rs-350/article38295476.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSFL pilot project in Vijayawada||A.P. State FiberNet Limited (APSFL) Chairman P. Gowtham Reddy has said a pilot project aimed at providing Internet connection to every household will be launched in Vijayawada. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Reddy said the APSFL had plans to extend the Internet services to other parts of the State in a phased manner. “The APSFL has chalked out plans to provide Internet services for about Rs. 200,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsfl-pilot-project-in-vijayawada/article38295467.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:08 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTR Trust starts COVID telemedicine||The NTR Memorial Trust has restarted the coronavirus telemedicine services with the help of expert doctors. Managing trustee Nara Bhuvaneswari reviewed the situation and made available a team of doctors for rendering telemedicine services. Every day at 7 a.m., the online medical services would begin for COVID patients. TDP members and general public could avail themselves of the services. The medical kits and medicines were being provided district-wise. Last year, over Rs. 1.75 crore worth of medicines wereprovided in the needy areas, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntr-trust-starts-covid-telemedicine/article38295047.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 1,827 new cases, highest daily tally in third wave||Visakhapatnam district continues to witness a rapid surge in daily infections. After recording 1,263 new infections on Tuesday, the district reported 1,827 fresh cases in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, as per the State COVID-19 Bulletin. This is the highest single-day tally recorded so far during the third wave and the highest in eight months. Since January 15, the single-day tally has been regularly crossing the 1,000-mark. Around 6,200 new infections were reported since January 15. Vizag topped the single-day tally followed by Chittoor (1,822) among other districts. According to the bulletin, the death toll rose to 1,117 as three COVID-19 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Five persons have succumbed to the virus in the past two days. The number of active cases also increased to 9,137. Meanwhile, in view of the steep rise in COVID-19 cases across the district, tribals and Adivasi organisations are demanding closure of tourist places in the Agency areas ofthe district whichare witnessing aheavy rush fo visitors. Tourist places in Araku, Dumbriguda, Paderu, Chintapalle, and Ananthagiri are some of the mandals receiving tourists not just from Andhra Pradesh, but also from surrounding States like Odisha and West Bengal, since October. Several tourist attractions like Borra Caves, Chaparai, Katika waterfalls, Kothapalle waterfalls, Lambasingi, and Vanjangi hills are being flocked by thousands of touristson theweekends. Though the number of COVID-19 cases arelower in the Agency as compared to the urban limits, the tribals are demanding restrictions on the entry of tourists as a precautionary measure. “We have been receiving a huge number of tourists from other States as well. COVID-19 cases have started trickling in from some parts of the Agency mandals. The fact is that COVID-19 protocolsare hardly being followed at the tourist spots. Like the first and second waves, tourist spots should be closed till the cases decline,” demanded G. Appalanarasayya of Andhra Pradesh Girijana Sangham (APGS). D. Naresh, a resident of Paderu, said that the road leading to Vanjangi is reporting long traffic jams every Sunday, as thousands of tourists are flocking the regionwith COVID-19 protocolsbeing thrown to the wind. There should be some restrictions at the tourist spot as thevirus is spreading rapidly, he said. Several tribals are demanding closure of some renowned tourist places including Vanjangi or even implementing weekend curfews in the Agency mandals to contain the virus. During the earlier two waves, tribal organisations began the initiative of forming road blocks to stop the flow of tourists. According to Additional District Medicaland Health Officer, Paderu, Dr. Leela Prasad, around 200 tests are being conducted in the Agency on a daily basis, and the number of tests would be gradually increased, he said, adding that on an average, 10 to 12 cases are being reported on a day. He said that Paderu, Hukumpeta, Pinakota and a few other PHCs are reporting COVID-19 cases. The highest daily tally we saw till date was 15, he said, adding that all the primary and secondary contacts are being tested without fail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-1827-new-cases-highest-daily-tally-in-third-wave/article64948005.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positivity rate nearing 50%||The COVID-19 positivity rate is witnessinga steep increase in the district, nearing 50%. On January 18, the district has recorded as many as 1,263 COVID-19 new infections, when RT-PCR tests were conducted on 2,606 persons. The positivity rate was hovering at around 48%. A few days ago, the positivity rate was around 38%. Since Monday, a few messages are being circulated on social media that a special RT-PCR testing centre has been set up near the outpatient block of King George Hospital (KGH) where the test results are being given in six hours. However, officials said it was a fake message and that no such centre has been set up. With their past experience, a majority ofdenizens are taking over-the-counter medication after experiencing symptoms without going for COVID-19 tests. Several people are also using the COVID-19 testing kits available at pharmacies to check if they are positive. According to District Medicaland Health Officer (in-charge) S. Vijaya Lakshmi, till Sankranthi, not many caseshad come in, due to which all PHCs were not conducting tests. But since January 16 or 17, tests are being conducted at all UPHCs in the city, and PHCs in rural/Agency areas. On a daily basis, around 3,000 to 5,000 tests are being conducted in the district as of now. Only those who have symptoms are being tested, she said. “Those who want to get tested can approach their nearest PHC. If not, they can contact 104, where we can guide them to their nearest UPHC where tests are being conducted,” she said. The DMHO said that they would definitely increase the number of COVID-19 tests keeping in view the rise in cases. Low hospitalisation Sheadded that till Wednesday morning, there were around 170 COVID-19 patients being treated at the CSR block of KGH. Of the 1,263 cases reported on Tuesday, around 59 were admittedto hospital. Many of them were admitted due to lack of proper isolation facilityat their homes and not due to health complications, the DMHO added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-positivity-rate-nearing-50-in-visakhapatnam-district/article64948008.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vice-President to deliver convocation address at IIPE||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu will deliver the convocation address at the first convocation of the Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE), scheduled to be held at VMRDA Children’s Arena on Friday (January 21), from 10.30 a.m. Though the first convocation was supposed to held in December 2020 after the first batch had graduated, it was postponed due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We will now hold the convocation for the two batches together and 170 students will be given away their degrees,” IIPE director V.S.R.K. Prasad said. IIPE was set up in 2016 as part of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act – 2014, and it has been accorded the status of Institute of National Importance by the Union Government, and is on par with other such institutes such as IITs and IIAMs. The institute is promoted by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas and co-promoted by oil majors such as HPCL, ONGC, GAIL, OIL and IOCL. It is currently operating from the premises leased out by Andhra University in its Engineering College and is mentored by IIT- Kharagpur. According to Prof. Prasad, Rs. 200 crore was given by the co-promoters as endowment funds and the Ministry has matched it with another Rs. 200 crore. The total sanction is Rs. 1,050 crore, with Rs. 650 crore as Capex fund and out of which Rs. 150 crore has already been released, Dr. Prasad informed. Land issue resolved Speaking on the land issue, the director said that the State Government had sanctioned around 212 acres in 2016, but due to some issues with farmers and locals, the entire land was yet to come under its control. “Very recently, with the intervention of the State government, District Collector and local officials and BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, we were able to bring 168 acres under our control and the remaining will be sorted out shortly. We will take up the construction soon,” said Dr. Prasad. He informedreporters that the boundary wallwould be built by APIIC, and the campus construction is being taken care of by the CPWD.The campus is designed by renowned architect Hafeez Contractor, he said. Placements On placements, Dr. Prasad said that placement for the first batch was not as desired as it was hampered by the pandemic, but in the second batch48 students had got placed and in the present batch,around 50 have already been selected. We expect 100% placements in this year, he said adding that placementsare mostly being done by players from the core sector or IT companies that are related to the core sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vice-president-to-deliver-convocation-address-at-iipe/article64948000.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccines for rly. staff||Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy directed the health department to conduct vaccination drives even at workplaces. During a review meeting on COVID-19 preventive measures on Wednesday, the DRM emphasised the importance of vaccination as a powerful defence against COVID-19 and said that vaccination drives have been planned at workplaces. In the first phase, thehealth departmentwill organise the vaccination drive at the New Coaching Complex inMarripalem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccines-for-rly-staff/article38295536.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah arrives in city||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu arrived at the Visakhapatnam Railway Station on a four-day visit of the district, on Wednesday. The Vice President, who arrived at 10.30 a.m. by a special train from Vijayawada, was received at the railway station by Minister for Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Sidiri Appalaraju, Mayor Golagani Hari Venkata Kumari, Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy and Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy. The Vice President is scheduled to participate in a few programmes in the city and district during his visit. However, a confirmation is awaited on his participation in those programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiah-arrives-in-city/article38295537.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja worth Rs. 25L seized||Police arrested four persons while they were allegedly transporting around 270 kg of ganja in a van near KD Peta in the district on Wednesday. In order to escape police checking, the smugglers allegedly prepared a fabricated box below the vehicle in which they stored the ganja. Police said that the smugglers procured the ganja from the interior parts of the Agency and were heading to Delhi. Based on credible information, the police intercepted the vehicle and busted the case. Cases booked Cases were booked against the accused. The seized ganja is estimated to be worth over Rs. 25 lakh, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-worth-rs-25-lakh-seized-at-kd-peta/article38295502.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ticket counter opened on Duvvada PF-4||The General Booking Counter and ATVM on Platform 4, at Duvvada Railway Station, which was closed due to COVID-19, has been reopened following persistent efforts by the Duvvada Railway Users’ Association, on Wednesday. As many as 45 regular and special trains halt at Duvvada, which is convenient for people living in the industrial belt of Visakhapatnam city at Gajuwaka, Kurmannapalem, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and nearby areas, to reach their homes. Relatives and friends going to Platform 4 to receive passengers are finding it difficult to use the staircase-type FOB to reach Platform 1 to buy platform tickets, said K. Eswar, secretary of the association. The counter of PF-4 open from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ticket-counter-opened-on-pf-4-at-duvvada/article38295501.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||IGNOU signs agreement with MSDME||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) and the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE), signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for linking vocational education and training to higher education for trainees attached to National Skill Training Institutes (NSTI), ITIs, Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendras (PMKK) and Jan Shikshan Sansthans (JSS). Under this MoU, 32 NSTIs, 3000 + ITIs, 500 PMKK s and nearly 300 JSS units will be associated with IGNOU as registration centres, examination centres and work centres for hands-on training. Students will now get an opportunity to join the three-year degree programme of IGNOU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ignou-signs-agreement-with-msdme/article38295535.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Corporator calls for COVID action plan||Alleging failure of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) in containing the spread of COVID-19 in the city, CPI(M) leader and corporator B. Ganga Rao said that the corporation should organise a council meeting at least in virtual mode to discuss plans to tackle the pandemic. In a letter addressed to GVMC Commissioner G/ Lakshmisha and Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari on Wednesday, Mr. Ganga Rao said that the COVID-19 virus is spreading unchecked in Visakhapatnam city. “One out of two persons are getting infected by COVID-19, but the GVMC has failed to initiate any steps to control it.. Not all Urban Primary Health Centre’s (UPHCs) are conducting tests in the GVMC limits. The UPHCs lack COVID-19 testing kits, due to which health staff are not conducting enough tests,” he alleged. The CPI(M) leader said that the GVMC should focus on increasing testing. He said people are complaining that the results of COVID-19 tests are being announced three to four days after collection of the samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/corporator-calls-for-covid-action-plan/article38295532.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scientists asked to study thrips attack in India||MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, Chairman of the Chilli Task Force Committee of the Spices Board, on Wednesday held a virtual meeting on the ways to tackle thrips outbreak with scientists from the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR), Dr. YSR Agriculture University, the National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources, the Indian Cardamom Research Institute and officials from the Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage and the Horticulture Departments of A.P., Telangana and Karnataka and seed suppliers.  Mr. Narasimha Rao stressed the need for a coherent approach to deal with the thrips attack in the above States and emphasised on bringing out advisories for farmers on Good Agricultural Practices (GAP). He recommended that farmers should cultivate short duration chilli varieties and use low-cost materials till a robust strategy to control the pest attack is prepared by the line departments and institutions. Also, he requested the IIHR to study disease resistant varieties in the affected areas in A.P. and Telangana and to screen existing molecules which could be used against the invasive thrips. He exhorted the scientists to examine how the insects made their way into India and the extent of damage caused by them in other countries and how they were controlled. ‘Concerted effort needed’ Earlier, Spices Board director (Research) A.B. Rema Shree explained the gravity of the situation and called for a concerted effort to curb the menace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scientists-asked-to-study-thrips-attack-in-india/article38295529.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:43 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Taking no chances||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/taking-no-chances/article64948194.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safe zone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safe-zone/article64948074.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||Vaccine immunity in 30% people wanes after 6 months: study||How long will the vaccine-induced immunity against COVID-19 last? This is a question that is on the minds of many. A study conducted by a team of researchers at AIG Hospitals here in collaboration with Asian Healthcare Foundation has shown that around 30% of the fully-vaccinated population likely to lose immunity in as less as six months. The cross-sectional study conducted on 1,636 healthcare workers and support staff, who had taken both doses of the vaccine. A majority of them were above the age of 40 years with co-morbidities such as hypertension and/or diabetes. The preprint of the study was published in Research Square on January 14 this year. Pointing to the results, the researchers said individuals above 40 years with diabetes and hypertension of both genders may be at a higher risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection and these individuals should be prioritised for a booster dose after six months of their second jab. The healthcare workers chosen for the study were drawn from various departments and included clinicians, residents, nurses, laboratory personnel, research scientists, security staff and transport personnel. Need for booster “The aim of the study was to understand the effectiveness of current vaccines over long term and see if there is a specific population demography which needs a booster at the earliest,” said AIG Hospitals chairman D. Nageshwar Reddy. Along with him, the other doctors who were part of the study included doctors Sasikala M. and Apoorva Munigela. The researchers measured the IgG anti-S1 and IgG anti-S2 antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 in the participants. Vaccine groups Of the 1,636 participants, 93% received Covishield, 6.2% opted for Covaxin, and less than 1% had taken Sputnik V. Dr Nageshwar Reddy said antibody levels were checked four weeks, six months and nine months after the participants got the second dose. Lower antibodies “Our study results were at par with other global studies where we found that almost 30% individuals had antibody levels below protective immunity level of 100 AU per ml after six months. These individuals were majorly above 40 years with co-morbidities like hypertension and diabetes. Of the total, 6% did not develop any immune protection at all,” he added. He stressed that the population above 40 years, especially those with co-morbidities, more prone to develop the infection after six months of being fully vaccinated and therefore, should also be considered for the precautionary dose.  We found almost 30% individuals had antibody levels below protective immunity level of 100 AU per ml while 6% did not develop any immune protection. D. Nageshwar Reddy, Chairman, AIG Hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccine-immunity-in-30-people-wanes-after-6-months-study/article64948173.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:54 IST,TELANGANA||KCR is creating rift among teachers, employees: Revanth||TPCC president and MP Revanth Reddy on Wednesday alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was “playing divisive politics” among teachers and employees after realising that government employees will not vote for his party in the next elections. “GO 317 has been used to create a rift between the seniors and juniors by the Chief Minister but his devilish approach will only strengthen the resolve of four lakh employees and teachers to revolt against the controversial GO,” he said. Mr. Reddy was addressing a meeting at Gandhi Bhavan on the occasion of Teachers' Union leader G. Harshvardhan Reddy and his followers rejoining the Congress. He said teachers, who were supposed to go to schools to teach children, were forced to besiege Pragathi Bhavan and KCR was ensuring that they were arrested and humiliated on the streets. The Congress chief ridiculed Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay’s protest against the GO and pointed out that the BJP government at the Centre was equally to be blamed for the controversial GO as it was cleared by the Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and also got cleared by the President. Therefore, both TRS and BJP are responsible for the sufferings caused to employees and teachers through GO 317. He announced that Congress would soon launch a massive agitation demanding job notifications. He said that a section of police was behaving like TRS cadre, and creating hurdles to programmes being taken up by Congress. But the party would reach people by crossing all obstacles and raise its voice against State and Central governments. He welcomed Mr. Harshvardhan into the Congress fold. He also praised former Minister G. Chinna Reddy for showing a big heart by bringing back Mr. Harshvardhan into the Congress despite the latter contesting against him in the MLC elections. 30L membership target Earlier in the day, Mr. Revanth Reddy held a meeting at Indira Bhavan to review the status of the party’s digital membership drive. He said the Congress should have at least 100 members in each of 34,765 polling booths across Telangana and asked the cadre to get stronger in at least 5 mandals to win an Assembly seat. Similarly, the party could easily win a Lok Sabha seat if it has strength in 35 mandals. Likewise, the Congress can come to power in the State if it gains strength in 600 mandals, he said. “The contribution of hardworking leaders and workers only would be duly recognised,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-is-creating-rift-among-teachers-employees-revanth/article64948158.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||Year of hectic activity for Hyderabad-based DRDO labs||It has been a year of an unusual spree of missile launches, testing of new weapon and defence systems by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) labs, most of which are established here. Testing centres at Balasore, offshore site at the Kalam island, Jaisalmer and Pokhran in Rajasthan and others became a beehive of activity when at least a dozen new age advanced weapon systems for the armed forces underwent trials before their induction. Senior officials, requesting anonymity, explained that the missile launches and testing of other weapon systems were meticulously planned despite the cascading effect of COVID-induced lockdown in 2020. Though defence lab works were in full swing with protocols in place, field trials which involved coordination among different agencies, movement of equipment and the likes, made it an assembly line of trial launches. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Missile Complex, housing Research Centre Imarat (RCI), Defence Research and Development Laboratory (DRDL) and the Advanced Systems Laboratory (ASL) has had a key role in almost all trials as scientists tested advanced radars, avionics, algorithms, integrated software, rocket motors, propulsion systems and so on. Top of the pops is new generation nuclear-capable ballistic surface to surface ‘Agni P’ missile which was successfully flight tested twice. Another significant one is the quasi-ballistic surface to surface tactical new generation ‘Pralay’ - which too achieved twin success, they said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh handed over - Medium Range Surface to Air Missile System (MRSAM) to the Indian Air Force (IAF). It is an advanced network centric combat air defence system developed jointly with Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI); Long Range Surface to Air Missiles (LRSAM) - final production batch was flagged off for Indian Navy, also developed with IAI to tackle targets like fighter aircraft and cruise missiles. HELINA - Helicopter launched Nag missile (for army) and Dhruvastra ( for IAF) missile are third generation, Lock On Before Launch (LOBL) fire and forget Anti-Tank Guided Missiles to engage targets both in direct hit mode and top attack mode underwent trials. Indigenously developed low weight, fire and forget Man Portable Antitank Guided Missile (MPATGM) with miniaturized infrared imaging seeker and advanced avionics was test fired so was vertical launch of Short-Range Surface to Air Missile (VL-SRSAM) for Indian Navy to neutralise threats at close ranges like sea-skimming targets. Indigenously developed low weight, fire and forget Man Portable Antitank Guided Missile (MPATGM) with miniaturised infrared imaging seeker and advanced avionics was test fired so was the vertical launch of Short-Range Surface to Air Missile (VL-SRSAM) for the Indian Navy to neutralise threats at close ranges, including sea-skimming targets. Air version of BrahMos supersonic missile was successfully test fired from fighter aircraft Sukhoi 30 MK-I as also the supersonic cruise missile assisted torpedo system. Flight trial of new generation surface to air Akash missile was conducted from a land-based platform for the air defence capability of the IAF against fast targets. Another one ‘Akash Prime’ was successfully flight tested with an indigenous active Radio Frequency (RF) seeker for improved accuracy. Two flight tests of indigenously-developed smart anti-airfield weapon was carried with IAF where satellite navigation and electro optical sensors were successfully tested for the first time. Another important development was flight test of Solid Fuel Ducted Ramjet (SFDR) for development of long-range air-to-air missiles, they said. Finished products like ‘Shakti’, an advanced electronic warfare system, was handed over to the Indian Navy by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Incidentally, DRDO Young Scientist Lab - Assymetric Technologies (DYSL-AT), the brainchild of the PM and also located here, successfully demonstrated the drone swarm tech last year, senior officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/year-of-hectic-activity-for-city-based-drdo-labs/article64948165.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||Chief Secretary inspects SRDP work||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar asked the officials to ensure completion of the flyover work at Bahadurpura and the elevated corridor between Aramghar and Nehru Zoological Park ahead of the respective deadlines, a statement from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation informed. The elevated corridor of 4.08 kilometres, which is the longest structure in the whole SRDP project, should be completed by March next year, and the Bahadurpura flyover of 690 meters length, by March this year. GHMC engineering officials explained to the Chief Secretary that the elevated corridor is being delayed due to problems related to acquisition of a few properties. A total 163 properties were to be acquired, of which acquisition of a few is still pending. Mr. Somesh Kumar advised the officials to make efforts to complete the flyover without acquisition of the properties, yet adhering to the basic design of the flyover. Coordination should be established with other departments such as Southern Discom, Urban Biodiversity wing, and water board for uninterrupted progress of work, he said. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Commissioner D.S .Lokesh Kumar, Engineer in Chief Ziauddin, Chief Engineer Devanand accompanied the Chief Secretary, the statement informed.  The elevated corridor of 4.08 kilometres, which is the longest structure in the whole SRDP project, should be completed by March next year. Somesh Kumar, Chief Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-inspects-srdp-work/article64948169.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:54 IST,TELANGANA||Bandi Sanjay wants SC, ST panels to strengthen party||The Telangana BJP has good chances of winning in the 12 ST constituencies considering the ‘neglect’ of tribals by the TRS government and ‘support’ extended to the agitating communities at Gurrampodu and Asifabad, said party president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday. Participating in a meeting with the ST constituencies in-charges and ST morcha leaders, he claimed that BJP alone has the wherewithal to take on the TRS government’s ‘autocratic’ rule and the tribals too have begun to repose faith in the party. He urged the leaders to strengthen the party at the grassroots level by taking up causes dear to the STs. Soon, a coordination panel will visit the tribal areas to take stock of the situation, he said. Earlier, the party had formed a panel of five members headed by former Rajya Sabha MP Garikipati Mohan Rao to coordinate the issues pertaining to the SC constituencies and a coordination committee under the chairmanship of former MP A.P. Jithender Reddy was formed to look into the party working in the 19 SC constituencies across the State. The president wanted partymen to keep a tab on the assurances made by the government to these communities and be prepared to join the people in taking up agitations to demand the fulfilment. He said SC/ST committees should be formed at the constituency, district and booth level with details to be sourced about the two-bedroom housing, unemployment, vacancies in government, Dalit Bandhu scheme, highhandedness of the ruling party functionaries and others in each of the areas for the parties to chalk out a comprehensive action plan before the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandi-sanjay-wants-sc-st-panels-to-strengthen-party/article64948163.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||Hot food no more a worry for the COVID-hit||As the number of COVID-19 cases in Hyderabad accelerate to a new high, food is no longer one of the worries for patients and their relatives. Instead of a frantic struggle to get hot food during the first wave and second wave, care-givers have more resources to meet their needs. Besides the normally functioning food delivery apps, a clutch of quick delivery services, and Annapurna canteens are filling in the gap in food supply. Even the need for home-cooked food is being met by Good Samaritans. “We supplied 35,000 food packets during the second wave. We are just carrying on the work with our trusted friends and volunteers,” says V. Bhargav who has set up a network of food distribution in the western part of Hyderabad with his home kitchen in Bachupally area. He has hired a two-bedroom house near his apartment to use the kitchen facility to cook and serve food. Once the food is readied, volunteers take over and deliver it across a small area. It was word-of-mouth publicity that did the trick. “Just WhatsApp us your home location and COVID report (8886686000) and we will cook delicious home meals and bring it to your home. We don’t take any money,” was the message put out by Bhargav. It is his wife Umamaheswari who runs the kitchen to feed 150 people while the demand is double that. “We want to scale up to supply of food in Miyapur and Gachibowli as many techies have tested positive. Our priority is serving senior citizens and bachelors,” says Bhargav. Another NGO has been laid low by the aggressive spread of the virus. “We have 22 volunteers and were planning to start cooked food distribution to COVID-19 affected families. But some of our volunteers have tested positive and we might start the service by January 25,” said Vivek who did extensive food distribution during the second wave of the pandemic. But these efforts are dwarfed by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s effort. “The number of people having food here has remained constant. The demand has not increased. During the first lockdown we served dinner also but now there is no demand,” said an official at an Annapurna canteen where citizens can have hot rice, dal and sabzi for Rs. 5 at 11 a.m. The number of outlets has remained constant at 130 while approximately 27,000 people are availing the facility daily, said officials.  We want to scale up to supply of food in Miyapur and Gachibowli as many techies have tested positive. Our priority is serving senior citizens and bachelors. V. Bhargav, Volunteer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hot-food-no-more-a-worry-for-the-covid-hit/article64948175.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||Amid rising cases, Secretariat staff scared to attend duty||Staff at the B.R.K.R. Bhavan, the temporary State secretariat, are in a fix following the rise in COVID-19 cases on the premises. While positive cases have been detected among some bureaucrats and officers in key departments like Revenue, Home and Education, there has been no initiative on the government’s part to regulate the attendance of employees. The employees are lamenting that the seriousness with which steps were taken to minimise incidence of the infection during the second wave has been lacking this time around. Close to 2,000 employees and officers are functioning from the temporary secretariat. This is in addition to a clutch of visitors coming to the secretariat with various grievances. There have been restrictions on the movement of visitors but the government has not taken any steps to ensure that the staff is segregated and only a section of them is allowed to attend duty on a daily basis.  The government, during the second wave, had allowed work from home for around 50% employees on a weekly basis and movement of files was mostly done online during that time. A few departments took steps to minimise the presence of employees in their respective wings, but that happened through oral communication. “There are no official orders restricting the presence of employees,” an employees’ union leader told The Hindu .  Moreover, the absence of equipment like thermal scanners at different points within the secretariat to detect symptoms has been a cause of concern. “Area abutting the lifts in particular where groups of people gather to go to top floors gives scope to the spread of infection. But no measures have been put in place to contain it,” the employees’ leader said. Spraying of disinfectants which was discontinued of late is, however, said to have resumed since the past few days with officials concerned supervising sanitisation of the premises. Employees are citing the latest order issued by the Union Department of Economic Affairs wherein seven days special leave will be granted to government servants affected with COVID-19 and work from home for seven days would be allowed in the event of their dependents testing positive. There is, however, no such initiative on the part of the State government, they lamented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/amid-rising-cases-secretariat-staff-scared-to-turn-up-for-work/article64948178.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||‘KCR Kit a model for nation’||Health Minister T. Harish Rao has said that KCR Kit being extended to lactating mothers is a model for the nation and because of the scheme, institutional deliveries have increased by 22% in the State. Mr. Harish Rao visited the government hospital at Gajwel in Siddipet district on Wednesday and examined the services being extended to patients. “Quality healthcare is being extended after formation of Telangana. Under KCR Kit, Rs. 13,000 for female child and Rs. 12,000 for male child are being given in addition to 16 items. After delivery, mothers along with children are dropped at home under Amma Odi,” said the Minister. Talking about the coronavirus situation in Telangana, he said that there was no need to worry. “The symptoms will be mild. Testing is being conducted at Primary Health Centres (PHCs). About two crore testing kits and one crore home isolation kits are ready. Many will be treated with home isolation kits. Admit in hospitals only when the condition is serious. All the COVID beds are attached with oxygen. ICU beds have also been kept ready,” said Mr Harish Rao while speaking to mediapersons after visiting the hospital. The Minister appreciated the medical staff at the government hospital for performing about 400 deliveries every month. MLC Yadava Reddy and Forest Development Corporation chairman V. Pratap Reddy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-kit-a-model-for-nation/article64948174.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:54 IST,TELANGANA||GO 317 for justice to locals: Harish Rao||Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao said on Wednesday that justice would be done to locals only through GO 317 and the campaign taken up by the State BJP was nothing but false. “There are as many as 15,62,912 Central government vacancies that are not being filled up. In Telangana, 1.3 lakh jobs were given in the last seven years. Let the BJP demand for filling up of posts in Telangana only after filling up all vacant posts at the Centre,” said Mr. Harish Rao while participating at TRSV programme in Siddipet district on Wednesday. He said that employees are happy with GO 317 and BJP finding fault with the GO was nothing but pointing fingers at the Centre as the GO was issued based on Presidential Order. “Telangana is number one in power consumption in India. In per capita income, TS stands first in Southern States. Even NITI Aayog has stated that Telangana tops in many fields. The State stands third in extending better healthcare to citizens while BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh is in the 28th position,” said Mr. Harish Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/go-317-for-justice-to-locals-harish-rao/article38295314.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||‘Vanajeevi’ seeks more green cover||Padma Shri awardee Ramaiah, who is also known as Vanajeevi, met Rajya Sabha member and Green India Challenge creator J. Santosh Kumar at Pragathi Bhavan on Wednesday and offered to transfer the red sanders trees that he had groomed to the Forest department, as part of Haritha Nidhi. Mr. Ramaiah, who had been planting trees for the last several decades, discussed ‘Telangana Ku Haritha Haram’, ‘Green India Challenge’ and Telangana government’s ‘Haritha Nidhi’ programme. The Ramaiah couple desired that the Green India Challenge programme taken up to protect enviroment all over the country should be a great success and nature should bless the programme. Mr. Santosh Kumar sought the couple’s blessings by touching their feet in reverence while appreciating their tremendous work for greenery. Mr. Ramaiah said that the challenge before everyone was to face climatic changes, protect forests and appealed to everyone to plant trees to increase the green cover. Mr. Santosh Kumar inquired about their health condition and offered to provide them medicare whenever they needed. The MP also expressed his readiness to supply saplings from Green India Challenge programme to Mr. Ramaiah to plant and also distribute them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vanajeevi-seeks-more-green-cover/article64948170.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:54 IST,TELANGANA||TS bureaucrats oppose Centre’s move to amend IAS cadre rules||The Central government’s move to amend the IAS Cadre Rules 1954 seeking changes in Central deputation of IAS officers has not gone down well with the State’s bureaucracy. “The proposed amendment looks bad. This is yet another move to take away the control of the State. This will give scope for unwarranted developments,” a senior IAS officer said. He defended the letter addressed by West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee asserting that the letter assumes more significance in the light of what happened in the State. “The entire ability of the civil servant to work is based on the situation. He has a chance to go to the Centre if he cannot get along well. But this needs the consent of the State,” the official said. The amendment allowing the Centre to “take away any officer” is tantamount to taking away the control of the State. The official said the Centre was encroaching upon every aspect of the States’ functioning and trying to remove the strengths of the States. “The Centre cannot be strong with weak States,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-bureaucrats-oppose-centres-move-to-amend-ias-cadre-rules/article38295321.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||Women Commission celebrates annual day||Telangana State Commission for Women celebrated its first annual day on Wednesday. Minister for ST Welfare, Women and Child Welfare Satyavathi Rathod participated as chief guest and released the annual report of the commission, 2022 calendar and a song on challenges faced by women. Chairperson for the commission for Women Vakiti Sunitha Laxma Reddy presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/women-commission-celebrates-annual-day/article38295295.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||Govt. keen to promote tribal medicine: Minister||Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod has said that theTelangana government is committed towards promoting tribal medicine as it will not cause any side-effects. She was speaking on the opening day of a two-day national online workshop on “Indigenous knowledge and health care: Way forward”, organised by the Tribal Cultural Research and Training Institute (TCR&TI) is with technical support from United Nations Development Programme. No side-effects Participating in the first day of the workshop on Wednesday, Ms. Rathod said since tribal medicine has no side-effects, it receives ready acceptance by society and hence, the State government wishes to promote it apart from aiming to encourage youth to take it forward. Joint Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Government of India, Naval Jit Kapoor participated as a guest and appraised the current efforts of the Ministry and the national action plan on tribal health. Christina Z. Chonthu, Secretary and Commissioner, Tribal Welfare, Telangana government, also attended the workshop as a guest and said that there is enormous potential for tribal medicine in tribal areas of the State and TCR&TI is coming up with exploring and documenting it. As part of the workshop, two technical sessions were held under the chair of Urmila Pingle, founder of Centre for People’s Forestry, and Alagu Varshini, Commissioner of Ayush department, Telangana. Panel speakers B.V. Sharma of HCU, Ved Priya Arya, HoD of Patanjali Research Foundation-Uttarakhand and Dhnyaneshwar presented research cwork onducted on tribal medicinal practices and their importance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-keen-to-promote-tribal-medicine-minister/article38295287.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||Hyderabad witnesses four chain-snatching incidents||As many as four chain-snatching incidents were reported during the day on Wednesday in three police station limits. An unidentified miscreant snatched a gold chain of a 65-year-old woman in Tukaram Gate police station limits. According to the police, the accused was on a two-wheeler while the victim, identified as Rambai, was walking on the side of the road. The accused snatched her gold chain and fled. Police are in the process of identifying the accused by analysing CCTV footage and are looking for other clues. A similar incident was reported in the Marredpally police station limits at around 10 a.m. Like in the case with the incident reported at Tukaram Gate police station, the victim, a 55-year-old woman, was a pedestrian who was walking near Indirapuram railway tracks and the accused was moving on a two wheeler. The accused fled the spot after snacthing the 5 tola gold chain. Two cases of chain-snatching were reported in Jeedimetla police station limits between 11.30 a.m. and 12.30 p.m, police said. The chains weigh 6 tolas. Cases have been booked at these police stations and efforts are being made to nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-witnesses-four-chain-snatching-incidents/article38295303.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||Entrepreneurship meet at IIT-H tomorrow||E-Summit, one of the biggest entrepreneurship conclaves in India and a flagship event of E-Cell, the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IITH), will be held virtually for three days from January 21 to January 23. The event aims to bring early entrepreneurs, students, corporates, venture capitalists, and start-ups with budding ideas from all over the country on one platform to share their entrepreneurial endeavours and experiences. It hosts thought-provoking talks, panel discussions, competitions, and many more. The E-Cell has initiated an outreach that covered more than 1,00,000 people. Over 100+ startups are expected to participate in this event. Encouraging the students’ enthusiasm for entrepreneurship in the given scenario, Prof B S Murty, Director, IITH, said: “IITH has a robust entrepreneurship ecosystem. We have more than 100+ start-ups. E-Summit by E-Cell is a commendable event that nucleates the entrepreneurship instinct in the young and brilliant future stars of the nation. With the nation celebrating Start-up Week, this is a dynamic move towards Aatma Nirbhar Bharat and marks the celebration of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/entrepreneurship-meet-at-iit-h-from-tomorrow/article38295296.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:36 IST,TELANGANA||10 structures pulled down||HMDA together with the district-level task force officials continued its spree of demolitions and pulled down 10 more structures on Wednesday, which have been started without required permissions. For the past three days, the urban development authority, together with district-level task forces and police, demolished a total of 33 illegal structures. On Wednesday, the demolition drive was conducted in Thumkunta, Manikonda, Shamshabad and Pedda Amberpet municipalities, in which five storeyed buildings and godowns were pulled down, a statement informed. Action has been taken against five structures in Thumkunta, two each in Manikonda and Shamshabad, and one in Amberpet municipalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/10-structures-pulled-down/article38295299.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:54 IST,TELANGANA||DA of govt. staff revised, enhanced by 10.01%||The State government has revised the Dearness Allowance for different categories of employees. The government announced release of three instalments of the DA, that would be payable from July 1 this year. Employees were waiting for the government’s orders sanctioning revision of DA from two years and the dearness allowance has accordingly being revised by 10.01 per cent – from 7.28 per cent to 17.29 per cent of the basic pay with monetary benefit from July 1. The increase subsumes the three instalments of the DA from January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021. Dearness allowance for the period from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021 would remain at 7.28 per cent only in the revised pay scales, the government order issued on Wednesday said. The same rules would be applicable in case of dearness relief being paid to pensioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/da-of-govt-staff-revised-enhanced-by-1001/article38295313.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:36 IST,TELANGANA||New CEO for MaxiVision||V.S.Sudheer is the new CEO of MaxiVision Eye Hospital Group. COO for the last five years, he is being elevated to the position of CEO, the group said on Tuesday. Chairman G.S.K .Velu said Mr. Sudheer brings with him strong expertise to team up and work with ophthalmologists of repute to deliver clinical excellence in all branches of eye care segment. He will be spearheading the group’s expansion plans, as part of which it intends to grow footprint in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Gujarat in Phase 1. In the next phase, it plans to expand to Kerala, Maharashtra and Odisha making it a 60-hospital network in 15 months period. From 2023, the Group will expand to other regions in Central and East India, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-ceo-for-maxivision/article38295309.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:54 IST,TELANGANA||Goel is new Union labour additional secretary||Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel has been transferred to Central Government services as Additional Secretary, Ministry of Labour and Employment. Mr. Goel’s transfer has been approved by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet. The Department of Personnel and Training has announced the appointment of the 1990 batch IAS officer in a circular issued on Tuesday. Mr. Goel was one among around 10 officers from across the country whose names were cleared by the Appointments Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/goel-is-new-union-labour-additional-secretary/article38295312.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:54 IST,TELANGANA||Jagadish Reddy examines 400 KV sub-station works||Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy said on Wednesday that the first gas insulated 400 KV sub-station in the country was coming up at Rayadurg. Works are going on at a fast pace, he said. Along with Transco and Genco CMD D. Prabhakar Rao and SPDCL CMD Raghuma Reddy, the Minister visited Rayadurg and examined the ongoing construction works on Wednesday. “Hyderabad is rapidly developing in all aspects. The power supply system in is being developed keeping the requirements of the next three to four decades in mind,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jagadish-reddy-examines-400-kv-sub-station-works/article38295316.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||Man found dead at Gandhi Hospital||A 50-year-old man on Wednesday died by suicide after he jumped off from one of the upper floors of Gandhi Hospital, Chilkalguda police said. According to the police, the incident happened around 11.45 a.m. The identity of the victim is yet to be established and all efforts are being made to identify him, including analysing available CCTV footage. Police said that the victim was not carrying any documents. (Roshini — suicide prevention helpline: 040-66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-found-dead-at-gandhi-hospital/article38295505.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:54 IST,TELANGANA||Maoists call Mulugu district bandh||The CPI (Maoist) division committee has called a bandh in Mulugu district on January 22 in protest against what it described as ‘killing’ of three of its cadre in a ‘fake encounter’ on Kerragutta hillock near the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border on Tuesday. In a statement purportedly issued by the CPI (Maoist) Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Mulugu, Warangal, Peddapalli Division Committee on Wednesday, Maoists alleged that the police, based on information given by some informers, surrounded a small group of 10 Maoists and resorted to firing ‘unilaterally’ on the latter. Wazeedu-Venkatapuram area committee secretary Shantha, and Yellandu-Narsampeta dalam commander Kommula Naresh were among the three killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maoists-call-mulugu-district-bandh/article38295320.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||Three killed as autorickshaw overturns in Nirmal district||Three persons, including two women, were killed and three others injured when the autorickshaw in which they were travelling in plunged into a roadside irrigation canal near Bellal village in Kadem mandal of Nirmal district on Wednesday. Driver lost control According to sources, the autorickshaw overturned after the driver lost control of the vehicle and fell into the irrigation canal abutting the main road in the afternoon. Three occupants of the vehicle died on the spot, sources said. Three injured Three others, including the driver of the autorickshaw suffered injuries. The farmers in the nearby agricultural fields rushed to the spot andretrievedthe bodies of the trio from the mangled vehicle. The injured persons were shifted to a hospital in Nirmal. The autorickshaw was heading to Bellal from Kadem at the time of the accident. The exact identity of the deceased could not be ascertained immediately. The police are on the job of tracing relatives of the victims Different villages They were in the age group of 50-55 years and hailed from separate villages in Kadem mandal. Meanwhile, the Kadem police inspected the accident site and registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-killed-3-injured-as-autorickshaw-overturns/article38295304.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:52 IST,TELANGANA||Joys of childhood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/joys-of-childhood/article64948164.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||M.P. govt. to slash liquor rates by 20%, allows sale at State airports||In the new excise police for the next financial year, the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has decided to allow the sale of liquor at all airports in the State and select supermarkets in four big cities, and issue home bar licenses to those earning Rs. 1crore or more annually. In the Excise Policy 2022-23, approved by the State Cabinet on Tuesday, the government also decided to slash retail prices of liquor by 20% in a bid to “make them practical”. Explaining the rationale behind the proposed cut in rates of alcohol, an official said that the prices will become competitive with neighbouring States. Meanwhile, the opposition Congress took a swipe saying the State government is not willing to provide any relief to common people by slashing taxes on fuel but is reducing the prices of liquor. The Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also cleared the Madhya Pradesh Heritage (Traditional) Liquor Policy. Under the new excise policy, counters selling liquor can be opened at all the airports in MP while licenses for (opening) such outlets can now be issued in select supermarkets in Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur and Gwalior at a fixed fee, an official statement said. Now, a home bar licence will be issued at an annual fee of Rs. 50,000 to applicants with an annual individual income of Rs. 1 crore or more, it said. Another official said that this is not the first time in the country that home bar licenses are going to be issued by any State. Some northern States have been issuing such licenses, he added. Under the upcoming policy, bar licenses can be issued at concessional rates to temporary units being operated by the Eco-Tourism Board and the Tourism Development Corporation at tourist places. Simplified import The State government also decided to simplify the liquor import process. Opening of microbreweries will be allowed in Bhopal and Indore cities subject to No Objection Certificates (NOCs) to be issued by local civic bodies and the electricity department and after securing environmental clearance. Officials also said that all the liquor outlets will now be composite shops to curb the sale of illegal alcohol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mp-govt-to-slash-liquor-rates-by-20-allows-sale-at-state-airports/article64948224.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||Odisha bid to preserve all mangrove species in a small nursery||Odisha’s Forest and Environment department officials are elated over rise in mangrove forest in the State, but what excites them more is a small nursery, which may go on to become a field gene-bank for the coastal ecosystem, especially mangroves. Conservation of many important species poses serious challenge as not all of them have seeds or capacity to reproduce vegetatively. Preserving important species in the field is considered as the best mode of conservation, and what can be the best place to preserve mangrove species than the Bhitarkanika National Park. Odisha’s mangrove vegetation constitute only 5.17% of India’s total mangrove cover, but its species diversity is second to none in the country. As far as species distribution in global-level is concerned, only Papua New Guinea has more mangrove species than that of Bhitarkanika in Odisha. Species diversity “We have tried to showcase Bhitarkanika’s rich species diversity through a nursery being developed at Dangamal. So far we have managed to raise 32 species of mangrove in the nursery. We will double it up by collecting more species from Mahanadi delta areas in next six months,” said J.D. Pati, Divisional Forest Officer of Rajnagar Mangrove (Wildlife) Forest Division. Mr. Pati said there are 88 species in mangrove, back mangrove and mangrove associates. “We usually use 22 species in plantation activities while rest grows in natural regeneration process,” he said. Sundarbans, in West Bengal, is known as world’s largest mangrove ecosystem. However, species found in Sundarbans vary between 24 and 26. Bhitarkankia has got more than 60 species. There has not been any nursery available in other districts such as Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur, Puri and Ganjam districts. The nursery being developed in Bhitarkanika would help provide saplings for propagation in other districts. Moreover, if any species gets wiped out due to man-made or ecological reasons, the nursery will be in a position to replenish it for further propagation. Significant gain According to the biennial India’s State of Forest Report 2021, published by the Forest Survey of India, the States that have made significant gain in mangrove coverage are Odisha (8 sq km) and Maharashtra (4 sq km).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/odisha-bid-to-preserve-all-mangrove-species-in-a-small-nursery/article64948225.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||BJP’s anti-farmer policies pushed them into misery, says Congress||The Congress on Wednesday accused the BJP of failing to double the income of farmers and alleged that its“anti-farmer” policies have pushed the farming community into acute crisis. Senior Congress leader and party national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala and Punjab president Navjot Singh Sidhu at a joint press conference here released a booklet surrounding the challenges of the farming community and promised to resolve their issues if the party is voted to power. Mr. Surjewala said besides the BJP, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party too were equally responsible for farmers’ misery. ‘Drowning in debt’ “The report released by the National Statistical Office in September 2021 on the status of agricultural households in rural India has a shocking revelation. The income of the farmer has not doubled. On the contrary, a family of five people is earning only Rs. 26.67 per person a day from farming. Farmers are drowning in debt. The Modi government, which has promised to increase farmers’ income, has drowned the farmer in debt. Almost 50.2% of India’s farmers are in debt, with an average loan of Rs. 74,121 per household,” he stated. “Not only this, the BJP government has till date not given MSP as per Swaminathan committee (at C2+50% formula) to farmers as promised. They arbitrarily increased the cost and robbed the farmers. And the Central government gave an affidavit in the Supreme Court on February 9, 2015, that farmers cannot be given 50% return on the cost,” he said. The loss of votes in the elections of five States would the show the mirror of truth to the ‘anti-farmer’ BJP. “In the defeat of the BJP, there is the victory of farmers and farm labourers,” he said. Sidhu’s promise Mr. Sidhu said if the Congress forms the next government, it would legalise the MSP for crops and purchase pulses, oilseeds and maize. He also promised that the government would process and market these produces through cooperatives and government corporations. “Everybody talks of issues faced by farmers. Everybody tries to do politics on farmers’ issues, but no one has given a roadmap for resurrection. The Congress has stood by farmers throughout the struggle and beyond politics,” he said. A market intervention scheme would also be started for crops sold below MSP. The government would pay the difference in selling price and MSP directly to farmers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjps-anti-farmer-policies-pushed-them-into-misery-says-congress/article64948218.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||RP-2041 can spell doom for Aravalis in Haryana, fear environmentalists||Large chunks of forests and the Aravalis in Gurugram and Faridabad could lose protection from construction under the National Conservation Zone as defined in the Regional Plan-2021, if the provisions in the Draft Regional Plan-2041 are implemented, fear environmentalists, urban planners and analysts. According to the DRP- 2041, the ‘Natural Zone’ (NZ) “is a zone comprising any natural features such as mountains, hills, rivers, water bodies created by the action of nature.” In the previous Plan, this was defined as the Natural Conservation Zone (NCZ). In the new draft, the definition ofthe natural features has been tweaked and restricted to only those that are notified under certain acts and recognised in land records. Environmentalists are worried that this new definition would expel large sections of the forest land in Gurugram and Faridabad out of the ambit of protected zonefor not meeting the criteria proposed in DRP.  Most Aravali hill areas in Haryana are not notified but find a mention in the revenue records as ‘ gair mumkin pahar ’(uncultivable wasteland), and ‘bhood’ (sandy foothills), while the forest cover is neither notified nor mentioned as forest in the revenue record. Also, it is not clear whether rivers such as the Yamuna and Hindon, are notified and included in revenue records. Environmentalist Chetan Agarwal told The Hindu , such restrictive eligibility criterion would lead to the exclusion ofnatural features from the Natural Zone to the detriment of the region’s biodiversity. “This is in total contradiction to the objective of the Regional Plan and the National Capital Region Planning Board Act,” he said.  If the Haryana government succeeds in its plan to implement the amendments in the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), already passed by the State Legislative Assembly and ratified by Haryana Governor, then both Gurugram and Faridabad would suffer irretrievably. “Of 74,000 hectares in Faridabad, only 11,700 ha is presently under the NCZ. If the PLPA amendment is cleared, only 178 hectares under the Reserve Forest category would qualify to be placed under the Natural Zone. It will be a similar situation in Gurugram too,” Mr. Agarwal warned. In an email to the NCRPB, five urban planners and environment activists have raised objections to the Draft RP-2041, questioning the rationale behind it and the lack of clarity on the term “action of Nature”. “What is meant by ‘action of Nature’ and what is the time period set for denotification?” asked Mr. Manoj Misra, retired Indian Forest Service officer. He said there were several examples of natural ecosystems created by the direct intervention of people or government, including wetlands under the Wetland Rules (such as Keoladeo National Park), greening and restoration of areas (the Aravalli biodiversity Park, Gurugram) and other afforestation zones. According to him, many natural areasare still in the process of being notified in land records as per observations of the Supreme Court in M.K. Balakrishnan versus Union of India in 2017. Floodplains excluded The RP-2021 included rivers such as Yamuna, Ganga, Kali, Hindon and Sahibi; their tributaries, flood plains and flood prone areas in the NCZ but the draft RP-2041 excluded tributaries and flood plains from the newly defined NZ . The rivers, the tributaries and their flood plains are crucial for the water security and protection of the riverine floodplain habitat, which in turn is critical for protection of riverine biodiversity. The environmentalists are also shocked by the replacement of the term NCZ, exclusion of terms “Aravali” and “forest areas” from NZ and the removal of 0.5% limit imposed on construction and land use under it. “The deletion of Aravali from the new draft will facilitate construction of real estate in the Aravalis and destroy the natural ecosystem of the Aravalis in Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan that shelter a critical wildlife habitat and corridor,” said Stalin Dayanand, Director of Mumbai-based NGO Vanashakti and one of the signatories to the e-mail. The environmentalists want the RP-2041 to declare the 500 metres Mangar Bani sacred grove hill in Faridabadas “No construction” zone for its wildlife presence. Located on a narrow ridge, it is part of an important inter-state wildlife corridor with animals including leopards, hyenas, and foxes moving between the Asola Wildlife Sanctuary in Delhi and Damdama lake catchment area in Gurgaon. Another point of worry Yet another point of worry is Section 6.3.3 of DRP-2041 which seeks “the interlinking of all green trails of the Aravali range and river Yamuna running in the region to become a part of integrated cycle trails and drive corridors in the region”. It is feared that the provision of ‘drive corridors’ in the Aravalis will lead to motorised traffic and adversely impact the wildlife habitat. It could also open up the proposed construction of a road cutting through the Bio-Diversity Park in Gurugram, which the citizens are opposing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rp-2041-can-spell-doom-for-aravalis-fear-environmentalists/article64948222.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||Bomb thrown in house, no one injured||In a pre-poll violence incident in Manipur, a bomb was hurled in the house of K. Loken at Arapti village in the Keirao Assembly constituency in Imphal east district at 2.30 a.m. on Wednesday, police said. The bomb fell in the bedroom of Mr. Loken’s son who escaped unhurt. The explosion damaged to some household items. The police has registered a case and investigation is under way. No arrest has been made so far. Meanwhile, women in the Heirok constituency in the Thoubal district are protesting against the “police inaction” in the shooting to death of a college student in front of his parents. Under pressure from the public, six persons had surrendered to the police. One of them is the younger brother of the sitting BJP MLA. The women activists said the police had not recovered even the murder weapon. They are also demanding the closure of the police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bomb-thrown-in-house-no-one-injured/article38295381.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||‘Give possession of land allotted to soldier’s widow’||Taking a serious note of the denial of the possession of a piece of land to an Army soldier’s widow, allotted to her over 30 years ago, the Rajasthan High Court has asked the State government to give her the possession within two weeks. A Bench of Justice Dinesh Mehta also asked the government to find another appropriate piece of land if giving possession of the allotted land was not possible. The Bench issued the directions to the Pali District Magistrate and the Bali Sub-Divisional Magistrate on the plea of late soldier Hari Singh’s widow, Lahar Kanwar. In her plea to the court filed through advocate Devki Nandan Vyas, Ms. Kanwar told the court that her husband had taken part in the 1965 and 1971-72 wars and had received many awards, including the Raksha Medal, the Samar Seva Star and the Sangram Medal. She said her husband died in a road accident in 1983 and as a ‘war widow’, she had been allotted two hectares of land in Sanderao under the Bali sub-division in 1991. Advocate Vyas told the court that she was never given possession of the land and had been running from pillar to post for its possession. The counsel told the court that a detailed report had been sent to the DM by the tehsildar concerned on June 2, 2020, and according to this report, the land allotted to her is still recorded in the name of the government in revenue records.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/give-possession-of-land-allotted-to-soldiers-widow/article38295380.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||Mamata’s campaign for SP will help BJP: Adhikari||A day after the Samajwadi Party leadership said West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee would campaign for the party in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, the BJP leadership in West Bengal said her campaigning would only help the BJP in the election.  Bengal BJP leader and Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari said the BJP leadership in U.P. would not call Ms. Banerjee ‘ bahirgata [outsider]’ and allow her helicopter to land in the State.  Mr. Adhikari, who is the most vocal critic of the Trinamool Congress chairperson, described her as “anti-Hindu” and blames her for the post-poll violence in the State. “Sanatanis [Hindus] of Uttar Pradesh will not vote for her.” On Tuesday, SP leader Kiranmoy Nanda met Ms. Banerjee at her residence in Kolkata and said she would hold a joint virtual meeting and press conference with his party president, Akhilesh Yadav, on February 8 in Lucknow. Mr. Adhikari said Mr. Nanda had become ‘irrelevant’ in politics. He refuted the SP leader’s claims that Ms. Banerjee had become a face against the BJP in the entire country. On the issue of the proposed amendment to the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954, Mr. Adhikari supported the Centre’s move. He cited the instance of former West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, against whom the Centre had moved disciplinary proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mamatas-campaign-for-sp-will-help-bjp-says-suvendu-adhikari/article64948216.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||COVID-19 situation under control, says BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday assured the Bombay High Court that the current COVID-19 situation in the city was “under control and there was no reason for citizens to panic.” Senior counsel Anil Sakhre representing the civic body informed a division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M.S. Karnik that Mumbai was witnessing a decline in the number of COVID-19 cases in the third wave of the pandemic. He said, “As per the data available till January 15, there were 84,352 active cases in the city, of which only 7% patients needed hospitalisation, 3% needed oxygen support and 0.7% required ventilator support.” He also submitted a detailed note on active cases, oxygen supply, stock of medicines, hospital beds available and said, “We have adequate oxygen supply; hospital beds are available. There is no reason for any panic.” The bench then asked if the civic body was saying that the situation in Mumbai was totally under control. To which Mr. Sakhare said, “Yes, everything is in control now. Cases are coming down. The number of positive cases had peaked to 20,000 around January 6 to January 9. But on January 15, the cases had come down to 10,000 and for the last three days, they have come down to 7,000.” The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) on issues related to the COVID-19 pandemic and the management and preparedness of the State and BMC on the same. Advocate Atharva Dandekar appearing for petitioner told the Court that while BMC was doing a fine job at managing the infections in the city, the State government must also submit all the details of positive and active cases, resources available, beds occupied etc. in the entire State. The matter is adjourned to January 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-19-situation-under-control-says-bmc/article64948223.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||INS Ranvir: accidental death case registered||The Mumbai police registered an accidental death case in connection with the explosion onboard the Indian Naval Ship Ranvir at the naval dockyard the day before in which three Navy personnel were killed and 11 injured, an officer said on Wednesday. Three separate Accidental Death Reports have been registered at the Colaba police station in south Mumbai, he said. The deceased have been identified as Master Chief Petty Officer First Class Krishan Kumar, MCPO Second Class Surinder Kumar and MCPO Second Class A.K. Singh. INS Ranvir is a destroyer ship. A Board of Inquiry has been instituted to investigate the cause of the incident, the Navy had said. The post-mortem was conducted at State-run J.J. Hospital, the police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ins-ranvir-accidental-death-case-registered/article38295379.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||Lata is stable, says her spokesperson||Singing legend Lata Mangeshkar, who wasadmitted in the ICUof a city hospital in Mumbai, is stable, her spokesperson said on Wednesday. The 92-year-old singer tested positive for COVID-19 with mild symptoms and was admitted to the Breach Candy Hospital in south Mumbai on January 9. “Lata Di is stable. Will come home after the doctors give the nod,” Anusha Srinivsan Iyer, the spokesperson for Ms. Mangeshkar, said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lata-is-stable-says-her-spokesperson/article38295369.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:13 IST,||Long road to trial||More than a year’s patience, approximately 400 court dates and a 17,000-page chargesheet sum up the north-east Delhi riots “larger conspiracy case” that is yet to see the beginning of a trial. While legal technicalities have often been cited as reasons for the delay, the Delhi High Court in a recent order called for swift disposal of UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act) cases, noting that these involve serious offences and it is not easy for those in custody to secure bail. The chargesheet invokes the stringent UAPA and names former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, former JNU students Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha and MBA student Gulfisha Fatima. A total of 18 persons have been named in the chargesheet, which accuses them of “engineering the north-east Delhi riots in February 2020 under the garb of anti-CAA protests”. Five of the 18 accused have been granted bail. Currently, the defence lawyers are scrutinising documents and reports provided to them by the prosecution as part of the evidence. While at least half-a-dozen riot cases have gone to trial and charges have been framed in 67 cases, the present matter saw multiple applications moved by the defence lawyers, seeking prosecution evidence that was not provided to them earlier. Several ongoing bail applications, for which hearings have been on for months, are also delaying the case proceedings. The defence lawyers who received the chargesheet copy six months ago attributed the delay to the investigating agency’s “inefficiency in providing the basic documents”. According to them, unnecessary complications make the preparation of defence a “nightmarish exercise”. Tussle over hard copy The chargesheet, floating a conspiracy theory of pre-planned riots, was filed by the Delhi Police Special Cell before the Karkardooma court on September 16. The court took cognisance of it within 24 hours and directed the prosecution to supply soft copies of the chargesheet to the lawyers and hard copies to the accused in jail. The slowdown began when the prosecution informed about “inadvertent inclusion” of protected witnesses in the copies of the chargesheet. The court asked for a fresh set of copies with redacted versions. On October 21, 2020, the prosecution provided the same in pen drives and argued that they had adhered to Section 207 of CrPC, which pertains to supplying the accused with relevant police reports and other documents. The Investigating Officer also requested 15 days’ time to provide hard copies of the chargesheet as funds had to be sanctioned from the Delhi government. The court was not “impressed” with the submission and called for immediate supply of the hard copies. The Delhi Police challenged this order, noting that it was passed in a mechanical manner, following which a single-judge bench of Justice Suresh Kumar Kait stayed the trial on November 10. On November 22, the police filed a 930-page supplementary chargesheet in the matter. A second supplementary chargesheet containing evidence from CCTV footage was filed in February 2021. Over a course of nine hearings, the trial was finally vacated on March 23, after the prosecution submitted that the hard copies were ready to be supplied. Chain of applications It was in March 2020 that lawyers for several accused moved applications under Section 207 of CrPC, asking for electronic evidence, WhatsApp chats and other documents which the prosecution had relied upon while filing the chargesheet but not annexed with it. The prosecution opposed the applications by Devangana Kalita, who sought copies of electronic evidence against her and Asif Iqbal Tanha, who sought a cloned copy of his mobile phone. The police claimed the data recovered from the seized devices were “voluminous” and contained private content and providing the same to a co-accused would “infringe upon their privacy”. It has been eight months now. Kalita’s plea awaits disposal but Tanha received the cloned copy of his phone. There are several such applications yet to be heard by the court. Umar Khalid moved his bail plea in July 2021 and it is currently in the stage of prosecution arguments. “The prosecution is duty bound to supply it. Without access to all the material being used against us, how will I be able to cross-examine witnesses during the trial and prove myself not guilty?” the lawyer asked. “There is no question of the trial beginning anytime soon,” said a defence lawyer, requesting anonymity.  The Public Prosecutor in the case, Amit Prasad, told The Hindu that there has been no delay from the police or the prosecution and the onus is on the defence lawyers to scrutinise the documents and let the trial begin at the earliest.  “We want the trial to start quickly and all the witnesses to depose as soon as possible. But right now, the defence lawyers are moving applications seeking both relied and unrelated documents, which is taking up a lot of time,” he said, adding that once all the pleas are disposed of, arguments on framing of charges will begin. With activist Khalid Saifi’s bail plea lingering for months, his wife Nargis Saifi does not expect the trial to begin anytime in the near future. “Our priority is to get him out on bail, especially with COVID spreading so fast. It seems impossible given the history of multiple adjournments in the past,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/long-road-to-trial/article64948326.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:13 IST,||Riots: 6 accused of murder get bail||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to six persons accused in a murder committed during the 2020 north-east Delhi riots, noting that there cannot be an umbrella assumption of guilt on behalf of every accused when there is a crowd involved. Justice Subramonium Prasad granted bail to Mohd. Shoaib, Parvez, Mohd. Tahir, Rashid, Mohd. Faisal and Shahrukh, all arrested over 21 months ago in connection with the murder of a 20-year-old youth Dilbar Negi. According to the prosecution, the police received a call on February 26, 2020, that some rioters were throwing stones in Bhagirathi Vihar. When they reached the spot, they found that the house of the owner of a sweet shop, located in Main Brijpuri Road, had been set ablaze by the rioters. The police found a half-burnt body of Negi, a waiter at the house. The public prosecutor opposed the bail on the ground that all the accused “actively participated” in the riots in which Negi was burnt alive. The public prosecutor submitted that it is of no consequence that no specific conduct can be attributed to the accused and that having participated in the riotous mob, the accused is responsible for not only his own actions, but also the actions of the others. In this case, the issue which arises for consideration before the court was that when a murder is committed by an unlawful assembly, then whether each person involved should be denied the benefit of bail, regardless of his role or object of the crowd. Justice Prasad clarified, “When there is a crowd involved, at the juncture of grant or denial of bail, the court must hesitate before arriving at the conclusion that every member of the unlawful assembly inhabits a common intention to accomplish the unlawful common object.” “There cannot be an umbrella assumption of guilt on behalf of every accused by the court, and every decision must be taken based on a careful consideration of the facts and circumstances in the matter therein,” Justice Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/riots-6-accused-of-murder-get-bail/article38295180.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:13 IST,||‘Will review restrictions after 3-4 days’||The Delhi government will monitor the COVID-19 situation for three to four days before reviewing the current pandemic-related restrictions, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday. “The positivity rate at present is 22.5%. It’s not low enough to lift the curbs. We will see what happens in the next three to four days. It had gone up to 30%. Let it reduce to half,” the Minister said when asked about easing restrictions. For the past one week, the daily hospital admissions are not increasing, he added. Dip in testing “In Delhi, it seems that cases have peaked and are going down now. We hope that the number of cases will fall at the same pace it peaked. We will wait for three to four days to see how it falls,” the Minister added. When asked about the dip in tests, he said that the Central government has changed the guidelines for testing and added that the Delhi government is not denying tests to anyone. The test positivity rate of COVID-19 cases in the city increased slightly to 23.86% on Wednesday from 22.47% a day earlier, according to a Delhi government bulletin. The TPR had peaked on Friday — 30.64% — and remained at that level on Saturday and has been less than that since. On Wednesday, the number of new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours also rose to 13,785 from 11,684 on Tuesday. A total of 57,776 tests were done over 24 hours. Thirty-five new deaths were reported, taking the toll to 25,460, as per the bulletin. Of the total 15,603 hospital beds for COVID-19, 82.48% were vacant on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/will-review-restrictions-after-3-4-days/article64948324.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||HC seeks ED response on bail plea by Chandrashekhar’s aid||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Enforcement Directorate on the bail application by an associate of alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar in a money laundering case. Justice Mukta Gupta issued notice on the plea by Pinki Irani and granted two weeks to the agency to file its status report.Lawyer Yoginder Handoo, representing Ms Irani, contended that his client was brought from Mumbai to Delhi on November 25 and was shown to be arrested only on December 9. He alleged that in the meantime, she was kept in a hotel room here with “guards” outside her room. The trial court had rejected Ms. Irani’s bail plea in the Rs. 200-crore money laundering case on January 11, the lawyer informed. The probe agency had earlier arrested Mr. Chandrashekhar, his actor wife Leena Maria Paul, and two associates in the case. It had also recorded the statement of actor Jacqueline Fernandez in the matter. In the bail petition, Ms. Irani has submitted that she has been roped in a “false and frivolous case” and the allegation of violation of provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering case against her is misconceived. Her plea claimed that she admittedly has nothing to do with the alleged activity of Mr. Chandrasekhar. She claimed she is a victim and Mr. Chandrasekhar exploited her for delivering gifts to Jacqueline Fernandez.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-ed-response-on-bail-plea-by-chandrashekhars-aide/article38295204.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:14 IST,||Chat room: 5-6 suspects under scanner, efforts on to trace them||A day after an FIR was lodged in connection with a Clubhouse chat room, where purported derogatory remarks were made against Muslim women, preliminary investigation has revealed that all the suspects were operating fake accounts, said the police. Efforts are under way to trace the locations of the chat room members and make arrests, the police said. A senior police officer, privy to the probe, said they have written to Clubhouse and Google, asking for information about the application and the chat rooms operating through it. “We have written to Clubhouse, seeking information about the origin of the chat room in question and who were its organisers… we have also written to Google asking as to how they allowed the application to operate on their Play Store,” the officer said. Police sources said they have zeroed in on five to six suspects who were part of the chat room. Most of them belong to States neighbouring Delhi. “The suspects include both men and women and all of them are adults,” the source added. Officers said most of the chat room members had modulated their voice and edited it in order to erase any digital footprint. “It is difficult to identify their exact locations as most of them used dubbed voices,” the source said. “Even if we don’t receive a response from Clubhouse and Google, once we trace all the identified suspects through digital backtracking, we will start making arrests,” an officer said. In the chat room, which hosted around 20 persons, members could be heard purportedly making lewd and derogatory remarks against Muslim women. Another video On Wednesday, a video recording of another Clubhouse chat room by the name of “Girls don’t have privilege to marry upper caste boys” was posted online, where members can purportedly be heard making lewd remarks against women. Officials said some members were common in both chat rooms. “Clubhouse is a place for people around the world to spend time with friends, engage in discussion and learn. There is absolutely no place for hate or abuse on the platform. We invest significantly in keeping our community safe and take swift action at any violation of our policies,” a Clubhouse spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chat-room-5-6-suspects-under-scanner-efforts-on-to-trace-them/article64948320.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:14 IST,||Purchase of EVs: govt. signs MoU with CESL||The Delhi government on Wednesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL) for providing 5% interest subvention on purchase of electric vehicles on loan in the city. The MoU was signed by Vinod Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner of Transport Department, and Polash Das, representing CESL, in the presence of Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot, Dialogue and Development Commission Vice-Chairperson Jasmine Shah, Principal Secretary-cum-Commissioner, Transport Ashish Kundra and Special Commissioner S.B. Deepak Kumar. The Delhi government said with the signing of the MoU, it had become the first State in the country to provide easy financing along with interest subvention on purchase of EVs. The agreement, the government stated, will help in accelerating the adoption of lithium-ion-based e-rickshaws and e-carts along with electric autos and electric light goods vehicles in the Capital. Additional benefit The 5% interest subvention on loans on the purchase of EVs is in addition to the applicable purchase incentive of Rs. 30,000 and scrapping incentives of up to Rs. 7,500 under the Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy. Through this scheme, an electric auto and electric light commercial vehicle will be able to avail up to Rs. 25,000 additional benefit. For the October to December 2021 quarter, electric vehicles contributed to over 8% of total vehicle sales in Delhi, according to government records. Under this partnership, the CESL will empanel financial institutions to provide loans to electric vehicles at attractive terms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/purchase-of-evs-govt-signs-mou-with-cesl/article38295194.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:14 IST,||Plea challenges expansion of definition of drug||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to respond to a petition challenging the expansion of the definition of a drug under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Petitioner Rajeev T.M., a resident of Kerala, has challenged two notifications of 2001 and 2009 issued by the Ministry of Finance under the NDPS Act, saying the notifications were issued in excess of conferred authority. ‘New category of offence’ The petition submitted that the two notifications under Section 2 (viia) and 2 (xxiiia) of the NDPS Act have the effect of creating a new category of offence by penalising the preparation of a drug on a par with the drug itself. “There is no rational nexus between the classification created by these notifications and the object of the NDPS Act, and therefore, there is a violation of Article 14 (equality before law) of the Constitution,” the petition said. “The notifications seek to create a classification of drug users and quantities based on the total weight of the drug [including the weight of neutral material] and not on the weight of the pure drug content, which is the correct indicator of whether a quantity is a commercial quantity or a small quantity intended for personal consumption,” it argued. Quantity in question “As per the NDPS Act, a person would be criminalised at the level of small quantity for possession of, say, 4 grams of heroin, the notifications enhance this criminalisation to the level of commercial quantity [which increases the incarceration to as much as 20 years] if the said 4 grams of heroin is diluted by the addition of neutral material,” it said. “The application of the notifications creates a situation where there would be no rational nexus between this aforesaid objective of rationalising sentencing by taking a reformative approach towards treating addicts and the proposed classification which places both addicts and drug traffickers on even footing as long as the addict dilutes their drug more than the trafficker,” it said. It contended that the NDPS Act requires only the pure narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances to be considered for determining quantities and therefore, the notifications are wrong. The plea said the petitioner is facing prosecution in a case under the NDPS Act and is currently out on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-challenges-expansion-of-definition-of-drug/article64948318.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:14 IST,||Prestigious South Asia University remains without president||The South Asian University (SAU), the only educational institution for higher studies created by all the eight members of the SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation), has been without its topmost official for more than two years. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) had advertised twice for the post but the SAU continues to be led by an “acting president”. Sources in the SAU said the absence of a permanent president, which is equivalent to a Vice-Chancellor, has contributed to a sense of instability in the prestigious varsity. Acting president “Prof. Kavita Sharma retired in November 2019 and an acting president was appointed and now SAU is being led by a second acting president and yet there is no sign of appointing a full-time president, which is the responsibility of the MEA as that has been agreed to by other members of the SAARC,” an informed source from the university noted. The SAU, which started academic operations in 2010, offers postgraduate and doctorate programmes in economics, international relations, mathematics, biotechnology, sociology, and a host of other subjects that are available to students from the member countries. It had been in news because of the delay in the construction of its 100-acre campus in South Delhi, which will be its permanent location. The university has been functioning in Chanakyapuri’s Akbar Bhavan, a large multi-storeyed building in the heart of the diplomatic enclave of the capital. Controversy Following the retirement of Dr. Sharma, the MEA appointed A.V.S. Ramesh Chandra, a senior IFS official, to the post. He was repatriated to the Ministry following a controversy over his payments and allowances. Ever since, Ranjan Kumar Mohanty has been serving as the “acting president”. The university remains one of the few prominent initiatives of the SAARC region where all the member-countries have participated. Violence in Afghanistan Apart from the absence of a full-time leadership, it has also been affected by the violence in Afghanistan during which many of its Afghan students were assaulted by warring factions in Kabul. Afghanistan had joined the initiative during the pre-Taliban government, and at present is yet to find government-level representation, as the Taliban is yet to be engaged by the SAARC. That apart, the tense India-Pakistan relation has also been a factor that has prevented convening of the next SAARC summit. Overall regional dynamics has been a factor in the administration of this unique university as it is led by the spirit of regional cooperation in South Asia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/prestigious-south-asia-university-remains-without-president/article38295201.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:14 IST,||DDA to start 6 in-situ slum rehab projects||The work on the Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA) six in-situ slum rehabilitation projects comprising 10 jhuggi jhopri (JJ) clusters, which aim to provide a total of 10,337 houses, will start this year, a DDA official said on Wednesday. Construction of the projects for the 10 clusters — which are located in the city’s Rohini, Dilshad Garden, Shalimar Bagh and Haiderpur areas — will be carried out on public-private-partnership (PPP) model. According to the DDA’s annual budget for 2022-23, which was presented on Tuesday, the request for proposal (RFP) of these projects have been floated. Apart from this, an allocation of Rs. 2,543 crore has been provided in the budget estimatefor the completion of the DDA’s ongoing housing projects; new housing projects were not proposed. “The timeline for the completion of the six projects will depend on the success of the bids and the market response. This activity may go on for a few years; the biggest concern that builders have expressed is of vacating the clusters. In Kathputli Colony, it took three to four years to vacate and relocate the dwellers,” the DDA official said, adding that no provision of funds for the six projects has been made in the latest annual budget. The in-situ slum rehabilitation projects are a part of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) scheme, which is implemented by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs with the objective of ensuring proper housing to eligible slum dwellers along with the low, middle-income groups, and economically weaker sections (EWS) by 2022. Meanwhile, Manish Kumar Gupta, a 1991-batch IAS officer, has been appointed as the Vice-Chairman of the DDA. Mr. Gupta was serving as principal commissionerat the DDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dda-to-start-6-in-situ-slum-rehab-projects/article38295199.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:13 IST,||Mentorship programme ‘safeguarded’||To ensure safety of children, new measures have been added to the ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ programme by the Delhi government. The changes, including police verification of all mentors, were made after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) raised concerns that the programme may expose children to probable safety risks. In a circular sent to the NCPCR, the Directorate of Education said that in case of an adverse report from the police during verification about a registered mentor, the person will be deregistered immediately. It said that all phone conversations between the mentors and mentees will be recorded by the government so that there is no scope left for child abuse. All contact numbers will also be masked and if a mentor meets with a mentee offline, he/she will be deregistered from the programme. NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo said the commission was satisfied with the extra measures being taken by the Delhi government. Parents advised The DoE has also issued a circular advising parents to ensure presence of any adult member of the family during the conversation between the mentor and the mentee done through the app. The Delhi government has said that 37,000 mentors have joined the ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ programme to guide 1.5 lakh students of government schools. The initiative was started in October 2021, to help children by getting young volunteers to speak to them and help them shape their careers and act as a friend or an elder sibling with whom the students can share everything. Mentors from across the country can register for the programme via a dedicated app. The NCPCR had on January 11 directed the Delhi government to suspend the scheme till all loopholes pertaining to the safety of children were addressed, after receiving an “unsatisfactory” response to the queries it had raised regarding the safety of children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mentorship-programme-safeguarded/article38295184.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:14 IST,||SDMC extends amnesty scheme for taxpayers||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has extended its ongoing amnesty scheme for property taxpayers under its area of jurisdiction on Wednesday. Property taxpayers can now avail of a complete waiver on penalty and interest rates on outstanding dues by making a payment of the total amount by January 31. Previously, the deadline was January 15. Apart from this, a 90% waiver on interest rate and 100% waiver on penalty can be availed of by paying the total dues by February 28, while a waiver of 80% on interest and 100% on penalty can be availed of if the payment of outstanding property tax is made by March 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-extends-amnesty-scheme-for-taxpayers/article38295197.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:13 IST,||Mother, 4 children die of ‘suffocation’ in Seemapuri||A 30-year-old woman and her four children were found dead at their house in Shahdara’s Seemapuri on Wednesday, the police said. Preliminary enquiry suggests they all died of suffocation after inhaling smoke emanating from an ‘angithi’ kept in the room, the police said. The room was small and had no ventilation. However, the exact cause of death will be known after the post-mortem report is received, the police said. Mohit, the woman’s husband is being questioned. The woman’s family suspects foul play in the incident. They questioned as to how Mohit managed to survive while the other members died despite sharing the same room. They said the couple used to fight frequently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mother-4-children-die-of-suffocation-in-seemapuri/article38295186.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:13 IST,||Gupta, sons built party office on govt. land: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday alleged that Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta and his sons have built an illegal party office by encroaching land belonging to the municipal corporation. “When the party chief himself is involved in such immoral acts, imagine what all their councillors and workers must be up to. The BJP claims to be very pure and pious but their character speaks of a different reality,” AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said. The AAP leader alleged that other parcels of land have also been encroached to construct illegal structures and the municipal corporation also helped with it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gupta-sons-built-party-office-on-govt-land-aap/article38295187.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:14 IST,||Don’t produce Khalid in fetters: court||A Delhi court has ordered that former JNU student Umar Khalid be produced “in a routine manner” and not in “handcuffs and fetters” while being brought to court in connection with the 2016 JNU sedition case. In an order passed on January 17, Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Kumar directed the jail authorities to produce Mr. Khalid through videoconferencing due to the prevailing COVID-19 protocol. “Thereafter, his production be done in a routine manner without using handcuffs or fetters,” the CMM noted. A plea was moved by Mr. Khalid’s lawyer, Trideep Pais, after it was reported in the media that an order had been passed directing that Mr. Khalid should be produced before the court in handcuffs. The court, however, noted that no such order had been passed. Earlier, an order was passed in relation to a Delhi riots case, pulling up the police for moving a plea seeking to bring both Mr. Khalid and United Against Hate founder Khalid Saifi to the courtroom in handcuffs. The court noted that the police’s plea was “devoid of merits” and filed in a “mechanical manner”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dont-produce-khalid-in-fetters-court/article38295198.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 04:13 IST,||‘Punjab’s liquor contractor is AAP’s CM face’||The Delhi BJP on Wednesday said that Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, after making the Capital “a city of liquor”, has made a “liquor contractor” the CM candidate for Punjab. “By making Bhagwat Mann the CM candidate for Punjab, Mr. Kejriwal has played a bad joke. After opening thousands of liquor shops in Delhi, now a liquor contractor has been made the CM candidate in Punjab by AAP,” Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said. “By describing Mann as a popular leader, Mr. Kejriwal has made his intentions clear. It is comical that those who are addicted to liquor are now talking about prohibition,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjabs-liquor-contractor-is-aaps-cm-face/article38295188.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:23 IST,||Kargil hero honoured||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kargil-hero-honoured/article64948221.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||Johnson faces revolt within party||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday suffered an embarrassing defection from his Conservative party over revelations of lockdown-breaching events in Downing Street, but vowed to fight on. Seven Conservatives said they had filed letters demanding a Tory vote of no confidence against the embattled Mr. Johnson, and more than 20 others were reported to have coalesced in an organised revolt. With the Opposition Labour party surging in the polls, and inflation reaching a near 30-year high in the latest data, Mr. Johnson is struggling to regain the initiative, starting with an announcement that he is lifting most COVID restrictions in England. One of the seven Tories, Christian Wakeford, took the dramatic step of joining the Opposition party, minutes before Mr. Johnson faced Labour leader Keir Starmer at their weekly joust in the House of Commons. Mr. Wakeford said in a message to Mr. Johnson that “you and the Conservative Party as a whole have shown themselves incapable of offering the leadership and government this country deserves”. Criticism intensified after Mr. Johnson gave a strained television interview on Tuesday, in which he claimed not to be aware that at least one “bring your own booze” event would breach the COVID curbs that he set.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/johnson-faces-revolt-within-party/article38294929.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||Foreign Secretary speaks with U.S. counterpart on Russia||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla spoke to his U.S. counterpart, Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman, on Thursday. The tensions between Russia and Ukraine and Russia’s military build-up on Ukraine’s borders, which the U.S. readout of the meeting described as “concerning,” featured in the “broad range of issues,” according to the U.S. side. MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi described the conversation as ‘wide ranging’ in a tweet, but did not specifically mention Russia. “Inter alia [they] reviewed upcoming bilateral engagements and the COVID pandemic, including supply of vaccines, and exchanged views on Indo-Pacific, Middle East, UNSC, India’s neighborhood, etc,” Mr. Bagchi tweeted. Host of issues “They discussed a broad range of issues including Russia’s concerning military build-up on Ukraine’s borders and regional issues. Deputy Secretary Sherman and Foreign Secretary Shringla agreed to remain closely coordinated on shared goals and priorities and reiterated the importance of a strong U.S.-India partnership to mitigate the COVID-19 Omicron variant’s rapid advance,” State Department Spokesperson Ned Price said in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/foreign-secretary-speaks-with-us-counterpart-on-russia/article64948048.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||Israel to probe Pegasus spying allegations||Israel’s Justice Minister on Wednesday pledged a full investigation into allegations that the controversial Pegasus spyware was used on Israeli citizens, including people who led protests against former premier Benjamin Netanyahu. Pegasus, a surveillance product made by the Israeli firm NSO that can turn a mobile phone into a pocket spying device, has remained a source of global controversy following revelations last year it was used to spy on journalists, activists and dissidents worldwide.  According to the business daily Calcalist , Pegasus was also used by police on citizens at the forefront of protests against Mr. Netanyahu last year, when he was still Prime Minister, as well as other Israelis.  Israeli police have firmly denied the report. Public Security Minister Omar Barlev, a Netanyahu critic who took office as part of a new government that ousted him in June, offered a more nuanced defence. Judge’s approval There was “no practice of wire-tapping or hacking devices by police without a judge’s approval”, Mr. Barlev said. Israeli security forces have wide leeway to conduct surveillance within Israel with judicial approval. But Tehilla Shwartz Altshuler, an expert at the Israel Democracy Institute think-tank, said “you can’t really ask for a court order authorising Pegasus” because Israeli law does not currently permit such invasive surveillance of its citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-to-probe-pegasus-spying-allegations/article38294926.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:42 IST,||China slams Slovenia’s bid to help Taiwan||China on Wednesday condemned plans by Slovenia to upgrade relations with self-governing Taiwan, a move likely to spark diplomatic and economic retaliation against the tiny Central European country. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said China was “shocked by this and strongly opposed to it”. Slovenia follows Lithuania’s move allowing Taiwan to open a representative office in its capital under the name “Taiwan,” rather than “Chinese Taipei”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-slams-slovenias-bid-to-help-taiwan/article38294930.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||18 mn COVID cases last week: WHO||The number of new coronavirus cases globally rose by 20% last week to more than 18 million, marking a slowdown in the surge caused by the Omicron variant’s spread, according to the World Health Organization. WHO said in its weekly report issued late on Tuesday that Southeast Asia had the biggest rise in coronavirus cases last week, with the number of newly infected people spiking by 145%. The Middle East saw a 68% weekly rise. The smallest increases were noted in the Americas and Europe, at 17% and 10% respectively. Scientists said last week there were early signs in the U.S. and Britain that Omicron-driven outbreaks may have peaked and that cases could soon fall off sharply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/18-mn-covid-cases-last-week-who/article38294933.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||Pak. woman gets death for ‘blasphemous’ WhatsApp status||A Muslim woman was sentenced to death in Pakistan on Wednesday after being convicted of sending a blasphemous text message and caricatures of Prophet Muhammad via WhatsApp, a court said. Blasphemy is a hugely sensitive issue in Muslim-majority Pakistan, and laws prohibiting it can carry a potential death sentence — although it has never been enforced for the crime. Aneeqa Ateeq, 26, was arrested in May 2020 and charged with posting “blasphemous material” as her WhatsApp status, according to a summary issued by the court. When a friend urged her to change it, she instead forwarded the material to him, it said. The sentence was announced in the garrison city of Rawalpindi, with the court ordering her to be “hanged by her neck till she is dead”. She was also given a 20-year jail sentence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-woman-gets-death-for-blasphemous-whatsapp-status/article38295017.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||U.S. boosts military aid to Kiev, asks Russia to choose ‘peaceful path’||As U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken visits Ukraine, the Biden administration said on Wednesday it’s providing an additional $200 million in defensive military aid to the country amid soaring fears of a Russian invasion. A senior U.S. State Department official said the assistance was approved in late December as part of American efforts to help Ukraine protect itself. Until Wednesday, however, the administration had refused to comment on it. The official wasn’t authorised to discuss the matter publicly before Mr. Blinken’s meetings in Keiv and spoke on condition of anonymity. “We are committed to Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and will continue to provide Ukraine the support it needs,” the official said. The official did not detail the contents of the aid package. Mr. Blinken on Wednesday urged Russian President Vladimir Putin to choose the “peaceful path” on Ukraine and urged Mr. Putin to dispel fears he is planning an invasion of his pro-Western neighbour. “I strongly, strongly hope that we can keep this on a diplomatic and peaceful path, but ultimately, that’s going to be President Putin’s decision,” Mr. Blinken said at the U.S. embassy after he landed in the Ukrainian capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-boosts-military-aid-to-kiev-asks-russia-to-opt-for-peace/article64948050.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||Actor Gaspard Ulliel dies in ski accident||French star Gaspard Ulliel, who played a young Hannibal Lecter and had a top role in a new Marvel TV series, died on Wednesday at 37 following a skiing accident, his family said.  Ulliel gained international attention for his performance as the famous cannibal in “ Hannibal Rising ” in 2007. He also had a leading role as Midnight Man in the new Marvel TV series “ Moon Knight ”.  A spokesperson from the ski station said another skier crashed into Ulliel at the meeting of two slopes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/actor-gaspard-ulliel-dies-in-ski-accident/article38295020.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||Taliban seek Muslim nations’ recognition||The Taliban’s Prime Minister called upon Muslim nations on Wednesday to be the first to officially recognise their government, as aid-dependent Afghanistan faces economic collapse. No country has yet recognised the Taliban, with most watching to see how the hardline Islamists — notorious for human rights abuses during their first stint in power — restrict freedoms. Although the group has promised a softer rule in line with their interpretation of Islamic Sharia law, women are largely excluded from government employment and secondary schools for girls are mostly shuttered. “I call on Muslim countries to take the lead and recognise us officially. Then I hope we will be able to develop quickly,” Mohammad Hassan Akhund told a conference in Kabul called to address the country’s massive economic woes. “We don’t want it for the officials. We want it for our public,” he said, adding that the Taliban had fulfilled all necessary conditions by restoring peace and security. Afghanistan is in the grip of a humanitarian disaster, worsened by the Taliban takeover in August that prompted Western countries to freeze international aid and access to billions of dollars worth of assets held abroad. The country was almost entirely dependent on foreign aid under the previous U.S.-backed government, but jobs have dried up and most civil servants haven’t been paid for months. On Wednesday, the International Labour Organization said half a million Afghans lost their jobs in the third quarter of 2021, and this was expected to rise to 9,00,000 by the middle of this year — with women disproportionately affected. Food shortage With poverty deepening and a drought devastating farming in many areas, the United Nations has warned that half the 38 million population faces food shortages. The UN Security Council last month unanimously adopted a U.S. resolution to allow some aid to reach desperate Afghans without violating international sanctions. But there are growing calls from rights groups for the West to release more funds — particularly in the middle of a harsh winter. “Our situation still depends on the Americans. It will only get better if they decide to stop the sanctions,” said Mohammad Moktar Nasseri, a former police officer who now sells vegetables at a market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-seek-muslim-nations-recognition/article64948052.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:45 IST,||The many problems of online anonymity||How do you behave when no one’s watching you? All of us would be able to recall a classroom scene from our childhood. While the teacher would be busy writing something on the board, someone would throw a paper plane at the board. The livid teacher would turn back and ask who did that and the class would remain silent. Similarly, in a crowded auditorium, sometimes someone shouts a sarcastic remark and the people on stage have no idea who disturbed the peace. Reasons for being anonymous That is more or less how anonymity works on social media. The most common type of anonymity involves the use of a pseudonym, a fake photo or the lack of one, and nothing specific in the bio. The opposite of this is when someone uses their actual first name and last name, provides their designation and company name, and mentions their interests. In such cases, anyone can Google that combination to identify that real person on, say, LinkedIn. Security researchers define anonymity as being ‘unidentifiable within a set of subjects’. But identity is not that linear. Some may use only the first name and nothing else – they are still anonymous. Some may use pseudonyms and mask their identity but leave traces of identifiable information through their content. Identity is also tied to behavioral patterns that may emerge from what is shared over a period of time. The deeper question is this: why do people want to be anonymous on social media? The most famous reason for anonymity is to be able to speak the truth against vindictive governments. But no matter how someone tries, governments these days, with enormous resources, may be able to trace the person. Another reason for seeking anonymity is a keenness to participate in online conversations without being judged for past experiences (victim of harassment, for instance) or for choosing non-heteronormative identities or for documenting deeply personal experiences that could be subject to sweeping judgments by others. Yet another common reason for seeking online anonymity is to not let the views be tagged to the real person being spoken about, in the offline world. And this is where the problem begins. When the anonymity-seeker knows that their real-world self (at home, workplace, neighborhood, immediate social setting) will not get impacted, they seem less inhibited and bolder about what they share and how they frame such opinions. This is the online equivalent of ‘How would you behave when you know no one is watching you?’ When such views are being shared by people who mask their identity, and particularly when these views are about others who have not chosen to be anonymous online, there is a conversational imbalance that harks back to the crowded room setting I had referred to earlier. We can argue that ideally, we only look at the opinion of the anonymous handles; that the person’s decision to remain anonymous should have no bearing on the conversation. And it’s true that not all anonymous handles tend to be abusive or hold extreme views. But it is equally true that the most angry, abusive, abrasive, and obfuscatory conversations/replies seem to come from anonymous handles. And more importantly, even if someone gets to know the identity of the person who is being vile or abusive, they have absolutely no way of using that information in any meaningful manner beyond simply judging that person. They can perhaps tag the person’s employer or family members (if available/traceable). Even then, the tagged entities may decide to not do anything about it, and simply leave the opinion as it is, for it is that person’s ‘freedom of expression’. Encouragement by platforms All of the above examples refer to anonymity by choice. But what happens when platforms actively encourage participants to remain anonymous? The platforms know who the real person is (as part of sign up), but they hide any identifiable information when allowing such people to participate in online conversations. Consider a platform like Glassdoor where anonymous reviews are the norm. Glassdoor mentions in its community guidelines that “to safeguard privacy, we do not allow you to identify yourself or include any contact information (about yourself or others) in your posts”. Similarly, another online community, Fishbowl, thrives on anonymity. The platform says, “Your posts can be made privately using only your Company name or Professional title if you choose, but your presence on Fishbowl is public.” Then there’s Reddit, a platform famous for anonymity. Steve Huffman, Reddit’s co-founder, said, “When people detach from their real-world identities, they can be more authentic, more true to themselves”. Sharing fake news The issue is not only about abuse or extreme opinions here but also of misinformation and disinformation. These are already massive problems. And anonymity, either by choice or enforced by platforms, gives the power to a person to evade judgment by public opinion. Only a legal mandate can hold them accountable for spreading lies, should the need arise. In simpler terms, if a person who chooses to be anonymous on Twitter shares some fake information about you that affects your reputation in varying degrees, your only option is to go to the police and then get the platform to take action. The platform itself won’t be able to verify if you are right or the anonymous handle is right, and won’t take a stand unless it is legally forced to. Since the other person is anonymous, you cannot use a less tedious approach, such as appealing to their employer, family or friends, to make them accountable for the disinformation. Given the tendency of people to behave in undesirable ways when their real-world reputation is not affected by what they say online, the proliferation of both pseudonymous social media handles and platforms that encourage pseudonymous profiles may amplify already existing issues around online disinformation and fake news. In an online confrontation, it’s almost as though one side has their eyes covered by a cloth and their hands tied to the back, while the other side has a bazooka in hand. You cannot rationally or emotionally appeal to a pseudonymous online entity. You cannot shame them into backtracking their disinformation. You need to convince someone else (either in a social media platform company or in a law enforcement agency) to take action. Karthik Srinivasan is a communications professional||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-many-problems-of-online-anonymity/article64948361.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:48 IST,||Democratise and empower city governments||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in a report, “State Finances, Study of Budgets of 2021-22”, released in November 2021 (https://bit.ly/3rskeFv), wrote: “With the third-tier governments in India playing a frontline role in combating the pandemic by implementing containment strategies, healthcare,... their finances have come under severe strain, forcing them to cut down expenditures and mobilise funding from various sources.” The RBI further commented that the functional autonomy of civic bodies must increase and their governance structure strengthened. This could happen by ‘empowering them financially through higher resource availability’. It is interesting that the RBI did echo the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission report on local bodies that emphasised city governance structures and financial empowerment. The addition in the RBI report is from the praxis and the objective reality from during the novel coronavirus pandemic — which continues even now. However, there is only partial truth in the report. The emphasis is on resource availability, but how this will happen is not highlighted. At the most, it speaks only about generating more resources at the local level. The essence While correctly identifying the role of the city governments in meeting the challenges the pandemic has thrown up, the report also points to the draining of resources. An RBI survey of 221 municipal corporations (2020-21) revealed that more than 70% saw a decline in revenues; in contrast, their expenditure rose by almost 71.2%. The RBI report also highlights the limited coverage of property tax and its failure in shoring up municipal corporation revenues. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) data show that India has the lowest property tax collection rate in the world — i.e., property tax to GDP ratio. But this explains only one part of the story. An old problem continues During the pandemic, while leaders from the Prime Minister to Chief Ministers to District Magistrate were seen taking a call on disaster mitigation strategies, city mayors were found missing. Why? Because under the disaster management plan of action, cities are at the forefront to fight the pandemic; however, the elected leadership finds no place in them. It is not just in disaster mitigation. The old approach of treating cities as adjuncts of State governments continues to dominate the policy paradigm. The general approach towards urban empowerment has remained piecemeal in India. Urban development is a state subject, which is more linked to political and democratic movements in States. The first intervention to understand ‘the urban’ (though there are references in the Five Year plans) and plan with a pan-Indian vision took place in the 1980s when the National Commission On Urbanisation was formed with Charles Correa as its chairperson. Another important intervention was in the first half of the 1990s with the Constitution 73rd and 74th Amendments. The latter refers to urban reforms — empowering urban local bodies to perform 18 functions listed in the 12th Schedule. But this was also the period of neo-liberal reforms, so the generation of own resources and a slow withdrawal of the state could be witnessed. Though the democratic transfer of 18 subjects was an important element, and necessary, there was, however, no mention of financial empowerment. It was linked more to the idea of “competitive cites” to attract investments in the urban centres by making their structures and land laws flexible. We now know that not much investment has happened, and cities have not really been able to enhance their financial capabilities. The only exception to the rule has been the people’s plan model of Kerala where 40% of the State’s plan budget was for local bodies (directly) with a transfer of important subjects such as planning, etc. This paved the way for a new dimension to urban governance. Functional autonomy The RBI report has been right in highlighting that functional autonomy of city governments must be allowed. But this should happen with three F’s: the transfer of ‘functions, finances and functionaries’ to city governments. Without these, functional autonomy would be empty rhetoric. There are nearly 5,000 statutory towns and an equal number of census towns in India. Nearly 35% of the population lives in urban centres. And, nearly two-thirds of the country’s GDP stems from cities and almost 90% of government revenue flows from urban centres. Before value added tax and other centralised taxation systems, one of the major earnings of cities used to be from octroi. In fact, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune are examples of two very high revenue-earning municipalities dependent on octroi, as both cities have strong bases of industrial production. But this source of revenue collection was taken away by the State and the central governments. Instead, finance commissions recommended grants to urban local bodies based on a formula of demographic profile. Previously, while almost 55% of the total revenue expenditure of urban centres was met by octroi (e.g., Shimla), now, the grant covers only 15% of expenditure. In such a situation, it is difficult for the towns to sustain their ability to perform their bare minimum functions, especially with the latest Pay Commission recommendations. This has resulted in a vicious circle of burdening people more with taxes and further privatisation/outsourcing of the services of the municipalities. This is a pan-India phenomenon and the grading of cities and urban policies are linked to this. Now with Goods and Services Tax, the ability to tax has been ‘completely robbed’; cities find themselves in a worse state than States. The often-cited example is how cities in the Scandinavian countries manage their functions well — from city planning to mobility to waste management. But the truth is that a chunk of the income-tax from citizens is given to city governments. Imagine cities such as large urban agglomerates in India getting a percentage of income tax for managing the affairs of urban places. It would be phenomenal! A committee formed under the United Progressive Alliance (under the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development to review the 74th constitutional amendment), recommended that 10% of income-tax collected from the cities was to be given back to them as a direct revenue grant from the central government. Alas, it was never taken into consideration. What needs to be done? Cities must be treated as important centres of governance, where democratic decentralisation can bring in amazing results (as seen in Kerala). There will be transparency and adequate participation of the people. Second, cities should not be considered as entrepreneurship spaces where the sole driving force is to make them competitive to attract investments. We have seen how fallacious this argument is. They must be considered as spaces for planned development by giving adequate attention to resources. Our cities are hardly prepared for the impact of climate change; nor do they have adaptive strategies. The resources required for quantitative and qualitative data must be immediately provided to the cities to ensure a disaster risk reduction plan keeping vulnerable communities in mind. Nothing ‘smart’ Fourth, a piecemeal approach such as the concept of ‘smart cities’ must be shunned altogether. This approach further widens the gap between different sets of people. Rather, the grants from the Centre must be enhanced and cities asked to draw up their plans themselves based on priority seeking from city residents. Cities are people, as they say, and people must be a part of the decision-making process. Fifth, leadership in the cities must be elected for a term of five years. In some cities, the term of the mayor is for a year! Likewise, the third F, i.e., functionaries, must be transferred to the cities with a permanent cadre. Thus, in this exercise by the RBI, the good part is that there has least been a mention of cities, with local bodies as important centres of governance. Tikender Singh Panwar is a former directly elected Deputy Mayor of Shimla and an urban practitioner. He is also a senior Fellow with the Impact and Policy Research Institute (IMPRI), Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/democratise-and-empower-city-governments/article64948359.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:33 IST,||A dangerous precedent||COVID-19 notwithstanding, the Budget session of Parliament will begin on January 31 with the President’s Address, and the Union Budget on February 1. Traditionally, the Union Budget was presented every year on the last working day of February. However, in 2017, the then Finance Minister Arun Jaitley changed the tradition. He brought the day forward by four weeks, to February 1. The Railway Budget, too, was subjected to similar unwarranted changes under the Modi government. Until 2016, it was presented a few days before the Union Budget. In 2017, the BJP (with only muted objections from the Congress) subsumed the Railway Budget under the Union Budget and ended a 92-year-old practice. Since then, the Railway Budget has bypassed the scrutiny of Parliament. This is just one of the many examples of the Modi government mocking the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. It was a precursor of parliamentary oversight, which peaked with the draconian farm laws of September 2020. Budget as a political instrument It is common knowledge that the Union Budget announces new schemes, welfare programmes, tax and fiscal benefits, and the Railway Budget was centric to one Ministry. In the last five years, on more than one occasion, the BJP has used the combined entities before elections to pitch poll promises that it never intends to fulfil. In 2017, the Union Budget was used as an instrument of the BJP’s poll agenda. The Budget was presented three days prior to the elections in Punjab and Goa, and 10 days before the Uttar Pradesh elections. Assembly elections for Uttarakhand and Manipur were also due. The Model Code of Conduct (MCC) had already been announced by the Election Commission (EC). The MCC ensures free and fair elections and specifies that no government can take any action to influence voters in favour of an individual political party. In 2017, unsurprisingly, the Modi government showed no regard for the MCC. Tax cuts, giveaways, and subsidies were expected in that Budget because of the crippling impact of demonetisation. Critics of the government were suspicious that the Budget would be used for narrow electoral gains. As many as 16 political parties objected to the presentation of the Budget on February 1. Their view did not count. The BJP went ahead with the Budget, arguing that it covered the entire country and that the advancement would ensure all budgetary allocation to different sectors from April 1, the beginning of the new fiscal year. Similarly, in 2019, the BJP presented an Interim Budget, weeks before the general election. Its ‘Vision 2030’ was a pipe dream. Months before the Bengal elections of 2021, the Finance Minister announced an allocation of Rs. 25,000 crore in the Union Budget for the upgradation of roads and highways in the State. Similar measures were announced for Kerala and Tamil Nadu, also going to the polls in a few months then. It is another story that the voters in these States called out the BJP’s bluff. A cue from 2012 There have been earlier occasions when elections and the presentation of the Union Budget have coincided. For instance, in 2012, there was a chance of the UPA government benefiting through the Budget, with a set of State elections taking place during the same period. At the instance of the then Leader of the Opposition, Arun Jaitley, the UPA government postponed the presentation of the General Budget to March 16. In May 2006, the EC reprimanded then Human Resources Development Minister Arjun Singh for announcing a 27% quota for Other Backward Classes in Central government-funded educational institutions. This was when the MCC was in force in five States. (Those were different times. In the last few years, I have often described the EC as Extremely Compromised.) On January 8, 2022, the EC announced the schedule for Assembly elections in five States. The MCC has come into place in these States. The BJP government will go ahead with the Union Budget on February 1. There is no reason why it will not use the same formula in these States. Previous Railway Ministers have often been criticised for mollycoddling the States they represented. The BJP insisted that once the Railway Budget got subsumed under the Union Budget, the ‘doing politics with the Railways Ministry’ would end. This has not happened. Allocations made in the Railway Budget in the last few years show how BJP-ruled States have got more than non-BJP ruled States (as a percentage for ongoing projects). Taking a cue from 2012, the Modi government could have held the Budget after the State election results were declared. But the BJP has scant regard for Parliament and its conventions and traditions. Derek O’Brien is Trinamool Congress’ parliamentary party leader in the Rajya Sabha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-dangerous-precedent/article64948378.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:48 IST,||All in the fray||Seven of the 13 governments formed in Goa since 1963 have been by coalitions. In 2017, it was more a usurpation of power than the making of a defensible coalition. The BJP, which had won only 13 of the 40 Assembly seats, cobbled up a coalition with the two main regional parties, the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and the Goa Forward Party (GFP), and two Independents to form the government under Manohar Parrikar, outsmarting the Congress that had emerged as the single largest party with 17 seats. As the State saunters to the next Assembly election, the Congress is left with only two MLAs. Most of the others have crossed over to the BJP, which discarded its original partners, the MGP and the GFP, along the way. This time, the MGP has tied up with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC), and the Vijai Sardesai-led GFP is in alliance with the Congress. The MGP at present has one and the GFP two MLAs in the Assembly. The 2022 Assembly election has been spiced up with the entry of the TMC, and vigorous campaigning by Arvind Kejrwal’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is looking to improve its dismal performance in the 2017 Goa Assembly election when the party failed to win even a single seat. An alliance of the NCP and Shiv Sena is also in the fray. Despite being the largest party numerically, the BJP led by Pramod Sawant is being buffeted by the winds of anti-incumbency: a number of the Government’s ministers have been tainted by scams, while the State faces the challenges of unemployment and the economic slump resulting from the pandemic. The BJP’s apparent strategy to consolidate the Hindus comprising more than 60% of the total populace has resulted in the exit of three Catholic MLAs, including Cabinet Minister Michael Lobo. This may signify a reversal of the Parrikar approach of reaching out to the Catholics. It may not be a coincidence that the BJP is also sidelining his loyalists, even angering the Saraswat community that he belonged to. The BJP is facing resentment among old-timers who were neglected in favour of defectors from other parties. The AAP strategy involves bountiful welfare promises and community appeals. Its CM candidate is a member from the Bhandari community — the largest electoral bloc in Goa, comprising more than 30% of the population. The Congress is playing it low-key, hoping to ride on anti-incumbency, and counting on its deep connect with voters to ride back to power. Like the BJP, it has been projecting the TMC and AAP as outside parties with no roots in the State. Goa politics has been in a churn during the last five years. The Assembly election is a chance for renewal and fresh beginnings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/all-in-the-fray/article38294736.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:49 IST,||Technology tangle||Almost 11 months after the United States’ leading telecommunications companies won bids for $81 billion worth of C-band radio spectrum to roll out 5G services, the much-awaited introduction hit a major snag this week after the country’s leading airlines warned of massive flight disruptions if the wireless technology was put into operation, especially around the nation’s airports. In a compromise on the eve of the planned roll-out on January 19, AT&T and Verizon agreed to delay introduction of the new wireless service near key airports. The two major telcos’ commitments notwithstanding, several domestic and international airlines flying to the U.S. have announced major rescheduling as well as the possibility of cancellation of flights to several destinations citing warnings from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and aircraft makers that accurate functioning of radar altimeters in some aircraft may be affected by the 5G radio frequencies. The altimeters provide information on an aircraft’s altitude and are a crucial part of flight operations for pilots, particularly while seeking to make low-visibility landings in inclement weather. At the heart of the impasse lies the fact that both the 5G services and some flight equipment operate on the same C-band radio spectrum, with only the frequencies varying. The FAA has said it is working with altimeter manufacturers to evaluate data from the wireless companies to determine how robust each model is, and, if required, have the devices retrofitted or replaced. The fact that the world’s largest economy is now faced with the risk of large-scale domestic and international air travel disruptions as a result of the relatively belated roll-out of 5G telecom services points to the peculiar problems of the U.S. market, including the particular frequencies allotted there for 5G. South Korea, China and Japan and several European nations have already successfully rolled out 5G services and the U.S. telcos have cited the lack of problems in these jurisdictions as evidence that the FAA and airlines need to do more to find solutions to the deployment of the wireless technology near airports. The FAA on its website has pointed to the specifics of the proposed 5G roll-out in the U.S. with a comparison to the situation in France and asserted that some key differences pose challenges. For one, the aviation regulator contends planned buffer zones for U.S. airports only protect the last 20 seconds of flight, while in France the last 96 seconds of flight are protected from any interruption from 5G signals. Also, 5G power levels are lower in France, with even the planned temporary nationwide lower power levels in the U.S. still expected to be 2.5 times more powerful. U.S. President Joe Biden and his administration will have their task cut out in pushing to hammer out a long-term solution to this impasse so as to minimise any further disruption to the already pandemic-hit global travel and trade sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/technology-tangle/article38294741.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:33 IST,||Pak. wants direct talks with India||Karachi, Jan. 19: Pakistan wants “direct talks with India” to settle their differences, the Daily Sun said to-day quoting an official spokesperson in Rawalpindi. The paper quoted him as saying “both countries want direct talks without outside interference and President Bhutto has already said he is willing to talk to the Indians with no preconditions whenever Mrs. Indira Gandhi wishes to begin a dialogue”. The spokesman denied reports that any third party was trying to arrange talks between India and Pakistan. Meanwhile Pakistan has agreed to release on Friday 88 seamen who have been in detention in Karachi since the outbreak of the war with India on December 5. The seamen will return to India aboard the British ship ‘Sirohana’, diplomatic sources said. UNI reports from Delhi: The Pakistan and Indian armies have established “hotline” telephone connections between their commanders in Rawalpindi and New Delhi, the Associated Press said to-day quoting authoritative sources in Islamabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pak-wants-direct-talks-with-india/article38294744.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:48 IST,||Letters||The report, “No one died of hunger in recent times” (Page 1, January 19), is startling. However, according to statistics provided by the Hindrise Foundation, an organisation working to eradicate hunger in India, over 20 crore Indians sleep on an empty stomach every day and more than 7,000 Indians die a day due to hunger. The report makes one wonder whether the Government has reliable data on vital issues. C. Julius Karunakaran, Chennai The issue of starvation is one of the major issues that is under reported. In a country that ranks low in the hunger index, it is unbelievable that there has not been a case of hunger death. The Government must try and improve the last mile distribution of food grains taking into account gross under reporting of official data. Dr. D.V.G. Sankararao, Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh  The report reminds one of a Minister reporting in Parliament that during the second wave of COVID-19, there had not been even a single death reported due to the non-availability of medical oxygen! In India, there is a vast section under poverty as well as crore patis . Instead of hiding hard facts, the Government should focus on correcting obviously flawed data.  A.G. Rajmohan, Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh   A rational and more acceptable method of tableaux selection for the Republic Day parade could be a system of rotation — by excluding previous year’s participants and making a selection from States in contention by drawing lots. Thereafter, the selected State/s can utilise the services of a committee of expert designers and artists in preparing the model. T.N. Varadharajan, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/letters/article64948358.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:20 IST,||Economic recovery is yet to attain durability, says ICRA||Rating agency Icra said while there was some evidence of the economic recovery becoming broad-based in the third quarter of fiscal 2022, it was yet to attain the durability being sought by the Monetary Policy Committee as a precursor to policy transmission. The agency expects real GDP to expand 6-6.5% year-on-year in the third quarter (8.4% in Q2 FY2022). It also sees the RBI maintaining the status quo in the upcoming monetary policy review to be held in February. Chief Economist Aditi Nayar said economic activity rebounded in December, even as many sectors continued to trail the performance recorded in October. Encouragingly, the quarterly data suggests a modest broad-basing of the recovery in Q3 FY2022, relative to Q2, when compared to respective pre-COVID-19 volumes. “However, the onset of the third wave of COVID-19 has triggered State-wise restrictions, which have expectedly interrupted the momentum in the ongoing month, reiterating that the recovery is yet to attain durability,” Ms. Nayar said in a report released on Wednesday. The agency said the y-o-y performance of 10 of the 15 high-frequency indicators improved in December compared to November 2021. These include generation of GST e-way bills, non-oil merchandise exports, electricity generation, two-wheeler output as well as aggregate deposits and non-food credit of scheduled commercial banks. Ms. Nayar further said that following the reimposition of State-wise restrictions to curb the third wave of COVID-19, the early data for January 2022 was expectedly weak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/economic-recovery-is-yet-to-attain-durability-says-icra/article64948068.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:20 IST,||Chola floats 3 loan units, partners fintech firms||Cholamandalam Investment & Finance Co. Ltd. (Chola) on Wednesday announced tie-ups with three fintech companies and formation of three new business divisions to offer loans through traditional, direct-to-customer and digital partnership channels. While Chola has tied up with BankBazaar, Kreditbee and Paytail, it also plans to add more fintechs to help customers who are economically active but not having adequate access to formal credit, the company said. Chola is also in advanced stage of discussions with more fintechs. The company is expecting to go live with these partnerships over the next 3-4 months, said chairman Vellayan Subbiah. Chola said it had picked up 70% stake in Payswiff Technologies Pvt. Ltd. through a strategic investment of Rs. 450 crore. Consumer & Small Enterprise Loan (CSEL), Secured Business & Personal Loan (SBPL) and SME Loan are the firm’s new business divisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chola-floats-3-loan-units-partners-fintech-firms/article64948067.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||Tata Motors rolls out CNG-fuelled Tiago, Tigor||Tata Motors said it had forayed into CNG fuel offerings in the passenger vehicle (PV) segment to provide environment-friendly and differentiated products to customers. The advanced iCNG technology had been made available in the Tiago and Tigor models, the firm said. Tiago iCNG would be available at the company’s authorised sales outlets at a starting price of Rs. 6,09,900, ex-showroom Delhi. “Tiago and Tigor are the most powerful CNG cars in the segment,” said Rajan Amba, V-P, sales, marketing & customer care, Tata Motors Passenger Vehicles. “We have made no compromise on safety and comfort. The cars come with the best-in-class safety features built-in,” he added. “If the cost of running a car with a gasoline engine is Rs. 5 per km, in CNG it works out to be less than Rs. 2 per km. It is 40% of the running cost,” he said. “We took time to come out with the CNG option, but are sure that this offering will do well for us in the market,” he added. Going forward, the company would provide CNG option in all its SUVs and other products, Mr. Amba said.  If the cost of running a car with a gasoline engine is Rs. 5 per km, in CNG it works out to be less than Rs. 2 per km||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-rolls-out-cng-fuelled-tiago-tigor/article38295076.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:20 IST,||India’s oil production continues to decline||India’s production of crude oil, which is refined to produce petrol and diesel, continued to decline in December, with lower output from the State-owned ONGC leading to an almost 2% drop, official data showed on Wednesday. Oil production in December was 2.51 million tonnes, down from 2.55 million tonnes a year earlier and a target of 2.6 million tonnes. The output was, however, higher than 2.43 million tonnes produced in November 2021. ONGC, India’s biggest producer, produced 3% less crude oil at 1.65 million tonnes in December due to delays in mobilising equipment at western offshore fields. Oil India Ltd. (OIL) produced 5.4% more crude oil at 2,54,360 tonnes. India is 85% reliant on imports to meet its crude oil needs as domestic output is insufficient to meet the demand. Natural gas production, however, rose by almost a fifth to 2.89 billion cubic metre (bcm) in December 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indias-oil-production-continues-to-decline/article64948069.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:20 IST,||Mills call for lifting import duty on cotton||Textile mills have reiterated their demand to remove the import duty on cotton as prices of domestic cotton continue to increase.   Chairman of Southern India Mills’ Association Ravi Sam told The Hindu that the prices of cotton had risen to Rs. 77,000 a candy, from Rs. 74,000 a candy on January 4.  It was about Rs. 51,500 a candy in April. Cotton yarn price, for the variety used widely by the hosiery sector, stood currently at Rs. 401 a kg, compared with Rs. 331 a kg in April 2021. The prices were 60%- 70% higher than the minimum support price and were higher than international prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mills-call-for-lifting-import-duty-on-cotton/article38295058.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:20 IST,||R Jio prepays Rs. 30,791 cr. of spectrum dues||Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. (RJIL), said it has paid Rs. 30,791 crore (including accrued interest) to the Department of Telecom (DoT) towards prepayment of the entire deferred liabilities pertaining to spectrum acquired in auctions and the spectrum acquired from Bharti Airtel Ltd. It had acquired 585.3 MHz spectrum in the auctions/trading. Following DoT’s decision in December providing telcos with the flexibility to prepay their deferred spectrum liabilities on any date, RJIL has now prepaid, the entire deferred liabilities for spectrum acquired in auctions in 2014 and 2015 as well as spectrum acquired through trading, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/r-jio-prepays-rs-30791-cr-of-spectrum-dues/article38295063.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:20 IST,||‘High taxes leave aviation chronically ill’||The aviation sector in the country is ‘chronically ill’ because of high taxation and the government must extend relief on fuel and custom duties to unleash explosive growth, IndiGo’s CEO Ronojoy Dutta said on Wednesday. “Airlines pay 21% of their revenues to the government in indirect taxes with very little input credit,” Mr. Dutta said in a statement. He requested the Ministry of Finance to take some ‘immediate’ measures to address the ‘long festering problem’ and recommended that Central excise taxes on fuel be reduced from 11% to 5%, and aviation turbine fuel be brought under the GST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/high-taxes-leave-aviation-chronically-ill/article38295060.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:20 IST,||Hero Electric ties up with M&M for EVs||Hero Electric and Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) on Wednesday announced a collaboration for joint production, development and knowledge sharing in the electric mobility space. “Hero Electric and the Mahindra Group today announced their collaborative intent as part of Hero’s growth and expansion plans to cater to the ever-growing demand for EVs in the country,” the companies said in a statement. As part of the partnership, Mahindra Group will manufacture Hero Electric’s most popular electric bikes — Optima and NYX — at its Pithampur plant to meet the growing demands of the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hero-electric-ties-up-with-mm-for-evs/article38295059.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:20 IST,||Lupin ties up with China’s Fancoo Pharma||Lupin said it had tied up with China’s Shenzhen Foncoo Pharma to market generic and complex generic drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lupin-ties-up-with-chinas-fancoo-pharma/article38295061.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:18 IST,||‘Laughable to blame The Hundred for debacle’||England’s white-ball skipper Eoin Morgan feels it's “laughable” to use The Hundred as an excuse for England’s recent Ashes debacle and insisted that Test cricket has “always been the priority.” England’s Test side slumped to a 0-4 Ashes series defeat in Australia last week. It was completely outplayed in four games by the host, while Joe Root and his men managed a draw in the fourth Test by the skin of their teeth. Morgan's comments come after Test skipper Root urged the ECB to 'prioritise' his side following the Ashes defeat, implying there has been too much focus on limited-overs cricket since 2015. Tough in Australia “People who use that as an excuse don’t watch cricket,” said Morgan. “Test match cricket has always been the priority – it’s the format for our elite players. Obviously, it was tough in Australia during the Ashes, but it always is. We’ve lost the last two series 0-4,” said Morgan. Root has argued for changes in the domestic structure to incorporate more red-ball matches at the height of summer when The Hundred — the ECB's professional franchise 100-ball cricket tournament — takes place. “It’s laughable to point the finger at The Hundred. The Hundred is an unbelievable success,” Morgan said. He added that the domestic structure in England is similar to that of Australia’s. “Our formats in county cricket and The Hundred, in the way they’re structured, are exactly the same as Australia’s. “People need something to blame so they’ll point at it [The Hundred] because nobody wants to say, ‘You know what, we’ve not had the prep we’d have liked, we probably haven’t played as we’d have liked, and we’ve lost.’ That happens in all formats, but I stress Test match cricket has always been the priority.” Morgan has been given full-strength squads throughout the last two years in preparation for T20 World Cups, but the limited-overs skipper pointed out that the white ball side has often not had the luxury of a full strength team. “As a white-ball group, we’ve gone on tours and played in series at home where we haven’t had our full-strength side available – that’s been a constant theme for a number of years now. Obviously Test matches take priority and always do.” Morgan also said that for a “majority” of his career, limited-overs cricket was more an “afterthought.” “... 95% of the time was spent around planning and preparing for Test match cricket and then when we got to a World Cup... it was like, ‘well, if we do well, great, but if we don’t, it’s fine’. “With the skill level that guys are producing now on a consistent basis, we’re considered one of the best in the world. Trust me, I’d much rather be considered that than as an afterthought,”said Morgan. England is scheduled to take on the West Indies in a five-match T20I series, starting Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/laughable-to-blame-the-hundred-for-debacle/article64948235.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,||Bavuma and van der Dussen prove to be thorns in India’s flesh||India’s inexplicable middle-order collapse ensured that fine half-centuries from Shikhar Dhawan and Virat Kohli did not count for much as the team was handed a 31-run defeat by a resolute South Africa in the opening ODI here on Wednesday. Chasing a challenging 297, India was cruising at 138 for one before wickets fell in a heap dashing the hopes of the visitors as India’s innings ended at 265 for eight. South Africa skipper Temba Bavuma (110 off 143) and Rassie van der Dussen (129 not out off 96) had scored contrasting hundreds en route their 204-run stand to take South Africa to 296 for four after opting to bat. The hosts had slipped to 68 for three at one stage. India was comfortably placed to get home when Kohli (51 off 63) and Dhawan (79 off 84) were in the middle but it all came crashing down with the end of their 92-run stand. India has been guilty of relying too much on their top three in the past and once again, the middle-order could not capitalise on the platform provided by Kohli and Dhawan after it lost skipper K. L. Rahul (12). Kohli hardly broke a sweat in reaching his half-century before a sweep shot off Tabraiz Shami led to his downfall. Dhawan looked in sublime touch during his stay and Marco Jansen rather comfortably, collecting five of his 10 fours off the tall left-arm pacer. The stage was set for the likes of Rishabh Pant (16), Shreyas Iyer (17) and debutant Venkatesh Iyer (2) to get the job done but they fell in quick succession, leaving India at 188 for six from a strong 138 for one. While Pant was stumped by a lightening quick Quinton de Kock, the shot selection of Shreyas and Venkatesh could have been better. Shardul Thakur (50 not out off 43) tried his best towards the end but the damage had already been done. Earlier, after a sluggish start, van der Dussen and Bavuma shared the second highest partnership ever against India in ODIs to ensure a competitive total for the home team. van der Dussen was the aggressor in the partnership from the word go as Bavuma played anchor. van der Dussen used the reverse sweep for four runs off Yuzvendra Chahal to put the leg spinner under pressure before using the conventional sweep twice to collect more boundaries. He finished with nine fours and four sixes. Skipper Bavuma reached his hundred in the 45th over while his batting partner achieved the milestone in 48th over. It was the second ODI hundred for both Bavuma and van der Dussen. The last over bowled by Thakur went for 17 runs, taking the hosts close to 300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bavuma-van-der-dussen-continue-to-be-thorns-in-indias-flesh/article64947989.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:20 IST,||India starts as favourite against Iran||The AFC Women’s Asian Cup returns to India after a gap of 43 years. In 1979, India had reached the final and a similar showing would guarantee the country a place in the 2023 FIFA World Cup in Australia and New Zealand. The Blue Tigresses, however, are far from Asia’s best and are currently ranked 55th in the world (11th in Asia). At the DY Patil Stadium on Thursday, the home team will begin its campaign against debutant Iran. China and Chinese Taipei are the other two teams in the group and India coach Thomas Dennerby believes the team has a realistic chance to reach the quarterfinals. Despite the pandemic, the Indian team has had several exposure tours over the last year and performed admirably in the pre-tournament friendlies in the UAE and Bahrain. Two test postive The team, however, suffered a blow on the eve of its opener as two players tested positive for COVID-19 and are currently in isolation at a designated medical care facility. In the absence of Bala Devi, who is playing for Rangers in the Scottish Women’s Premier League, India will pin its hopes on Manisha Kalyan. She scored the team’s lone goal against Brazil in a friendly recently. The experienced Aditi Chauhan will guard the goal, with captain Ashalata Devi spearheading the defence. With seasoned campaigners Kamala Devi, Indumathi Kathiresan and Anju Tamang marshalling the midfield, India starts as the favourite against Iran, which reached its maiden AFC Asian Cup after defeating Jordan in a penalty shoot-out in the qualifying round. Iran will bank on the skills of 22-year-old striker Hajar Dabbaghi, who had an impressive outing in the qualifiers, and experienced campaigners like Behnaz Taherkhani and striker Sara Ghomi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-starts-as-favourite-against-iran/article64948060.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:18 IST,||Kohli moves up to seventh||Virat Kohli on Wednesday moved up two places to seventh after scores of 79 and 29 in his last Test as captain in the latest ICC rankings for batters in the five-day format. Wicketkeeper Rishabh Pant's unbeaten century in the second innings of the series-deciding third Test against South Africa lifted him 10 places to 14th, while fast bowler Jasprit Bumrah's six wickets in Cape Town took him back to the top 10 in the bowling chart. In the latest weekly update that takes into account the third match of the South Africa-India series in Cape Town which the hosts won by seven wickets to clinch the World Test Championship (WTC) series, Keegan Petersen has shot up 68 places to 33rd after match-winning scores of 72 and 82. Temba Bavuma (up seven places to 28th) and Rassie van der Dussen (up 12 places to 43rd) are the other South Africa batters to advance while fast bowlers Kagiso Rabada (up two places to third) and Lungi Ngidi (up six places to 21st) have also made notable progress. Australia's Travis Head has reached a career-best fifth position among batters after his Player of the Match performance in the fifth match of the Ashes series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-moves-up-to-seventh/article64948236.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,||Barty, Osaka stay on course for a last-16 showdown||Naomi Osaka played the role of smiling assassin and top seed Ashleigh Barty was ruthlessly efficient at the Australian Open on Wednesday as they moved closer to a potential fourth-round showdown. Rafael Nadal ramped up his march towards an unprecedented men’s 21st Grand Slam crown but needed five match points to put away tenacious qualifier Yannick Hanfmann. The impressive Barty, chasing a first title at her home Slam, barely broke sweat in her second round match, breezing past Italian qualifier Lucia Bronzetti 6-1, 6-1 in just 52 minutes in the heat of Rod Laver Arena. Not to be outdone, defending champion Osaka rushed through the first set 6-0 against Madison Brengle but then had a couple of dicey moments in the second set, before polishing it off 6-4, greeting the beaten American with a smile at the net. Barty, the Wimbledon champion and hot favourite here, next faces a potentially tricky task against 30th seed Camila Giorgi, while Osaka faces Amanda Anisimova, a budding talent who sprang a shock on Olympic champion Belinda Bencic. In-form eighth seed Paula Badosa, French Open champion Barbora Krejcikova and fifth seed Maria Sakkari won with little fuss. Zverev made light work of Australian hope John Millman, the German’s power game silencing the partisan crowd. Seventh seed Matteo Berrettini, who endured frequent toilet breaks in a gutsy four-set win on Monday, defeated American Stefan Kozlov and plays teenage 31st seed Carlos Alcaraz. Also through, after surviving in five sets over Korean Kwon Soon-woo, was Canadian 14th seed Denis Shapovalov. But Poland’s 10th seed Hubert Hurkacz was a notable casualty at the hands of Frenchman Adrian Mannarino. Meanwhile, Rohan Bopanna and Sania Mirza were knocked out of the men’s and women’s doubles events after losing their first round matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barty-osaka-stay-on-course-for-a-showdown/article38295014.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||Vidit retains lead in Masters||Vidit Gujrathi retained the lead in the Masters section, R. Praggnanandhaa scored his first win and Arjun Erigaisi emerged as the only leader in the Challengers category. In short, on Wednesday, things went very well for the Indians in the elite Tata Steel chess tournament at Wijk Aan Zee. For the first time in the world’s oldest and the most prestigious tournament, Indians were sole leaders in both sections. Overnight leader Vidit drew with Russia’s Andrehy Esipenko to head the pack at three points. The 32-move draw kept Vidit half a point ahead of Esipenko, Magnus Carlsen, Richard Rapport, Shakhriyar Mamedyarov and Jorden van Foreest. Praggnanandhaa beat Sweden’s Nils Grandelius in 64 moves. With coach R. B. Ramesh in isolation following his positive report for Covid, Praggnanandhaa said, “He’s fine, he’s isolated now in a different room. I’m staying alone now. It’s a difficult thing for me because it’s the first tournament.” In the Challengers section, Arjun (3.5 points) outplayed Germany’s Roven Vogel for a third victory in four rounds.  Fourth round results (Indians unless stated): Masters: Vidit Gujrathi (3) drew with Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 2.5); R. Praggnanandhaa (2) bt Nils Grandelius (Swe, 0.5); Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 2.5) drew with Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 2.5); Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (2.5) bt Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 2); Sam Shankland (USA, 1.5) drew with Richard Rapport (Hun, 2.5); Fabiano Caruana (USA, 2) drew with Daniil Dubov (Rus, 1.5); Sergey Karjakin (Rus, 1.5) drew with Anish Giri (1.5).   Challengers (involving Indians): Roven Vogel (Ger, 1.5) lost to Arjun Erigaisi (3.5); Daniel Dardha (Bel, 1) drew with Surya Shekhar Ganguly (2.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-retains-lead-in-masters/article38295066.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:17 IST,||Tired Chelsea needs a break, says manager Tuchel||Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel blamed fatigue for an alarming slump in form that continued with a 1-1 draw at Brighton on Tuesday. The European champion has won just one of its last seven Premier League games to realistically end its title challenge and leave the third-placed Blues looking over their shoulder at the contenders for a top-four finish. “You can see we are mentally and physically tired,” said Tuchel after his side’s 15th game since the start of December. “We knew they were well prepared, they had more time and less games to prepare this match.” Chelsea hosts Tottenham on Sunday in its final league game for nearly a month due to an international break and its commitments at the Club World Cup in February. Tuchel is hoping he will be able to give his squad the rest they need to come back stronger in the final months of the campaign. “The boys need some days off, there is no other solution,” he added. “In the moment it is difficult to be too harsh on our players because I know what is going on.” Tuchel had been stinging in his criticism of record signing Romelu Lukaku after a 1-0 defeat at Manchester City on Saturday, but kept faith with the Belgian and Ziyech in attack as Timo Werner and Kai Havertz were again left on the bench. But there was little to impress the German once more as Lukaku and Ziyech got into a heated discussion during the first half and both were replaced after the break. Lacking the edge Brighton has only won twice in its last 16 league games themselves, but once again just lacked the cutting edge to the impressive build-up play. “I was really pleased and proud of the performance,” said Brighton boss Graham Potter. “We could work the goalkeeper a bit more, but apart from that we had everything.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tired-chelsea-needs-a-break-says-manager-tuchel/article64948241.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:18 IST,||McIlroy to take aspects of Woods’ game to improve||Rory McIlroy made it something of a ritual to write his goals for the season on the back of his boarding pass on the flight to the Middle East for his first tournament of the year. Gone, though, are the days when he might jot down the name and number of tournaments he wanted to win. For McIlroy, it’s now about smaller objectives that are more in his control. And to see the bigger picture, he’s used the player he has called his hero growing up, Tiger Woods, as a benchmark. No comparison “Not saying that my game compares to his in any way,” McIlroy said Wednesday of Woods, who he now regards as a close friend, “but there are certainly aspects of what he did so well in the past that I would obviously love to put into my game.” To that end, McIlroy thinks he needs to be “more of a measured and a controlled golfer.” So, heading into his opening event of 2022 at the Abu Dhabi Championship starting on Thursday, expect to see the four-time major champion be less aggressive off the tee, even if that potentially robs him of one of his best attributes — his driving distance. “I’ll certainly pick and choose my spots where I can take advantage of the driver and hit it, but the best player of the last 30 years, Tiger, he picked and chose where he hit driver, and he played a very, very controlled game,” McIlroy said. His driving will certainly be tested at the Yas Links this week, with the fairways tight and the wind expected to pick up heading into the weekend. For McIlroy and every other player, it will be a new experience this week with the tournament — a Rolex Series event and one of the most prestigious on the European tour — having been staged at the nearby Abu Dhabi Golf Club until this year. Solid record The Northern Irishman had a solid record there — four runner-up finishes and four more top-three finishes in his 11 appearances — without ever getting over the line. Last year, he led after 54 holes only to shoot a final-round 72 and finish five strokes behind winner Tyrrell Hatton. “Maybe this is what’s needed to end up winning this thing at the end, a change of golf course,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mcilroy-to-take-aspects-of-woods-game-to-improve/article38295441.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:59 IST,||TNGF issues clarification on rent row||The Tamil Nadu Golf Federation (TNGF), reacting to the report published in these columns on January 19 headlined ‘ Cosmo, TNGF in row over payment of arrears of rent’ , issued a clarification.  The TNGF stated that the defence land in question measuring 6.25 acres was leased to the Cosmopolitan Club many decades ago and TNGF did not have any contract with the defence establishment. The TNGF statement read: “It is very clear from the demand note from the Defence Estate Officer that Cosmopolitan Club has failed to pay the arrears of lease rental since 1970 and went to the court against defence authorities. “It is evident from the statement of the president of the Cosmopolitan Club K. Sundareswararan that the club will pay all the dues to the defence authorities.  “Sundareswaran has also stated that TNGF has a huge deposit and he is expecting TNGF to make the payment. Even if TNGF wants to make the payment, it will not be accepted by the Defence Establishment as TNGF has no locus standi .  Mutual agreement “As regards the Army land, it was mutually agreed that the maintenance of the land will be the responsibility of TNGF while the payment of the lease will be taken care of by Cosmopolitan Club. It may be noted that there is no mention of the payment of lease rent for the Army land in any of the agreements entered with Cosmopolitan Club. “There is an explicit understanding and agreement between TNGF and Cosmopolitan Club as regards to payment of lease rent payable to the Tamil Nadu government for the use of government land. “This lease rent is Rs. 75 lakhs each to be paid by the Club and TNGF. The agreement of 2012 between Cosmopolitan Club and TNGF is clear and specifies the amount to be paid by TNGF to the TN government on behalf of Cosmopolitan Club. “Accordingly, TNGF paid a sum of Rs. 9.84 crore to Cosmopolitan Club in the last 15 years as a part of the above payment i.e. TNGF has paid Rs. 65 lakh out of Rs. 75 lakh payable by Cosmopolitan Club to the TN government. “There was a clear understanding between Cosmopolitan Club and TNGF while entering into an MOU in 2001 and 2012 that “TNGF can construct its own clubhouse. “This clause was blatantly violated by Cosmopolitan Club and it approached the Madras High Court to stall the construction of the clubhouse, thereby putting a large number of members to inconvenience.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tngf-issues-clarification-on-rent-row/article38295109.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,||A blast from the past||In the climax of the Hollywood musical, Mary Poppins Returns , the eponymous English nanny turns the clock, the famed Big Ben of London, back by five minutes. Miss Poppins, played by the delightful Emily Blunt, has of course at her disposal magical powers to do that.  Over the next 10 days at the Al Amerat Cricket Stadium, the clock is set to be turned several times over, though not quite in the literal sense. But there could well be plenty of magic, with bat as well as ball. The inaugural edition of the Legends League Cricket could well be a blast from the past, as its commissioner Ravi Shastri hopes. The three teams — India Maharajas, Asia Lions and World Giants — feature some of the all-time cricketing greats. In what is touted as the professional T20 league for retired cricketers, the teams will play each other twice before the final on January 29. The Indian team includes Virender Sehwag, Yuvraj Singh, Harbhajan Singh, Mohammed Kaif, Irfan Pathan and Nayan Mongia. The Asia Lions comprise men from Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. Lining up for the World Giants are Kevin Pietersen, Jonty Rhodes, Brett Lee, Daren Sammy, Imran Tahir, Herschelle Gibbs, Daniel Vettori, Morne Morkel, Brendan Taylor, Kevin O’Brien and Monty Panesar. The matches will be aired live on Sony Ten 1, Ten 3. (The writer is in Muscat at the invitation of Legends League Cricket).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-blast-from-the-past/article38295011.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||One Wish could deliver in the R.M. Reddy Memorial Cup||The five-year-old mare One Wish from trainer S.K. Sunderji’s yard may score over her rivals in the R.M. Reddy Memorial Cup, the chief event of Thursday’s (Jan. 20) races here. TWIN STAR PLATE (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 2.00: 1. Fatuma (8) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Horse O’ War (5) B. Nikhil 60, 3. Soul Empress (3) Mukesh Kumar 60, 4. Silver Set (7) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 5. Asturias (11) Santosh Raj 59, 6. Elmira (10) Nikhil Naidu 58, 7. Challenger (4) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 8. New Role (2) R.S. Jodha 56.5, 9. Starwalker (9) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 10. N R I Gift (6) Rafique Sk. 54.5 and 11. It’s My Life (1) G. Naresh 54.  1. SILVER SET, 2. ELMIRA, 3. FATUMA MULUGU PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.30: 1. Linewiler (2) Santosh Raj 60, 2. Curcumin (6) R. Ajinkya 59, 3. Rhythm Selection (4) Md. Ismail 58.5, 4. Sun Dancer (10) Akshay Kumar 58, 5. Advance Guard (5) Nakhat Singh 56, 6. Grand Finale (1) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 7. N R I Heights (7) Afroz Khan 54.5, 8. Lightning Power (8) Ajeeth Kumar 54, 9. Queen Blossom (9) Ashad Asbar 52.5, 10. Destine To Be (11) Gaurav Singh 51.5, 11. Royal Girl (3) B. Nikhil 51 and 12. Solo Winner (12) Abhay Singh 50.  1. SUN DANCER, 2. LINEWILER, 3. CURCUMIN A.S. KRISHNA MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 3.00: 1. Arthur (6) Ashad Asbar 56, 2. Jack Daniel (3) Nakhat Singh 56, 3. Bellagio (2) Nikhil Naidu 54.5, 4. Bellaque (9) S.S. Tanwar 54.5, 5. Lady Di (1) R. Ajinkya 54.5, 6. Mysterious Angel (5) Mukesh Kumar 54.5, 7. Pleroma (8) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 8. Shaden (7) Md. Ismail 54.5 and 9. Virangna (4) Kiran Naidu 54.5.  1. PLEROMA, 2. BELLAGIO, 3. LADY DI R.M. REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 3.30: 1. British Empress (5) B. Nikhil 61, 2. One Wish (1) R. Ajinkya 59, 3. Soloist (6) Akshay Kumar 59, 4. Akido (8) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 5. Full Volume (9) Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 6. Intense Approach (2) Ajeeth Kumar 55, 7. Sporting Smile (10) P. Gaddam 54.5, 8. Siyavash (4) Gaurav Singh 54, 9. Cheltenham (11) Afroz Khan 53.5, 10. By The Bay (3) S.S. Tanwar 53 and 11. Pinatubo (7) Rupal Singh 50.  1. ONE WISH, 2. SOLOIST, 3. INTENSE APPROACH SHRAVAN KUMAR MEMORIAL CUP (1,100m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 4.00: 1. Chuckit (14) A.A. Vikrant 60, 2. Menilly (2) Santosh Raj 60, 3. Strategist (11) Mukesh Kumar 59.5, 4. Beauty On Parade (6) Akshay Kumar 57, 5. Angel Tesoro (8) Gaurav Singh 55, 6. Ashwa Mahika (4) Kuldeep Singh 54, 7. Blissful (3) Nakhat Singh 54, 8. Amyra (5) Afroz Khan 53.5, 9. City Of Bliss (7) Abhay Singh 53.5, 10. Different (13) Md. Ismail 53.5, 11. Rising Queen (10) Ashad Asbar 53, 12. Unsung Hero (12) Rafique Sk. 53, 13. Gusty Note (1) B.R. Kumar 52 and 14. Jean Lafette (9) S.S. Tanwar 52.  1. MENILLY, 2. BEAUTY ON PARADE, 3. BLISSFUL MULUGU PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.30: 1. Star Babe (10) Abhay Singh 60, 2. Nightmare (5) Santosh Raj 58.5, 3. Royal Grace (11) Nikhil Naidu 58, 4. Hidden Hope (9) R. Ajinkya 56.5, 5. Dillon (6) B. Nikhil 55.5, 6. Ice Berry (7) Gaurav Singh 54.5, 7. Lightning Fairy (1) Akshay Kumar 53.5, 8. Blickfang (3) Rafique Sk. 53, 9. Dunkirk (2) Nakhat Singh 52.5, 10. Prime Gardenia (4) Ajeeth Kumar 52.5 and 11. Sorry Darling (8) Afroz Khan 51.  1. LIGHTNING FAIRY, 2. STAR BABE, 3. PRIME GARDENIA  Day’s Best: ONE WISH Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6. Mini Jackpot: 3, 4, 5 & 6. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 4, 5 & 6. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/one-wish-could-deliver-in-the-rm-reddy-memorial-cup/article38295068.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,||Mahesh gives EB first win||Naorem Mahesh Singh scored two fine goals to help SC East Bengal down a strong FC Goa 2-1 and register its maiden win in an ISL-8 fixture at Bambolim on Wednesday. The new Spanish coach Mario Rivera proved lucky for East Bengal which finally tasted success after remaining winless for 11 matches. The win saw SC EB, with nine points in 12 matches, move to the 10th spot and push NEUFC to the bottom on goal difference. SC EB utilised its opportunities to take a 2-1 lead in the first half. Naorem Mahesh Singh opened the scoring for SC EB in the ninth minute when Goa captain Edu Bedia’s poor back-pass allowed the SC EB forward a free run inside the box. Goa found the equaliser in the 37th minute, thanks to the fine coordination shown between its Spanish strikers Jorge Ortiz and Alberto Noguera. The Goans built their attack on the right flank before Ortiz’s superb through pass to Noguera saw the latter chip the ball past East Bengal ’keeper Arindam Bhattacharya all ends up. Five minutes later, the unmarked Mahesh showed great opportunism as he intercepted a long diagonal pass from young Goa defender Anwar Ali and fired home a left-footer. COVID-19 hit the tournament again as Thursday’s game between ATK MB and Kerala Blasters was postponed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mahesh-gives-sc-eb-its-first-win/article64947990.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:17 IST,||Langer looks forward to discussions with CA||“Content” after guiding Australia to its maiden T20 World Cup title and a dominant Ashes victory, head coach Justin Langer is looking forward to the impending contract discussion with the country’s cricket board which has been subject to a lot of speculations. Langer contract is due to end in June.  “I’m never edgy (about his future),” Langer told SEN Radio on Wednesday.  “Before the World Cup and before the Ashes, we’ve never ever been better prepared. So it’s not a coincidence I don’t think that we’ve had the success that we’ve had,” he said. Langer faced criticism for his coaching methods from the players but in the past four months, he has guided Australia to a maiden Twenty20 World Cup title and a 4-0 Ashes series victory. “Whatever happens from now on, we can all be incredibly proud of this little period. We had two missions: To win the World Cup and to win the Ashes,” he said. “To do that in such a short period is a monumental effort and we’re all really satisfied with that, we’re all really happy about that, we’re all really, really proud of that.” Langer says he feels “really content” about Australia’s recent achievements. “I sit here at the moment feeling really content with the last two series,” Langer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/langer-looks-forward-to-discussions-with-ca/article64948242.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:17 IST,||Several aspects need improvement: Nieva||Retained as Indian men’s boxing’s High Performance Director, Santiago Nieva says the immediate focus in his second stint will be to rebuild the team which hit a low by ending medal-less in the Tokyo Olympics. The Argentine-born Swede is expected to be back in the country in a week after being offered a fresh contract, which had ended last year following a three-month extension post the Olympics. His performance will be reviewed at the end of every year till the 2024 Paris Games.  “Even my last contract had provision for annual review and this one will be no different. I am awaiting paperwork from Sports Authority of India (SAI) after which I will return to India, that should be another week,” Nieva told PTI from Sweden.  He was under considerable pressure in the aftermath of the Tokyo Games where none of the five Indian male boxers, including World No. 1 Amit Panghal, could go past the preliminary stage. The result was particularly shocking given that the same set of pugilists had delivered unprecedented medal hauls in prestigious events such as the Asian Games and the world championships. The Boxing Federation of India (BFI) was expectedly “dissatisfied” with the performance and its top officials talked about Nieva’s contract extension being a remote possibility. However, he managed to come out of the review unscathed even though his women’s team counterpart Rafaelle Bergamasco lost his job. “My conversations with the federation have been positive so far. Yes, there were long discussions but they were good. We agreed that we have to rebuild some of the things and pursue continuity in some others. We agreed on this,” Nieva said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/several-aspects-need-improvement-nieva/article64948243.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:17 IST,||Australian team arrives||Regional heavyweight and title contender Australia has arrived here for the AFC Women’s Asian Cup, which begins on Thursday with a double-header. “@TheMatildas touch down in #MumbaiAirplane arriving for the @afcasiancup. “Can’t wait to see them in action!” tweeted Australia’s High Commissioner to India, Barry O’Farrell. The Matildas is the nickname for the Australian women’s football team and it was training in Dubai ahead of the tournament. Australia won the tournament in 2010 and finished runner-up in 2006, 2014 and in the last edition in 2018, losing to Japan in the last two finals. The best team in the tournament as per FIFA rankings (11th), the Matildas are one of the title contenders along with defending champion Japan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australian-team-arrives/article38295439.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:18 IST,||Shruti in quarterfinals||The Indian girls continued to impress as all the seeded players held their own in the pre-quarterfinals of the Central Excise-CGST ITF Juniors on Wednesday. Top seed Shruti Ahlawat had to put up a struggle before getting past her Malaysian opponent Jo-Leen Saw. Fourth-seeded Suhitha Maruri, fifth seed Vaishnavi Adkar and seventh-seeded Sanjana Sirimalla won in straight sets. In boys’ singles, second seed Aman Dahiya reached the last eight beating compatriot Daksh Prasad in straight sets.  The results (pre-quarterfinals): Boys: Ruslan Tiukaev (Rus) bt Woohyuk Chang (Kor) 3-6, 6-0, 6-4; Zach Stephens (GBr) bt Denim Yadav 6-3, 6-2; Saheb Sodhi bt Bushan Haobam 6-1, 6-0; Amir Milushev (Uzb) bt Manas Dhamne 6-4, 5-7, 7-5; Aayush P. Bhat (USA) bt Gagan Rakesh Vimal 6-3, 6-1; Aryan Shah bt Yuvan Nandal 6-4, 7-5; Dmitry Dolzhenkov (Rus) bt Ronin Lotlikar 2-6, 6-2, 6-1; Aman Dahiya bt Daksh Prasad 7-5, 6-4.   Girls: Shruti Ahlawat Jo-Leen Saw (Mas) 4-6, 6-3, 6-3; Valda Mincheva (Rus) bt Saijayani Banerjee 6-1, 6-1; L. Tararurudee (Tha) bt Nandini Dixit 6-0, 6-2; Sanjana Sirimalla bt Victoria Milovanova (Rus) 7-5, 6-4.   Tejasvi Dabas bt Janani Ramesh 6-4, 0-6, 6-4; Suhitha Maruri bt Honoka Umeda (Jpn) 6-2, 6-2; Vaishnavi Adkar bt Pushti Laddha 6-1, 6-0; Daria Shadchneva (Rus) bt Kashish Bote 6-2, 6-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shruti-in-quarterfinals/article38295459.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,||Sindhu advances||Top seed P. V. Sindhu and Indian Open finalist Supanida Katethong stayed on course for a second clash in less than a week after easily winning their campaign-opener in the $150,000 Syed Modi India International badminton tournament on Wednesday. Sindhu needed 27 minutes to dismiss Tanya Hemanth 21-9, 21-9 before Supanida, seeded six, packed off Sri Krishna Priya 21-13, 21-13 in 28 minutes. Meanwhile, positive Covid cases continued to lead to more withdrawals from the Indians. Though an unwell Ng Tze Yong (Malaysia) gave a walkover, there were others who were forced to pull out of the tournament after testing positive or for being the primary contact of those affected by Covid. Eight matches proved non-starters after doubles players Satinder Malik, Kushal Raj, Bhavya Chhabra, Ridhi Kaur Toor, Apoorva Javadekar, Deepak Khatri tested positive. As a result, their partners also had to withdraw from the competition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-advances/article38295000.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:18 IST,||IOC’s new transgender rules criticised||The International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) guidance on transgender inclusion poses a risk to the integrity of female competition, according to a study produced by 38 medical experts. A new IOC framework released in November says it should not be assumed a transgender athlete automatically has an unfair advantage in female events. The framework, which replaced IOC guidelines issued in 2015, also took out the requirement for transgender women to suppress testosterone levels to participate in those events. However, a paper published in the Open Sport and Exercise Medicine medical journal said that guidance is “drafted mainly from a human rights perspective, with less consideration for medical/scientific issues”. IOC struggled to establish a uniform position after a two-year consultation with over 250 participants. Among the recommendations of the report are for the IOC to “take the responsibility to set standards and expectations based on competitive fairness and the best available science that all Federations can follow”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/iocs-new-transgender-rules-criticised/article38295440.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:57 IST,||AFI to send athletes for Indoor Worlds||With the number of COVID-19 cases rising each day, there is a worry whether Indian athletes will have enough competitions to qualify for this year’s World Championships in Oregon, USA, in July. A few have made the cut and the Athletics Federation of India is confident things will go off well for many others.  “With this Omicron, Europe is pretty bad so we will have to wait and see. There will be events, both in India and abroad, and they will qualify, that will not a problem,” AFI president Adille Sumariwalla told The Hindu on Wednesday.  “We are watching the situation, as and when we can send somebody we will send, as and when we can host events, we will host. We will do the best we can, like we had before the Olympics.” Four majors “We will send whoever needs to go, depending on who needs to qualify. This year, we have three majors, actually four... the Indoor Worlds, the Worlds, Commonwealth Games and Asian Games. “We will see what is best for our athletes and for the country. We will take different calls at different times,” said Sumariwalla. He was clear that the AFI will send athletes for the Indoor Worlds (Belgrade, March 18-20). “Yes, of course. Those who qualify will go,” said Sumariwalla. The qualification gates for Indoor Worlds opened on January 1, 2021 (closes March 7, 2022) and long jump National record holder M. Sreeshankar (8.26m) and Asian Games’ shot put champion Tajinderpal Singh Toor (21.49m) are the only Indians who have achieved the qualification standard. Send relay team India can also send 4x400m men’s and women’s relay teams for which there is no entry standard. Javelin and discus do not figure in indoor athletics; hence Neeraj and discus thrower Kamalpreet Kaur will not be in action. Sumariwalla also said that the process to bring the six foreign coaches, that the SAI appointed recently, has begun. “We have already sent them the letters, there is a long process, the paperwork has been started by SAI now. Hopefully, they should come before the Worlds.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/afi-to-send-athletes-for-indoor-worlds/article38295382.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:25 IST,||Sania to quit at the end of the season||Sania Mirza has announced that the current season would be her last on the WTA Tour.  “We have been discussing this subject for quite a few weeks. Sania hopes to finish the year on the Tour if her body holds up,” Imran Mirza, father-cum-mentor of Sania, told The Hindu. “As things stand, Sania hopes to play till the U.S. Open this year,” Imran said. For her part, 35-year-old Sania felt recovery time was taking much longer now and that she was putting her three-year-old son Izhaan to risk by travelling so much with him. She also pointed out that as she was getting older, her knees were hurting a lot and it was not that easy to recover from the niggles. Sania said that she wanted to play the full season because she was still enjoying it and had enough to last the whole year. “I am not sure this body will take any more load beyond this season,” said Sania.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-to-quit-at-the-end-of-the-season/article64947986.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,||Angkrish, Harnoor shine as India posts 307||Opener Harnoor Singh (88) and Angkrish Raghuvanshi (79) guided a virus-hit India to a mammoth 307 for five against Ireland in an Under-19 World Cup game in which it barely managed a playing XI. With six of the players, including skipper Yash Dhull and his deputy Sheikh Rasheed, forced into isolation after testing positive for COVID-19, Harnoor and Angriksh stitched together a 164-run stand. Harnoor hit 12 fours in his 101-ball knock while Angkrish stroked 10 boundaries and two sixes in his 79-ball innings. Nishant Sidhu, who led the side, hit 36 and shared a 64-run stand with Raj Bawa (42). Rajvardhan Hangargekar hit five sixes, including a hat-trick of maximums in the last over, in his fiery 16-ball 39-run unbeaten cameo that took India past 300-run mark.  The scores: Wednesday: India 307/5 in 50 overs (Harnoor Singh 88, Angkrish Raghuvanshi 79, Nishant Sidhu 36, Raj Bawa 42, Rajvardhan Hangargekar 39 n.o.) vs Ireland.   Tuesday: England 320/7 in 50 overs (George Thomas 52, Tom Prest 93, William Luxton 41, George Bell 57) bt Canada 214 in 48.1 overs (Gurnek Johal Singh 44, Joshua Boyden 4/44).   South Africa 231/9 in 50 overs (Dewald Brevis 104) bt Uganda 110 in 33.4 overs.   Afghanistan 200 in 38.2 overs (Suliman Safi 62, Ijaz Ahmad Ahmadzai 45, Katenalaki Singi 4/18) bt PNG 65 in 20.5 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harnoor-angkrish-shine-as-india-posts-307/article64947992.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:24 IST,||Ahmedabad, Kolkata likely to host WI||Ahmedabad and Kolkata have been proposed as venues for India’s forthcoming limited-overs series against the West Indies, scheduled to be played between February 6 and 20. The revised itinerary was proposed by the BCCI’s tour, programme and fixtures committee during its meeting on Wednesday. The committee has now left it to the BCCI office-bearers to finalise the venues by discussing with the respective State governments. The Hindu also understands that the two-Test series versus Sri Lanka, starting on February 25, is also likely to be re-jigged. At the moment, Bengaluru and Mohali are set to host the matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ahmedabad-kolkata-likely-to-host-wi/article38295029.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:20 IST,||Prajnesh bows out||Second seed Quentyn Halys of France beat Prajnesh Gunneswaran 6-3, 6-1 in the first round of the €45,730 Challenger tennis tournament here on Wednesday.  Other results:   First round: $15,000 ITF men, Cairo, Egypt: Andrey Chepelev (Rus) bt Nishant Dabas 6-1, 6-1.   $25,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Nicholas David Ionel (Rou) & Lukas Neumayer (Aut) bt Preston Connor (Irl) & Rishabdev Raman 6-1, 6-1; Theo Arribage & Titouan Droguet (Fra) bt Linghao Zhang (Chn) & Bharath Kumaran 6-1, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prajnesh-bows-out/article38295062.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:17 IST,||WC 2022 ticket sales launched||Qatar World Cup ticket sales were launched at reduced prices on Wednesday with residents and migrant workers able to attend games for just $11 as concerns persist over COVID-19. Authorities have not yet announced how many fans will be allowed into stadiums for the first World Cup in an Arab country, which runs from November 21 until December 18. Football's world governing body FIFA opened a draw which offers individual match tickets for as little as $69 for international fans —about one third less than at Russia 2018 —but a ticket for the final could cost up to $1,607. Qatari residents, including migrant labourers whose treatment will be able to get tickets for as little as $11. Fans who apply now for the different packages —for individual games or following a team, or for special stadium tickets —will go into a draw after the first deadline on February 8. FIFA said fans who are successful in a random draw will be told by March 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wc-2022-ticket-sales-launched/article38295438.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||Brighton holds Chelsea||Winning the Premier League title is looking more unlikely for Chelsea each passing week. After a 1-1 draw at Brighton on Tuesday, the European champion soon might have to start looking over its shoulder in the race for Champions League qualification. Chelsea’s winless run in the league stretched to four games after Brighton defender Adam Webster’s powerful header from a corner in the 60th minute cancelled out the opening goal by Hakim Ziyech in the 29th. Chelsea stayed in third place and is 12 points behind leader Manchester City having played one game more.  The results:   Premier League: Chelsea 1 (Ziyech 29) drew with Brighton 1 (Webster 60).   LaLiga: Real Betis 4 (Iglesias 11, 41, Canales 29, Juanmi 54) bt Alaves 0.   Cadiz 2 (Negredo 55, Alejo 90+1) drew with Espanyol 2 (Morlanes 10, de Tomas 90+6).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/webster-helps-brighton-hold-chelsea/article38295067.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 06:21 IST,||Jockey Sandesh suspended||The RWITC stewards have decided to suspend jockey A. Sandesh for his unsatisfactory riding on Juliette, which finished second in the Indian Turf Invitation Cup on December 19, 2021. The stewards observed that in the early part of the race he had dropped out and positioned the mare more than 30 lengths behind the field thus denying it a fair chance . Therefore, the stewards decided to suspend the jockey’s licence from February 5 to April 17, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jockey-sandesh-suspended/article38295072.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 07:21 IST,||Challenge of penance||Anyone who succumbs to anger, ahamkara, and desire is sure to regret the act at some point of time is the message taught through the purana stories. There is much to be learnt about each one’s progress in spiritual development from the various experiences that the rishis Nara and Narayana undergo in the course of their severe and long drawn penance, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. The story of their penance is narrated in the Devi Bhagavata Purana by Vyasa. People engaged in penance or tapas basically try to control their senses to achieve peace of mind and calm temperament and these two rishis had done such penance for 1000 years. Unable to bear the heat and severity of their penance, Indra tries to distract them by sending the apsaras damsels of swarga loka to their presence. As a rishi of boundless strength, mental and physical, and determination, Narayana does not yield. In his mind he is not at all disturbed by their beauty. Confident about his restraint, he breaks the silence and talks to them. It is one thing to possess a talent and be aware of it as a matter of fact. But when one is conscious of it in a possessive way, it leads to ahamkara as is seen when Narayana goes further to show his prowess and creates Urvasi of exceptional beauty. Like a spider that is caught in the web spun by it, he falls further in his penance. Moreover, he realises that the apsaras damsels have got attracted to him. He mulls over the options available. He can get angry and curse them. But this would be self destructive and would lead to further loss of tapas and also the chances of incurring their curses and ill will. With Nara’s counsel, they decide to come out of the fix by carefully avoiding any wrong steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/challenge-of-penance/article38294972.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 14:54 IST,||Sudoku — February 4, 2022||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-20-2022/article64945120.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:32 IST,||Different types of nouns||• Proper nouns: Specific names of people, places, or things  • Common nouns: General names of people, places, animals, or things  • Collective nouns: Names that refer to a group of people, places, animals, or things  • Material nouns: Names of things used as material  • Abstract nouns: Names that refer to a state, quality, or feeling     Nouns can be countable or uncountable . Countable nouns are things we can count. They have singular and plural forms. We use articles ‘a’ or ‘an’ with singular countable nouns. We use ‘some’, ‘many’, and ‘a few’ with plural countable nouns. To know the number of a countable noun we use ‘how many’. Uncountable nouns cannot be counted in number. They include liquids, gases, and other substances and also abstract ideas or qualities.    • Some nouns such as sheep, fish, deer, and aircraft have the same singular and plural form. • The plural forms for daughter-in-law is daughters-in-law; son-in-law is sons-in-law, etc. • Some uncountable nouns are always singular.Examples: Luggage, baggage, furniture, stationery, information, etc. • Some uncountable nouns are treated as plural for a singular item.Examples:Spectacles, pants, shorts, scissors, etc. • Some uncountable nouns are singular but look plural in form.Examples:News, aerobics, crossroads, electronics, etc. • A little means ‘some’ but little means ‘hardly any’. Examples: There is a little water in the jug. (some water)  There is little water in the jug. (hardly any water) • A few means ‘some’ but few means ‘hardly any’. Examples: I have a few friends. (some friends)  I have few friends. (hardly any friends) (Content: Arrow Publications Private Limited)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/different-types-of-nouns/article64948383.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:31 IST,||Know the scientist||Venkataraman Radhakrishnan (1929 – 2011) was an Indian astrophysicist, known for expanding the field of radio astronomy. He was a professor emeritus of the Raman Research Institute in Bengaluru, and an Associate of the Royal Astronomical Society and a Fellow of the Indian Academy of Sciences, Bengaluru. He was the son of Nobel laureate Sir C.V. Raman.  Radhakrishnan was born in Chennai in 1929. He graduated from the Mysore University before joining the Department of Physics at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, as a researcher. Radhakrishnan worked at the Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden as research assistant between 1955 and 58. At age 26, he became the senior research fellow at California Institute of Technology, USA. Here, Radhakrishnan worked at Owens Valley Radio Observatory, focusing on the polarisation of radio waves and radio interferometry. His work on polarised interferometry revealed the magnetic field of Jupiter and the rotation of its interior. He also worked on understanding atomic hydrogen in the Milky Way. In 1965, he moved to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation division of Radio Physics in Sydney, Australia. At the Parkes Observatory, he studied hydrogen in the universe to understand the interstellar medium. He and his collaborators also studied a pulsar called Vela. Pulsars are magnetic rotating neutron stars that emit electromagnetic radiation in pulses. His contributions led to a better understanding of neutron stars. A classic paper measuring the polarisation swing of the Vela pulsar, gave birth to the widely used magnetic pole model for pulsar radio emission.   In 1972, he accepted an invitation from the Raman Research Institute (RRI) Trust to head it. Under his leadership, the institute grew to establish successful programmes in radio astronomy and liquid crystals. He was instrumental in the construction of the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) at Pune, and two low frequency radio observatories at Gauribidanur and Mauritius.    He was the member of International Astronomical Union (IAU) and served as its vice-president during 1988–1994. He was also a Foreign Fellow of both the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences and the U.S. National Science Academy. Amsterdam University conferred an honorary doctorate on him in 1996.  His hobbies were sailing, flying and ham radios. From the 1990s, Radhakrishnan took up building and flying microlight aircraft. Well after his 80th birthday, he sailed his twin-hulled sailboat to Oman, then back westwards to Malaysia, and had every intention of going all the way round the world. But he died of cardiac complication in March 2011. Now that you have read about Venkataraman Radhakrishnan, try answering the following questions. 1. Name the pulsar that Radhakrishnan worked on in the 1960s. ........................... 2. In 1972, Radhakrishnan returned to India to head ............................................||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/know-the-scientist/article64948394.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:31 IST,||Fun fact||Legless lizards look a lot like snakes, but aren't. Most of their body is actually tail and they have tiny vestigial limbs and a non-forked tongue. Unlike snakes, they have eyelids and external ear openings. Q. Can you find out a fact about legless lizards? _______________||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/fun-fact/article64948393.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:31 IST,||The W Corner||And if that isn’t enough, here are some pointers to take you towards the answer: Former India skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni gifted his Chennai Super Kings (CSK) jersey to this pacer. To thank Dhoni, this bowler took to his Twitter and wrote, "The legend & capt cool @msdhoni has honoured me with this beautiful gift his shirt. The "7" still winning hearts through his kind & goodwill gestures. @russcsk specially Thank you so much for kind support." He had an exceptional outing in the T20 men's World Cup, 2021, where his four-wicket haul against New Zealand led his team to victory in a Super 12 fixture. (with ANI inputs) Answer: ____________________________||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/the-w-corner/article64948392.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:32 IST,||What’s the good word?||1. A small hound of a breed with a short coat, used for hunting hares. _____________ 2. A light set up in a high position as a signal. _____________ 3. A small close-fitting hat worn on the back of the head. _____________ 4. A scene of uproar and confusion. _____________ 5. A type of insect with hard wing cases._____________ Answers:1. Beagle, 2. Beacon, 3. Beanie, 4. Bedlam, 5. Beetle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/whats-the-good-word/article64948390.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:32 IST,||Barty begins with a bang!||MELBOURNE Ash Barty was front and center when the Australian Open celebrated its inaugural First Nations Day. Albeit not for very long. The top-ranked Barty has indigenous heritage and her second-round match at Melbourne Park’s main stadium on Wednesday was among the features of a program dedicated to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people of Australia. She was on and off the court quickly, beating 142nd-ranked qualifier Lucia Bronzetti 6-1, 6-1 in 52 minutes. “Really cool. ... Nice for me to be a part of it in a way I feel most comfortable,” Barty said. "On a day when we're bringing culture together ... it was really nice for me to go out and enjoy that. I was really fortunate to be able to play today.” Rafael Nadal didn’t get it all his own way in the next match on Rod Laver Arena, needing five match points and 2 hours, 42 minutes to beat 126th-ranked German qualifier Yannick Hanfmann 6-2, 6-3, 6-4. The sixth-seeded Nadal, aiming for a men’s record 21st Grand Slam singles title, had two match points on Hanfmann’s serve in the ninth game of the third set and then two more on his own in the next game before finally clinching a spot in the third round when his rival sent a forehand long. Nadal converted four of his 16 break point chances, including one of eight in the third set, but only faced two breakpoints on his own serve and fended them both off. “I knew him before, I played against him in the first round at Roland Garros — I know he’s dangerous,” Nadal said. “Today his level of tennis was much higher than what his ranking says, without a doubt.” The 35-year-old Nadal shares the men’s record of 20 singles titles with Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic, and he doesn't have either of them in the draw this time.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/barty-begins-with-a-bang/article64948380.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:32 IST,||What is Homogecene?||The beauty of Planet Earth lies in its diversity. The plants, birds and animals in one part of the world are different from those in the other part. While polar bears roam the Arctic region, penguins colonise the Antarctic region. While neem trees are native to the Indian subcontinent, baobab trees are native to parts of Africa. Imagine how dull it would be if all the species are distributed everywhere on the planet! Unfortunately, this could happen sooner, thanks to human activities. The first-ever global analysis of plant diversity has shown that the world's flora is growing increasingly uniform, even on isolated islands. Due to the introduction of invasive species, scientists warn, the world is headed for a new geological epoch, called the 'Homogecene.’ Humans have collapsed the distance between different ecoregions worldwide, and scientists are concerned this could one day create a 'New Pangaea'. (About 300 million years ago, Earth didn't have seven continents, but instead remained as one massive supercontinent called Pangaea.) Many scientists argue that we are entering a period characterised by widespread faunal and floral homogenisation, dubbed the 'Homogecene'. Homogenisation is the replacement of local biotas by non-indigenous and expanding species that can co-exist with humans. It reduces diversity at regional and global scales. With the introduction of invasive species, biological borders fade and distinct habitats grow increasingly similar.   What are invasive species? Invasive species are organisms that are introduced to a new geographical location, where they pose a threat to the environment. They could be insects, plants, animals or pathogens. These species start to grow and multiply quickly in the absence of natural predators from their original homes. How do invasive species spread? Some species arrive in a new area through migration. Some are spread unintentionally by human activities. When people travel, they often inadvertently carry alien species along. For instance, insects may arrive in a new place by travelling on luggages. Some species are introduced on purpose as pets or to combat pests, and they turn out to be invasive in the new place.   The first-ever global analysis of plant diversity, published in Nature Communications, drew on floral data from 658 regions around the world, including 189,762 flowering-plant species. The authors suggest alien plants are more likely to become naturalised in a distant environment when the climate, and especially the temperature, is similar to their previous home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/what-is-homogecene/article64948381.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:32 IST,||message in a mural||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/message-in-a-mural/article64948379.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:32 IST,||Three-minute fun reads||•As they say, one thing that has been a constant thorughout human history is change itself. How we live continues to change, with history marked by significant moments or periods of change. One such telling change happened in Britain around the 18th Century. From a largely agrarian - agriculture-based - society, the region turned more towards machine-based living. What began in this region slowly spread to the rest of the world. This process of change is called the Industrial Revolution, and is considered one of the most drastic changes that had a great impact on human lives. •As with almost everything in life, this had both its pros and cons. For instance, mechanising helped with mass production, increased job opportunities, innovative thinking, healthy competition, increase in global trade, and general living conditions. However, not everyone reaped these benefits. As we can see around us even today, it made the wealthy wealthier, but the poor continued to be treated unfairly. Unfair and low wages continued, working conditions were brutal, it used a lot of natural resources, and its effects on pollution are yet to be gauged. ACTIVITY CORNER 1. Which engine was the driving force behind the Industrial Revolution? ______________________________________________________________________ 2. Name the machine for spinning patented by James Hargreaves in 1770. ______________________________________________________________________||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/three-minute-fun-reads/article64948389.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:31 IST,||Word of the day||This noun refers to any of various non-ruminant mammals (such as an elephant, a rhinoceros, or a hippopotamus) of a former group (pachydermata) that have thick skin and hooves or nails resembling hooves. It is pronounced pa-kee-duhm. Origin:Pachydermos is Greek for "having thick skin" (figuratively, it means “dull” or “stupid”). It's from pachys, meaning "thick" and derma, meaning "skin". In the late 1700s, French naturalist Georges Cuvier adapted the Greek term as pachyderme for hoofed animals having thickish skin. Example:It was a study on pachyderms. ACTIVITY Use the word in a sentence of your own. ______________________________________________ ______________________________________________||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/word-of-the-day/article38294698.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:31 IST,||ww.magicsquarepuzzles.com(9840662780)||Fill the empty cells using numbers from 1 to 64 each only once such that 1) Each row, column and two main diagonals of each 4x4 sub square gives the magic sum of 130. 2) Each 2 x 2 square marked in the same colour gives the sum of 130. 3) The center 2 x 2 marked in black border in each 4x4 sub square gives a sum of 130. 4) Group of cells in boxes within dotted lines is a cage. Cage sum is mentioned at the top in respective colours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/wwmagicsquarepuzzlescom9840662780/article64948391.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:32 IST,||A good start||Everybody looks forward to begin a New Year with great fun and enjoyment. I too celebrated New Year’s day with the same joy. Days before the dawn of a New Year, we started all the preperations. We cleaned our house, got some crackers and got all the things needed. The maximum fun is on New Year’s eve. Around 11:00 pm, we switched on the television to watch the live telecast of people enjoying all over the world. When the time was exactly 12:00 am we cut a cake and burst some crackers. The next morning, we woke early and went to a temple. So this New year gave me a good start. S. Pragati, IX A, Sri Vignesh Vidyalaya Senior Secondary School, Trichy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/a-good-start/article38294721.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:32 IST,||Math and mom’s magic||Giant beads of sweat rolled down my forehead. My feet swung back and forth under the table. My pen rolled around lazily knowing it would not be used for some time. My fingers tapped the notebook in front of me... Yeah, you guessed it. It was time for math homework! Now, don’t get me wrong. Math is great and all, but only after I understand WHAT is happening, and HOW to do it. To kick-start the learning process, there is only one step: Call Mommy! At least, that’s what works for me. My mom only needs to take one look at the question before she knows exactly how to explain the sum to me. Once she’s done, it becomes clear that she works wonders when my mind has a new thought: “Ah, this is a piece of cake.” Michelle Deborah Dixie, Class VII, St. Michael's Academy, Adyar, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/math-and-moms-magic/article38294728.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:32 IST,||My worst homework||My worst homework exercise was a project. Topic of the project was to write about “How Can We Save Our Earth from Air Pollution” and create a model showing air pollution in factories, cars etc. Wonder why, but I thought the topic was on “How Can We Save Our Earth from Water pollution.” So I put together a project relating to it. The next day when I showed it to Ma’am, she said that I had got the topic wrong. It also happened to be the last date for submissions. I felt embarrassed since it was going to affect my marks and my teacher’s impression of me. That was my worst homework. Rashika Sharma, Class VI B, Ahlcon International School, Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/my-worst-homework/article38294730.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:32 IST,||DID YOU KNOW?||Over 20 elephants have died over the past few years after eating plastic trash from open landfill sites in Pallakkadu village in Ampara district in Sri Lanka. According to wildlife veterinarians, the animals had swallowed large amounts of nondegradable plastic. The spotlight was turned on the issue again when two more elephants died recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/did-you-know/article38294731.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:32 IST,||Can you identify the person in this picture?||This political leader will campaign for Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh for the upcoming elections. Send your entries by 11 a.m. to school@thehindu.co.in along with your name class, and school. [Subject: Person.]Yesterday’s answer: Madison Keys. Congrats to Trisha Supare, Class VI, Kendriya Vidyalaya NDA, Pune; P.Hema Sphoorthi, Class IX, J.K.Shreepranav, Class III, J.K.Shreehari, Class V, Shansa.S, Class IV, Shana.S, Class V, Kendriya Vidyalaya Nagercoil; Prince Pathak, Class VI, GBN Sr. Sec. School Faridabad Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/can-you-identify-the-person-in-this-picture/article64948382.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:44 IST,||The sky is the limit||In April 2022 the Phyang monastery in Ladakh will welcome stargazers. Monks here suggested promoting the site as an astro hub after visiting Astrostays, a homestay on the banks of Pangong Tso. The homestay is an initiative of the Global Himalayan Expedition (GHE), which is facilitating solar energy projects in remote Himalayan villages. “The monastery felt that a stargazing experience from the Buddhist cosmology point of view would generate interest. We are working towards setting up an observatory at the monastery by March,” says Sonal Asgotraa, founder of Astrostays. Astrostays was established in 2019 in Maan village in Ladakh and in a few months, nearly 350 visitors looked through their GoTo Dobsonian telescope to track stars, planets and constellations. Guides are locals who have been trained in astronomy and taught to use the telescope. The revenue generated from the astro tourism facility was pumped back into the community to build solar water heaters. With international travel getting tougher during the pandemic, more domestic travellers are discovering the joys of astronomy clubs, local campsites and accessible destinations with spectacular night views. Astro tourism enthusiasts plan ahead and travel to experience solar eclipses, meteor showers and other celestial events. In 2020 and 2021, Chennai-based astronomer and astro-photographer Neeraj Ladia, CEO of Space Arcade, led sessions for astro-photographers and families that wanted to stargaze. They travelled to Yelagiri in groups of 20 to 30. “The hilly areas away from the city have darker skies that are conducive for stargazing. Between the first and the second waves of COVID-19, we observed people showing interest in these short trips. The open space and small gatherings made it safer,” he points out. He also recommends Kodaikanal and Jawadhu hills for astronomy getaways. “There are a few secluded, darker spots while driving from Chennai to Pondicherry via ECR; these are also good for astro-photography.” Join the astro party In India, there are efforts to tap into the growing potential of astro tourism. Plans are afoot to turn Benital village, located around 2,600 metres above sea level in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, into an astro village. The Chamoli district administration and Gurgaon-based startup Starscapes conducted a two-day ‘astro party’ in Benital in December 2021, with about 50 visitors. An astro park is in the works in Mandu, Madhya Pradesh, and in Jaipur, the State Department of Art and Culture introduced a Night Sky Tourism project after the first wave of COVID-19, to encourage visitors to look up through the telescopes set up at Jawahar Kala Kendra and Jantar Mantar. The Ladakh administration, in association with the Indian Institute of Astrophysics, plans to promote astro tourism in Hanle village. Meanwhile, Starscapes is expanding its footprint by setting up observatories in Jaipur, Coorg and Udhagamandalam, among other locations. Their journey began from an observatory in Kausani, the hill station in Uttarakhand located 1,890 metres above sea level, which is a hotspot for astro-photographers Dark, clear skies Technically speaking, all you need are cloud-free, dark skies without light pollution emerging from the cities. Astro-photographers lead expeditions for photography enthusiasts, while the locals trained in astronomy do the honours in other cases. Sonal recalls being guided on a late evening trek by locals in Ladakh who knew their way merely by gazing up at the sky: The guides have the knowledge of traditional astronomy. With some training, we realised we could tap into the potential and help them earn additional income.” Starscapes and Astrostays hope to tie up with hotel chains and eco tourism operators. In the event of overcast skies, there is always the backup plan of showcasing recorded videos or teaching astro-photography. Paul Savio, co-founder and CEO of Starscapes, says the potential of astro tourism in India holds promise: “The rise in disposable income has made people look for new avenues of experiential tourism.” So far, Starscapes has had more than 40,000 look-ups (people who have purchased tickets and looked through their telescopes). “This is still a small number for a large population like ours. But there are signs of growth,” says Savio. At stargazing events, stories from science and mythology merge to form narratives like the ones screened at planetariums. Only, the live narrative changes according to the patterns on the sky. Starscapes is looking to tap into unexplored stargazing locations. “For instance, tourists in Goa can try stargazing in South Goa, where it is possible to view darker skies,” says Savio. The start-up whets the appetite of new stargazers by organising watch parties in different cities with portable telescopes. Savio adds that stargazing can be driven with the enthusiasm of children and hence tie-ups with schools and universities will also help. In Chamoli and Jaipur, for instance, they hold fun practical sessions where students stargaze and also make pin-hole cameras. Soak in a meteor shower In Gujarat, Narendra Gor has been working with the Kutch Amateur Astronomers Club since 1991, and later as part of Stargazing India team. He recalls the enthusiasm when stargazing was included in the itinerary of Rann Utsav in 2008. “Since then, several families that have come for Rann Utsav have enjoyed the astro tourism experience. I’ve met people who travelled all the way from Mumbai and Bengaluru to track meteor showers.” Stargazing India is active also in Maharashtra, Odisha (during the Konark beach festival in winter) and Chhattisgarh. Ajay Talwar has been a stargazer since the mid 1980s and took to astrophotography in the 1990s. He talks about leading budding photographers on expeditions and singles out experiences in the Himalayas, with its dust-free dark skies. He also suggests visiting the northern states during winters. “In the South, often clear skies are restricted to December and January. In Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan, there are many remote locations with no citylight pollution. Indore and Ujjain are also conducive for stargazing since they are on a plateau.”  When the second wave of COVID-19 was on the decline, Gurgaon-based HR professional Sudha Reddy Patnaik and her friend Nupur Chakraborty, a marketing professional, headed to Kausani, not knowing what to expect. The hill station offered a few sightseeing experiences during the day. After dark, they visited the Starscapes observatory only to be disappointed due to the cloud cover. On day two, however, they eagerly peered through the telescopes and were awed by Jupiter and Saturn with its clearly visible rings, as well as the Andromeda galaxy. “The planets and stars moved as we gazed into the telescope,” says Nupur. The experience whetted her appetite for astro tourism. She rues having visited Ladakh in the past but not being familiar with stargazing possibilities. Her friend Sudha seconds that and says the next time around, she will take her friends and family along: “At Kausani, we were guided by an astronomy expert from the local community who was very enthusiastic. I never knew stargazing could be so much fun.”  Calling stargazers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-sky-is-the-limit/article64948366.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:19 IST,||The sky is the limit||In April 2022, the Phyang monastery in Ladakh will welcome stargazers. Monks here suggested promoting the site as an astro hub after visiting Astrostays, a homestay on the banks of the Pangong Tso. The homestay is an initiative of the Global Himalayan Expedition (GHE), which is facilitating solar energy projects in remote Himalayan villages. “The monastery felt that a stargazing experience from the Buddhist cosmology point of view would generate interest. We are working towards setting up an observatory at the monastery by March,” says Sonal Asgotraa, founder of Astrostays. Astrostays was established in 2019 in Maan village in Ladakh and in a few months, nearly 350 visitors looked through their GoTo Dobsonian telescope to track stars, planets and constellations. Guides are locals who have been trained in astronomy and taught to use the telescope. The revenue generated from the astro tourism facility was pumped back into the community to build solar water heaters. With international travel getting tougher during the COVID-19 pandemic, more domestic travellers are discovering the joys of astronomy clubs, local campsites and accessible destinations with spectacular night views. Astro tourism enthusiasts plan ahead and travel to experience solar eclipses, meteor showers and other celestial events. In 2020 and 2021, Chennai-based astronomer and astro-photographer Neeraj Ladia, CEO of Space Arcade, led sessions for astro-photographers and families that wanted to stargaze. They travelled to Yelagiri in groups of 20 to 30. “The hilly areas away from the city have darker skies that are conducive for stargazing. Between the first and the second waves of COVID-19, we observed people showing interest in these short trips. The open space and small gatherings made it safer,” he points out. He also recommends Kodaikanal and Jawadhu hills for astronomy getaways. “There are a few secluded, darker spots while driving from Chennai to Pondicherry via ECR; these are also good for astro-photography,” Neeraj says. Join the astro party In India, there are efforts to tap into the growing potential of astro tourism. Plans are afoot to turn Benital village, located around 2,600 metres above sea level in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, into an astro village. The Chamoli district administration and Gurugram-based startup Starscapes conducted a two-day ‘astro party’ in Benital in December 2021, with about 50 visitors. An astro park is in the works in Mandu, Madhya Pradesh, and in Jaipur, the State Department of Art and Culture introduced a Night Sky Tourism project after the first wave of COVID-19, to encourage visitors to look up through the telescopes set up at Jawahar Kala Kendra and Jantar Mantar. The Ladakh administration, in association with the Indian Institute of Astrophysics, plans to promote astro tourism in Hanle village. Meanwhile, Starscapes is expanding its footprint by setting up observatories in Jaipur, Coorg and Udhagamandalam, among other locations. Their journey began from an observatory in Kausani, the hill station in Uttarakhand located 1,890 metres above sea level, which is a hotspot for astro-photographers Dark, clear skies Technically speaking, all you need are cloud-free, dark skies without light pollution emerging from the cities. Astro-photographers lead expeditions for photography enthusiasts, while the locals trained in astronomy do the honours in other cases. Sonal recalls being guided on a late evening trek by locals in Ladakh who knew their way merely by gazing up at the sky: The guides have the knowledge of traditional astronomy. With some training, we realised we could tap into the potential and help them earn additional income.” Starscapes and Astrostays hope to tie up with hotel chains and eco tourism operators. In the event of overcast skies, there is always the backup plan of showcasing recorded videos or teaching astro-photography. Paul Savio, co-founder and CEO of Starscapes, says the potential of astro tourism in India holds promise: “The rise in disposable income has made people look for new avenues of experiential tourism.” So far, Starscapes has had more than 40,000 look-ups (people who have purchased tickets and looked through their telescopes). “This is still a small number for a large population like ours. But there are signs of growth,” says Savio. At stargazing events, stories from science and mythology merge to form narratives like the ones screened at planetariums. Only, the live narrative changes according to the patterns in the sky. Starscapes is looking to tap into unexplored stargazing locations. “For instance, tourists in Goa can try stargazing in South Goa, where it is possible to view darker skies,” says Savio. The start-up whets the appetite of new stargazers by organising watch parties in different cities with portable telescopes. Savio adds that stargazing can be driven with the enthusiasm of children and hence tie-ups with schools and universities will also help. In Chamoli and Jaipur, for instance, they hold fun practical sessions where students stargaze and also make pin-hole cameras. Soak in a meteor shower In Gujarat, Narendra Gor has been working with the Kutch Amateur Astronomers Club since 1991, and later as part of the Stargazing India team. He recalls the enthusiasm when stargazing was included in the itinerary of Rann Utsav in 2008. “Since then, several families that have come for Rann Utsav have enjoyed the astro tourism experience. I’ve met people who travelled all the way from Mumbai and Bengaluru to track meteor showers,” he says. Stargazing India is active also in Maharashtra, Odisha (during the Konark beach festival in winter) and Chhattisgarh. Ajay Talwar has been a stargazer since the mid 1980s and took to astrophotography in the 1990s. He talks about leading budding photographers on expeditions and singles out experiences in the Himalayas, with its dust-free dark skies. He also suggests visiting the northern States during winters. “In the south, often clear skies are restricted to December and January. In Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan, there are many remote locations with no citylight pollution. Indore and Ujjain are also conducive for stargazing since they are on a plateau,” he says.  When the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic was on the decline, Gurugram-based HR professional Sudha Reddy Patnaik and her friend Nupur Chakraborty, a marketing professional, headed to Kausani, not knowing what to expect. The hill station offered a few sightseeing experiences during the day. After dark, they visited the Starscapes observatory only to be disappointed due to the cloud cover. On day two, however, they eagerly peered through the telescopes and were awed by Jupiter and Saturn with its clearly visible rings, as well as the Andromeda galaxy. “The planets and stars moved as we gazed into the telescope,” says Nupur. The experience whetted her appetite for astro tourism. She rues having visited Ladakh in the past but not being familiar with stargazing possibilities. Her friend Sudha seconds that and says the next time around, she will take her friends and family along: “At Kausani, we were guided by an astronomy expert from the local community who was very enthusiastic. I never knew stargazing could be so much fun.”  Calling stargazers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-sky-is-the-limit/article64948232.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:43 IST,||Jannal Kadai||This quaint window stall made a name for itself, thanks to the fritters. Its current owner Chandrasekaran K says they gained what they lost during the lockdowns once the restrictions were lifted. After his brother Sivaramakrishnan K passed away in 2020, he and his family took over the business. Sivaramakrishnan, as most people would remember, was the face of the shop. “Ninety per cent of our customers knew him and even now, people ask about him,” says Chandrasekaran.  Running the business from the same blue barred window for the last 20 years, the place serves as a nostalgic trip for Chennaiites, thanks to its molaga bajji which is easily the fan favourite, served along with chutney and sambar .“We make around 75 to 100 bajjis a day and it varies each day,” he adds. Even though the menu includes pongal , idli , poori and kal dosa , it is the crunchy bajjis that are popular.  “We have always stayed the same and never changed. This is what brings our customers back,” he observes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/jannal-kadai/article64948370.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:45 IST,||With a dash of peri-peri||Watching how banana chips are made is akin to watching a performance. The cook works a slicer through peeled raw bananas at top speed. Thin discs of fruit fall in rapid succession into a container below. Then, they are dropped with a flourish into a giant wok of boiling coconut oil. As the golden-yellow chips crisp up, they are scooped out with a large perforated ladle, and tossed in the air for a microsecond before being laid out on a tray. One cannot help but marvel at the chip-maker’s skill. For anyone who has grown up in Kerala, this is a familiar sight. The Malayali’s relationship with banana chips is unquestionable, not even potato in its fancy versions has been able to replace it. However, to appeal to a wider, and younger audience, the classic banana chips are now being reinterpreted. A spicy twist Alappuzha-based startup Beyond Snacks has come out with banana chip flavours such as peri-peri, salt and black pepper, and sour cream, onion and parsley. “The idea was to give the time-tested snack a global makeover,” says Manas Madhu, director of Beyond Snacks. “Attempting to contemporise banana chips did seem daunting initially, but we wanted to show that it could be a lot more than just banana chips,” he adds. The team tried out a variety of flavours before narrowing it down to a few. “The spiciness of peri peri worked really well, sour cream too complemented the original flavour; but tomato fell flat,” Manas adds. As an experiment, the team set up a stall at a popular consumer fair in the State and their chips were an instant hit. “We had to keep getting more stock as the demand was huge. This is when we were sure that there is scope for innovation,” Manas says. The company, which launched its banana chips in 2020, now has a manufacturing unit in Kalamassery, Kochi, and is a prominent presence on e-retail platforms delivering across the country.More flavours will be rolled out soon, such as barbecue, North Indian and sweet and sour. It retains the ‘original style’ classic salted version, too. In Bengaluru, PR Heaven Chips has launched five new flavours developed in-house: biryani, noodles, cheese, black pepper and tomato. While biryani is aimed at an older demographic, the noodles and cheese versions appeal to younger people and children, says Anish Swaminath, general manager of PR Heaven Chips. “Unlike potato, banana has a very distinct flavour. So the new flavour should complement it,” he adds. Anish continues, “Though banana chips are a Malayali staple, we seem to consume potato and tapioca chips more than banana, perhaps because we have always shied away from contemporising it.” Launched in November 2021, PR Heaven Chips has its manufacturing unit in Thrissur and will soon be sold through distributors in the State and supermarkets. Delhi-based Motherland Aromatic South has tied up with the 55-year-old, Coimbatore-based traditional chips maker A1 Chips to bring in a twist to tradition. Banana chips with the flavour of curry leaves, thin chips with rock salt and sweet ripe ones are the versions sold online. “We wanted to give a gourmet aesthetic to banana chips and tap into another socio-economic bracket,” says Devika Mohan, brand manager.  Now, even traditional players are welcoming change. A1 Chips has over 11 flavours, including chilli masala, Malabar masala, salsa masala, sweet chilli, pepper, aloo tandoori and honey for a sweet touch. “It is all about adapting to newer tastes. Banana chips are our signature product, and anything we add to it only improves its value,” says Sudeesh Dhamodaran, joint managing director of A1 Chips. The brand has 53 outlets in various parts of South India, all of which have these varieties. Sudeesh, however, loves to eat original Kerala banana chips dipped in lime pickle. “It is the best,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/with-a-dash-of-peri-peri/article64948362.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:42 IST,||To be 17 again||Somewhere in 2013, ‘Darbuka’ Siva decided to take a break from the music scene. Ironically, it was the same year he was selected for OneBeat, an initiative of the US State Department that brings together musicians from all over the world for creative collaborations. During this period, Siva began to look inwards, rummaging through memories of his high school years. He maintains that creativity comes from memories; although there was no starting point to any of these, except for the snapshots that presented themselves.  “It’s like a dream; you never know when it actually begins and remember only the middle part and what happens before you wake up. For me, composing a piece of music is akin to a dream. As was writing for Mudhal Nee Mudivum Nee ( MNMN ). It is this collection of memories that I kept going back to,” says Siva over phone, ahead of the film’s premiere on Zee5 on January 21.   Siva had the idea and flow; he knew exactly at which point the story needed to begin and where it needed to end. But all these thoughts resided in his head without a form until one day, Siva put them to paper. “Whenever I share my school memories with people, they get super stoked. I thought it would be exciting to work on the story. I kept grinding the idea before I started writing the script. MNMN is still 50% fact and 50% fiction but I won’t tell which is what,” he adds with a laugh.  Of course, there was the element of nostalgia that he wanted to reflect through his work. But Siva says he wanted to steer clear of romanticising the 90s era. “Growing up is always a fascination. I’m sure 30 years from now, someone will make a film about the 2020s,” he says, adding, “More than anything, things seemed to have been simpler back then… our sensibilities have changed now.”  Seventeen is a tricky age to cross — be it your high school sweetheart or dealing with your first heartbreak. It is that hormonal phase that prepares you for the real world, as highlighted in MNMN ’s trailer. By recreating the memories he grew up with, it is safe to assume Siva was in a way preserving what was deeply personal.  He says revisiting these moments was the fun part of the writing, but the catch was to stitch them in a cohesive fashion. “For me, a very intense moment is not very different from say a romantic or funny incident. I tend to put them on the same scale. In a way, what I realised was, I kind of miss all these moments.” Order in chaos Right from the start, Siva was adamant about not casting stars. He wanted actors who do not come with baggages. Filmmaker Gautham Menon put out the audition announcement on Twitter, after which Siva received over 5,000 applicants. From the shortlisted 50, he picked 13 to play the primary characters. Two months after training all the actors, mostly newcomers, Siva called his technicians and made his actors enact the entire film like a play in front of them. “Because this was my first film, I had to finish four-five scenes a day. Filmmaking, at the end of the day, is all about execution.”  In MNMN , Siva also serves as the music director. Does that come with added pressure? “It actually eased a bit of pressure,” says Siva, admitting that he did not want to be indulgent because of his dual roles as director and composer.  “When I make music for others, I always put my thoughts in the backseat. It is nice to get perspective from others because, if you are also the director, you just get carried away sometimes.”  The biggest takeaway for Siva was the fascination — of converting an idea into a film and seeing it materialise in an inspiring way. But Siva will fondly remember MNMN for an even better reason. He met his wife, Purva Raghunath, who plays Catherine Mersey in the film during the course of filming. “She came for the audition and made it through. We got married last year. In fact, it is inspiring how art and life collides sometimes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/to-be-17-again/article64948372.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:44 IST,||A sense of direction||A man in a mask cycles past the blue wall of a house where once lived a lawyer who was the Advocate-General of Madras Presidency from 1929 to 1944. Alladi Krishnaswamy Ayyar was also a member of the Drafting Committee that framed the Constitution of India. The country’s fundamental governing document, it came into effect on January 26, 1950. On Republic Day next week, a walk by The Equals Project will remember people like Ayyar and others from the city who contributed to the creation of the Indian Union. “On the walk, we discuss the process by which the Constitution of India was drafted, and the many competing visions for India. The issues that dominated India in 1949 are not too different from the issues that occupy our public discourse now,” says Shruti Viswanathan, 34, a lawyer with a public policy firm and founder of The Equals Project. She adds, “The walk begins with the founding of the Indian National Congress and goes all the way to the first amendment of the Indian Constitution. Along the way, we discuss the men and women involved in creating it, the riots, assassination attempts and even a love story.” Established in 2019, The Equals Project hosted its first workshop in 2020 at the Bangalore International Centre and is peopled by a history student and three lawyers including Shruti, a graduate of National Law School of India University. “Our aim is to make Constitutional history accessible to the common man. We want to focus on the principles and concepts that bind us as a nation, explore the history of its writing, the debates and divides on caste and region that existed then and continue to stay relevant now, and how we can negotiate the idea of India through a better understanding of this living, breathing document and build empathetic citizenship,” says Shruti. Physical workshops were the medium for this discourse until the pandemic forced the project to reach out through Instagram. They have designed online courses centred around the Constitution for public policy departments. A podcast is also on the cards. The walk will have about six stops and look at the contributions of Ayyar and Durgabai Deshmukh, Srinivasa Gandhi Nilayam, a living monument in the constitutional journey, and the Madras Presidency’s legacy to the idea of caste reservation. To keep the Constitution in public consciousness, The Equals Project through simulations and games, is tailored for young adults, the youth and older people.  “On Republic Day we also launch Tracing Lines, a reading circle, that will every quarter explore books on the Constitution, and the values that underpin it. We begin with The People’s Constitution by Rohit De who will also be part of the discussion. We discuss books through a non-legal lens with the focus that this is our history.”   The 75-minute walk, in and around Mylapore, begins at 7am on January 26, and will cover a distance of 2.3 kilometres. There is a fee of Rs. 500 for the walk (free for students of Government schools), while the reading circle at 12pm is free. For details, write to contact.theequalsproject@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-sense-of-direction/article64948367.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:44 IST,||A bagful of memories||“Divide them equally between yourself and your brother,” instructs my mother in a grave tone, adding: “No fighting.” She is not talking about family property. My mother decided to give away her precious manjal pai collection last week. Some of which are real gems, dating back to when telephone numbers consisted of five digits. They bear names of retail stores such as Anto Cutpiece Centre, Madras, AG & Co Jewellers, Madurai, SR Gunavathy Lucky Centre, Kumily, and were handed down to her by her father.   The yellow cloth bag is back in the limelight, thanks to Meendum Manjapai, a campaign that Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin launched last month. “One never bought a manjal pai ,” says Tamil writer Perumal Murugan. “They were given to you when you went shopping to say, a textile store.”   He has fond memories of eating groundnuts and sweet tubers off the bags when he was a little boy. “I would accompany my grandmother when she visited my aunt in a village five kilometres from Tiruchengode,where we lived,” he recalls: “We travelled by foot and I vividly remember her manjal pai . She always carried something to eat for my aunt.” Perumal Murugan says that he continues to use the bags for vegetable shopping. “But people look down on it these days,” he adds, chuckling: “There have been times when my children refused to come out with me if I carried a manjal pai .”   About the size of an A4 sheet, the manjal pai is more than just a cloth bag. “It is a framework for sustainability,” says Krishnan N Subramanian, who runs YellowBag, a Madurai-based organisation that makes cloth bags.  “It satisfies all parameters for a sustainable product: has a long shelf-life, can be washed and reused, can be recycled as a dust cloth once worn out, is locally-made. I know of women in Madurai who paid for their children’s school fees by stitching the bags,” he says.  The manjal pai ’s roots can be traced to the fact that South Indians associate the colour yellow with auspiciousness. “Which is perhaps why the bag came in that colour,” says 82-year-old M Velayutham, the founder of publishing house Vijaya Pathipagam, Coimbatore. “Families used the bags to give wedding favorsof coconuts and fruits. On it, they printed names of the couple along with the date of the wedding. I printed some for my daughter’s wedding in 1989,” he remembers.  People did not employ the bags only for shopping. “I used it as a school bag,” says Velayutham, recalling how he would walk with it in the crook of his arm. “I also took it when I travelled light,” he adds. Velayutham recalls that khaki bags made from the fabric spun at Binny Mills, in erstwhile Madras, were once popular too. So were slightly big white ones in which lentils and rice were sold. Reused and repurposed  “My mother would tailor these into pillow covers with the printed portion turned inwards,” recalls A Pandimadevi, whose father owned a grocery shop in Dindigul. “Father used the same manjal pai for years, in which he carried the keys of the shop,” recalls the 60-year-old. “The first thing he did once back home was hang the bag by a nail on the wall.”  The bags have also been used to carry cash. “A businessman myself, I remember placing cash inside, folding it and walking with it secured at the armpit,” says MPratapKumar, who runsGem & Co at George Town. “Stand at a street corner in North Chennai and you will see that it is still used by a lot of people today, especially senior citizens,” he observes.  With vintage value and precious memories associated with it, it is no wonder that some people will not part with their manjal pai . “My grandmother had a few that she would refuse to give away to her daughter or daughter-in-law no matter what,” laughs Krishnan. And as for my mother, I am sure she has another secret stash hidden in her almirah.   It has a long shelf-life, can be washed and reused, can be recycled as a dust cloth once worn out Krishnan N Subramanian, YellowBag||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-bagful-of-memories/article64948365.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:43 IST,||Muhurtam in the metaverse?||While most brides and grooms are stressed about booking a venue and shopping for trousseaus and more, Dinesh SP and his fiancée Janaganandhini Ramaswamy are busy planning a metaverse. When Tamil Nadu announced a Sunday lockdown, guest lists were limited to 100 people. The couple, wanting their family and friends present, decided to revise their plans for the Sunday festivities. Introducing a virtual setting of the metaverse for their February 6 wedding reception so they could invite as many people as they wish; the virtual guest list stands at around 2,500 now. Dinesh admits that some have not been so readily accepting of this concept. He understands, though, as many are still adjusting to virtual calls in lieu of offline face-to-face meetings. “I had to explain to a lot of people what the metaverse even was,” admits Dinesh. He adds “I was happy to do that, especially with elders where I had to shift the language to compare it to a video game. Once they understood that all that needed to do was use a login for the website, they were excited. It may take five years for India to integrate the metaverse so I also wanted Indians to experience this now and why not through a wedding?” A project manager at IIT Madras, Dinesh is no stranger to emerging tech. For this event, he approached fellow metaverse evangelist Vignesh Selvaraj, the CEO of Chennai-based startup TardiVerse that uses blockchain tech to create meta-spaces. Vignesh and his team of around seven people were immediately on board with the idea and worked round the clock to make it happen. So how does one get in? Aside from having to be on the guest list, Dinesh points out the meta-reception will have a gateway in the form of a blockchain wallet that requires a unique and secure login. Once a guest logs in, they can choose from some preset avatars. Then, they can move about in the virtual reception space and greet the couple. The best part? All of this is set at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry’s Great Hall. Dinesh and Janaganandhini, having first met on a work project, share a mutual love for all things Harry Potter and the two thought, given the malleable nature of the metaverse, why not celebrate their love at the famous feast hall? One has to ask: will there be virtual food on display such as biryani or even Butterbeer perhaps? Dinesh chuckles, “There’s an idea! I’ll check on getting that put in this week.”  Amid the complex tech, family lies at the heart of the meta-reception. An avatar of Janaganandhini’s father who passed away in April 2021 will be ‘present’. “I thought to give life to my future father-in-law in the metaverse,” says Dinesh. Though the event is taking place at Hogwarts, tradition is still important to the couple; their avatars will be dressed in a sari and a veshti , while Janaganandhini’s father will be in a kurta.  “Ultimately, while I love technology and all things blockchain and metaverse,” concludes Dinesh proudly, “this whole thing is a gift for my girl.”  All of this is set at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry’s Great Hall. The couple shares a mutual love for all things Harry Potter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/muhurtam-in-the-metaverse/article64948368.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:42 IST,||What happened before War and Peace?||When filmmaker Venkateshkumar G was cleaning a cupboard in his Valasaravakkam house in 2019, he stumbled upon an old Tamil book penned by his great grandfather, Rao Sahib K Kothandapani Pillai, an Indian diplomat and a Tamil scholar. The book, titled Kadhaimanikkovai: Stories from Tolstoy , was a translation of three stories of the great Russian novelist Leo Tolstoy and was published in 1932 as a text book in the Madrs Presidency.  “I had heard the name ‘Leo Tolstoy’ but didn’t know much about him. I read that translated book with great interest,” recalls Venkateshkumar, over a Zoom call. He sent a digital copy of the book to the Leo Tolstoy Museum at Yasnaya Polyana, Russia, which was delighted to receive it. The museum curators, in turn, invited him to Russia, for which Venkateshkumar prepared and presented a speech on Tolstoy’s influence on Tamil literature. His fascination for Tolstoy started then. It slowly became an obsession, with the filmmaker reading up as much material as he could find on him. Venkateshkumar, who has done two feature films in Tamil apart from a bunch of shorts, is now set to start his dream project: a Russian film on Leo Tolstoy.  Featuring the events leading to the writing of Tolstoy’s epic War and Peace , the film is slated to kickstart in Russia soon, once pandemic restrictions lift. “There has been material on Tolstoy’s life, but very few tend to focus on his student life at Kazan University and the many events that shaped his outlook forwards life, which led to the writing of the classic War and Peace . Andrei Vladimir Tolstoy, the great great great grandson of Leo Tolstoy, will be playing the lead role.”  The filmmaker hopes to bring alive on the big screen even the milieu that Tolstoy lived in. “It helps that a lot of things are still the same there and preserved the way it was,” he says, “The villages still have an old-world charm to them and the families that served the Tolstoy family (he belonged to an aristocratic family) are still around.”  Venkateshkumar’s cinematic vision includes filming in these places, portions of which Tolstoy himself wrote about in A Landowners Morning , a short story that had him wondering about how to change the poverty and grief around him.  “We are planning a four-month schedule to shoot the film,” says Venkateshkumar, who was recently conferred an honorary diploma by Rossotrudnichestvo, an autonomous federal government agency under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Russia. A tryst with cinema  Venkateshkumar is a full-fledged filmmaker now, but he wasn’t always one. A decade ago, he had a full-time corporate career, when he fancied making short films and thus worked on a short titled White Dirt on manual scavenging.  “I was busy at office when I received a call,” he recalls, “The person said, ‘Balu Mahendra has watched your short in the Internet and wants to meet you’. I immediately excused myself and rushed off.”  At Cinema Pattarai, a film school that the veteran late Tamil filmmaker ran, White Dirt was screened to its students. Afterwards, Balu Mahendra beckoned Venkateshkumar and said three words, “ Ithu dan cinema. (This is cinema).”   It spurred Venkateskumar to take up filmmaking in a bigger way. He went on to direct other documentaries and features, including Lightman , which portrays the life of lightmen in Tamil cinema.  Apart from the film on Tolstoy, he is currently in talks with major OTT players to bankroll his ambitious project on LTTE chief Vellupillai Prabhakaran, starring Bobby Simha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/what-happened-before-war-and-peace/article64948373.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:07 IST,||Along the coast, up the mountains||Fancy a bit of Himachal Pradesh in Auroville? Freelance photographer and teacher at Auroville’s Last School, Ashwin Ezhumalai, attempts to capture unfamiliar terrains through his series of photographs, at an exhibition titled ‘In the Land of Majestic Giants’ at Centre d’Art Gallery, Citadines. This installation focuses on mountains and brings out the sheer beauty, spirit and energy that one can sense in such spaces. It presents photographs from some of the rarely visited valleys and passes of Himachal Pradesh. The aim of the exhibition is to give a visual experience of the vastness of the Himalayan ranges along with its varying terrain and diverse landscape below and above the tree line, glaciers, grassy hills and snow-capped mountains. The show tries to bring out the photographer’s perspective and journey with these majestic beings. Moreover, it highlights some of the treks done by a small group of Auroville residents in these remote landscapes with harsh conditions. In the Land of Majestic Giantswill be on display from January 28 to February 12 at Centre d’Art Gallery, Citadines, Auroville.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/along-the-coast-up-the-mountains/article64948245.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:44 IST,||The travelling bun||“Master, oru tea!”: This command forms the background score at RMS Sweets Marimuthu Tea Stall, located at Gopalpatti. The small-town, 47 kilometres from Madurai, is popular for tamarind, fragrant senthooram mangoes, and a unique, fluffy sweet treat — paal buns.   We elbow our way into the crowded shop one evening — past a gaggle of schoolboys ordering vadas , farmers biting into murukku and khaki-clad bus drivers sipping tea — and arrive at the glass counter, where the buns await.   The shop, which has been around for almost three decades, has been making paal buns for 24 years now. It is among the town’s most popular haunts for the delicacy. “Maida, curd, cooking soda, and sugar,” lists M Shubash, the owner, explaining how the snack is made. “We knead the dough at around 10 am and let it ferment for half-an-hour. Then, we roll small sections, fry them in hot oil, and drop them into sugar syrup.”   Every tea shop at Gopalpatti, which has around 3,000 houses, boasts a hefty aluminium tray bearing the golden buns, each the size of a big lemon. Unlike at tea shops in other parts of Tamil Nadu where vadas and bajjis dominate, in this small town, most customers order paal buns first, following them with something spicy, before washing it all down with hot tea. The snack tastes like a squishy badhusha — soft and mildly sweet as you make your way into the centre.   R Raj Mohan, a driver at a local Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation bus, tells us that he has picked up the buns for several friends over the years. “The moment anyone hears I travel the Gopalpatti route, they ask for paal buns,” he smiles. Though they have been popular with the locals for over four decades, it is the tourists and travellers who made them popular.  “Gopalpatti is the only small-town in the vicinity for villagers nearby who want to shop for clothes or jewellery,” says Shubash. “Pilgrims who travel by foot to Palani from Madurai and Karaikudi too pass by,” he adds. Gradually, the snack travelled from the small tea shops of Gopalpatti.  A few blocks down the road, is Thamodharan Tea Stall. It is here that we trace the history of this snack. Between handing customers paal buns, K Narayanan, who runs the place describes how they have been making these buns for 40 years. “It all began in Alanganallur,” says Narayanan, pausing to drop coins into a drawer. He adds, “They make something similar at tea shops there. Many years ago, a ‘master’ from the town, arrived at Gopalpatti. He introduced it here and gradually, it caught the fancy of locals and tourists alike.”   N Suppuraja, the oldest employee at RMS Sweets knows the story well. He has been at the shop from the time it was started. “It didn’t move well the first day we put it up for sale,” says the toothless 75-year-old. But before he knew it, paal buns were disappearing off their trays. “It is called ‘paal’ bun of all things,” he chuckles. “But there is not a drop of milk in it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-travelling-bun/article64948364.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:45 IST,||Vultures, demystified||Bharathidasan Subbiah has spent the past 10 years on the ground in various parts of Tamil Nadu, studying vultures — their habits, habitations, patterns and problems. There was a lot to document and understand, it was seven years into the process that he felt he knew enough to write on the subject. “I started writing my book three years ago,” says the conservationist over phone from Coimbatore, “And only now is it ready.”  Titled In Search of Vultures , the book is published by Kalamkriya, the social interest publication wing of Chennai-based Sanmar Group. It is bilingual and heavy on information and images. Every page — and sometimes every column — written by Bharathidasan in Tamil, sits beside its counterpart translated into English. It lists facts as simple as the number of vulture species in existence on the planet, in the country, and in the State, as well as explaining issues as complex as the biochemical hazards endangering these birds. In between, it also weaves in instances of vultures being included in various cultures, mythologies and rituals, establishing them as an inherent part of human existence.  As the book’s name suggests, Bharathidasan’s focus is on the fact that the creature, once a common sight across the State, is becoming rarer and rarer to come by. The reasons for this are many, and human activity is more to blame than other phenomenon. This is not a claim made lightly, as the book relies not only on Bharathidasan’s own research, but also on the works of other conservationists and filmmakers. “As critical as the vulture is to our ecosystem, it is sad to see that even today, the bird is seen in a negative light,” he rues, highlighting the need for simple, accessible information that can turn this tide.  The author-conservationist believes that there is enough information out there to change public perception of the bird. The most stark example, featured in the book, is a town called Thirukazhukundram. Located near Chengalpattu, the town (named after the bird) has a temple whose priests had been feeding prasadam to vultures till well into the late 1900s. “I was a very young child when the late ornithologist Salim Ali wrote about witnessing these birds partake of temple prasadam . I remember being fascinated by the idea, of members of a purely scavenger species eating sakkara pongal . But it did happen, and it was documented, though the ritual had stopped long before I could eventually visit the place,” he says.  In his book, Bharathidasan mentions not only the writings of naturalists and ornithologists who have either witnessed or tried to explain these incidents (and their gradual dwindling), but also Buddhist, Hindu and other scriptures that mention something similar. The intention here is to understand why this deviation from the norm occurred and why it stopped. “We tell this story on field when we want people to feel interested in vultures,” says Bharathidasan, signing off with, “It helps create a bit of intrigue.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/vultures-demystified/article64948363.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:43 IST,||The artist in isolation||K Shyam Kumar’s drawings command the viewer’s undivided attention. Each painting is exquisitely detailed, a continuum of lines and dots that forge into forts, pyramid-like structures and humanesque faces. Part of a pen and ink series titled The Steps for Mukhti, the drawings are on show at an exhibition, My Planet, at the Varija Art Gallery in DakshinaChitra. The show features 15 drawings and 25 sculptures in bronze and granite. These drawings, which are on layered and textured surfaces, are part of his works from the 2000s. The Chennai-based artist and sculptor, who prefers to work in seclusion, has not had a solo show in 20 years. “I take at least four months to six on a painting,” he says, of his long-drawn out creative process. Shutting off from the noise of the world, Shyam often withdraws into his own, consumed by the work. “It all begins with the dot,” he says of the drawings, which contain thousands of dots each. “It demands utmost patience and for me, it is a meditative process.”  Shyam, who holds a post-graduate diploma in Sculpture from the Government College of Arts and Crafts, Chennai, began his art practice as early as 1979. He says he is intrigued by the infinity of the cosmos, its darkness and the void.Critics regard his works a blend of mysticism, fantasy and science fiction. One of his earliest works, a terracotta sculpture that he made as a student, was an elongated figurine, resembling Steven Spielberg’s E.T , which drew mixed responses at the time.  At the show, while the granite sculptures seem to be in a meditative trance, eyes closed, the bronze ones have their eyes open. “If you notice, none of the sculptures have ears,” says Shyam, adding they are representative of his own self in isolation, refusing to let in the clatter of the world. On till February 10 at DakshinaChitra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-artist-in-isolation/article64948369.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:42 IST,||Pause and effect||Much of the trauma faced by humankind — from plagues to wars — has been fictionalised and made immortal through art. The time of dread, as Nobel Prize-winning author Toni Morrison puts it, “is precisely the time when artists go to work”. COVID-19 has been an unprecedented event in the history of humankind, and artists, over the past two years, have found a way to merge these realities into art, ranging from poetry and to novels to cinema.  The pandemic is becoming a movie genre in itself, where the films are not just being made during the phase, but also about them. Amazon Prime’s 2020 anthology Unpaused is one such example. Now, they are back with season two titled Unpaused: Naya Safar with five new shorts. Excerpts from an interview with Shikha Makan and Neena Kulkarni, the director-actor duo from one of the shorts, Gond Ke Laddu: Over the years we have seen a lot of anthologies on OTT platforms. What do you think about this sub-genre? lShikha: It is a very interesting format because it gives you the freedom to play with the craft aspect of storytelling and also be able to make a point across.  The sheer diversity of thought, ideas and expression are creatively very interesting to engage with as a filmmaker. It also helps the audience make more choices. Neena: I did a project called Gandha (Fragrance) in Marathi where the director Sachin Kuldalkar had directed three films unrelated to each other but carrying the same thing theme (the sense of smell). It is like reading short stories and it is a wonderful opportunity for that many people to come on board.  Neena, what has OTT platforms brought for you as an actor? lOh lots, lots! I come from a time when there were only plays and films. Later, I got into television. I have seen a lot of mediums, like daily soaps or short films, take shape and thrive. It is also very interesting for the actor to see a new medium because there are new ideas to be exchanged. Shikha, when you are telling the story of a pandemic, an ongoing calamity, what are some of the challenges that you face? lIf you are compelled to tell a story because of the circumstance, then you are immersed in it as a filmmaker. It is a matter of perspective, what approach you take, how you are looking at the pandemic around you and also how it has affected you. Certain things influence you and if you can portray that in a story in a way that it resonated with a lot of people, then that’s good. Human stories are stories that we are always seeking, whether they are tragic or light-hearted.  What inspired your short, Gond Ke Laddu ?   lThere are two parts in this story: an old mother living alone in a small town who desires to send something special to her daughter. The other part of the story touches upon the realities of a delivery agent and his wife. Gond Ke Laddu connects these stories with an unexpected twist.  During lockdown, it was very common for me and my friends to worry about our parents who were living away. In my family, food made at home holds a lot of value. At the same time, there were a lot of stories written about delivery agents as they were almost at the frontline. Neena, what are some of the things that you would want to face to challenge yourself as an actor? lI have acted in almost all genres. Now, it is about enjoying what comes my way and also being curious about why I have been chosen for this particular role. There is a lot of competition even amongst senior actors so you cannot be complacent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pause-and-effect/article64948375.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:43 IST,||Along the coast, up the mountains||Fancy a bit of Himachal Pradesh in Auroville? Freelance photographer and teacher at Auroville’s Last School, Ashwin Ezhumalai, attempts to capture unfamiliar terrains through his series of photographs , at an exhibition titled In the Land of Majestic Giants at Centre d’Art Gallery, Citadines. This installation focusses on mountains and brings out the sheer beauty, spirit and energy that one can sense in such spaces. It presents photographs from some of the rarely-visited valleys and passes of Himachal Pradesh. The aim is to give a visual experience of the vastness of the Himalayan ranges along with its varying terrain and diverse landscape below and above the tree line, glaciers, grassy hills and snow-capped mountains. It tries to bring out the photographer’s perspective and journey with these majestic beings. Moreover, it highlights some of the treks done by a small group of Auroville residents in these remote landscapes with harsh conditions. In the Land of Majestic Giants will be on display from January 28 to February 12 at Centre d’Art Gallery, Citadines, Auroville.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/along-the-coast-up-the-mountains/article64948371.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:42 IST,||Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo gets a Hindi dubbed release||Following the blockbuster success of Pushpa: The Rise , Telugu star Allu Arjun’s 2020 hit Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo is gearing up for a Hindi dubbed theatrical release on January 26. It must be noted that Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo released in theatres just before the pandemic and became a money spinner at the box-office. The Hindi version is produced by Goldmines Telefilms.   Written and directed by Trivikram Srinivas, Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo also starred Pooja Hegde, Tabu, Jayaram, Sushanth, and Nivetha Pethuraj.   Meanwhile, Allu Arjun’s Pushpa: The Rise , which released in December last year, has now become the talk of the town after its OTT premiere on Amazon Prime Video.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ala-vaikunthapurramuloo-gets-a-hindi-dubbed-release/article64948376.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 03:42 IST,||Jai Bhim||Director TJ Gnanavel’s directorial debut Jai Bhim has now been featured by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences’ official YouTube channel called the Oscars. Starring Manigandan and Lijomol Jose in the lead along with Suriya, the video clip has scenes from Jai Bhim which has been featured under the Scene At the Academy category.   “Our genuine attempt to tell the story of the unknown has served its purpose by creating world wide attention and now, needy people are reaping the benefits. This is the best award we could get,” said Gnanavel in a press statement.Produced by 2D Entertainment, Jai Bhim is about an activist-lawyer’s fight for justice for a tribal community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/jai-bhim/article64948374.ece
20 January 2022||January 20 2022 05:19 IST,||Pause and effect||Much of the trauma faced by humankind — from plagues to wars — has been fictionalised and made immortal through art. The time of dread, as Nobel Prize-winning author Toni Morrison puts it, “is precisely the time when artists go to work”.  COVID-19 has been an unprecedented event in the history of humankind, and artists, over the past two years, have found a way to merge these realities into art, ranging from poetry and novels to cinema. The pandemic is becoming a movie genre in itself, where the films are not just being made during the phase, but also about them. Amazon Prime Video’s 2020 anthology Unpaused is one such example. Now, they are back with season two — Unpaused: Naya Safar — with five new shorts.   Edited excerpts from an interview with Shikha Makan and Neena Kulkarni, the director-actor duo from one of the shorts, Gond Ke Laddu: Over the years we have seen a lot of anthologies on OTT platforms. What do you think about this sub-genre? lShikha: It is a very interesting format because it gives you the freedom to play with the craft aspect of storytelling and also be able to make a point across. The sheer diversity of thought, ideas and expression are creatively very interesting to engage with as a filmmaker. It also helps the audience make more choices.  Neena: I did a project called Gandha (Fragrance) in Marathi where the director Sachin Kuldalkar had directed three films unrelated to each other but carrying the same theme (the sense of smell). It is like reading short stories and it is a wonderful opportunity for that many people to come on board.  Neena, what have OTT platforms brought for you as an actor?  l Neena: Oh lots, lots! I come from a time when there were only plays and films. Later, I got into television. I have seen a lot of mediums, like daily soaps or short films, take shape and thrive. It is also very interesting for the actor to see a new medium because there are new ideas to be exchanged.  Shikha, when you are telling the story of a pandemic, an ongoing calamity, what are some of the challenges that you face? lShikha:If you are compelled to tell a story because of the circumstance, then you are immersed in it as a filmmaker. It is a matter of perspective, what approach you take, how you are looking at the pandemic around you and also how it has affected you. Certain things influence you and if you can portray that in a story in a way that it resonated with a lot of people, then that’s good. Human stories are stories that we are always seeking, whether they are tragic or light-hearted.  What inspired your short, Gond Ke Laddu ?   lShikha:There are two parts in this story: an old mother living alone in a small town who desires to send something special to her daughter. The other part of the story touches upon the realities of a delivery agent and his wife. Gond Ke Laddu connects these stories with an unexpected twist. During lockdown, it was very common for me and my friends to worry about our parents who were living away. In my family, food made at home holds a lot of value. At the same time, there were a lot of stories written about delivery agents as they were on the frontline.  Neena, what are some of the things that you would want to face to challenge yourself as an actor? lNeena:I have acted in almost all genres. It is about enjoying what comes my way and being curious about why I have been chosen for this particular role. There is a lot of competition even among senior actors, so you cannot be complacent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pause-and-effect/article64948233.ece
