22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Amar Jawan Jyoti now merged with War Memorial flame: govt.||The iconic Amar Jawan Jyoti, which was inaugurated after the 1971 Liberation War of Bangladesh by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, was removed on Friday, even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the construction of a statue of Subhas Chandra Bose, restructuring the symbolism around the India Gate. In the face of protests from the Congress and some veterans, the Centre said the Jyoti was “not extinguished” and only “merged” with the flame at the National War Memorial (NWM). Mr. Modi said that after Independence, new things were constructed only for a “few families” but now, monuments of national importance were being built. At a ceremony presided over by Air Marshal B.R. Krishna, Chief of Integrated Defence Staff, a torch with the flame at the Jyoti was carried with full military honours and merged with the NWM flame. The NWM, inaugurated in February 2019, is located at the ‘C’ Hexagon near India Gate and was built in memory of the soldiers who laid down their lives for the country in the post-Independence period. Names of over 26,000 soldiers are inscribed on it. In a change of tradition, before the commencement of the Republic Day parade in 2020, Mr. Modi paid homage to the fallen soldiers by laying a wreath at the NWM, instead of at the Jyoti. Since the inauguration of the NWM, all homage ceremonies are being conducted only there. However, defence officials had stated that the Jyoti would be kept burning and used for ceremonial occasions and official visits. ‘No names mentioned’  Downplaying the controversy that emerged on the issue, a government source said it was odd to see that the Jyoti paid homage to the martyrs of 1971 and other wars but none of their names were present. “The names of all Indian martyrs from all the wars, including those in 1971 and others before and after it, are at the NWM. Hence it is a true shraddhanjali to have the flame paying tribute to martyrs there,” the source said.  India Gate was a “symbol of our colonial past” as it has only some of those who fought for the British in the First World War and the Anglo Afghan War, the source noted. “It is ironic that people who did not make an NWM for seven decades are now making a hue and cry when a permanent and fitting tribute is being made to our martyrs.” Mr. Modi said on social media: “At a time when the entire nation is marking the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, I am glad to share that his grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amar-jawan-jyoti-war-memorial-merged-govt/article64947168.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:52 IST,||Karnataka lifts weekend curfew; night curfew to remain in place||Under pressure from the public and trade and business establishments, the Karnataka Government announced lifting of weekend curfew (Saturday and Sunday). However, the Government decided to continue night curfew (10 p.m. to 5 a.m.) on all days. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai chaired a two-hour-long meeting with health experts, Ministers and senior officials, which concluded with the decision to lift the weekend curfew on ‘scientific grounds’. With a hospitalisation rate of no more than 5%, the Government decided to stop imposing a weekend curfew in Karnataka. The Government would re-impose the restriction if the hospitalisation rate increases, said Revenue Minister R. Ashok and appealed to the people to cooperate with the Government by strictly following COVID-19 guidelines in public places. As on Thursday, Karnataka had 2,93,230 active cases of COVID-19. Of these, 2.86 lakh patients are in home isolation while 5,344 are undergoing treatment in hospitals with 340 patients receiving treatment in ICU units and 127 patients are on ventilators, Mr. Ashok told mediapersons. Positivity rate Karnataka’s positive rate for COVID-19 is 19.94%. The positivity rate for children is 8% while the positive rate for aged persons is 16.57%. The Chief Minister has issued instructions to senior officials to take special care of children testing positive, the Minister said. Besides Bengaluru Urban, a large number of cases were being reported in Mysuru, Tumakuru, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, and Udupi districts. The number of cases has been doubling every three days. On an average, one infected person is infecting about 2.6 persons, according to a statement from the Chief Minister’s office. Experts said the number of COVID-19 cases would reach a peak next week.A large number of doctors and paramedical staff too have been infected with the virus. The Minister justified the continuation of night curfew on the grounds that it would restrict activities in bars, clubs and restaurants, and create awareness among the public about the prevalence COVID-19 in Karnataka. All existing rules related to a ban on protests, demonstrations and rallies would continue across Karnataka. Existing restrictions related to the number of people attending marriages and public functions too will continue. All hotels, pubs, bars, restaurants and malls would operate with 50% capacity. Mr. Ashok said several organisations in the organised and unorganised sectors, and Congress leaders too, had demanded removal of weekend curfew in Karnataka. The Government had taken the decision mainly on “scientific grounds based on the suggestions given by experts”, he said. Neighbouring States The meeting took stock of prevailing positivity rates in neighbouring States of Kerala and Maharashtra, and decided to strictly impose COVID-19 restrictions to control the spread of the pandemic in the coming days, the Minister said. Members of the Technical Advisory Committee of Karnataka, experts from WHO and NIMHANS, Ministers K. Sudhakar, Araga Jnanendra, and Govind M. Karjol attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-lifts-weekend-curfew-night-curfew-to-remain-in-place/article64947319.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:57 IST,||Bandi appears before LS privileges committee||BJP State president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday appeared before the 15-member Privileges Committee of Lok Sabha to explain how the police manhandled him while arresting him on the night of January 2 at his camp office in Karimnagar when he wanted to stage a sit in in protest against the arbitrary manner of reallotment and giving posting to teachers in new districts. Sources here said he urged the panel, headed by Mr. Sunil Kumar Singh, to take action against Karimnagar Police Commissioner V. Satyanarayana and other police officials for the cruel manner in which he was picked up. He also brought to the notice of the committee that the High Court had also found fault with the method adopted by police. Explaining the sequence of events on that day, Mr. Sanjay Kumar said Mr. Satyanarayana tried to drag him by the collar of his shirt and using abusive language. He was herded into a waiting van and driven to Manakondur police station where he was detained for the whole night. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said this was the second time Mr. Satyanarayana and police officials targeted him. The police displayed the same cruelty against him when he was proceeding to the last rites of a road transport corporation worker Nagunuru Babu during the strike in the corporation in October 2019. This time round, he was demonstrating with COVID appropriate behaviour but the police resorted to strong arm tactics citing government restrictions on public gatherings due to the pandemic. The BJP leader, apart from Mr. Satyanarayana, also named Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) of Huzurabad Kotla Venkat Reddy, police inspectors Kommineni Ramchander Rao (Jammikunta), V. Srinivas (Huzurabad), Challamalla Naresh (Karimnagar I Town) and ACP of Central Crime State at Karimnagar K. Srinivas. He recalled his request to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla for initiating against the officers as they had violated his privileges as a Member of Parliament. He said a large police force led by Mr. Satyanarayana tried to storm his camp office forcibly by breaking the grills of the gate with gas cutters. They had also brought an iron rod to break open the gate. News reports next day and video clippings of the episode were submitted by Mr. Sanjay Kumar to the committee. He explained to the committee the adverse impact of the reshuffle of employees at places of their work. A government order issued for the purpose went against the spirit of Presidential Order on new zonal system for education and employment. The process was taken up without transparency and there was no uniformity in it across districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bandi-appears-before-ls-panel/article64947304.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Cabinet ratifies PRC G.O.s, new pay for employees from January||The State Cabinet, which met on Friday, ratified the G.O.s related to the new Pay Revision Commission (PRC) in spite of stiff opposition from government employees. The State government also initiated steps to modify the software to pay the January salaries as per the new PRC. The State government, however, constituted a Cabinet Sub-Committee to negotiate with the employees’ associations on the issues related to the PRC flagged by them. Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) Minister Botcha Satyanarayana, Information & Public Relations (I&PR) Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani), Government Adviser Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy and Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma are the members of the Sub-Committee. Mr. Venkataramaiah said that the Cabinet had ratified the new PRC and decided to pay the salaries accordingly and the software was being modified for the purpose. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy with a heavy heart took a decision to fix the fitment at 23% in view of the precarious financial position. COVID-19 has devastated the finances and revenues of the State. The Chief Minister had announced 27% IR even before the employees had demanded it. The employees also knew that the IR was not part of the salary, he said. To a question, the Minister exuded confidence that the issue would be sorted out before the payment of January salary. “The doors are always open for negotiations. The Chief Secretary has already invited the employees for negotiations and clarified their apprehensions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-cabinet-ratifies-go-on-pay-revision-commission/article64947167.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:12 IST,||Railways to build underpasses to prevent elephant deaths||The Southern Railway on Friday informed the Madras High Court that 24 elephants had died on the railway tracks between Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu and Palakkad in Kerala from 1978 to 2021 and hence it had taken elaborate measures including proposed construction of two underpasses at a cost of Rs. 7.49 crore to prevent such deaths. In a report filed before Justices V. Bharathidasan and N. Sathish Kumar, who were seized of a 2018 writ petition on the issue, the railway administration said the General Manager of Southern Railway had forwarded a proposal to the Railway Board on December 16 to construct the two underpasses across the railway tracks in Tamil Nadu. Southern Railway counsel P.T. Ramkumar said 12 elephants (including five calves) had died in 10 railway track accidents that took place in Kerala since 2002 and that an equal number of elephants had died on the Tamil Nadu side in nine accidents since 1978. Hence, the railway administration had imposed speed restrictions for the trains. Further, the Southern Railway was planning to introduce Intrusion Deduction System by laying optic fibre cables along the railway tracks so that movement of elephants could be detected through acoustic sensors. It would be introduced after studying trials to be conducted by North East Frontier Railway in Alipurduar Division, he said. The railway officials also held discussions with a private software firm in Coimbatore on January 13 to develop modern technological solutions that could give prior warning to loco pilots regarding elephant movement on the railway tracks through thermal or infrared sensors. However, an audio alarm system to chase the elephants away from railway tracks had already been developed and installed at a few locations on December 28. It used solar power to make sounds of honeybees or a roaring tiger to keep the elephants away from sunset to sunrise. It would be installed in other locations depending upon its efficacy, he added. Mr. Ramkumar also apprised the court of other measures such as clearing of vegetation near the tracks to provide a clear view to the loco pilots, widening of the earth cutting along the tracks so that elephants could have enough space to move away on sighting speeding trains and construction of ramps at vantage points to prevent fatal accidents. Stating that solar fencing along the tracks had proved to be an effective solution in Kerala, the counsel said some fences were damaged by the elephants. However, now the railways as well as the Kerala forest department had called for tenders to install hanging solar fences at important stretches. Similar fences would be installed in Tamil Nadu too, he said. The railway administration suggested that the forest departments in Kerala and Tamil Nadu could conduct a joint survey to identify the actual population of elephants and fix radio collars on the animals as was done in Similipal Tiger Reserve in Odisha. It also suggested erection of additional watch towers, deployment of elephant watchers and so on. After hearing him at length, the judges adjourned the case to February 25 for the Tamil Nadu forest department to respond to the suggestions made by the Southern Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/southern-rly-to-construct-underpasses-to-prevent-elephant-deaths-between-tn-kerala/article64947254.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:08 IST,||Panel proposes merger of agri bank with Kerala Bank||A State government-appointed committee has recommended merging the Kerala State Cooperative Agricultural and Rural Development Bank (KSCARDB) with the Kerala Bank. However, the 76 primary cooperative agricultural and rural development banks under the KSCARDB should be retained as such, but under the control of the Kerala Bank, the committee headed by R. Sasikumar has suggested in a report handed over to Minister for Cooperation V.N. Vasavan on Wednesday. Amendments In order to enable the merger, the committee has advised that necessary amendments be made in the Kerala State Cooperative (Agricultural and Rural Development) Banks Act and the Kerala Cooperative Societies Act. The merger will serve to strengthen the cooperative sector in the State, according to the committee. Loan sanctioning wing If the amalgamation is approved by the government, the KSCARDB will evolve into the Kerala Bank loan sanctioning wing dealing with farm and rural development. The Kerala Bank came into being in 2019 through the merger of the Kerala State Cooperative Bank and 13 district cooperative banks. The committee had been constituted by the previous Left Democratic Front government for suggesting measures for the modernisation of the KSCARDB. It was later reconstituted with Mr. Sasikumar as chairman by the present LDF dispensation. According to the report, the banking software system put in place by the Kerala Bank can be adopted by the cooperative agricultural and rural development banks. The committee has also recommended streamlining recovery management in the cooperative agricultural and rural development bank network. Further studies mooted Further, it has suggested that further studies be conducted to finetune the functioning of the 76 primary banks. The report is expected to come up before the Cabinet after a scrutiny by the Cooperation department.  The 76 primary cooperative agricultural and rural development banks under the KSCARDB should be retained as such. R. Sasikumar Committee head||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-proposes-merger-of-agri-bank-with-kerala-bank/article38306574.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||People can soon invest in infra projects: Gadkari||The Union government is awaiting approval of the Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI) for enabling common citizens to invest at least Rs. 1 lakh in infrastructure projects under a new model for asset monetisation, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Friday.  “Most of the pension funds and foreign investors are investing in the projects. But we should take the cooperation of Indian people, particularly those who can invest minimum Rs. 1 lakh in road projects, for which we have already developed a new model. We are awaiting approval from SEBI so that the common man can invest in NHAI (National Highways Authority of India). We are trying to give him an assured income of 7.5% to 8%,” Mr. Gadkari said at the “Countdown to Budget 2022” event organised by The HinduBusinessLine , in association with BoB Financial, the credit card arm of Bank of Baroda, and Hitachi India.  “My interest is to give benefit to the poor people of this country, who can invest in their economy, because in India we have problems in pension, insurance and share economy. For that reason, if small people can invest in infrastructure and get 7.5% to 8% interest, it can be a great thing for them to contribute to infrastructure development and at the same time benefit from that,” the Minister said. Speaking about the upcoming Union Budget, Mr. Gadkari said he was hopeful that the proposals will expedite the growth of the Indian economy to make it the largest economy in the world. Advice to industry Mr. Gadkari said that Indian industry and entrepreneurs should seize the opportunity arising from the “problems” facing China and “go for more exports” riding on the back of talent, availability of raw materials, power, and good infrastructure, to make the economy strong. Stressing that agriculture was the “most important priority” of the government, he outlined several initiatives taken, which will create more jobs in rural, tribal and 120 aspiring districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/people-can-soon-invest-in-infra-gadkari/article64947164.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:58 IST,||GHMC leads COVID cases surge in State||Telangana logged 4,416 new SARS-CoV2 cases by 5.30 p.m. on Friday, according to the medical bulletin issued by the Department of Health. The State tested 1,20,243 samples and results of 8,597 samples are awaited. The total number of cases under treatment and isolation has surged to 29,127. Two persons succumbed to the disease, taking the total toll to 4,069 from the beginning of the pandemic three years back. Meanwhile, 1,920 persons recovered. Out of the 4,416 new cases, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits recorded 1,670 cases, Medchal-Malkajgiri 417 cases and Rangareddy 301 cases. Among the rural districts, Hanamkonda recorded 178 cases, Khammam 117 cases and Mahbubnagar 99 cases. The number of COVID patients under treatment has also gone up with 22,299 occupying regular beds. Meanwhile, 714 patients are occupying ICU beds and 1,214 patients are on oxygen support till Friday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4416-new-cases-in-state-ghmc-records-1670/article64947301.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:17 IST,||High Court dismisses plea for CBI probe into youth’s death||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court dismissed the petition filed by the mother of L. Manikandan, who died hours after being released from police custody, seeking a CBI probe into her son’s death. The family alleged custodial torture. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that prima facie the prosecution was on the right lines. No case had been made out to suspect that the death was the result of custodial torture, the judge said. The court said the family of the deceased could file a protest petition before the judicial magistrate concerned when the police file a final report. The magistrate could take a call, the judge said. The petitioner, L. Ramalakshmi, said Manikandan and his friends had gone out to purchase manure for their agricultural field around 4 p.m. on December 4, 2021. Two policemen intercepted her son’s two-wheeler near Keelathooval Kali Temple, she said. ‘He was beaten up’ According to her, he was beaten up and dragged to the police station. Later, she was called to the police station and asked to take him home. She said her son was not in a stable condition and was murmuring that the police had beaten him up. He died around 1.30 a.m. She sought a CBI probe into his death. The police submitted a report in the case. It was said that Manikandan was riding a stolen motorcycle and he did not stop the vehicle when the police asked him to stop during a vehicle check. Earlier, the court ordered a re-post mortem on the body of the deceased. The doctors who conducted both the post mortems had recorded that there were no ante mortem injuries on the body. The police said Manikandan might have consumed poison, apprehending that it would be exposed that he had stolen the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-dismisses-plea-for-cbi-probe-into-death-of-ramanathapuram-youth/article38306675.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:17 IST,||‘Madurai wholesale markets to move to suburbs’||The wholesale markets in Madurai would be shifted to suburban areas at a cost of Rs. 50 crore in an attempt to decongest the city roads, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Friday. Madurai Central Prison would also be shifted out of the Corporation limits. The road on the northern bank of the Vaigai would be extended and Melakkal Road would be expanded at a cost of Rs. 100 crore to ease traffic congestion, he said. After the central prison was shifted, the space would be converted into a green zone. Speaking at a virtual event, Mr. Stalin said detailed project reports were being prepared for the construction of flyovers across road junctions at Viraganur, near Apollo Hospitals, Mandela Nagar and Government Rajaji Hospital. “These projects will start soon. Vandiyur, Sellur and areas in Thenkarai Eri will be improved for the benefit of people,” he said. The Chief Minister said the government would lay underground sewerage in wards that had newly been included in Madurai Corporation and establish sewage treatment plants in the existing wards at a total cost of Rs. 500 crore. To boost industrial growth in the district, a new SIPCOT Industrial Park would be established in Madurai. Jallikttu stadium “It is our duty to regulate and protect bull-taming, which has become part of the sentiments of Tamils across the globe. A grand stadium will be constructed at Alanganallur for tourists,” Mr. Stalin said. The permanent venue would also house a museum for documenting traditional bovine species and treatment facilities for bull-tamers and tourists. Mr. Stalin announced that work would be taken up at Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple at a cost of Rs. 25 crore, and Rs. 18 crore would be spent on the restoration of Veera Vasantharayar Mandapam, which was destroyed in a fire. “Within two years, the consecration would take place at the temple,” he added. Earlier, the Chief Minister inaugurated projects completed in the district at a total cost of Rs. 51.77 crore and unveiled the foundation for new projects to be implemented at a cost of Rs. 49.74 crore. He also launched welfare schemes costing Rs. 219 crore. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru and Minister for Finance and Human Resources Management Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, elected representatives and senior officials took part at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/madurai-wholesale-markets-to-move-to-suburbs/article64947240.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:56 IST,||Goraguntepalya flyover: The wait gets longer||Motorists who have been put out for nearly a month after Goraguntepalya flyover near Peenya was closed in December 2021 will not be able to use it anytime soon. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which had taken up safety work on the flyover, has sought more time before it is opened to traffic. Experts from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) have been roped in for consultation. Only after they give the green signal will the highways authority take a decision on opening the flyover on the busy Tumakuru road. The authorities had barred vehicular movement on the flyover after NHAI officials found that there were safety issues with cables of two spans during a routine inspection. Initially, the flyover, which was closed on December 25, 2021, was set to reopen on January 3, this year. However, it was extended till January 14, and then again after IISc. was roped in.  M.K. Wathore, chief general manager of NHAI, told The Hindu that he held a meeting with experts from IISc. on Wednesday. “We understand that motorists are frustrated and have requested IISc. to carry out a detailed investigation. “I am not in a position to say that the flyover will be opened in a couple of days. Considering all the safety aspects, further decisions will be taken,” he said.  Deputy Commissioner of Traffic (West) Kuldeep Kumar R. Jain said they had not received any specific dates from NHAI. “As per information provided by NHAI officials, the repair works have been completed. But they need a third party inspection and clearance before the flyover can be reopened,” he said. “Closure of the flyover has impacted not only traffic on Tumakuru road, but also on the connecting Outer Ring road,” said a traffic police personnel. Many motorists expressed hope that authorities open the flyover before cases drop and they have to report to their offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/goraguntepalya-flyover-the-wait-gets-longer/article64947490.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:57 IST,||Forest Department braces for fire season in Karnataka||With the imminent rise in temperature in the days leading to summer, authorities at M.M. Hills in south Karnataka are bracing for forest fires and have taken precautionary measures to prevent or combat an outbreak. Though the fire season in M.M. Hills normally begins in January, unseasonal rains till as late as the first week of December ensured that the vegetation has remained green and moist so far. “As a result, the fire season has been postponed by almost 45 days,” said V. Yedukondalu, Deputy Conservator of Forests, M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary. The conventional practice of clearing fire lines – creating a bald patch of land along delineated beat boundaries to act as a fire breaker – has been completed. A 450-km fire line has been drawn and cleared. The Forest Department has deployed additional 80 personnel to look out for any outbreak. Summer tends to be intense in Chamarajanagar district. The bulk of the forest is dry deciduous that degrades into scrub jungles along the periphery and fringe area with patches of moist deciduous vegetation.Besides, more than 60% of the forest area, which covers about 906 sq km, has lantana, an invasive weed that is highly combustible and acts as a fuel in spreading a conflagration. “Preventing an outbreak should be the priority as a small spark can escalate to a major fire and will continue to burn as long as there is fuel in the form of dry vegetation. Any intervention should happen within minutes of the outbreak. Hence, additional staff have been deployed to look out for any outbreak,” said Mr. Yedukondalu. Authorities have deposited Rs. 3 crore with the fire services, who have stationed one fire tender truck apart from a couple of quick response vehicles equipped to douse a fire. Arrangements are in place to have such vehicles – 40 in all – in each of the 7 ranges of M.M. Hills. The fire tenders and quick response vehicles will be stationed in fire-prone areas, said Mr. Yedukondalu. The wildlife sanctuary has about 175 waterholes that are flush with water due to heavy rains. Normally, a majority of them tend to go dry by the end of January, but not this year. Besides, the rivers Palar and Cauvery flows through a portion of the sanctuary. Hence, wild animals are expected to be slightly better off this summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/forest-dept-braces-for-fire-season-at-mm-hills/article64947303.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||‘CM wants zero COVID deaths during 3rd wave’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the Heads of Departments to be gear up for the third wave of COVID-19 pandemic. “The Chief Minister has told the officials that there should not be a single COVID-19 death in the State during the phase,” Information and Public Relations (I&PR) Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) told the media on Friday. The Minister was briefing the media on the decisions taken at the Cabinet meeting. EBC Nestham launch Mr. Nani said the Chief Minister had given permission to the Medical and Health Department to take decisions without losing time to prevent the spread of the virus, and that they could be ratified at a later stage. The Chief Minister would launch the ‘EBC Nestham’ on January 25, under which Rs. 15,000 per annum would be paid to each beneficiary in the 45-60 age group. While 4.59 lakh applications had been received, 3.92 lakh were found eligible, the Minister said, and added that it would entail an expenditure of Rs. 589 crore. “The Cabinet has given its nod for the launch of the scheme,” Mr. Nani said. The Cabinet also cleared the proposal for construction of 16 medical colleges at a cost of Rs. 7,880 crore. It also gave its nod for development works in existing medical colleges and affiliated hospitals at a cost of Rs. 3,820 crore, he said. The Cabinet also decided to award the Krishnapatnam power plant’s operational maintenance to a private player through competitive bidding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-wants-zero-covid-19-deaths-during-third-wave/article38306097.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:12 IST,||Solatium given to family of custodial death victim||Collector S. Karmegam on Friday handed over a cheque for Rs. 10 lakh to the family of Prabakaran, a man with disability, who died while in judicial custody. The Senthamangalam police in Namakkal district on January 11 arrested Prabakaran (45) and his wife Hamsala (40) of Karuppur here for their involvement in a case related to stealing gold ornaments at a house in Senthamangalam. Prabakaran was lodged at a sub-jail in Namakkal where he fell ill. He was admitted to district headquarters hospital in Namakkal and later shifted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital in Salem. But, he died on January 12. His relatives and members of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi staged a road block near the Salem Collectorate on January 13 claiming that Prabakaran was beaten while in the custody of the Senthamangalam police and demanded registration of a case under the SC/ST Act and arrest of police personnel. Later, two Sub-Inspectors and a head constable were placed under suspension. On January 17, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin ordered the transfer of probe to the Crime Branch-Crime Investigation Department and announced a solatium to the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/solatium-given-to-family-of-custodial-death-victim/article38306471.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:12 IST,||An exceptional NE monsoon bids adieu||One of the exceptional Northeast (NE) monsoon in the recent decades that also gave copious rain in January, is officially coming to an end. The Meteorological department has announced that conditions are favourable for the monsoon to retreat from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Saturday. Officials noted that a dry weather prevailed over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry since Wednesday. Moreover, there has been a dip in the minimum temperature over the State. The dry weather may continue till January 25 over the State, Puducherry and Karaikal. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said as winds may change from cold northerly to easterly or southerly winds around January 24, nights may be relatively warm as IMD expects an increase in the minimum temperature The spillover of the monsoon has become common in the recent years. This NE monsoon ended like the last year’s monsoon, which withdrew late on January 19 last year. Quite similar to last year, this monsoon’s spillover brought good rain over many districts like Pudukottai and Ariyalur. This January, Tamil Nadu has so far recorded 3.2 cm of rain, 134% higher than its monthly average, till Saturday. Mr. Balachandran said the NE monsoon spillover into the first fortnight of January the following year, has occurred during many years in the past two decades. La Nina conditions could be one of the reasons for the monsoon spillover in January, he added. La Nina (meaning little girl in Spanish), associated with cooler ocean surface temperature in the Eastern and Central Pacific Ocean, affects global weather.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/an-exceptional-ne-monsoon-bids-adieu/article38306470.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Employees to go on strike from Feb. 7||The State government employees have decided to go on strike from February 7. The PRC Struggle Committee, an umbrella organisation of four employees’ associations and JACs, will serve a strike notice to the State government on January 25. The AP JAC, Amaravati JAC, Secretariat Employees’ Association, AP Government Employees’ Association and such other organisations held consultations among themselves. A steering committee of the Struggle Committee was formed with 12 members. They sought appointment with Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma on Monday to serve the notice. The Steering Committee member K.R. Suryanarayana said that there would be roundtable conferences on January 22 and 23. The Committee would organise rallies across the State on January 25. They would submit a memorandum to Ambedkar statue on January 26. Relay hunger strikes would be organised from January 27 to 30. A ‘Chalo Vijayawada’ protest would be held on February 3, followed by non-cooperation on February 5. “From February 6 midnight, we will go for an indefinite strike,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/government-employees-to-go-on-strike-from-feb-7/article38306086.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:56 IST,||Schools to stay shut in city till January 29||th the positive rate for COVID-19 at 14.12% among schoolchildren in Bengaluru city, all schools and colleges will remain shut in the city till January 29, except classes X, XI, and XII. A high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday took a decision on opening of schools and colleges in Bengaluru urban district on January 29. The District Education and Health Department officials have been instructed to take decisions on opening of schools in the districts depending on the number of cases. Minister B.C. Nagesh said officials have been told to take school as a unit and decide its opening based on the number of cases. The officials have been told to close schools for three days if cases are less than five. Schools would remain closed for seven days if cases were more, the minister said. COVID-19 test was conducted for 5.33 lakh students in the age group of 6-15. Only 5.94% of students tested positive, he said. TPR was highest in Bengaluru Urban-14.12%, Bengaluru Rural-8.84%, Tumakuru-11.8%, Mysuru- 7.65%, Kolar-7.41%, and Hassan-6.88% among students studying in class I to X, he said. In 13 districts, TPR among students was less than 5%, Mr. Nagesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-to-stay-shut-in-city-till-january-29/article38306331.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:17 IST,||Location shot||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/location-shot/article64947239.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:08 IST,||State meets vaccination target: Minister||Kerala has administered the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine to 100% of the target population above 18 years (2,67,09,000), while 83% (2,21,77,950) have been administered both the doses and are thus fully vaccinated. This is a significant achievement as COVID-19 vaccination is found to be highly protective against the Omicron variant and the high vaccination rate would help minimise the impact of new variant, said Health Minister Veena George here on Friday. She said that while the target population fixed by the Centre had been covered 100%, it was highly likely that there were still many more to be vaccinated, as the targets were fixed on the basis of various surveys and were not foolproof. The State has administered over five crore doses of vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-meets-vaccination-target-minister/article38306575.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Denied ticket, Utpal Parrikar quits BJP||Utpal Parrikar, son of the late Manohar Parrikar, former Goa Chief Minister and BJP stalwart, resigned from the BJP on Friday and announced that he would contest as an Independent candidate from the Panaji constituency after the party top brass denied him ticket for the seat in the Goa Assembly election. He told presspersons in Panaji that he had decided to contest as he wanted to give the people an option, and that the time had come to stand up for the values that were steadily eroding in the present BJP. “All these years my father had developed an immense bond with the people of Panaji. I, too, have developed this bond with them. But for some reason, I have not been able to get the candidature for Panaji. Instead, it has been given to someone who has opportunistically entered the BJP in the past two years,” Mr. Utpal Parrikar said, hitting out at incumbent Panaji MLA and ex-Congressman Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate, who has been given ticket in his stead. Mr. Utpal Parrikar said he was ready to take the support of other parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/denied-ticket-utpal-parrikar-quits-bjp/article38306091.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||‘Start-ups raised a record $24 bn in 2021’||Start-ups raised a record $24.1 billion in 2021, a two-fold increase over pre-COVID-19 levels, according to a new study by NASSCOM and Zinnov. According to the study, ‘Indian Tech Start-up Ecosystem: Year of The Titans’, more that 2,250 start-ups were added in 2021, over 600 more than what was added in the previous year. The study said: “Start-ups raised USD 24.1 billion in 2021, a two-fold increase over pre-COVID levels. In comparison to 2020, there was a 3X increase in the number of high value deals (deals > USD 100 million), demonstrating investor confidence with a pool of active angel investors of 2400+ and a readiness to take significant risks.” It added that while the U.St. remains the leading source of foreign direct investment (FDI) in start-ups, worldwide involvement is also growing. About 50% of the deals had at least one India-domiciled investor. It said that more than $6 billion has been raised via public markets with 11 start-up IPOs in 2021. The study added that the startup ecosystem saw a 2X gain in cumulative valuation from 2020 to 2021, with an estimate of $320-$330 billion, demonstrating the sector’s development and recovery throughout the pandemic. “In the last decade, the ecosystem has played a key role in growing direct and indirect jobs, providing 6.6 lakh direct jobs and more than 34.1 lakh indirect jobs,” it said. The industries that saw the most net new job creation were BFSI (banking, financial services and insurance), ed-tech, retail and retail tech, food-tech, supply chain management, and logistics and mobility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/start-ups-raised-a-record-241-bn-in-2021/article38306092.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:24 IST,||Clubhouse case: 3 held from Haryana||The Cyber Crime branch of Mumbai Police on Friday arrested three youngsters from Haryana for allegedly participating in discussions on chat application Clubhouse in which derogatory comments were made against women. Later in the day, a team of Delhi Police’s Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) unit brought in a 20-year-old man from Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh to Delhi for questioning in connection with allegedly being the main creator of the chat room, sources said. A senior police officer said the man has been brought to the IFSO unit’s office in Delhi’s Dwarka for questioning. “He has joined the investigation on the basis of the information that he might be the main creator of the chat room in question,” the officer said. Trio identified The youngsters have been identified as Akash Suyal (19), Jaishnav Kakkad (21) and Yashkumar alias Yash Parashar (22). Suyal was picked up from Karnal in Haryana and has been sent to three-day police custody. Kakkad and Yashkumar were arrested from Faridabad and their transit remand was being processed to bring them to Mumbai. Suyal, who went by the ID ‘KIRA XD’, was allegedly the moderator of the chat room. According to the police, the trio was part of two chat rooms where participants made derogatory comments against women and about auctioning their body parts. Two videos of the chat went viral between January 16 and 19, after which two women came forward to register a complaint about similar offensive comments being made against them in earlier chats on October 27 and November 27 last year. A first information report was registered under Sections 153(a), 295(a), 354(a), 354(d), 509, and 500 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67 of the Information Technology Act, 2000. The technical investigation into the available information led to the arrest of the three. In a tweet on Friday, Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha member Priyanka Chaturvedi praised the city police for the arrests in the case. “Kudos @MumbaiPolice, they have got cracking on the Clubhouse chats too and some arrests have been made. Say no to hate. #Clubhouse,” Ms. Chaturvedi said in the tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-held-from-haryana-in-clubhouse-case/article38306466.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:03 IST,||Centre gives final nod for plastic park||The Union Government has given the final approval for setting up a plastic park at Ganjimutt in Mangaluru, according to Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP. The park will be set up on 104 acres of Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) land at an estimated cost of Rs. 62.77 crore. In that, 50% of the project cost, that is Rs. 31.38 crore, will be borne by the Union Government and the remaining 50% by the KIADB, he said in a statement here on Friday. A special purpose vehicle ncorporated by the KIADB will be set up to take up the project. The Union Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers conveyed the final approval accorded, to the KIADB on January 21, Mr. Kateel said. The KIABD will be the key promoter of the project. Mr. Kateel said he would thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers Bhagwanth Khuba, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Minister for Heavy Industries Murugesh Nirani for supporting the project in Mangaluru. The former Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D.V. Sadanana Gowda too had supported the project, he said. The Union Government had given in-principle approval for setting up the park at Ganjimutt in January last. The Ministry’s January 21 letter said: “... In case if the project is not started within a reasonable period of time, say three months from the date of sanction, the Scheme Steering Committee may withdraw the sanction so that the limited resources available under the scheme could be re-allocated to other deserving projects.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-gives-final-nod-for-plastic-park/article38306685.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:52 IST,||Trying his luck||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trying-his-luck/article64947318.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:57 IST,||Police seize 800 kg ganja||The special operation team of Shamshabad along with Miyapur police on Friday intercepting a Nashik-bound vehicle, arrested six inter-State smugglers, and seized a total of about 800 kilograms of ganja. The dry ganja packed in brown tapes and concealed under bags of ginger in a DCM truck was being piloted by another car. The contraband originated in the Agency area of Koraput district of Odisha, was being taken to Nashik, Maharashtra, via Hyderabad, when the police obstructed the vehicle at Miyapur X road toll gate. Cyberabad police commissioner Stephen Raveendra explaining the seizure to media persons on Friday, said the material had a street value of Rs. 1.60 crore, as against its procured rate at Rs. 3000 per kilogram. Except the main supplier Subhash Kumar of Odisha and Vikas Jadhav of Nashik, the main receiver, the remaining six smugglers were arrested. Police said it was found that the order was made last week and the vehicle was loaded with 156 five-kilogram packets inside a forest in Koraput. Four persons guarded the ganja in the DCM, and care was taken not to enter the city limits to avoid police surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-seize-800-kg-ganja/article38306562.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:24 IST,||On the march||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/on-the-march/article64947353.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:24 IST,||Private offices in Delhi get nod to function with 50% staff||The Delhi government’s proposal to allow private offices to function with 50% staff in view of the dipping COVID-19 positivity rate was approved by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Friday. However, two other proposals with regard to the lifting of weekend curfew and doing away with odd-even protocol in markets were rejected. Raj Niwas, while acknowledging the decline in recent daily cases, said a review of the situation would be made to chart the way forward once the situation improved further. “It has been suggested that the status quo be maintained since positivity is hovering above 21% and the number of positive cases is more than 12,000,” a source at the Raj Niwas said. Once the situation improves, a review would be done by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) along with member experts, the source added. ‘Gurugram, Noida open’ Reacting to the L-G rejecting the proposal to open up markets and end weekend curfew, the Delhi government said, “It is unfortunate that the L-G has rejected the strong demand of traders and the business community. L-G has rejected the proposal of the elected government despite the fact that corona cases are reducing at a very fast pace. When all markets of Gurugram and Noida are open, why should the business community of Delhi be made to suffer by BJP’s Central government?” Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, addressing a press conference earlier in the day, had said that when the COVID cases were on the rise in the national capital, it was important to impose various bans for the safety of residents of Delhi. But now the peak of the COVID wave had passed and the situation is conducive for relaxing restrictions. Mr. Sisodia said, “It would be wrong to restrict people from moving out to earn for their survival. Businesses across the city have already suffered huge losses due to previous COVID waves. We hope that the L-G will approve the relaxation of restrictions.” DDMA issues order An order was issued by the DDMA stating that while private offices were allowed to resume with 50% attendance with immediate effect, they were advised to encourage work from home as much as possible. Private offices have also been advised to stagger work timings as well as the number of staffers so that social distancing protocols could be maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-offices-get-nod-to-function-with-50-staff/article64947349.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:08 IST,||Traders not to cooperate in case of lockdown||Traders in the State have threatened not to cooperate with the government in case a lockdown is imposed in view of the COVID-19 situation. The State secretariat of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti (KVVES) has decided to keep all shops open even if the government imposes restrictions. “We cannot afford to close the shutters once more. The last two lockdowns have taken a toll on the merchant community. If we are asked to close down once more, there will be a riot in the State,” said Raju Apsara, samiti State secretary, here on Friday. He said it was unscientific to close down shops to control crowd. However, the samiti was not against the Sunday lockdown as it did not affect the majority of the shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/traders-not-to-cooperate-in-case-of-lockdown/article38306576.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:27 IST,||Chief Minister announces new projects for Dharmapuri||A SIPCOT industrial estate, milk processing facility, and road infrastructure were among the slew of new projects for the district announced by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin through videoconferencing. The projects include a flyover between Kottayur in Salem and Oddanur in Dharmapuri at a cost of Rs. 250 crore, a new milk processing facility in Dharmapuri and a new complex on the Collectorate premises at Rs. 40 crore. Development works Earlier, on the development works undertaken for the district by the DMK during its various tenures in power, Mr. Stalin said the women’s Self Help Group movement was first launched in Dharmapuri in 1989. He also highlighted the Hogenakkal Fluorosis Mitigation and Drinking Water project that serves three municipalities, 16 town panchayats, and 7,639 households.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chief-minister-announces-new-projects-for-dharmapuri/article38306468.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:04 IST,||Greens oppose move to widen Shiradi Ghat||Some green activists have opposed the Union Government’s move to widen the Shiradi Ghat stretch of Mangaluru–Bengaluru National Highway 75 into four lanes, saying that it will further damage the ecosystem of the fragile Western Ghats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/greens-oppose-move-to-widen-shiradi-ghat/article64947384.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:15 IST,||3 held from Haryana in Clubhouse case||The Cyber Crime branch of Mumbai Police on Friday arrested three youngsters from Haryana for allegedly participating in discussions on chat application Clubhouse in which derogatory comments were made against women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-held-from-haryana-in-clubhouse-case/article38306450.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:52 IST,||Forest Dept. braces for fire season at M.M. Hills||With the imminent rise in temperature in the days leading to summer, authorities at M.M. Hills in south Karnataka are bracing for forest fires and have taken precautionary measures to prevent or combat an outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/forest-dept-braces-for-fire-season-at-mm-hills/article64947317.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:15 IST,||Priyanka: will lead Cong. poll campaign in U.P.||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday pitched herself as the face of the party in the Uttar Pradesh election, but stopped short of revealing her plans on contesting the election. She launched a youth manifesto with the promise of providing 20 lakh jobs to the youth of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/priyanka-will-lead-cong-poll-campaign-in-up/article64947449.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:11 IST,||BJP MLAs from Bengal’s Jangalmahal get restive||After the dissent of MLAs from the Matua community, the West Bengal unit of the BJP is facing the heat from MLAs of the State’s Jangalmahal region, with legislators writing to the party president on organisational changes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-mlas-from-bengals-jangalmahal-get-restive/article38306704.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:47 IST,||BJP MLAs from Bengal’s Jangalmahal get restive||After the dissent of MLAs from the Matua community, the West Bengal unit of the BJP is facing the heat from MLAs of the State’s Jangalmahal region, with legislators writing to the party president on organisational changes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-mlas-from-bengals-jangalmahal-get-restive/article38306625.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:24 IST,||BJP MLAs from Bengal’s Jangalmahal get restive||After the dissent of MLAs from the Matua community, the West Bengal unit of the BJP is facing the heat from MLAs of the State’s Jangalmahal region, with legislators writing to the party president on organisational changes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-mlas-from-bengals-jangalmahal-get-restive/article38306721.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:11 IST,||Punjab CM wants to sue Kejriwal for defamation||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said he has sought permission from the party central leadership to sue Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for defaming him in connection with the recent raids by the Enforcement Directorate in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-cm-wants-to-sue-kejriwal-for-defamation/article38306624.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:24 IST,||Haryana, H.P. plan to revive Saraswati river||In an attempt to revive the Saraswati river, the Haryana and Himachal Pradesh governments on Friday signed an MoU for the construction of a dam in H.P. on 77 acres, near the Adi Badri area of Haryana’s Yamuna Nagar district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-hp-plan-to-revive-saraswati-river/article64947351.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||Congress leaders say moving eternal flame is ‘erasing history’||The Congress on Friday accused the Union government of ‘erasing’ history by removing the eternal flame of Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate and merging it with the immortal flame at the National War Memorial. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the party would once again light the Amar Jawan Jyoti for the brave soldiers. “It is a matter of great sadness that the immortal flame for our brave soldiers will be extinguished today. Some people cannot understand patriotism and sacrifice - never mind...We will once again light the ‘Amar Jawan Jyoti’ for our soldiers,” he said in a tweet, indicating that the Congress would restore the eternal flame if it comes to power. Lok Sabha member and senior Congress leader Manish Tewari tweeted, “Extinguishing Amar Jawan Jyoti tantamounts to extinguishing history. For it commentates sacrifice of those 3,483 brave soldiers who cleaved Pakistan into two parts and redrew map of South Asia post partition”. Pointing out the ‘irony’ of the government’s move coming in the 50th anniversary of liberation of Bangladesh, Mr Tewari said, “Government seems to be working overtime to erase India’s finest hour in post Independent History. Amar Jawan Jyoti is imbued in the national consciousness. A billion people have grown up venerating it. Why can’t India have two eternal flames? Amar Jawan Jyoti and National War Memorial,” he asked. Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor tweeted, “This government has no respect for democratic tradition & established convention, whether in parliament or out of it. The sanctity acquired after fifty years of the Amar Jawan Jyoti is being lightly snuffed out.” Youth Congress members, led by its chief B.V. Srinivas, also took out a protest march against the Union government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-leaders-say-moving-eternal-flame-is-erasing-history/article64947159.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||Priyanka says she is leading Congress’s poll campaign in U.P.||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday pitched herself as the face of the party in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls, but stopped short of revealing her plans with regard to contesting the elections. She was launching a separate youth manifesto with the promise of providing 20 lakh jobs to the youth of the State. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who jointly launched the manifesto at the party headquarters, said it presented a new vision, not just for the State but for the entire country, as the vision offered by the BJP since 2014 had turned India’s “demographic dividend into a demographic disaster”. “Do you see any other face from the Congress party. You are seeing my face everywhere,” Ms. Vadra responded on being asked who would the party’s chief ministerial candidate. She, however, evaded a direct answer on whether she would contest the polls, and maintained that a decision was yet to be taken on this.  Later, in an interview to NDTV , she clarified that she had not positioned herself as the ‘chief ministerial face’ of the party and made a tongue-in-cheek comment.  Non-BJP government To a question on the Congress supporting a non-BJP government, Ms. Vadra told reporters at the manifesto event that the party would consider it if such a need arose, but would insist on implementing its agenda for the women and youth of the State.  Titled as ‘Bharti Vidhan (recruitment document), the Congress promised the creation of 20 lakh jobs, including eight lakh for women.  Ms. Vadra said there were 12 lakh existing vacancies in the government and the remaining eight lakh jobs could be created by focusing on skill-based entrepreneurship. “People will have to made aware that politics based on caste and communalism won’t fill your stomachs,” she said, adding that the Congress wanted to focus on development-oriented politics instead of a negative campaign. Rahul’s claim Speaking at the event, Mr. Gandhi said the employment document didn’t make just tall claims but showed how jobs could be created. He claimed that 880 youth in Uttar Pradesh lost their jobs everyday and over 16 lakh youth rendered unemployed in the last five years of the BJP rule. “We don’t spread hatred, we work to unite people and we want to build a new Uttar Pradesh driven by the strength and confidence of youth... Every State is important but Uttar Pradesh occupies a weight that no other State does. So we are proposing a new way of doing things, a new imagination for it,” he observed. In a subsequent tweet, Mr. Gandhi said things that were done “from the heart, responsibly and honestly, bear good results”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-says-she-is-leading-congresss-poll-campaign-in-up/article64947135.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||3.33 lakh new cases reported||The country recorded 3,33,238 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, a 24% increase from a week ago. The total number of infections has reached 3.88 crore, and the active cases have crossed the 20.18-lakh mark. The figures are based on the State bulletins released until 9.30 p.m. on Friday. However, Ladakh, Tripura, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep had not yet released data for the day. Maharashtra recorded 48,270 infections, followed by Karnataka (48,049) and Kerala (41,668). On Friday, 470 deaths were recorded in India, considerably higher than the average levels recorded in the last week. The total number of recorded fatalities has reached 4,88,899. Kerala reported the most deaths with 106 fatalities, followed by Maharashtrai (52) and Delhi (38). On Thursday, 19.35 lakh tests were conducted (the results for which were made available on Friday), the highest on a single day in the ongoing wave. The test positivity rate (the number of cases detected per 100 tests) was 17.21%. As of Thursday, 90.9% of the eligible population has been vaccinated with at least one dose, while 66.5% have received both doses. In the 15-17 age cohort, 54.7% of the population have received their first dose. Altogether, 92,61,62,594 first doses, 67,80,50,628 second doses, and 71,46,660 booster doses have been administered across India. Gujarat recorded 21,225 new Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths, taking the active cases to 1,16,843 out of which 172 patients are on ventilator support. On Friday, Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel held a review meeting in which it has been decided to extend the night curfew in major cities as well as towns in the state. Accordingly, night curfew from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. will be in place till January 29. Meanwhile, Gujarat’s Revenue and Law Minister Rajendra Trivedi also tested COVID-19 positive on Friday. Earlier, two other Ministers also tested positive and are home quarantined. Telangana tested 120,243 samples and logged 4416 new cases, increasing total cases to 29,127 by 5.30 p.m. on Friday, according to the medical bulletin issued by the Department of Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/333-lakh-new-cases-reported/article64947131.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:18 IST,||Cong. stages comeback in Vidarbha||The recent municipal panchayat polls in Maharashtra have shown the signs of the Congress staging a comeback in the Vidarbha region — it has marched ahead of the BJP in majority of the districts. According to the final data from the State Election Commission, the Congress won 202 seats in the polls compared to 152 of the BJP. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Shiv Sena remained on number three and four spot by winning 89 and 60 seats respectively. The Congress has claimed victory in 17 municipal panchayats in Vidarbha in comparison to seven of the BJP. The surge in seats in semi-urban and semi-rural pockets of the State is seen as a positive sign for the party, which had lost its dominance in the region - once considered as its forte - since the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Vidarbha, with more than 60 Assembly seats, has been instrumental in ensuring a BJP government after the 2014 Assembly polls and remained with it even in the 2019 State polls up to certain extent. Reclaiming lost ground All top leaders and Ministers of the party ensured in this election to reclaim their lost ground, especially in districts like Chandrapur, Yavatmal, Gadchiroli and Buldhana. In Chandrapur, from where comes the party’s lone Lok Sabha member of the State, it won 53 seats, compared to 24 of the BJP in six municipal panchayats, and in Gadchiroli, it won 39, compared to 36 of the BJP. The NCP won 26 seats in Gadchiroli in nine panchayats. Surprise result One of the surprising results came from Yavatmal, where the Congress cruised past the BJP by winning 39 seats, while the latter could win 13 only. In this district, the Congress neither has an MLA nor an MP. In Buldhana and Amaravati, party leaders Harshvardhan Sapkal and State Minister Yashomati Thakur led the Congress to victory. While the party surpassed the BJP in Wardha, it won one out of two municipal panchayats in Nagpur district that went to the polls. While the party lagged behind in Bhandara and Gondia districts, it won the Bhandara - home district of the State unit president Nana Patole - zilla parishad while Gondia went to the BJP. “The results show that the path of recovery that we have chosen is right. Not only in Vidarbha, but the Congress, with 44 MLAs, has performed better than the BPP with 106 MLAs. All our leaders worked tirelessly for this and we are sure that this will be repeated in the coming local body polls,” said party’s State committee spokesperson Atul Londhe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-stages-comeback-in-vidarbha/article38306030.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||Pushback to change in IAS cadre rules||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposing the proposed amendments to the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules 1954. The proposed amendments will give overriding powers to the Union government to post All India Services (AIS) officers such as the IAS, the Indian Police Service and the Indian Forest Service (IFoS) to Central Ministries and departments without the State government’s nod. Mr. Baghel and Mr. Gehlot are second in line after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to convey their opposition against the proposed amendments to Mr. Modi. Sense of ‘instability’ Mr. Baghel said the amendments could be misused and “a sense of instability and ambiguity is likely to arise among the officers of the All India Services, who are posted at various important posts in various districts and also at the State level.” He said the proposed amendment granted the Central government the right to appoint AIS officers unilaterally without the consent of the State government or the concerned authorities, which is adopted and outlined in the Constitution, and contrary to the sentiment. Mr. Baghel claimed that the AIS officers are posted in various States and are posted on deputation in the Central government. “The deputation has been done after the consent of the State government. The State government has been concurring on Central deputation by taking decisions as per its administrative requirement,” he said in the letter. “There will be confusion in the discharge of official responsibilities by them and due to political interference, it will not be possible to work impartially, especially at the time of elections, due to which the administrative system in the States can crumble and a situation of instability can be created,” he said. Spirit of federalism Mr. Gehlot also tweeted on Friday that he had urged the Prime Minister to intervene and put an end to the blow the proposed amendments would cause to the autonomy of the Constitution so that the spirit of federalism developed by the framers of the Constitution is intact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pushback-to-change-in-ias-cadre-rules/article64947154.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||A-G gives nod for contempt action against Narsinghanand||Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal on Friday gave consent to a plea to initiate contempt proceedings against Yati Narsinghanand, under arrest in the Haridwar hate speech case, over his derogatory remarks against the Constitution and the Supreme Court. The prior consent of the top law officer is mandated in law in order to file a criminal contempt petition in the Supreme Court. Mr. Venugopal gave the consent on the basis of a letter addressed by Shachi Nelli. Ms. Nelli brought to the attention of the law officer Narsinghanand’s alleged statements in an interview that went viral on social media on January 14. “I have gone through your letter and watched the video of the statements made by Yati Narsinghanand,” Mr. Venugopal wrote in his reply on January 21. Mr. Venugopal said the man’s statement “is a direct attempt to lower the authority of the Supreme Court”. The tipping point, as apparent in the A-G’s letter, seems to be Narsinghanand’s statement that “those who believe in this system, in these politicians, in the Supreme Court, and in the Army will all die the death of a dog”. This statement was highlighted in the top law officer and constitutional authority’s response granting consent for criminal contempt action against Narsinghanand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-g-gives-nod-for-contempt-action-against-narsinghanand/article38306309.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||Dead man receives ‘second dose’ in U.P.||On January 19, Pravin Singh, a freelance journalist in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Mau district, was baffled after he received a text message from the Health Department saying that his father Kailash Nath Singh had received his second dose of Covishield vaccine. Mr. Singh’s father died nine months ago from heart disease, on April 29, 2021. He had received only one dose of the vaccine, on March 15, 2021. “Fully vaccinated,” read the vaccination certificate Mr. Singh downloaded for his father. The vaccination certificate further says he was vaccinated by staff member Meera Devi at the New Primary Health Centre in Madhuban. The SMS received by Mr. Singh said his father had been vaccinated with the second dose at 5:39 p.m. on January 19. Mr. Singh suspects foul play blaming overzealous government officials out to complete vaccination goals. “This is a game of making records,” Mr. Singh said over phone. Technical error Dr. B.K. Yadav, vaccination in-charge, Mau, said the case would be probed whether it was an error or a deliberate act.  “We are checking under what circumstances, his phone number was acquired and how the second dose of vaccination was done on that number,” he said. Mr. Yadav said prima facie it appeared to be a technical error, possibly due to the submission of a wrong digit of a phone number and failure of the verification staff.  “As of now, it appears to be such type of an error,” Mr. Yadav said, while stressing that the matter would still be probed. The State government, meanwhile, said that over the past 24 hours, 26 lakh doses of the COVID-19 vaccine had been administered, including 3.81 lakh doses for those between 15-17 years. Over 24.29 crore doses have been administered in the State, the government said. While 14.22 crore first doses (96.47% of their population) had been administered to those above 18 years, 9.29 crore second doses had been administered to those in the same age group, making it 63.06% of the population, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dead-man-receives-second-dose-in-up/article64947134.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||Stop import of Iranian apples: dealers to Ministry||A joint forum of apple dealers from Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand chapters has written a letter to the Ministry of Agriculture to stop “the illegal sale of Iranian apples which is posing quarantine pest threat” to local apple producing regions of the country. “We demand an immediate ban should be imposed on the import of apples from Iran and the duty for other imported apples be raised to 100% with a minimum billing of $1/kg for calculation of duty to avoid dumping of produce in our country,” reads the joint letter submitted to Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Narendra Singh Tomar. The joint letter has been forwarded by the Hill States Horticulture Forum, with its Kashmir Chapter headed by Majid Aslam Wafai, the Himachal Chapter by Harish Chauhan and the Uttarakhand Chapter by Praveen Kumar. The letter said if the action was not initiated, it would affect the income of farmers, the fresh fruit sector and the future export potential of these fruits from our country. “Take this communication as an SOS message from the farmers,” the letter said. According to apple dealers of these three regions, fresh fruit traders have started to import Iran’s fresh apples unlike last year and have started to dump them in the Indian market “at unexpected prices”. They are adopting a different strategy by “heavily under-invoicing the bills, thereby reducing the impact of import duty”.  This, according to dealers, in spite of Iranian apples posing “a greater threat to our country’s apples after quarantine pest Aspidiotus Nerii detected from kiwi consignments from Iran in December last year.”  According to the letter, the experts at the Sher-i-Kashmir Agriculture University and Science Technology (SKUAST), Srinagar have made it clear that if such pests enter the territory of any apple producing State it would be a catastrophe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stop-import-of-iranian-apples-dealers-to-ministry/article64947127.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||Global cooperation needed to combat terror, says Shringla||Lack of counter-terrorism cooperation between countries only “emboldens” terrorists, said Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla, citing the 26/11 Mumbai attacks in which people of several nationalities were killed; last week’s Texas Synagogue shootout involving a British citizen of Pakistani origin; as well as the drone attack by Yemeni Houthis in the United Arab Emirates where two Indians died, as examples of this. In particular, Mr. Shringla said, without directly naming Pakistan, the Texas attack proved that terrorism in India’s neighbourhood is active. “The recent incident in Texas, United States once again demonstrates that the international network of terror, with its epicentre in India’s neighbourhood, is very much active and has long lasting implications,” Mr. Shringla said at a seminar organised by think tanks ORF-NMF-KAS on India-EU and India-Germany cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. “This is a global threat that requires an unambiguous, undivided, effective and collective response,” he added. On January 16, Malik Faisal Akram, a 44-year-old British citizen, took four people hostage at a Texas synagogue in a ten-hour standoff that ended after U.S. security forces shot him. All four hostages were unharmed. During the hostage crisis, which was live-streamed, Malik Akram had made a demand for the release of Pakistani-American physicist Aafiya Siddiqui, who is serving a life term in prison for an attack on U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan. The synagogue case is under investigation in the U.S. and the U.K., where British police have arrested two people. Without elaborating on the reasons for making the linkage, Mr. Shringla said that the motivation of terrorists must not be used to undermine the fight against terrorism. Speaking about the Indian Ocean and Pacific Ocean region, Mr. Shringla said it is the new epicentre of global politics and economics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/global-cooperation-needed-to-combat-terror-says-shringla/article64947155.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||Only ‘one hand bag’ on flights from now||If you are accustomed to giving the rules a go-by and carry more than one cabin baggage on a flight, you may not be able to do that anymore. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which is in charge of security at airports, has demanded stricter implementation of the “one hand bag” policy. In a letter to the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), the CISF’s Inspector-General for airports has written that as per rules framed by the former, “no passenger should be permitted to carry more than one hand bag. It has been seen that passengers on an average carry two or three hand bags to the screening point. This has led to increased clearance time as well as delays, congestion in PESC [pre-embarkation security check] point and inconvenience to passengers.” The letter dated January 19, 2022 sought better implementation of the rule on hand bags. The BCAS is the security regulator for the aviation sector. The CISF has urged the BCAS to ensure airlines and airports take measures to implement the “one hand bag” rule. It has demanded that airlines be made responsible and asked to depute staff to check and verify the number of bags being carried by passengers before allowing them to proceed to the security check point.  “But certain personal items are exempted. These include ladies purse, laptop bags, umbrella, walking stick, camera or binoculars, reading material such as books, infant’s feeding aid, overcoat,” Jaideep Prasad, Joint Director-General, BCAS, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-one-hand-bag-on-flights-from-now/article38306037.ece
22 January 2022||LUCKNOW,||Former IPS officer, turncoats star in BJP’s second list for U.P.||An IPS officer who recently took voluntary retirement and rebels from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Congress figured in the BJP’s second list of 85 candidates for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections released on Friday. Out of the 85, 49 belonged to the backward and Dalit communities, while 15 were women, the party said. Asim Arun, who served as Kanpur Police Commissioner before joining the BJP, has been fielded from the reserved seat of Kannauj Sadar, which the party narrowly lost to the SP in 2017. Mr. Arun hails from Kannauj. Aditi Singh, who was elected as MLA of Rae Bareli on a Congress ticket in the last election, will now contest from the same seat for the BJP. An outspoken rebel of the Congress, she recently joined the BJP. Other rebels Another leader from Rae Bareli district who was elected as Congress MLA last time, Rakesh Singh, has been fielded by the BJP from Harchandpur. BSP rebel MLA Anil Singh will contest from Purwa in Unnao while Ramveer Upadhyay, once a Brahmin face of the BSP and sitting MLA from Sadabad in Hathras, will contest on a BJP ticket this time. Hariom Yadav, SP MLA from Sirsaganj in Firozabad, and a distant relative of the SP’s Yadav clan, is the BJP’s bet from the same seat. The party retained most of its sitting MLAs in these seats, replacing only half-a-dozen names. In the crucial district of Kanpur, the BJP swapped its losing candidates in Sisamau and Arya Nagar seats, both held by the SP, while in Kanpur Cantonment, which was won by the Congress, the BJP has given a second chance to Raghunandan Bhadauria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-ips-officer-turncoats-star-in-bjps-second-list-for-up/article38306311.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:18 IST,||BJP MLAs from Jangalmahal region of Bengal get restive||After the dissent of MLAs from the Matua community, the West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is facingdissent from MLAs of the State’s Jangalmahal region, with legislators writing to theparty president on organisational changes, and also expressing their desire to give up the security cover provided to them by the Centre. On Friday, two BJP legislators, Bankura MLA Niladrishekhar Dana and Onda MLA Amarnath Shakha, went on record to say that they had written to the Union Home Ministry, urging that the Central security given to them should be withdrawn. Only a day ago, sources in the West Bengal BJP had said that five MLAs from the district had written to party president J.P. Nadda, expressing unhappiness over certain organisational appointments. The MLAs are demanding the removal of both Bankura and Bishnupur organisational district presidents. Similar situation A similar situation has emerged in the adjoining Purulia district, where the elected MLAs are upset with organisational appointments and have written to the BJP’s top leadership. Bankura and Purulia are in the State’s forested southwest, in the Jangalmahal region, in which the BJP had won seats in the 2021 Assembly polls, and almost swept the seats in the 2019 general elections. The development comes close on the heels of MLAs from the Matua community in the region around Bongoan subdivision in North 24 Parganas coming out openly against the BJP’s West Bengal leadership. These leaders have further embarrassed by the party by raising questions on the delay in the framing of the rules of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. After the Assembly poll resultsin May 2021, almost half a dozen party MLAs switched sides and joined the Trinamool Congress. After the recent organisational changes, BJPMLAs and a section of leaders are targeting the party’s general secretary-organisation, Amitava Chakraborty. The party had to dissolve its cells and committees in the State due to the protests. Political observers feel that these developments do not bode well for the BJP in West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mlas-from-jangalmahal-region-of-bengal-get-restive/article38306009.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||International arrivals to go by States’ rules||International travellers who test positive for COVID-19 will no longer be sent for mandatory “institutional quarantine” as the Centre has relaxed its guidelines, allowing States leeway in how they deal with such passengers. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has amended its guidelines for international travellers from “at-risk countries”, who have to compulsorily undergo an RT-PCR test on arrival at an airport in India. It has said in its communication on Thursday that if such passengers test positive, “they shall be treated/isolated as per laid down standard protocol.” These protocols vary from one State to another. Earlier, in its guidelines issued on November 30, 2021, when Omicron started making news, the Health Ministry had said that upon testing positive, travellers “shall be managed at separate isolation facility”. This relief also extends to those who come in contact with travellers who test positive. They were also earlier required to be “kept under institutional quarantine or at home quarantine monitored strictly by the State government concerned.” However, not all passengers who test positive are sent for an institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/international-arrivals-to-go-by-states-rules/article38306043.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||Amar Jawan Jyoti, War Memorial merged: govt.||India Gate was a “symbol of our colonial past” as it has only some of those who fought for the British in the First World War and the Anglo Afghan War, the source noted. “It is ironic that people who did not make an NWM for seven decades are now making a hue and cry when a permanent and fitting tribute is being made to our martyrs.” Mr. Modi said on social media: “At a time when the entire nation is marking the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, I am glad to share that his grand statue, made of granite, will be installed at India Gate. This would be a symbol of India’s indebtedness to him.” “Till the grand statue of Netaji Bose is completed, a hologram statue of his would be present at the same place. I will unveil the hologram statue on 23rd January, Netaji’s birth anniversary,” Mr. Modi noted. Earlier in the day, speaking at theinauguration of a New Circuit House at Somnath in Gujarat,Mr. Modi said: “After Independence, new things were constructed only for a few families from Delhi, but we are building monuments of national importance.” India Gate, designed by Sir Edwin Lutyens, was unveiled by Lord Irwin on February 12, 1931. It was built to honour the over 83,000 soldiers of British India who died from 1914 to 1921.The AJJ was set up to pay homage for the soldiers who laid down their lives in the 1971 war. The memorial of the unknown soldier, an inverted bayonet with a helmet structure, along with the AJJ was inaugurated under the arch of India Gate by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on January 26, 1972 to commemorate India’s victory in the 1971 war, in which 93,000 Pakistani prisoners of war surrendered and saw the birth of Bangladesh. Social media was abuzz with responses from the veteran community, with some calling it a “natural thing” while some calling for both flames to be kept alive. Former Army Chief Gen. Ved Malik said, “A natural thing to do now that the National War Memorial has been established and all ceremonials... are being held there.” Stating that symbols have an intangible value in in nation building, Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd.) said the ‘Eternal Flame’ at India Gate was iconic. “A generation grew up around the ’71 war and the next had goosebumps hearing and seeing the last post on TV and in person. We all will lose a part of our lives,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amar-jawan-jyoti-war-memorial-merged-govt/article38306019.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||People can soon invest in infrastructure: Gadkari||On the upcoming Union Budget, Mr. Gadkari said he was hopeful that the proposals will expedite India’s growth to make it the largest economy in the world. He said the Indian industry and entrepreneurs should seize the opportunity arising from the “problems” facing China and “go for more exports” riding on the back of talent, availability of raw materials, power, and good infrastructure, to make the economy strong. Stressing that agriculture was the “most important priority” of the government, he outlined several initiatives taken, including creation of more irrigation facilities, and raising the contribution of agriculture to the GDP from 12% to 20%, which will create more jobs in rural, tribal and 120 aspiring districts. India’s ethanol production is currently 400 crore litres. This year, it’s likely to go up to 550 crore litres as against a basic requirement of 4,000 crore litres. The government, Mr. Gadkari said, was working on biofuel and alternate fuel to save on India’s huge oil import bill, besides acting as a bulwark for the greening of the automobile industry. “We have taken a decision to use flex engines in two, three and four wheelers,” Mr. Gadkari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/people-can-soon-invest-in-infrastructure-gadkari/article38306016.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||35 Pak.-based YouTube channels banned||The Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Thursday ordered a ban on 35 YouTube channels, two websites, two Twitter accounts, two Instagram accounts and one Facebook account that were operating from Pakistan and spreading “anti-India disinformation”. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Information and Broadcasting Secretary Apurva Chandra said the order was issued on Thursday using emergency powers under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. Mr. Chandra said the intermediaries, including YouTube, were in the process of blocking the channels, something which takes around 24 hours. Second set of channels Terming it a “war of misinformation against the country”, Mr. Chandra said the latest channels to be blocked were the second set, after 20 were blocked in December 2021. He said the content was against the sovereignty of the country. The Ministry played some of the videos from the channels in question at the briefing, including one claiming that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was responsible for the helicopter crash that killed Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat in December and one that said the North Korean army had reached Ladakh. These channels had a total subscriber base of 1.2 crore and 130 views, Mr. Chandra said, adding that the order was issued after the Ministry got inputs from intelligence agencies on Thursday. Joint secretary Vikram Sahay, who is the officer authorised under the IT Act, said orders had been issued to the social media companies and the Internet service providers to block them. He said the channels spread “anti-India” content with a focus on the Indian armed forces, Jammu and Kashmir, India’s foreign relations, the death of Gen. Rawat, separatist ideology and public order, which attracted the provision of Section 69-A of the IT Act, 2000 (power to issue directions to block information through computer resource). The Ministry said the blocked channels included ‘Khabar with Facts’, ‘Global Truth’, ‘Information Hub’, ‘Apni Duniya TV’ and ‘Khoji TV’. The blocked sites were White News and DNow, whose YouTube channels were also blocked. ‘Coordinated networks’ “The 35 accounts blocked by the Ministry were all operating from Pakistan, and were identified to be part of four coordinated disinformation networks. These include the Apni Duniya Network operating 14 YouTube channels, and Talha Films Network operating 13 YouTube channels. A set of four channels, and a set of two other channels were also found to be acting in synchronisation with each other,” the Ministry said. Mr. Chandra called on intermediaries and the public to act against such channels, while saying that the Ministry would continue to act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/35-pak-based-youtube-channels-banned/article38305998.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||Webinar on data science MBA to be held tomorrow||The International School of Engineering (INSOFE), along with The Hindu Education Plus, under the Study Abroad series, is presenting a webinar on data science MBA on Sunday at 5 p.m.  ‘The Study Abroad Series on Data Science MBA: Study and Work in U.S. or Canada’ will include panelists Dakshinamurthy V. Kolluru, founder and president, INSOFE; Gaurav Agarwal, CEO, Sootsayer Analytics LLC, U.S.A.; and Somagiri Parupalli, vice-president, INSOFE.  To participate in the webinar, students can register at:bit.ly/3fLKS6Aor scan the QR Code. The session will be moderated by Soma Basu, Deputy Editor, The Hindu .  Many disciplines INSOFE offers global Master’s programmes in data science and business analytics to students from diverse education disciplines. The institution’s collaborative Master’s programmes in data science in the U.S. and Canada are for professionals from all walks of life. Dual specialisation These dual specialisation Master’s programmes are aimed at providing graduate students and high-tech professionals an opportunity to master the theory and practice of data science.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-data-science-mba-to-be-held-tomorrow/article64947157.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||BJP announces first list of candidates for Punjab||Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) on Friday released its first list of candidates for the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections, slated for February 20. In Punjab, the BJP is contesting elections in alliance with Punjab Lok Congress, led by former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal (Sankyukt), the breakaway faction of Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal). Addressing a press conference in New Delhi, Punjab BJP in-charge Dushyant Gautam, who released the list, hit out at the previous government for alleged poor governance and corruption. BJP general secretary Tarun Chug said representation has been given to all sections of society on the list of BJP candidates released. Seat allocation “Twelve of the 34 candidates were from farmers’ families, eight are Dalits, and 13 are Sikhs. The party has made a judicious mixture of young and experienced while looking at winnability of a candidate,” he said. He said there was a strong ‘anti-Congress’ wave in Punjab and the BJP has a bright chance of forming the next government in the State. He said soon the final list woeld be out after discussions with alliance partners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-announces-first-list-of-candidates-for-punjab/article38306310.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||Goa Assembly polls: BJP riven with internal dissent||Fissures emerged within ranks of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Goa a day after the party declared its list of 34 candidates, with former Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar and Public Works Department Minister Deepak Pauskar, both announcing their resignations from the saffron party on being denied ticket. Also raising the banner of revolt were Isidore Fernandes, Deputy Speaker of the Goa Legislative Assembly and the incumbent MLA from Canacona, and Savitri Kavlekar, wife of Goa Deputy Chief Minister Chandrakant Kavlekar, who resigned as vice-president of the Goa BJP’s women’s wing. She will be contesting as an Independent from Sanguem. Mr. Parsekar, who was Chief Minister of the coastal State between 2014 and 2017 announced he would contest as an Independent from the Mandrem constituency after he was denied ticket in favour of the BJP’s incumbent Mandrem legislator Dayanand Sopte. Replaced by turncoat Mr. Parsekar, a former three-term MLA from Mandrem, had been trounced by Mr. Sopte in the 2017 Assembly election when the latter was in the Congress. Mr. Sopte later switched sides to the BJP. An upset Mr. Parsekar, who conferred with his supporters late on Thursday, is expected to formally resign from the BJP on Saturday. Mr. Pauskar has already resigned as an MLA, as a Minister and from the BJP’s primary membership after he was dropped for the Sanvordem constituency, with the party fielding ex-MLA Ganesh Gaonkar in his stead. Trinamool’s poaching Meanwhile, despite hitting out at the Congress for not doing enough to form an anti-BJP pre-poll alliance, the Trinamool Congress continued to poach leaders from the former with former Goa Pradesh Congress Committee member Mahadev Desai joining the Trinamool fold today along with his supporters. On Thursday, former Congress MLA Benjamin Silva, peeved with his party for not being given the Velim ticket, also had joined the Trinamool. The Congress ally, the Vijai Sardesai-led Goa Forward Party (GFP), was plagued by internal rifts as well, with its MLA from Siolim, Vinod Paliencar, resigning today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/goa-assembly-polls-bjp-riven-with-internal-dissent/article64947144.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||Start-ups raised a record $24.1 bn in 2021: study||It said that more than $6 billion has been raised via public markets with 11 start-up IPOs in 2021. The study added that the start-up ecosystem saw a 2X gain in cumulative valuation from 2020 to 2021, with an estimate of $320-$330 billion, demonstrating the sector’s development and recovery throughout the pandemic. “In the last decade, the ecosystem has played a key role in growing direct and indirect job opportunities, providing 6.6 lakh direct jobs and more than 34.1 lakh indirect jobs,” it said, adding that the industries that saw the most net new job creation were BFSI (banking, financial services and insurance), ed-tech, retail and retail tech, food-tech, supply chain management, and logistics and mobility. On the back of Internet commerce, freelancers, and service industries, indirect jobs have also recovered, it said. When compared to the U.K., U.S., Israel and China, 2021 has been an outstanding year for the Indian startup ecosystem, with the highest growth rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/start-ups-raised-a-record-241-bn-in-2021-study/article38306018.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||Denied ticket, Utpal Parrikar quits BJP||Reacting to the BJP’s choice for the Panaji seat, Mr. Utpal Parrikar remarked: “I feel ashamed to even speak about the current candidate. They can see my profile and the profile of the candidate they have given, who is a history-sheeter [Mr. Monserrate]...the Chief Minister [Pramod Sawant] had himself criticised Mr. Monserrate while campaigning for the Panaji bypoll in 2019.” The younger Mr. Parrikar said that because of this, he had been left with no choice but to stand for the values that Manohar Parrikar had believed in, and to go ahead and let the people of Panaji decide his political fate. He further remarked that while BJP would always remain in his soul, people should ask whether the party had left him. Asked whether he would welcome the support of other parties such as the Shiv Sena and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Mr. Utpal Parrikar said that any support required to fight against a candidate like Mr. Monserrate was always welcome. Acknowledging that he was taking “a high risk” and that it was “a difficult choice” for him to contest as an Independent, he stressed that he was not fighting to win any position or post but for some values that he believed in. “I cannot negotiate with my party… They had given me two options and I had given many options too. I am not at liberty to disclose these,” he said. He appears to have been particularly piqued that the party leadership preferred Mr. Monserrate rather than a member of late Manohar Parrikar’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/denied-ticket-utpal-parrikar-quits-bjp/article38306017.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||Harak Singh Rawat returns to Congress fold||Accompanied by his daughter-in-law Anukriti Gusain, expelled BJP leader and former Uttarakhand Minister Harak Singh Rawat on Friday rejoined the Congress in a low-key induction. The former Uttarakhand Minister and Ms. Gusain joined the party in the presence of former Chief Minister and head of the Congress’ campaign committee, Harish Rawat, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Ganesh Godiyal, Leader of the Opposition in the outgoing Assembly Pritam Singh and AICC in-charge Devender Yadav, among others.  But more significantly , Mr. Harish Rawat, who had put up a stiff resistance against Mr. Harak Singh Rawat, welcomed him back into the party by offering a Congress patta (scarf) to the former BJP Minister at the Congress war room.  Mr. Harak Singh Rawat, who represents the Kotdwar seat in the Assembly, was among the 10 MLAs who had rebelled against Mr. Harish Rawat-led State government in 2016 and joined the BJP, reducing the Congress dispensation to a minority. ‘Oust BJP’ The expelled BJP leader’s entry into the Congress comes just ahead of the releasing of the first list of candidates by the Congress’ central election committee for the February 14 polls. “I have no conditions except a desire to see the BJP voted out from Uttarakhand and bring in a Congress government in our State. If I can do that then I think I would have expressed my regret for leaving the party in true terms,” Mr. Harak Singh Rawat told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/harak-singh-rawat-returns-to-congress-fold/article64947140.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||Six people can register on one number||The Union Health Ministry said on Friday that instead of the existing limit of four members, now six members could be registered using one mobile number on CoWIN portal for COVID-19 vaccination. The Ministry added that a new feature had been introduced in Co-WIN through which a beneficiary could revoke the vaccination status and the changes take three to seven days to reflect after submitting the online request through ‘raise an issue’ .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-people-can-register-on-one-number/article38306044.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||SC notice on Environment Service cadre||The Supreme Court on Friday sought the government’s response on the creation of an independent Indian Environment Service in the “All India Service cadre”. A Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul issued notice on a plea by advocate Samar Vijay Singh for a specialised environment service in the lines of one recommended by the T.S.R. Subramanian Committee report in 2014. The Committee, constituted by the Environment Ministry, in its report on November 18, 2014, had categorically recorded that the necessary institutional framework needs to be created, building on the existing systems, to meet future ecological demands, and ecological imbalance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-notice-on-environment-service-cadre/article38306312.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||Sena offers to step aside for Utpal Parrikar||The Shiv Sena, which is contesting the Goa Assembly election in alliance with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), announced its first list of nine candidates on Friday. Announcing the list, Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that while the party had nominated Shailendra Velingkar as its candidate for the Panaji seat, the Sena would withdraw its candidate if Utpal Parrikar, son of late Goa Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar, decided to contest from the same seat, which was traditionally held by the late Mr. Parrikar. Mr. Raut agreed with the view expressed by Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Abhishek Banerjee that the Congress ought to be held responsible if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the upcoming election. Mr. Raut said that despite the Sena and the NCP presenting a proposal to the Congress to form a pre-poll alliance along with the Goa Forward Party (GFP), the Congress had not responded to the plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sena-offers-to-step-aside-for-utpal-parikkar/article38306029.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||Assam Rifles seize 2,500 kg of explosives||In the largest recovery of explosives in Mizoram in five years, the Assam Rifles has seized 2,500 kg of explosives and 4,500 metres of detonator near the village of Zawngling of Saiha. An operation was launched by the Assam Rifles from the Tuipang post of Lunglei Battalion, based on specific information, along with police representatives stationed at the Tipa police station of Saiha district on January 20, an Assam Rifles official said. “The Assam Rifles team along with the police established a check post on Tuipang– Zawngling road and intercepted a mini-truck carrying 2,500 kg of explosives and 4,500 metres of detonator,” the official said. Mizoram shares a long border with Myanmar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-rifles-seize-2500-kg-of-explosives/article38306008.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||Netaji sought peaceful India: Anita Bose||Ahead of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary on Sunday, his daughter, Anita Bose Pfaff on Friday said “her father dreamt of an India where all religions coexist peacefully”, a Culture Ministry statement said. Ms. Pfaff spoke at a webinar organised by the government as a part of its celebration of Netaji’s birth anniversary as ‘Parakram Diwas’. Ms. Pfaff, who spoke from Germany, said Bose lived, continues to live and would live in the hearts of Indians, the Ministry stated. Netaji was a champion of gender equality and had a vision to build a nation where men and women had the same rights and delivered the same duties, she observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/netaji-sought-peaceful-india-anita-bose/article38306013.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||SC seeks reply on suo motu RTI disclosure||The Supreme Court on Friday asked for the government’s response to a plea seeking the effective implementation of a provision in the Right to Information Act, which obliges public authorities to suo motu disclose information to the public in order to maintain transparency in governance.   A Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul issued notice on a plea filed by Kishan Chand Jain seeking government agencies to adhere strictly to the statutory mandate of Section 4 of the RTI Act. The Section prescribes that it would be the “constant endeavour of every public authority to take steps to provide as much information suo motu to the public at regular intervals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-seeks-reply-on-suo-motu-rti-disclosure/article38306314.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||Tripura is well on the road to progress: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said there would be a lot of investment in Tripura in the coming days due to dozens of road and rail projects and international waterway connectivity with Bangladesh. The work of the Agartala-Akhaura rail link was progressing at a rapid pace, he noted. Mr. Shah made the remark while addressing Tripura’s 50th Statehood Day celebrations through videoconferencing. “The Tripura government has made great efforts to bring peace and stability. Today, instead of extremism, infiltration, blockades, drugs, arms trafficking, corruption and communal tension, Tripura is now moving towards development, connectivity, infrastructure, sports, investment, and promotion of organic farming,” he observed. The Communists’ regime left no stone unturned to make Tripura a backward State, and violence against its rivals remained their politics, the Home Minister alleged. “Governments were never run from the point of view of development and an important Sate like Tripura was deprived of development for two decades. But our government came to power in Tripura with a full majority keeping faith in Mr. Modi, and today Tripura is moving on the path of development. In these two decades, more than 450 workers of our party were attacked, many people lost their lives, remained destitute in their own State, in their own country as refugees. But today all these efforts have begun yielding results and Tripura has started moving on the path of development,” he stated. After the formation of the government, Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb launched a drug-free Tripura campaign and took strict action against drug smuggling that was taking place with the support of the previous State government, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tripura-on-path-of-progress-shah/article64947148.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:17 IST,||Three held in Clubhouse chat case||The cyber crime branch of Mumbai police on Friday arrested three youngsters from Haryana for allegedly participating in discussions on mobile phone audio chat application ‘Clubhouse’ where they passed derogatory comments against women and also reportedly talked about auctioning their body parts. Three youngsters, identified as Akash Suyal (19), Jaishnav Kakkad (21) and Yashkumar alias Yash Parashar (22) were arrested by Mumbai police. Suyal was picked up from Karnal in Haryana. The other two were arrested from Faridabad in Haryana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-held-in-clubhouse-chat-case/article38305997.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:19 IST,||UNESCO tag sought for root bridges||The Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) has underlined some green rules for the living root bridges of Meghalaya to get the UNESCO World Heritage Site tag. Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma pitched for UNESCO recognition as the hill State marked its 50th year of creation. Meghalaya has been celebrating its Statehood Day on January 21 since 1972.  A living root bridge is like a suspension bridge formed by guiding the pliable roots of the rubber fig tree (  Ficus elastica ) across a stream or river and allowing the roots to grow and strengthen over time. There are no records to suggest when the Khasi community started the living root bridge tradition, but ecologists say it highlights the symbiotic relationship between people and nature. Such a bridge is locally called jingkieng jri .  ZSI Director Dhriti Banerjee said faunal diversity and the preparation of health cards would be the prerequisites for Meghalaya’s living root bridges to earn the UNESCO tag. The State government had a few days ago organised a national convention and a preparatory field visit of ZSI scientists to assess the community and science-based conservation, research and development of the living root bridges. “These bridges support many birds, animals, lichens, mushrooms, flowers and trees and allow the humans to cross over for their living,” Mr. Sangma had said ahead of the convention. The ZSI team visited some sites in the East Khasi Hills district for the assessment of faunal diversity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unesco-tag-sought-for-root-bridges/article64947235.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||Punjab CM to sue Kejriwal for defamation||Ahead of the Assembly elections 2022, the politics surrounding the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids on Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s relative is gaining momentum and is set to become a key electoral issue. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said he has sought permission from party central leadership to sue Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal for defaming him in connection with the recent raids by the Enforcement Directorate in the State. Accusing Mr. Kejriwal of crossing limits of decency, Mr. Channi said that terming him dishonest and posting his picture on social media with currency notes, which were not even recovered from him amounts to defamation, which is not acceptable. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said that Mr. Channi has been aiming for the pity of the people by presenting himself as poor and Dalit after being exposed by ED raids. “Whenever Congress leaders are accused of their nefarious activities, they suddenly remember SC community and the same is being followed by Channi, who is trying to take refuge in the name of the community,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cm-wants-to-sue-kejriwal-for-defamation/article38306028.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Two States plan to revive Saraswati||In an attempt to revive the Saraswati river, the Haryana and Himachal Pradesh governments on Friday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the construction of a dam in Himachal Pradesh on 77 acres, near the Adi Badri area of Haryana’s Yamuna Nagar district. The MoU was signed in the presence of Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal for the rejuvenation of the Saraswati river at an estimated cost of Rs. 215.35 crore. Mr. Thakur said the dam would not only revive the Saraswati river but also help in water conservation in the region. The project would also be of use for Himachal Pradesh as 3.92 hectare metres water per annum would be earmarked for the State for its drinking water requirements, and 57.96 hectare metres for irrigation water demand in project-affected habitations, he added. He said that both the governments would be free to develop tourism projects as well as any other infrastructure facilities that may be required for the welfare and development of local people from their own resources, without compromising the primary objectives of the project. Haryana CM Manohar Lal said that with the construction of the dam, the Saraswati river would flow throughout the year with 20 cusecs water all the time. “The course of the Ghaggar river is believed to be the course of the Saraswati river. This project would go a long way in the promotion of tourism activities in the area with the joint efforts of the Governments of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh,” he said, adding that with the completion of the project, ground water would also get recharged. Mr. Lal said that the Adi Badri Dam Construction Monitoring Committee had been constituted for dam works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-states-plan-to-revive-saraswati/article64947162.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:19 IST,||HC seeks report on police atrocity||The Odisha High Court on Thursday directed the State Home Department to file an affidavit with regard to alleged police excesses at Dhinkia village in Odisha’s Jagatsinhpur district where people are protesting against the proposed mega steel project the by Jindal Steel Work (JSW) Group. Thirteen political parties, including the Congress and the Left parties, met Governor Ganeshi Lal seeking his intervention for the immediate withdrawal of police force from the village. The leaders informed the Governor that “the State government is using force to evict people from their land. The village has been cordoned off and villagers are deprived of essential commodities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-seeks-report-on-police-atrocity/article38306049.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article64947128.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||ED files chargesheet against IREO Group’s MD||The Enforcement Directorate has filed a chargesheet against Lalit Goyal, the vice-chairman-cum-managing director of IREO Group of companies, and others for allegedly diverting funds to the tune of Rs. 1,225 crore collected from customers of real estate projects in Haryana and Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-files-chargesheet-against-ireo-groups-md/article38305999.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||SC refuses to intervene in a plea to censor actor on her social media posts||The Supreme Court on Friday did not intervene in a plea to censor the social media posts of actor Kangana Ranaut and clubbing of multiple FIRs of her alleged remarks against the Sikh community. The court advised the petitioner, Sarsar Charanjeet Singh Chanderpal, to either ignore her utterances rather than give it undue publicity or take action under the criminal law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-refuses-to-intervene-in-a-plea-to-censor-actor-on-her-social-media-posts/article64947151.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||Vaze wants Jt. Commissioner of Police to depose before Commission||Suspended police officer Sachin Vaze wants the Joint Commissioner of Police Milind Bharambe to depose before the K. U. Chandiwal Commission appointed to probe corruption allegations against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Mr. Vaze, who is lodged in the Taloja jail, wrote a letter to the Chandiwal panel seeking Mr. Bharambe’s deposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaze-wants-jt-commissioner-of-police-to-depose-before-commission/article38306002.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||After joining BJP, Aparna Yadav takes ‘blessing’ of Mulayam||After joining the BJP in New Delhi, Aparna Bisht Yadav returned to Lucknow and took blessings of her father-in-law and SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav.Congratulating her on joining the Bharatiya Janata Party, Samajwadi Party chief and former Chief Minister of the State Akhilesh Yadav had told reporters that Mulayam Singh had tried a lot to convince her.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-joining-bjp-aparna-yadav-takes-blessing-of-mulayam/article38306024.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,||Health secretaries to meet EC on Saturday||Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and health secretaries of poll-bound States are scheduled to meet with the Election Commission on Saturday, a Health Ministry official has confirmed. The Health Ministry on Friday also issued a clarification that no data has leaked from CoWIN portal and the entire data of residents is safe and secure on the digital platform. The statement was issued after reports of an alleged leak in CoWIN portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-secretaries-to-meet-ec-on-saturday/article38306027.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||Hooda flays BJP-JJP govt. in Haryana||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda accused the ill-conceived policies of ruling Bharatiya Janta Party-Jannayak Janta Party of pushing Haryana to the brink of ruin on all fronts. Mr. Hooda said Congress’s ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ campaign to capture the “pain and problem” of the people will be resumed after COVID-19 restrictions were lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hooda-flays-bjp-jjp-govt-in-haryana/article64947143.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:30 IST,||IIMs’ CAP 2022: Personal interview schedule announced||IIM Tiruchi, entrusted with the responsibility of conducting Common Admissions Process 2022 (CAP 2022) on behalf of nine participating IIMs, has announced the schedule of personal interviews (PI) through virtual mode, for admissions to PGP 2022-24 batch. It has instructed candidates to register for the personal interview process before January 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iims-cap-2022-personal-interview-schedule-announced/article38306010.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ariyalur homemaker to turn a neat profit with vermicompost venture||A graduate homemaker from Kottiyal village in T. Pazhur block of Ariyalur district has found success as a vermicompost entrepreneur during the lockdown, thanks to soaring sales through e-commerce. S. Azhaku Dheeran, 36, a mother of two, was inspired by her agriculturist father to take up vermiculture, the scientific process of rearing of earthworms to decompose organic waste into compost, after she got married. Ms. Dheeran, who holds a Masters in Chemistry and a B.Ed from Government College for Women in Kumbakonam, started her vermicompost business in August 2019 by investing Rs. 1 lakh from her husband’s savings. Today she employs four workers and manufactures nearly one tonne of vermicompost-based planting mix (fortified with cow manure and soil) per week that is sold online under the brand name ‘Soil Spirit.’ She recently registered the trademark called ‘Aerboreal’ for her product.  “Though it is not easy, I feel young people from rural areas do not always have to migrate to big cities in search of jobs. They can create their livelihood from their intrinsic skill sets,” Ms. Dheeran told The Hindu .  Starting off with five kilos of earthworms sourced from a dealer in Perambalur and one 12x4 metre ‘bed’ for manufacturing compost, Ms. Dheeran has expanded her unit recently to keep up with the demand. She decided to sell online when direct business did not take off as she expected. “Many farmers were still not ready to consider organic fertilizers for their crop, and so I was left with a huge stockpile of vermicompost. After some research, I realised that I should take my idea to customers who were looking for natural inputs, and going online was the best way to do this,” she said. At present, a majority of her customers are hobby gardeners from Chennai and Bengaluru, besides organic farmers in Tamil Nadu. She has also formed a group of 10 farmers in a nearby village to help her prepare compost for bigger orders. Besides platforms like Amazon, Ms. Dheeran also undertakes orders on WhatsApp and offers online tutorials to aspiring vermicompost manufacturers. Ms. Dheeran sees the closure of physical shops during lockdown as a fillip for agri-entrepreneurs like her. “With greater interest from city dwellers in organic farming, my planting mix is ideal for those want to set up terrace gardens. But vermicompost will not give instant results for farmers who rely on chemical fertilizers. It will take at least three years for the yield to match up with that of non-organic inputs,” she said. Among her biggest challenges has been coordinating the logistics. “Our nearest postal parcel service is 20 km away in Jayankondam. I transport my orders in an autorickshaw once a week to dispatch them from there. Some of the packages are rather heavy, so I need help from load men, as well. Despite this, I have managed to fulfill most deliveries within 10 days of booking,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ariyalur-homemaker-to-turn-a-neat-profit-with-vermicompost-venture/article64947440.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM orders action over poor quality of Pongal gift hampers||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday asked officials to take appropriate action against the government servants responsible for the poor quality of the Pongal gift hampers, regarding which complaints had been received. He also instructed them to take severe action against the companies that supplied low-quality items, including blacklisting them. During a review meeting, the Chief Minister instructed officials to monitor the quality of the Pongal gift hampers being distributed to consumers. He also asked them to take severe action against anyone indulging in misdeeds, an official release said. “The Chief Minister said that quality must be ensured in the hampers meant for the public, and that efforts to bring the government into disrepute cannot be allowed under any circumstances,” the release said. During the meeting, the officials elaborated on the process being followed for the distribution of the hampers. The measures taken for ensuring quality were also discussed. While the distribution of the Pongal gift hampers was on, “complaints were received over items supplied by a few companies in some parts of the State”, the release said. “They were enquired into, and action was taken immediately. Action is being taken against the companies that did not ensure quality in the supplies,” it added. Minister for Cooperation I. Periasamy, Food Minister R. Sakkarapani and senior officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-orders-action-over-poor-quality-of-pongal-gift-hampers/article64947216.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Researchers find anti-cancer activity in marine seagrass||Researchers have found scientific evidence of a strong anti-cancer activity in the ethyl acetate fraction of Halodule uninervis , a species of seagrass found in the coastal region of Mandapam close to Rameswaram in southern Tamil Nadu.  The study, claimed to be the first of its kind, was aimed at evaluating the in-vitro anti-cancer activity of ethyl acetate fraction of this seagrass species against various human cancer cell lines, including malignant melanoma, lung, cervix, carcinoma and colorectal cancers.  The findings, which confirmed the anti-cancer activity in the chemically processed Halodule uninervis , which is abundantly available in the Gulf of Mannar, was published in the latest issue of International Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Drug Research . The study was done by a team of researchers, comprising Perumal Parthasarathy and Arthanari Umamaheswari, of the Department of Biology and Plant Biotechnology, Presidency College, and Ravichandran Banupriya and Sanniyasi Elumalai of the Department of Biotechnology, University of Madras. According to Dr. Elumalai, cancer was the second largest cause of death globally. Going by World Health Organization (WHO) estimates, the deaths due to cancer were higher in developed countries than in developing countries. In 2050, the number of new cases was estimated to increase by 24 million and the number of cancer-related deaths by 17 million worldwide. While the options available for treatment included surgery, radiation therapy, immunotherapy and chemotherapy, these methods had severe side-effects. As much as 60% of the drugs used for cancer treatment were derived from natural products.  Quoting scientific data and evidence, Dr. Elumalai said marine natural products, including seagrass, micro- and macro-algae, sponges and corals, played a major role in the discovery of novel biologically active compounds. “Seagrass is one of the groups of marine angiosperms that often lives entirely submerged and are capable of completing their life cycle in a coastal environment. In traditional medicine, seagrass has frequently been used for a variety of therapeutic purposes such as wound-healing, fever, stomach aches, muscle pains and skin diseases. In addition, they have been used in biomedical applications such as anti-cancer, anti-diabetic, anti-inflammatory, anti-fungal, anti-bacterial and anti-viral activities,” he said. Halodule uninervis could generate phytoconstituents, including phenols, flavonoids, tannins, steroids and alkaloids, which are reported to possess promising biological applications, including anti-bacterial and anti-diabetic activities.   Dr. Elumalai said the particular species of seagrass, collected from the Mandapam coastal region, was authenticated by the Botanical Survey of India’s Southern Regional Centre, Coimbatore. The collected seagrass was washed well with running water and then by distilled water. It was allowed to be shade-dried and powdered in a grinder. The powder was then fractionated with ethyl acetate by gentle mixing on a shaker for 72 hours. The ethyl acetate fraction of Halodule uninervis was put through qualitative phytochemical screening, quantitative phytochemical analysis and in-vitro anti-cancer activity, besides other chemical processes.  “Our present study found that the seagrass contains a wide variety of secondary metabolites that hold a strong anti-cancer activity against the A549 cell line. Further, purification of the specific active phytoconstituents and preclinical studies need to be conducted for the discovery of anti-cancer drugs...,” to treat lung cancer and reduced side effects,” Dr. Elumalai said. The next step would be to study the impact on animals, followed by clinical trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/researchers-find-anti-cancer-activity-in-marine-seagrass/article64947467.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||1,750 pole cameras to ensure safety of women||The Greater Chennai Corporation will start installing 1,750 pole cameras from next week to ensure safety of women on the streets of the city. The project is being taken up utilising the Nirbhaya fund. The locations identified for these cameras include commercial areas, industrial areas, educational institutions, public transportation hubs, parks, beaches, malls and recreation centres. The Corporation has already installed smart poles fitted with cameras at 150 locations. Feed from other cameras have started reaching the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) in Ripon Buildings. However, the number of cameras providing real time data has remained low. The control centre was developed at an estimated cost of Rs. 149 crore under the Smart City Mission initiative. Facial recognition cameras were originally proposed to prevent crimes against women. According to data compiled recently, Chennai has the highest number of cameras per square km among the major cities in the world.However, engineering consultants have stressed the need to have more cameras. Most of those installed by various line agencies did not provide real data to the control centre in Ripon Buildings. Some engineers have suggested that the Corporation should get access to cameras installed at apartments and commercial complexes with focus on public spaces nearthe houses. The GCC could use the data from the private cameras to improve safety and security in those areas. In exchange for the access to the cameras at private premises, the civic body could provide incentives vis-a-vis property tax, the engineers suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1750-pole-cameras-to-ensure-safety-of-women/article64947474.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM inspects stormwater drain work in Kolathur||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday visited his Kolathur Assembly constituency and inspected the work on stormwater drains and roads. The Chief Minister inaugurated a project to supply drinking water to tenements of the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board on Jawahar Salai at Gowthamapuram, a release said. In G.K.M. Colony, he inspected work relating to clearing of drain during monsoon and work in Ashok Avenue, Rangadas Colony and Anjugam Nagar. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu, Chennai North MP Kalanidhi Veerasamy, Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation Gagandeep Singh Bedi, nd Managing Director of Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board C. Vijayaraj Kumar accompanied the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inspects-stormwater-drain-work-in-kolathur/article64947472.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||29,870 test positive for COVID-19||Tamil Nadu recorded nearly 30,000 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. A total of 29,870 people tested positive and 33 succumbed to the infection in the State. The drop in fresh cases continued for the fifth consecutive day in Chennai, while cases rose in the majority of the districts. Chennai logged 7,038 cases, while continuing to account for the most number of deaths in the State as 14 persons died of COVID-19 in the city. Recoveries exceeded new cases in the city as 8,164 patients were discharged. In Coimbatore, the daily tally rose from 3,390 to 3,653, while Chengalpattu registered a marginal rise from 2,196 to 2,250. While Kanniyakumari continued to record 1,000-plus cases (1,248), the daily tally breached the 1,000-mark in Salem and Tiruvallur. While there were 1,016 cases in Tiruvallur, Salem logged 1,009 infections. The fresh cases pushed up the State’s overall tally to 30,72,666. With 1,54,282 samples tested, the positivity rate stood at 19.36%. With 33 deaths (21 in private hospitals and 12 in government hospitals), the toll rose to 37,145. Besides Chennai, 12 districts recorded COVID-19 deaths. As of date, a total of 1,87,358 patients are under treatment/home isolation in the State. When compared to Thursday, more patients were discharged in the State. A total of 21,684 patients were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 28,48,163. 1.22 lakh get jabs A total of 1,22,169 people were vaccinated on Friday, taking the overall coverage of government vaccination centres to 8,88,35,491. Among those vaccinated were 9,072 people aged 15 to 17 and 66,064 people aged 18 to 44.So far, 1,84,285 precaution doses have been administered in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/29870-test-positive-for-covid-19/article64947223.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gadkari appeals to CM to intervene and review all road projects in T.N.||Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways Nitin Gadkari on Friday appealed to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to intervene and review all road projects in Tamil Nadu and ensure better co-operation between the State and his Ministry.  “We are facing major problems in Tamil Nadu. Our work has stopped. Through this programme, I request the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister to review all road projects and cooperate with us,” the Minister said in his special address at the BusinessLineCountdown to Budget 2022 .  Road development projects (National Highways) in Tamil Nadu had hit a roadblock due to problems like sourcing aggregate material and forest clearances, he said. “There is no money shortage. We are ready to give Rs. 1,000 crore to Tamil Nadu and develop all types of road project,” he added. Responding to a question on the lack of major road projects in the South, the Minister said, “In Tamil Nadu, we are not getting different types of aggregate [material] for construction. They are giving us permission for three months, and for another three months. In a bureaucratic system, this never works. That’s why the work has stopped. We have already requested the Minister, the Chief Minister and the Chief Secretary to sort out the issues. If the cooperation is good from the State’s side, I am assuring [you] that I will give a lot of priority to the development of road infrastructure in Tamil Nadu.” “In Kerala, there are problems with land acquisition. However, the Chief Minister is very proactive, and is taking a lot of decisions and helping the NHAI,” he said. “We are now giving a lot of projects to Kerala. In Karnataka also, we are doing a lot of projects. In Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, we have sanctioned many projects, including the Hyderabad-Chennai highway. In South India, there are a lot of projects,” he added. Stating that he was keen on working with the Tamil Nadu government, Mr. Gadkari recalled the work done earlier. “When I was the Shipping Minister, I developed the ports in Tuticorin and Chennai. We were working on the Chennai Port-Maduravoyal elevated corridor project to resolve the traffic problem in Chennai. We are ready for that, but we need cooperation from the State government,” he said. “Without that, we cannot do it. When the Central government is ready to fund road projects, let us resolve the small issues and we can see 100% change in the total infrastructure of Tamil Nadu, which is the fastest-growing State in the country. Lots of industrial development is there; exports will increase and create more employment potential. I am very much positive and support it,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gadkari-appeals-to-cm-to-intervene-and-review-all-road-projects-in-tn/article64947220.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rhapsody Music Foundation bags Reimagine Award||Rhapsody Music Foundation has won the prestigious Reimagine Education Award. Founded by classical pianist-turned-education innovation entrepreneur Anil Srinivasan, Rhapsody has been ranked Number 1 in Asia and Number 1 worldwide in the Arts and Humanities category ahead of more than 1,500 education innovators. The Reimagine Award is given by Wharton School’s Alfred West Jr. Learning Lab and QS Quacquarelli Symonds, and recognises innovative approaches that improve student learning outcomes. Rhapsody, which was started in 2013, has reached over 4 lakh schoolchildren in south India and uses music to teach them science and mathematical concepts. Creative approach Specialising in creative intelligence and connecting the arts to the sciences from primary grades up to Class VIII, its interdisciplinary and creative approach to education was recognised by the jury. “I dedicate this award to the children that we reach. This is a huge honour for us, especially the team,” said Mr. Anil Srinivasan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rhapsody-music-foundation-bags-reimagine-award/article64947470.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Spoilt jaggery gifted despite specific alert||A sizeable quantity of the jaggery distributed to the people as part of the Pongal gift hampers by the Tamil Nadu government was spoilt, forcing the authorities to return it to the suppliers.  Enquiries made by The Hindu revealed that the Collectors were forewarned of adulterated jaggery being made in the market. Instructions were given to advise jaggery manufacturers to install Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras, with adequate storage capacity, on their premises to prevent adulteration by addition of unapproved or harmful colouring agents or chemicals that could pose a health hazard.  In an advisory to all the Collectors on November 29, 2021, P. Senthil Kumar, Commissioner, Food Safety & Drug Administration, said several complaints were received on the sale of adulterated jaggery in the market. Referring to the specifications prescribed in the Food Safety and Standards (Food Products Standards and Food Additives) Regulation, 2011, for the making of jaggery, he said there were reports of jaggery being adulterated with sugar and other chemicals. The cane jaggery or cane ‘gur’ was adulterated with maida, sugar, superphosphate, sodium bi-carbonate, calcium carbonate, artificial colouring agents and sodium hydro-sulphate. “The unadulterated jaggery is normally dark brown in colour, but the adulterated jaggery is light brown or deep yellow or pale yellow or orange in colour... Members of the public, due to lack of awareness, think yellow/orange-coloured jaggery is better than the brown-coloured one. These have been prepared with harmful colouring agents,” he said. Since the manufacturers claimed they were producing attractively coloured jaggery based on market demand, there was a need to sensitise people to the dangers of adulterated jaggery. To curtail such adulterants, a State-level monitoring committee, comprising senior officials, was formed in February 2021. The committee convened a meeting of stakeholders four months later to prevent adulteration in jaggery. The Collectors were told to educate the people on identifying adulterated jaggery and to share a WhatsApp number for filing complaints in case they came across adulterated jaggery.  Unadulterated jaggery is normally dark brown in colour, but adulterated jaggery is light brown or deep yellow or pale yellow or orange in colour P. Senthil Kumar Commissioner, Food Safety & Drug Administration||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spoilt-jaggery-gifted-despite-specific-alert/article38306381.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kancheepuram police nab rowdy in Haryana||A special team of police, led by Kancheepuram Superintendent of Police, recently arrested a rowdy in Haryana. The police said the accused was a close associate of Sridhar Dhanapalan, who had more than 40 criminal cases and committed suicide in Cambodia in 2017. His close associates, Dinesh Kumar and Thiyagu alias Thiiyagarajan, were vying with each other. Led by SP M. Sudhakar, the police intensified its efforts to nab the criminals in the district. A special team traced and nabbed Thiyagu, 33, who had jumped bail and been hiding in Haryana. He has 63 criminal cases, with charges, including murder, attempt to murder and extortion, against him. He was brought to Kancheepuram and remanded in judicial custody after being produced before a court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-nab-rowdy-in-haryana/article38306398.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Boy recovers with ECMO support after two cardiac arrests||A two-and-a-half-year-old child, who suffered two cardiac arrests, has recovered with the support of extracorporeal cardiopulmonary resuscitation, a method of cardiopulmonary resuscitation using extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), at a private hospital in the city. According to a release, the boy had fever for a week and lung infection, and was admitted to a private hospital in Thanjavur where he suffered the first cardiac arrest. An emergency call was made to Rela Hospital for ECMO support and higher management. The team shifted the child in an ambulance on ventilator support from Thanjavur to Chennai. On arrival, the child had a second cardiac arrest and multi-organ failure due to cardiac pulmonary arrest. His oxygen level dropped to 80% due to respiratory failure and heart function was five to 10%. ECMO was initiated immediately. The child started to improve slowly. After three days, his heart function was 30 to 35%. After five days, it improved to 60 to 65%. The lung function healed after nine days. The child was weaned off ECMO after 10 days. The child recovered and was discharged later. ECMO or ECMO CPR was the most advanced procedure for resuscitation in a patient with cardiorespiratory arrest, C. Arumugam, senior consultant, Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, Rela Hospital, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ecmo-support-helps-child-recover-after-2-cardiac-arrests/article38306411.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Leave app rolled out for police||A new android app has been launched for Greater Chennai police personnel to apply for leave and to get it sanctioned immediately. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin unveiled the app on Friday. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) S.K. Prabakar, Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu and Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal were present. Called CLAPP (Complete Leave APP), the app has been designed to eradicate delays, summary rejections or favouritism by the sanctioning authority and is aimed at ensuring transparency in the leave process. The Armed Reserve units of the Greater Chennai Police have the largest contingent of 5,800 personnel. Earlier, personnel from constable up to the rank of special sub-inspector (SSI) had to meet their reporting officers concerned amidst their hectic workload for approval of leave. After getting the approval, they had to enter it in their dairies in the Armed Reserve Police unit office. CLAPP is aimed at simplifying this procedure. Mr. Jiwal said: “Now these personnel need not physically wait for any paperwork. By downloading and clicking on CLAPP, the personnel can get their leave sanctioned without any hassle from the place where they are. As of now, AR police personnel — both women and men from the rank of constable up to special sub-inspector — can start using the app from today. The back-end data is ready. They have to just download the app and can apply for casual leave, earned leave and medical leave, online.” The sanctioning authority must respond within three hours. If there is delay of more than three hours, it will be escalated to the officer above the sanctioning authority. For those who do not have the internet, they can use advanced CLAPP V2 and apply by sending an SMS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leave-app-rolled-out-for-police/article64947464.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses case filed against Tamil Thai Vazhthu||The Madras High Court on Friday dismissed a 2007 writ petition challenging the State government’s decision to use edited portions of ‘Manonmaniam’ P. Sundaram Pillai’s song Neerarum Kadaludutha as an invocation to Mother Tamil in public functions.   Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu rejected the case after State Government Pleader P. Muthukumar brought to the notice of the court that the government had recently declared the Tamil Thai Vazhthu a State song. The judges said the court cannot interfere in such issues when the government, in its wisdom, had decided to use only one stanza of the original song for the invocation and leave out the other stanza to avoid complaints of other languages having been belittled.  J. Mohan Raj, general secretary of Jebamani Janata Party, had filed the writ petition, contending that the State government had no authority to make changes to the song without the express approval of the author. He complained that the government had not only deleted the second stanza of the song, which had references to Kannada, Telugu, Malayalam, Tulu and Sanskrit, but also interchanged the third and fourth lines in the first stanza to suit its convenience. The petitioner argued that the State government should have either accepted the song in its original form or dropped it altogether. It cannot make changes to the song without the consent of the author, who lived from 1855 to 1897. In a counter-affidavit filed in July 2017, the government denied any mala fide intention behind the decision to use only an edited portion of the original song as an invocation to Mother Tamil. It said the song was reconstructed with certain modifications to avoid complaints of languages other than Tamil having been underestimated or belittled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-case-filed-against-tamil-thai-vazhthu/article38306378.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Panneerselvam demands White Paper on gift hamper distribution||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Friday urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to bring out a White Paper on the scheme for distribution of Pongal gift hampers. Accusing the government of having wasted Rs. 1,250 crore, he raised several questions, in a statement, over the manner in which the scheme was implemented. “From whom have the items been procured? Was any one item procured from two or three firms? Did firms based in Tamil Nadu take part in the tender? If so, which were those firms? What price did they quote? Were the particulars of quality and weight mentioned in the bids? Were the items tested for the weight and quality? Was action initiated against those who had supplied poor quality items? How much money has been paid to the contractors? How much more remains to be paid,” he asked. The AIADMK leader said the items were not “at all useful”, whereas those given away by the AIADMK government were useful. In a separate statement, AIADMK organisation secretary D. Jayakumar said the DMK government had not acted against the wrongdoers despite a large number of complaints. Mr. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, in a joint statement, called for applications from aspirants for nomination in the elections to the urban local bodies.  Were the items tested for weight and quality? Was action initiated against those who had supplied poor quality items?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panneerselvam-demands-white-paper-on-gift-hamper-distribution/article38306380.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||End-semester exams to be held online from Feb. 1 to 20, says Minister||End-semester exams for students in first to fifth semesters will be held from February 1 to 20, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi said on Friday. All such students in government arts and science colleges, private colleges affiliated to universities and engineering and polytechnic institutions will take the exams online simultaneously on the announced dates, he said. The final-year semester exams will be held offline in June-July and, depending on the situation then, the students will be called to the institutions on rotation to take the exams. The Minister said senior officials of all directorates and colleges had been instructed to follow these regulations. Rural students had expressed difficulty in sending their answer sheets. To ensure that they are able to do so, the Higher Education Department has decided to give them sufficient time to send the answer scripts by post. Other students would have to upload their answer sheets, and they could do so for all the papers together. Higher Education Secretary D. Karthikeyan clarified that all exams scheduled for November and December, including arrears, will be conducted online. All exams, including final-semester exams, to be held in May/June will be conducted offline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/end-semester-exams-to-be-held-online-from-feb-1-to-20-says-minister/article64947222.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin welcomes SC verdict on OBC quota||Welcoming the reasons cited by the Supreme Court for upholding the constitutional validity of a quota for the Other Backward Classes in all-India quota seats under the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test, DMK president and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday hoped that it would strengthen his government’s case for exempting the State from NEET. In a letter to his partymen, he recalled the steps taken by the DMK in the case and pointed out party MP P. Wilson argued on nine major points. “The Supreme Court judgment yesterday [January 20] has formed a strong foundation for social justice, not just today but forever,” he said. Since the judgment in the Mandal Commission case, this was the major victory in the history of social justice in the country, Mr. Stalin said. “Moreover, this is the victory for the continuous struggle by the DMK.” Citing from the judgment which said “open competitive exams do not reflect the social, economic and cultural advantage that accrues to certain classes,” Mr. Stalin said it was the victory for the vision of late DMK leader M. Karunanidhi who had abolished the entrance exams for professional courses and even got the President’s assent for the measure and the Supreme Court’s judgment favouring it. “Social justice and equal opportunities provided by our Constitution would stand by us in our struggle against NEET. We will win!,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-welcomes-sc-verdict-on-obc-quota/article38306385.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Drop proposed changes to IAS Cadre Rule: VCK||VCK chief Thol. Thirumavalavan on Friday strongly condemned the Centre’s proposed amendment to Rule 6 (deputation of cadre officers) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, which would do away with the requirement of obtaining the approval of the State governments to transfer IAS and IPS officers through Central deputation. Contending that it amounted to taking away the rights of the States, he urged the Centre to drop the plan. Mr. Thirumavalavan said such a move would lead to officers functioning with a sense of fear about being transferred, and it would be used as a tool to destabilise non-BJP-ruled States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drop-proposed-changes-to-ias-cadre-rule-vck/article38306386.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Probe on into unregistered candidates taking exam||The University of Madras has constituted a five-member committee to inquire into how 116 candidates managed to take the online examinations without having registered as students of the Institute of Distance Education. Four members of the committee are from the Syndicate. C. Chockalingam, Syndicate member and Director of Legal Studies Directorate, is the convener of the committee. B. Venugopal, professor and head of the Department of Legal Studies; Chitti Annapurna, head of the Department of Hindi; D. Sathyavan, Syndicate member and in-charge head of Department of Econometrics; and Elangovan Vellaichamy, Dean - Academic and head of the Department of Biochemistry, are the other members. An official said the committee had started its inquiries and would provide directions and guidelines to avoid a repeat of such an act in the future. ‘Not a physical exam’ “This happened because the exam was conducted online. In a physical exam, there are enough checks to prevent such fraud,” said an official. Last year, as a one-time final chance, candidates enrolled in the IDE in various programmes were given the opportunity to write the exam and clear arrears, if any. When the university began processing the results, it was found that some candidates who had never registered with the university had taken the examination through study centres. Their results were withheld. Of the 117 candidates who were identified, one person’s name had been entered twice, an IDE official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-on-into-unregistered-candidates-taking-exam/article38306800.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lighter in baggage causes tension||A 60-year-old man from Kerala who was carrying a toy gun-shaped cigarette lighter caused tension at Central Metro Rail Station. The man was identified as Vijayan, a native of Kozhikode. He had travelled from Coimbatore to Chennai by train on Thursday afternoon to visit a relative in the city and he was looking for a job. After getting down at the Puratchithalaiver Dr. MGR Central Railway Station, he was passing through Central Metro Station to reach Egmore. A scan revealed a broken lighter gun in his baggage. The security staff seized 10 debit and credit cards from him. He was taken to Periyamet police station and was let off after he gave a written statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lighter-in-baggage-causes-tension/article38306396.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||19 defamation cases against CM quashed||The Madras High Court on Friday quashed as many as 19 criminal defamation cases, filed at the behest of the State government during the AIADMK regime, against incumbent Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar allowed all 19 quash petitions filed by Mr. Stalin between 2016 and 2021 and set aside the cases pending before various district courts. A majority of the defamation cases had been filed between 2018 and 2020. Among them was one filed against Mr. Stalin for having given an interview to the media during a visit to his Kolathur constituency on December 7, 2020 when he was the Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly. Media interview In the interview, he accepted the title ‘Statement King’, given to him by then Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, by saying that issuing statements was not a crime. He, in turn, gave the Chief Minister the title ‘Corruption King’. In his quash petition, Mr. Stalin contended that the criminal defamation case had been filed against him with a malicious intention. Similarly, another defamation case had been filed in 2020 against Mr. Stalin for having criticised the then Chief Minister for placing a financial burden on the people during lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-defamation-cases-against-cm-quashed/article38306379.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:21 IST,TAMIL NADU||Aid for owners of boats in SL custody||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday announced that it would grant financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh each to the 128 owners of mechanised fishing boats and Rs. 1.5 lakh each to the 17 owners of country boats that are currently in Sri Lankan custody. “Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has announced that compensation to the tune of Rs. 5.66 crore would be granted towards damage incurred by 105 fishing boats and fishing equipment during the northeast monsoon,” an official release said. Representatives of various fishermen associations called on Mr. Stalin at the Secretariat and urged steps to secure the release of fishermen in Sri Lankan custody. The Chief Minister elaborated on the steps being taken by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aid-for-owners-of-boats-in-sl-custody/article38306384.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Free therapy during ‘eye and fitness’ drive||Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Speciality Centre is hosting an “eye and fitness campaign” at its centres across the country. Launched on January 3, the campaign will run for three months providing vision tests with ophthalmologists for patients with diabetes. Free physiotherapy and orthopaedic consultation will be offerd to patients with joint aches or muscular problems. V. Mohan, chairman of the hospital, said: “Diabetic retinopathy affects one in three people with diabetes and is one of the leading causes of preventable blindness.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-therapy-during-eye-and-fitness-drive/article38306393.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||MTC installs digital display boards at Central station stop||The Metropolitan Transport Corporation Chennai (MTC) has installed more than 20 digital display boards at the two bus bays in front of the Dr. MGR Chennai Central Railway Station. A senior official of the MTC said the digital display boards, which are similar to the ones at railway stations, were fixed based on the directions of Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan and Secretary K. Gopal. The digital boards show details of the bus numbers and routes at the two bus bays to help the commuters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mtc-installs-digital-display-boards-at-central-station-stop/article64947468.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for raping minor girl||All Women Police, Madhavaram, on Friday arrested a 20-year-old history-sheeter on charge of raping a minor. The parents of the girl came to know that she was pregnant when they took her to a doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-raping-minor-girl/article38306389.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||SHRC seeks report on police action against student||Taking suo motu cognisance of a report in The Hindu about a law student being allegedly assaulted by two policemen in Chennai, the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Friday called for a detailed report from the authorities.  The Commission, headed by retired judge S. Baskaran, called for a report over the incident from Home Secretary within six weeks. It directed the Chennai Police Commissioner to preserve the relevant CCTV recording at the police station concerned. ‘Held for slapping’ On Friday, Abdul Rahim, 21, a student of School of Excellence in Law, was arrested on charge of slapping constable Uthirakumar when he was stopped for riding a bicycle without wearing a mask. After a verbal duel, the youth was detained in the Kodungaiyur station and was allegedly assaulted by two policemen and later remanded in custody the next day. Nine personnel booked Following a complaint from Mr. Rahim, nine police personnel, including a woman inspector, were booked for the alleged abusing and assault. The Kodungaiyur police registered a first information report (FIR) against inspector Nasima, Uthirakumar, Boominathan, Hemanathan, Sathyaraj, Ramalingam, Anthony and two others under Sections 294(b) (uttering vulgar words), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the IPC. The complainant alleged that while he was returning home after delivering medicines to a customer, the police stopped him at 11.30 p.m. and demanded Rs. 500 fine for not wearing a mask though he was wearing a mask. He was forcibly taken to the station and a petty case was booked against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-seeks-report-on-police-action-against-law-student/article38306405.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Coimbatore, a gateway to T.N’||The development of the Coimbatore bypass and adjoining areas will make the city the gateway to Tamil Nadu, said Gugan Ilango, president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (CREDAI), Coimbatore, here on Friday.  Speaking at G Square Presents “Coimbatore Unlimited: Collaborate, Co-create, Celebrate,” powered by The Hindu , a panel discussion at Taj Vivanta on “Coimbatore Bypass: the Next Big Investment Destination,” he said cargo movement between Gujarat and Tamil Nadu by sea is picking up. The cargo comes by sea from Gujarat to Kochi and moves by road from there to Tamil Nadu. This is cost-effective. Development of the 28-km long Coimbatore bypass will make it a major connecting road to the rest of the State for cargo movement, he said.  It is not just investments from Coimbatore and Kerala, but also from other States, which are currently happening on the Coimbatore bypass road. “Coimbatore bypass is one of those areas that has a structured infrastructure development. It is becoming a planned hub,” added Eshwar. N, chief executive officer of G Square. Coimbatore is currently witnessing a radial development, with industries growing on the eastern and northern areas of the city, hospitality sector on the western areas and logistics on the southern areas, added Mr. Gugan. Jude Alex, founder of Synergy Realtors, said IT parks in Coimbatore are full and valve industries have expanded here. Avinashi Road, Tiruchi Road, and Coimbatore bypass will be the major growth hubs, he said. ‘Better affordability’ Coimbatore bypass has the advantage of affordability compared to other areas at present, making businesses affordable. Additionally, large parcels are available for development on that stretch, said Mr. Eshwar. According to him, almost five million square feet of warehouses have come up on the Chettipalayam-Palladam road. Mr. Gugan said with Karur and Tiruppur getting saturated, a lot of companies are looking at alternative locations here. The Coimbatore bypass has the potential to cater to their needs, he added. The panelists further said in the last two years, with more people opting to work from home due to COVID-19, the need for residential units and housing plots have shot up. With interest rates falling, loans have become affordable for those who want to buy houses, said Mr. Eshwar. The participants pointed out the need for faster approvals and for constituting a Coimbatore development authority to accelerate industrial development here. News 18 Tamil Nadu is the television partner for the programme. Kanishka Arumugam, CEO of Ekki Pumps and Head of CII- FBN Next Gen, moderated the session.  Coimbatore bypass has the advantage of affordability compared to other areas at present, making businesses affordable||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-witnessing-radial-development/article64947231.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||873 bulls, 400 tamers participate in jallikattu held in Coimbatore||A near-empty arena made no difference to jallikattu in Coimbatore on Friday as bulls and players raised the spirit of the sport with their enthusiastic participation.  At the end of day’s play, the sporting arena witnessed over 873 bulls exit the decorated gate, vaadivasal , to run through the trough while escaping the outstretched arms of the 400 players, who tried to hold on to their hump.  The organisers, Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Federation and Coimbatore district administration, adjudged Kuruvithurai player Mani the first prize winner for successfully holding onto 21 bulls. Minister for Electricity and Prohibition and Excise V. Senthilbalaji gifted a car on the Chief Minister’s behalf. The organisers declared Podhumbu player Prabhakar the second prize winner for holding on to 19 bulls and Natham player Karthi the third prize winner with 18 bulls to his name. They also announced Kattikudipatti Subramanian’s bull as the best followed by Sivagangai Rajesh’s and Seelayampatti Senthil’s. Mr. Senthilbalaji said for the Coimbatore jallikattu that was held with strict adherence to COVID-19 safety guideline, the organisers had registered 1,250 bulls from Theni, Madurai, Sivagangai, Salem, Thanjavur and several other districts. But, they could allow only 873 bulls due to paucity of time. He also said that the event saw no player or bull suffer any injury of concern. Earlier after he inaugurated the event in the presence of Collector G.S. Sameeran, senior police officers and the Federation office bearers, the police personnel on duty sent in players in batches into the arena. The challenge before the players was to hold onto the hump of bulls till the end of trough or three rounds or a certain time. If they succeeded the Federation organisers declared them winner or announced the bull owner as winner. The organisers mostly gave steel utensils as prize and in some cases gold coins or almirah or bicycle depending on the sponsors available. In a few cases, they also gave LED television sets to players if they held on to three or four bulls in their round or successfully held on to a bull that showed valour. Second prize winner Prabhakar’s friend K. Nagaraj said a group of friends participated in the Coimbatore leg of jallikattu to showcase their valour and make the village proud. It was the pride that made them visit Coimbatore and not the value of gifts offered. V. Deepak, a player from Keeripatti in Madurai, said it was the love for jallikattu that made him participate in several events since the ban on the sport was lifted.  The Animal Husbandry Department checked every bull that was registered before allowing the owners to take them to the vaadivasal . Nasal or oral extracts were tested on the spot to see if the owners had drugged the animal, said sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/873-bulls-400-tamers-participate-in-jallikattu-held-in-coimbatore/article64947461.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Leopard eludes capture for fifth consecutive day||For the fifth consecutive day, the Forest Department on Friday continued its efforts to capture the leopard, which had sought shelter inside an unused warehouse at B.K. Pudur in the city. District Forest Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division T.K. Ashok Kumar said that only around 20 Forest Department personnel were deployed near the warehouse. They were stationed at a distance to reduce human movement around the building, which could enable the leopard to step outside and get trapped in the cage. The leopard approached the opening of the cage placed at the warehouse’s entrance three times in the early hours of Friday, he said. Despite being trapped inside the building for five days, it appears to be active and healthy, according to Mr. Kumar. “Leopards can survive for 15 days without food,” he noted. The carnivore is being monitored round the clock using six CCTV cameras, the DFO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-eludes-capture-for-fifth-consecutive-day/article38306433.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. incinerates 274 wildlife articles in Coimbatore||The Forest Department on Friday incinerated 274 wildlife articles including tushes, antlers, nails and bones that were collected from the carcasses of wild animals within the limits of the Coimbatore Forest Division. Officials said the 274 articles comprised 33 elephant tushes, eight tushes with jaw, 207 antlers, one spotted deer skin, 13 nails, two teeth and 10 bones. All these were collected by the forest staff in the seven forest ranges under Coimbatore Forest Division namely Sirumugai, Mettupalayam, Karamadai, Periyanaickenpalayam, Coimbatore, Boluvampatti and Madukkarai. The previous instance of burning such wildlife articles was done in 2017 and the burning of the accumulated wildlife articles was carried out on Friday as per the directions of the Chief Wildlife Warden, officials said. The wildlife articles were set fire to on a raised structure outside the District Forest Office here in the presence of Field Director of Anamalai Tiger Reserve S. Ramasubramanian, District Forest Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division T.K. Ashok Kumar and forest range officers of the seven ranges. Members of NGOs such as Nature Conservation Society and Osai were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-incinerates-274-wildlife-articles-in-coimbatore/article38306432.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seven arrested for stealing cash posing as IT officers||The Kinathukadavu police on Thursday arrested seven men for their alleged involvement in a case, where a group of men posing as Income Tax officers, stole cash worth of over Rs. 15 lakh from the resident of Kinathukadavu in Coimbatore district on January 15. According to the police, N. Praveen Kumar (36), R. Manikandan (37) and S. Mohankumar (30) were arrested near Kinathukadavu on Thursday afternoon. Having confessed to the crime, the accused allegedly said that they received assistance from four local residents from Kinathukadavu namely R. Sathish (36), A. Ramasamy (47), R. Anand (47) and D. Thyagarajan (42). Following this, the police arrested these four late on Thursday. Cash worth Rs. 3 lakh was recovered following the arrest. The seven arrested accused were remanded in judicial custody on Friday, according to the police. Meanwhile, three accused – Matthew, Maheswaran and Faizal – are absconding and efforts to arrest them are on. The accused were booked under sections 120 B (Punishment of criminal conspiracy) and 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code. P.R. Senthilkumar, Inspector of Kinathukadavu police station, said on Friday that Matthew, Maheswaran, Praveen Kumar, Manikandan and Mohankumar visited the residence of K. Panchalingam, a quarry owner, claiming to be I-T sleuths. These five, all residents of Coimbatore, zeroed in on the particular residence with the assistance of the four local residents and the accused aizal was their driver. The men had also taken the digital video recorder of surveillance cameras and Mr. Panchalingam’s mobile phone along with them before leaving. After this, the five accused split the stolen cash among them near Sundarapuram in Coimbatore and went their separate ways. Praveen, Manikandan and Mohankumar had absconded to Kochi in Kerala, he said. They were planning to meet the four local residents who assisted them near Kinathukadavu when they were nabbed by the police, Mr. Senthilkumar said. Matthew and Maheswaran are the prime accused in this case as the former allegedly organised the team and planned the sequence of events for around three months and the latter prepared counterfeit identity cards and other counterfeit documents, according to the Inspector. A total of three special teams by Kinathukadavu police were involved in tracing the whereabouts of the accused in this case and the search operations extended till Bengaluru and Hyderabad. The total cash stolen by the gang would be ascertained only after the arrest of the remaining three accused, the inspector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-arrested-for-stealing-cash-posing-as-it-officers/article38306420.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Migratory bird species in wetlands decline: survey||Migratory bird species have declined in Coimbatore wetlands as per a recent survey conducted by the Coimbatore Nature Society (CNS) in 29 wetlands in the district as part of the Asian Waterbird Census which was held from January 9 to 15 A total of 27 migratory bird species were recorded in the survey registering a decline from 31 species in 2021 and 39 in 2020. This year’s species count in wetlands was also the lowest since 2017. The survey report compiled by Pavendhan A. said that the decline in migrant species was a “worrying factor”. The population of ducks and waders was very poor, it said. It said that migratory birds were increasingly finding it difficult to use Coimbatore wetlands as before due to various factors. Wetland shores are affected due to Smart City project’s construction works, which damaged the natural shorelines, were among reasons for decline in migrant and resident waders (shore birds) population. While the residents may move between wetlands depending on the food availability and other factors to manage a crisis, the incoming migrants during September and October months, may move out to better wetlands skipping the Coimbatore wetlands, given the good monsoon and rain Tamil Nadu had especially during the second half of 2021, it said. In terms of the bird count (bird population), migratory species registered an increase from 978 in 2021 to 1,580 in 2022, shows the surveywhich was coordinated by CNS president Selvaraj P.R. Resident bird population in the wetlands showed a decline from 6,091 in 2021 to 5,858 this year. However, the number of resident bird species found in the waterbodies increased from 103 to 106. Altogether, the 25 members from CNS counted 7,438 birds – 5,858 residents and 1,580 migrants of 133 species – in the survey. Of the 133 bird species, 47 were waterbirds and 86 were others. Barn Swallow (762), Red-rumped Swallow (491), Cattle Egret (391), House Crow (278), Indian Pond Heron (259), Rose-ringed Parakeet (258) and Little Cormorant and Little Egret (252 each) were the most populous species found in the survey. Krishnampathy tank topped the wetlands in terms of bird variety with 88 species, followed by Selvampathy (60), Narasampathy (59) Achankulam (56), and Kolarampathy lake (54). Krishnampathy also topped the list on the population account with 1,065 bird count followed by Selvampathy (749), Muthannankulam (522), Pallapalayam (418), and Walayar-Tamil Nadu side (330). The average number of species found in a wetland stood at 40 with an average bird population of 256. Migrants Blue-tailed Bee-eater, Barn Swallow, Common Sandpiper, Wood Sandpiper and Blyth’s Reed Warbler and residents such as Indian Pond Heron, Little Cormorant, Little Egret, Cattle Egret, Grey Heron, and Indian Spot-billed Duck were found well spread and seen on most of the 29 wetlands. Knob-billed Duck, Garganey, Northern Shoveler, Northern Pintail, Watercock, Temminck’s Stint, Pin-tailed Snipe, Small Pratincole, Whiskered Tern and River Tern and Grey Wagtail were among important sightings recorded during the survey. Booted Eagle, Eurasian Marsh Harrier, Indian Grey Hornbill, Brown Shrike, Clamorous Reed Warbler and House Martin were among important land birds sighted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migratory-bird-species-in-wetlands-decline-survey/article64947454.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Crime notes||The Kuniamuthur police on Thursday arrested a truck driver with banned tobacco products weighing around 945 kg. The police said that Ibrahim (35) was driving the truck from Bengaluru to Coimbatore and had covered the sacks containing tobacco products with rotten potatoes and cabbages to hide the odour. Based on a tip-off, the police stopped the truck and checked. The driver was booked under provisions of Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) and was arrested. Efforts to arrest two more involved in the case are on, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crime-notes/article38306431.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Price of shallot goes up as supply dwindles||Unseasonal rain in various parts of southern districts during December has hit shallot production and as a result with the dip in supply, the price has gone up in Dindigul market. One kg of shallot that would be usually sold for Rs. 20 to Rs. 40 after Pongal is now being sold for Rs. 40 to Rs. 70. “In normal time, we would get at least 4,000 bags, each weighing 50 kg to 60 kg, of shallots from Mysuru, Tirupur, Dindigul, Theni and Andipatti,” said, M. Marimuthu, a trader here. However, due to the unseasonal rains, shallots from Vedasandur Namakkal and Vilathikulam alone are coming to Dindigul market. “We are getting only one third of the usual supply these days. The market was receiving around 1,000 bags of shallots,” he said. Usually, fresh arrivals would start during the Tamil month of Thai. However, due to short supply, the price of shallots has gone up. The traders expect normal supply of shallots to start in another 10 days. “ If there are no export orders for Sri Lanka and Malaysia in the next few days, the price of shallots will go down.Otherwise, it might remain on a higher level”, Mr. Marimuthu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/price-of-shallot-goes-up-as-supply-dwindles-in-dindigul-market/article64947230.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mega vaccination camps to cover 1.5 lakh people in Erode||The district administration has planned to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people across the district during the special vaccination camps to be held at 503 centres on January 22 (Saturday). Collector H. Krishnanunni in a release said that camps will be held at government hospitals, government primary health centres, urban primary health centres and also in schools from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. during which persons above 18 years can receive their first and second dose. Also, 2,012 health staff would be covering the households with the help of 66 mobile units to vaccinate people at their doorstep. Since Omicron virus is spreading fast and to protect oneself from the virus, vaccination is important. Hence, all the eligible people should get vaccinated without fail, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-vaccination-camps-to-cover-15-lakh-people-in-erode/article38306512.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murder in Erode||Within 10 hours of crime, the police cracked a murder for gain case and arrested the accused at Chithode in the district. According to the police, Valarmathi (55), wife of E. Ganesan, a retired professor, was found murdered at their house at K.K. Nagar in Kalingarayan Palayam in Chithode on Thursday afternoon. The chain that she was wearing was missing. P. Balaji, ADSP Head Quarter, C. Karthikeyan, DSP Bhavani, Inspectors Murugaiyan (Chithode) and Krishnamoorthy (Ammapettai) held inquiries.Chithode police sent the body to Government Erode Medical College Hospital at Perundurai and a case was registered under Sections 449 (house trespass), 302 (murder) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the murder took place between 12.15 p.m. and 12.45 p.m. CCTV footage collected from the area showed the entry and exit of an unidentified man into the house. A special team searched for the accused with the help of the image and nabbed him at a nearby bus stop at 10 p.m. The man was identified as D. Raja alias Nicholas (40), who worked in a mess at Lakshmi Nagar. Inquiries revealed that the accused and his wife had resided near the victim’s house for eight years and were known to them. During COVID-19 lockdown, he lost his income and shifted to another locality. On Thursday, he went to the victim’s house and sought Rs. 3,000. Since he did not repay earlier dues, the victim refused to give money. A wordy quarrel erupted and the man stabbed her and robbed the jewellery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murder-in-erode/article38306513.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports 1,009 newCOVID-19 cases||Salem district on Friday reported 1,009 fresh cases of COVID-19, which took the overall tally to 1,09,487. As many as 509 persons were discharged after treatment, and the district had 4,735 active cases as on Friday. Erode district reported 973 new cases, and the overall tally rose to 1,15,031. While 437 persons were discharged, 4,949 persons were under treatment. Namakkal district reported 559 fresh cases, which took the overall tally to 58,165. While 328 persons were discharged, 2,402 persons continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 748 new cases on Friday. A total of 357 persons were discharged after treatment and the district had 3,73 active cases on Friday. The district’s overall case tally stood at 48,905. Dharmapuri recorded 344 fresh cases on Friday. A total of 134 persons were discharged and the district had 1,521 active cases on Friday. As on date, a total 31,173 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-reports-1009-newcovid-19-cases/article38306515.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||Karur man sentenced to 30-year imprisonment||A Mahila Court here sentenced a 27-year-old man to 30 years imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs. 60,000 for abducting and raping a minor girl. The girl, who hailed from the same village, was living with her mother when the incident occurred in 2019. The accused, identified as N. Bharathiyar, from Porundalur near Kulithalai in Karur district, and an employee of an IT company, had allegedly abducted the 14-year-old girl on June 9, 2019, and on September 1, 2019. Released on bail Following an investigation, including medical examination at Karur Government Medical College Hospital, Bharathiyar was arrested in 2019 and lodged at Tiruchi Central Prison before being released on bail. On Friday, the case was taken up at the Mahila Court and the accused was presented through video conference mode from the Kulithalai All Women Police Station. The judge sentenced the accused to 10-year imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 for abduction under Section 366 of the Indian Penal Code and 20 years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 50,000 under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pocso-case-man-sentenced-to-30-year-imprisonment/article38306485.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector reviews COVID-19 protocols in industrial units||Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy reviewed the COVID-19 protocols followed by the industrial units in the district. Industrial establishments were directed to make thermal screening mandatory and isolate persons with temperature and symptoms of infection. The units must also ensure that the workers wore masks and practised physical distancing. All units were instructed to ensure full vaccination of the workforce and to urge workers to have their families fully vaccinated. Persons who have completed 39 weeks since the second dose of vaccination are eligible for the booster dose, the Collector said. The workspaces should have sanitisers and occupancy in the dining rooms should not be over 50% at any given point in time. Industrial units with over 10,000 sq.ft space were mandated to have their own medical committees and a health inspector to monitor the health of the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-reviews-covid-19-protocols-in-industrial-units/article38306510.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Madurai poised for big change, development, says Minister||Madurai city and district are poised for a big change and a good development in the next five years with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin giving many works, said Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan. He was addressing a function here where the Chief Minister inaugurated a slew of development works and announced several new works for Madurai through video conference from Chennai. Mr. Thiaga Rajan said that the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Government led by M Karunanidhi, between 1996-2001 was the golden era for Madurai as it got Ring Road, Mattuthavani Integrated Bus Stand, High Court Bench and several bridges. “However, Madurai district did not see any such development in the last 10 years due to lack of planning,” he said. Mr. Thiaga Rajan said that if all the new development schemes announced by the Chief Minister are executed, Madurai will see a big change.“This Government will emulate the good works of DMK Government of 1996-2001,” he said. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan welcomed the new schemes and thanked Chief Minister for the development works for the district. In the presence of Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar and Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan, welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 219 crore was distributed simultaneously at 258 villages across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-poised-for-big-change-development-says-minister/article38306680.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes FIR against man for remarks on General Bipin Rawat||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has quashed an FIR registered against a man from Kanniyakumari district for posting certain remarks on social media on the death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. The court was hearing the petition filed by G. Sivarajaboopathi of Nagercoil. The cyber crime police, Nagercoil, registered a case against the petitioner and another person based on a complaint lodged by Dharmaraj. The complainant stated that while the country was mourning the loss of General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash in The Nilgiris, certain people were posting messages on social media to promote enmity between groups with an intent to provoke breach of peace. The petitioner said that he had commented on Facebook stating that it was a shame to shed tears for “Dictator Bipin Rawat, a mercenary of fascists”. He said that he posted the comment in criticism of a statement made by General Bipin Rawat in an interview to a magazine. In the interview, General Bipin Rawat said, “As enemies are afraid of us, people must also be afraid on seeing us”. The social media post was in criticism of this statement. He was disturbed by the statement made by General Bipin Rawat, the petitioner said. The petitioner said he did not intend to promote enmity between groups and provoke breach of peace and sought the quash of the FIR. He was granted anticipatory bail by the Principal District and Sessions Judge, Kanniyakumari. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that no doubt the message posted by the petitioner was in bad taste and lacks fundamental civility. But, the comment did not amount to provocation, the judge said and quashed the FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-quashes-fir-against-man/article38306683.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||SFI for action against school||The Students’ Federation of India has sought action against A.P.T. Durairaj Higher Secondary School in Anuppanadi where a student died after being “forced” to carry furniture on January 13. In a memorandum addressed to Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar, the federation office-bearers have demanded that the parents of Santhosh, a class 10 student, should be given compensation for the boy’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sfi-for-action-against-school/article38306684.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID probe sought into girl’s death||A petition has been filed before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a CB-CID probe into the death by suicide of a schoolgirl, who was staying in a hostel run by a Christian missionary organisation in Thanjavur district. It was alleged before Justice G.R. Swaminathan that the girl’s parents and a person, who shot a video of the girl in which she claimed she was being coerced to convert to Christianity, were being “pressured by the police”. (The girl had initially alleged that she was being forced to do domestic chores at the hostel.) The court asked the police to conduct themselves appropriately so as not to give rise to such allegations and adjourned the case till January 24. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-probe-sought-into-girls-death-by-suicide/article38306410.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minister tests positive for COVID-19||Minister for Commercial Taxes P. Moorthi has tested positive for COVID-19. With mild symptoms, he has been admitted to a private hospital here. A statement from the hospital said Mr. Moorthi was admitted on Thursday. An RT-PCR Covid test has proved that he was positive. However, his blood investigations are within normal limits and he was clinically stable, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article38306681.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Friday stood at 137 feet (maximum permissiblelevelis 142 feet) with an inflow of 35 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, thelevelstood at 69.82 feet (full level 71 ft) with an inflow of 515 cusecs and a discharge of 719 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,725 mcft. There was no rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article64947387.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||17 ambulances deployed to transport COVID-19 patients in Namakkal||The district administration has deployed 17 ambulances to transport COVID-19 positive patients from their houses to hospitals and to COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) here. The patients would be taken to the Namakkal Government Medical College and Hospital and to the District Headquarters Hospital. If patients were advised to be in home isolation, the ambulances would drop them in their houses. Instead of the ‘108’ regular ambulance services, these ambulances were deployed exclusively for transporting COVID-19 patients, officials said. Collector Shreya P. Singh flagged off the ambulances in the presence of District Revenue Officer Kadiresan, Medical College Dean Santha Arulmozhi, Joint Director (Welfare), Deputy Director (Health Services) J. Prabakaran and other officials at the Collectorate on Friday. The Collector said patients should not use public transport to reach hospitals as it would lead to caregivers and others contracting the infection. “They should use the services of ambulances”, she added. She called upon the eligible persons to get vaccinated, including the booster dose. Also, wearing masks, ensuring personal distancing in public places and following COVID-19 norms would contain the spread of the disease, she said. As on Thursday, a total of 2,150 persons were undergoing treatment while the total number of positive cases in the district stood at 57,585.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-ambulances-deployed-to-transport-covid-19-patients-in-namakkal/article64947434.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 2,528 fresh COVID-19 infections||The Union Territory recorded more than 2,500 fresh COVID-19 cases for the second consecutive day as the tally of active cases crossed 14,000 on Friday. One death was reported in Puducherry. Of the 2,528 fresh infections, Puducherry logged 1,985, detected from 6,093 tests, followed by Karaikal which reported 411, Yanam 105 and Mahe 27. With 1,458 patients recovering from the virus in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 14,122. Of these, 139 were in hospital and 13,983 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 41.49%, the case fatality rate 1.28% and the recovery rate 89.17%. With one more death of a patient in Puducherry, the cumulative toll went up to 1,898. Puducherry accounted for 1,481 of these deaths followed by 254 in Karaikal, 109 in Yanam and 54 in Mahe. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,47,870 cases and 1,31,850 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 21.17 lakh tests conducted so far, over 17.87 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 3,532 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered a total of 15,15,818 doses. Other districts Cuddalore district recorded 552 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, which took the district’s tally to 68,643. The district saw 64,934 recoveries and the active case count stood at 2,831. Villupuram district reported one more COVID-19 death and 460 fresh cases, taking the overall tally of cases to 48,810. The official toll stood at 360. Kallakurichi district recorded 141 cases, taking the overall tally to 33,446.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-2528-fresh-covid-19-infections/article64947325.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||CPI flays L-G for her style of functioning||Communist Party of India (CPI) has accused Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan of functioning in an unconstitutional manner. Secretary of CPI, Tamil Nadu unit, R. Mutharasan said at a press conference here that there was no difference in the style of functioning between Ms. Soundararajan and the former Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi. “Ms. Soundararajan is almost acting like Bedi. The Lieutenant Governor is functioning at the behest of the BJP,” he said. Flaying the All India N.R. Congress-led National Democratic Alliance in the Union Territory for its handling of the COVID-19 situation, the CPI leader said when neighbouring States did not permit celebrations for New Year, the administration in Puducherry allowed tourists to flock. The government had failed to implement any of the promises made during the election campaign. While the Tamil Nadu Government completed the distribution of 21 items as Pongal gift to the people, the announcement made by Puducherry government remained only on paper, he said. “The Chief Minister is now saying that he is not the king and there are several other decision makers. He should have realised this earlier and told people during the election campaign,” he said. CPI secretary A. M Saleem, former Minister R. Viswanathan, former party legislator Nara Kalainathan and AITUC secretary Sethu Selvam were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-flays-l-g-for-her-style-of-functioning/article64947328.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||Electricity employees to hold indefinite strike||The Electricity Engineers and Employers Privatisation Protest Committee has decided to go on an indefinite strike from February 1 to oppose the Centre’s decision to privatise power distribution in the Union Territory. C. Arulmozhe, president of the association, said the government could not give a convincing reason for the decision to privatise power distribution. The Under Secretary to government chaired a meeting on January 20 to explain the benefits of privatisation to the employees. “We have made our stand very clear that we want to continue as government staff. So, we decided to start an indefinite strike on February 1,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electricity-employees-to-hold-indefinite-strike/article38306744.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nari Shakti Puraskar: Submissions invited in U.T.||The Department of Women and Child Development has called for submissions from the region for the Nari Shakti Puraskars-2021, the national awards instituted to recognise contributions to the cause of women empowerment. A press note said the national award for women is to be conferred for the year 2021 to give recognition of their service towards women empowerment. The award is open to all Indian institutions, organisations and individuals. ‘Rs. 2 lakh per awardee’ The maximum number of awards (including individual and institutional) would be 15. The award in each category shall carry a certificate and a cash amount of Rs. 2 lakh per awardee. Under conditions of eligibility, the individual must be at least 25 years of age on July 1 in the award year, while institutions should have worked in the relevant field for at least five years. Nominations are invited from the residents of the Union Territory of Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam regions. Details and other guidelines can be downloaded from the Ministry of Women and Child Development’s website. Nominations will be accepted up to January 31 through online mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nari-shakti-puraskar-submissions-invited-in-ut/article38306745.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||38 sheep crushed to death||Thirty eight sheep were crushed to death by a speeding brick-laden truck on Aruppukottai-Kamuthi Road near Kamuthi on Friday night. The shepherd, V. Nagaraj (40) of Parayankulam, who sustained head injuries has been admitted to the Government hospital in Kamuthi. The police said that the truck from Aruppukottai ploughed through the herd at around 8.30 p.m. and killed 38 sheep on the spot. Another 13 sheep suffered fracture on their legs. The driver fled from the scene. Kamuthi police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/38-sheep-crushed-to-death/article38306489.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Train to be short terminated||In view of track renewal works between Tiruchi Fort and Tiruchi Junction railway stations, Train No.16844 Palakkad Town – Tiruchi Junction daily train will be short terminated at Tiruchi Fort railway station. Five days A release from Salem Railway Division said that the train, scheduled to leave Palakkad Town railway station at 6.30 a.m. on January 22, 27, 29 and on February 3 and 5 and run via Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Karur, will be short terminated at Tiruchi Fort railway station. The train will not run from Tiruchi Fort to Tiruchi Junction on the given dates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/train-to-be-short-terminated/article38306516.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for rape attempt||In a shocking incident, a 37-year-old man, Manikandan, of Koomapatti reportedly attempted to sexually assault an elderly woman on Wednesday night. The police said that the man, father of two children, was an alcoholic. He barged into the house of a 65-year-old woman, who was living alone, and attempted to sexually assault her. As she resisted, he tried to strangle her.However, she managed to escape. The Koomapatti police have arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-rape-attempt/article38306494.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||Protest staged over girl’s death||Members of Indu Makkal Katchi led by its State youth wing secretary Karthicrao staged a demonstration near Thanjavur railway junction on Friday seeking action against those responsible for the death of a school girl from Ariyalur district, who was an inmate of a hostel here. They also sought compensation for her family. The protestors wanted the police to probe the alleged “attempted religious conversion” angle too and sought action against the school authorities as she was allegedly subjected to corporal punishment. The girl’s family members refused to accept her body from Thanjavur Medical College Hospital mortuary demanding action against every body involved in the case.. Meanwhile, seeking a fair probe, Papanasam legislator M.H. Jawahirullah, also sought action against members of the BJP and other outfits, who he alleged were attempting to “disturb communal harmony by politicising the issue with religious overtones.” Search on The police are on the lookout for the person who had recorded the video clip of the girl at the hospital and postedthe clip on the social media. Superintendent of Police C. Ravali Priya Gandhapuneni said that revealing the photograph or other details of children or the name or address of the school or any other particulars which might lead to the identification of the child who has fallen victim to any form of crime was an offence under the Juvenile Justice Act. In the girl’s case, the person had shot the footage with leading questions and posted it. Since the action attracts Section 74(1) which prohibits the disclosure of the identity of the affected children, a case has been booked and the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital police are on the lookout for the person who had shot the video. The SP said the claim made by the girl’s parents that persistent ‘advice’ or ‘inducement’ for religious conversion was also a reason for the child to take the extreme step would also be looked into though the claim was made after the death of the child. Neither the girl nor her parents had mentioned this ‘aspect’ during the initial investigation. The girl had not mentioned it in her dying declaration too, the SP said. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indu-makkal-katchi-stages-protest-over-girls-death/article38306474.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||3 hidden cameras seized from bathrooms in temple||The seizure of three hidden cameras fitted in the bathrooms of Kamatchi Amman Temple at Sithavanaickenpatti near Vilathikulam by the police has shocked the devotees visiting the shrine on every full moon day. The police said information was received from unidentified persons that cameras had been fitted in the bathrooms and the toilets of Kamatchi Amman Temple at Sithavanaickenpatti, which attracted devotees from various southern districts on full moon days and during the festival organised in the Tamil month of ‘Masi’. Subsequently, Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar instructed Vilathikulam Inspector Elavarasu to inspect the spot with his team and they seized three cameras hidden in the bathrooms for women. “The cameras, which had not been connected to any recorder, have been removed and hence there is no need for panic,” said the police. Based on the complaint from temple priest Murugan, Vilathikulam police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-hidden-cameras-seized-from-bathrooms-in-temple/article38306488.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||Electric locomotive trial run on Tiruchi to Karaikudi stretch soon||With the completion of overhead electrical equipment installation work, trial run of anelectric locomotive is expected to be carried out soon on the Tiruchi -Pudukottai - Karaikudi broad gauge stretch. Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE) comingunder the Ministry of Railways took up the work on the 90-kmstretch at a cost of Rs. 90 crore. With wiring works along the entire stretch, includingyards, completed, safety checks were being conducted ahead of the trial run.  A senior railway official told The Hindu on Friday that over 1,900 electric masts and portals had been installed on this stretch.Fine-tuning of overhead electrical equipment and safety checks were being carried out by CORE officials and those from Madurai railway division as this section comes under its limits.  The safety checks of the overhead electrical system was being done using a tower wagon. Simultaneously, the process of obtaining approval from the Electrical Inspector of Government of India (EIG) was under progress to energise the section.The official exuded hope that the approval is expected soon. The plan is to carry out the trial run by deploying an electrical locomotive next week once the stretch is energised. The trial run by an electric locomotive would be conducted from Tiruchi to Karaikudi and back at the normal sectional speed to ensure fitness of the electrical installations, the official said. Presently, passenger and freight trains on this section are being hauled by diesel locomotives.The Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Bengaluru would inspect the stretch by next month as his clearance is mandatory for operation of electric loco-hauled passenger and freight trains.Overhead electrification works were also simultaneously going on from Karaikudi to Manamadurai, and Manamadurai to Virudhunagar stretches, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electric-locomotive-trial-run-on-tiruchi-to-karaikudi-stretch-soon/article38306473.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul Highway arm of overbridge in Tiruchi opened to light vehicles||The City Police on Friday opened the Dindigul Highway-Railway Junction arm of the Junction road overbridge (ROB) for two-wheelers, cars, autorickshaws and other light vehicles to proceed towards railway junction and other places. The arm is among the first to be completed in the multi-level ROB being built by the State Highways. The ROB remains incomplete pending completion of the arm leading towards Mannarpuram. The opening of the complete arm was aimed at easing congestion beneath the overbridge at Aristo junction.Two-wheelers and other light vehicles coming from the Karumandapam side will henceforth be allowed to proceed on the Dindigul Road arm of the overbridge from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. to proceed towards central bus stand, railway junction, Gandhi Market, E. Pudur and other places.Barricades put up at the entrance to the Dindigul road arm were removed on Friday to enable movement of light vehicles on the overbridge. Realisingthe congestion at Aristo roundabout beneath the overbridge in the morning and evening hours, Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan inspected the spot and instructed the officials to take measures to ensure free flow of traffic. Accordingly, the barricades were removed and all light vehicles coming from the Karumandapam side were allowed to proceed on the overbridge to different places. Steps would continue to be taken to prevent accidents and ensure free flow of vehicular movement in the city to enable hassle free and safe travel for the public, Mr. Karthikeyan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dindigul-highway-arm-of-overbridge-in-tiruchi-opened-for-light-vehicles/article64947245.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||34 injured in jallikattu at Koothapar||Thirty-four persons were injured in the jallikattu held at Koothaparnear Tiruverumbur on Friday. As many as 849 bulls were released into the arena during the seven-hour long event in which 215 tamers participated. Thirteen among the injured were bull owners; 12 tamers and nine spectators. Two were referred to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, while the rest were treated as outpatients at the venue,said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/34-injured-in-jallikattu-at-koothapar/article64947247.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||15 dogs die after eating meat laced with poison||Residents of Krishnapuram Colony in Edamalaipattipudur are shocked over the death of 15 dogs in the locality overnight. While most were street dogs, some were also pets that had been roaming on the streets in the evening. They were suspected to have consumed a poisonous substance. Since Krishnapuram Colony, like many other localities in the city, has a huge population of street dogs that bark and give the scare to two-wheeler riders and pedestrians, this might have been done by somebody, said K. Pradeep Kumar, a resident. The incident occurred on Thursday night when Pradeep and his friends noticed that the dogs living on the streets were behaving differently. “They were running helter-skelter and were in discomfort. Before we could react, many threw up blood, and fell unconscious,” Mr. Pradeep added. The group buried 12 dogs, and also found a few more, along with crows that had eaten the meat and found dead on Friday morning. On looking around the locality, they saw pesticides mixed with meat kept in some places for the dogs to eat. The dogs, attracted to the meat had eaten them and died. Enraged, they approached policemen at the check post near their locality who suggested that they file a complaint. Mr. Pradeep said that with the help of animal welfare activists, the residents would be filing a complaint. “There are many who do not like dogs. It is not the work of local residents, as we all feed them and care for them, however, we need to catch the culprit,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-dogs-die-after-eating-meat-laced-with-poison/article38306480.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||2,690 fresh COVID-19 cases||The central districts on Friday reported 2,690 fresh COVID-19 cases. Four deaths were reported in the region - all in Tiruchi. Tiruchi and Thanjavur continue to report a majority of the cases reported in the region. On Friday, Thanjavur overtook Tiruchi to report the highest number of fresh cases. In Thanjavur, 684 cases were reported, and in Tiruchi 632. Tiruvarur also reported a sharp rise with 297 cases, and 234 in Pudukottai district. Karur registered 195 cases, while Ariyalur reported 189 and Nagapattinam, 182.Mayiladuthurai registered 149cases, while Perambalur reported 128 cases, the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2690-fresh-cases-in-delta/article38306486.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||34 injured in jallikattu||Thirty-four persons were injured in the jallikattu held at Koothaparnear Tiruverumbur on Friday. As many as 849 bulls were released during the event in which 215 tamers participated. Thirteen among the injured were bull owners; 12 tamers and nine spectators. Two were referred to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, while the rest were treated as outpatients at the venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/34-injured-in-jallikattu/article38306481.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||New barrage work likely to be over by May||The new barrage being built across Kollidam river at Upper Anicut (Mukkombu) is expected to be completed by May, Collector S. Sivarasu has said. “About 92% of the work has been completed and the remaining works are underway,” he said after inspecting the work progress on Thursday. The barrage is being constructed at an estimate of Rs. 387.60 crore after a portion of the old barrage collapsed in August 2018. The regulator is being constructed 75 metres away from the damaged structure on the downstream of the riverbed. The work began in June 2019 and was scheduled to be completed in two years. However, construction had to be suspended intermittently due to release of surplus discharge in the Kollidam and the COVID-19 lockdown. Providing details of the project, Mr. Sivarasu said the 766-metre barrage will have 55 vents. Construction of diaphragm and toe walls had been completed, and all 55 shutters installed. Works were under way on strengthening the river bund from Mukkombu to Tropical Butterfly Conservatory in Srirangam, taken up as part of the construction of the barrage. All the remaining works would be completed by May, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-barrage-work-likely-to-be-over-by-may/article64947250.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Friday stood at 111.54 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 722 cusecs and the discharge was 8,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article64947251.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Exclusive outlet for selling organic farm produce opens in Tirunelveli||District Collector V. Vishnu fulfilled a promise he had made during the farmers’ grievances redressal meet held here recently by opening an exclusive outlet for selling organic farm produces near St. John’s College, Palayamkottai, on Friday. The public can buy organically grown traditional rice varietiessuch as ‘Kattuyaanam’, ‘Karuppu kavuni’, ‘Poongaar’, ‘Kottaaram’, ‘Samba’, ‘Author Kichchadi Samba’ and ‘Thooya Malli’, maize, gram varieties, groundnut, pepper, banana, lemon, acid lime, mango, jack fruit, guava, pomegranate, custard apple, blue berry, sapota, papaya, brinjal, tomato, bhendi, snake gourd, bitter gourd, ridge gourd and a range of greens from this outlet. Inaugurating the outlet in the presence of Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran and Palayamkottai MLA M. Abdul Wahab, Mr. Vishnu said the shop, after obtaining the mandatory ‘organic certification’, had been opened and farmers selling their produce through this outlet would not use chemical fertilizers, pesticides, insecticides etc. for increasing their yield. Though the application of chemical fertilizers would significantly boost the yield, the farmers, considering the wellbeing of the consumers, were strictly using only organic farming techniques, he added. While 2-year organic certification is being given for one-year crops, perennial crops are given 3-year certification by the Department of Tamil Nadu Organic Certification after a series of inspections. After the end of the period, the certification gets renewed after due inspection of the fields. In Tirunelveli district, crops being cultivated on 2,891 acres have been given organic certification. Of this, 1,277 acres belong to 22 individual farmers and the remaining areas are owned by five commercial organizations and Kaani Tribal Group. “For the first time in Tamil Nadu, the Kaani Tribal Farmers’ Group of Papanasam has bagged organic certification for 40 products being produced by them in the Western Ghats including tapioca, jack fruit, lemon, pepper, cashew, forest honey, gooseberry etc. Their produces are being sold through an exclusive outlet established near Anna Stadium, Palayamkottai. The public should support overwhelmingly the organic products being grown and marketed by our farmers so that more number of agriculturists will choose organic farming practices,” Mr. Vishnu said. Joint Director of Agriculture R. Gajendra Pandian, Deputy Director Muruganandham, Deputy Director of Horticulture Balakrishnan and Assistant Director of Organic Certification Suresh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exclusive-outlet-for-selling-organic-farm-produce-opens-in-tirunelveli/article64947228.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||DHA held to identify challenges in health sector||The maiden District Health Assembly (DHA) was held here on Friday with Collector V. Vishnu chairing the meet to identify challenges in the health sector. “Public health sector service delivery will be effective only if the community actively participates in the whole process of planning and service delivery. In this regard, to increase citizen empowerment and social accountability of the health sector to its citizens, the Tamil Nadu Health Systems Reforms Programme has proposed to convene district and State Health Assemblies with the support of the World Bank. The purpose of the DHA is to discuss health challenges and felt needs of the people and establish dialogue between different stakeholders at the community level,” Mr. Vishnu said while explaining the purpose of the meet. With due COVID-19 precautions, the meeting was held in a hybrid model with the District Organizing and Working Committeesattending the meet from the Collectorate while the block-level officials and representatives of the public participated in the meeting virtually.The district team comprises of the Collector, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, Deputy Director of Health Services, Joint Director of Health Services, Dean of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, Project Officer of Integrated Child Development Scheme and other health department officials and representatives of NGOs and a few others. The village and block-level assemblies were conducted earlier, wherein the representatives of the public and members of self-help groups were given opportunity to express their needs. After arriving at a consensus for possible solutions, their proposals were compiled under the guidance of Block Medical Officers and Block Development Officers. During the DHA, the public representatives including panchayat presidents and the general public participated and put forward their concerns, which were addressed. “The resolutions finalised by the committee members were categorised into those that can be resolved at the district-level while infrastructure needs requiring the intervention of the State will be put forth during the State Health Assembly,” Mr. Vishnu said. District Revenue Officer A. Perumal, Dean, TVMCH, M. Ravichandran, Joint Director, Health Services Venkataramanan and Deputy Director, Health Services, Krishnaleela participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dha-held-to-identify-challenges-in-health-sector/article38306797.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Friday stood at 127.10 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 359.72 cusecs and a discharge of 904.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 115.90 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 59 cusecs and a discharge of 380 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article64947226.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nature walk along course of River Noyyal organised||World Wildlife Fund for Nature – India (WWF-India) and Virtual Research and Consultancy (VRNC) jointly organised a nature walk along the course of River Noyyal to raise awareness regarding pollution and improvement of groundwater quality in Tiruppur district. A press release said that the event, held on January 19, saw the participation of representatives from various textile units from the district along with other non-governmental organisations. The group traced the river’s course from its origin in Western Ghats in Coimbatore district and observed that the river is plagued by pollution by sewage and industrial effluents as it enters Tiruppur. Historian C.R. Elangovan explained the antiquity of River Noyyal to the participants, it said. T. Ragul, River Basins Specialist from WWF India, stressed the need for a “multi-dimensional approach” to improve the quality of groundwater in Tiruppur district. “Interventions at the upper Noyyal basin will gradually improve the base flow of the river along with an effective aquifer recharge mechanism at various levels besides other river management initiatives,” he said in the release. Founder of VRNC and consulting partner Raman Azhahia Manavalan said that his organisation had been working with industrialists in improving water efficiency and adopting best practices to reduce water consumption by industries in Tiruppur, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nature-walk-along-course-of-river-noyyal-organised/article64947453.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Eight arrested for kidnap attempt||The Tiruppur City Police on Thursday arrested eight persons, including an AIADMK functionary, on charges of attempting to abduct a man from his residence. The police said in a statement issued here that Selvi (47), district deputy secretary of AIADMK women’s wing, was involved in real estate business and was attempting to purchase a plot from A. Babu (62), a resident of Velan Nagar. To intimidate him, she allegedly arranged seven men to abduct him from his residence late on Wednesday. Subash Chandrabose (24), Ravikumar (20), Gopinath alias Komban Gopi (24), Ajay (22), Vignesh (25), Arunkumar (39) and Binishkumar (43) threatened the senior citizen with a knife and allegedly attempted to abduct him. However, they fled the spot after his wife and neighbours gathered at the spot, the police said in the statement. Based on Mr. Babu’s complaint, the Tiruppur South police registered a case and arrested the seven men and Selvi within 24 hours on Thursday, the statement said. Among those arrested, Subash, Ravikumar and Gopinath were history-sheeters and all the eight accused were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-arrested-for-kidnap-attempt/article38306417.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Teenage girl, her child die of burns||A 16-year-old girl and her seven-month-old daughter near Madathukulam in the district died of burns on Friday. According to the police, the girl delivered a baby in 2021 after being raped by a 24-year-old man. The was arrested under the POCSO Act. On Friday, she immolated herself at her house. The flames engulfed the child, too, and both suffered around 70% burns. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teenage-girl-her-child-die-of-burns/article38306422.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP stages protest||Members of BJP State unit staged a hunger strike in Tiruppur on Friday demanding that the State government provide subsidies for knitwear industry,, The party’s State secretary Malarkodi, agriculture wing president G.K. Nagaraj and district president B. Senthilvel led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-stages-protest/article38306426.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||Car gutted in Uchipuli||A Maruti Suzuki Ertiga car that was parked in a shed was found charred in Uchipuli on Friday morning. The police said that Saravanan of Ammapattinam, who was working in Dubai, had bought the sports utility vehicle six months back. The car was parked in a shed near his house. When the family members came out in the morning, they found the car gutted. Based on a complaint lodged by Saravanan’s wife Gunavathi (41), Uchipuli police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/car-gutted-in-uchipuli/article38306493.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Work on Ooty-Gudalur road to be completed by month-end||The damaged section of the highway between Udhagamandalam and Gudalur will be repaired and the road expanded with work set to be completed by month-end, officials of the national highway wing of the State Highways Department has said. The stretch, especially between Fingerpost and Thalakundah near Udhagamandalam, and between Glenmorgan and Pykara, had been damaged due to heavy rain last year, leading to potholes forming in many areas. Motorists using the stretch had voiced complaints regarding lack of safety along the road, especially after dusk due to poor visibility. Officials from the national highway wing said that work along the stretch between Fingerpost and Thalakundah had already been completed earlier this month, while work on sections of the road between Glenmorgan and Anumapuram are currently underway. “The road is being repaired and also slightly widened to ensure smoother flow of traffic,” said an official. The Ooty to Gudalur road has a heavy traffic-flow throughout the year as people traveling to Kerala, Karnataka and Gudalur use the stretch. Usage has increased in the last few years due to a ban on vehicles from districts other than the Nilgiris from using the Kalhatti ghat road due to safety concerns after a number of accidents. The road gets damaged each year during the rain due to water shifting the soil underneath the road surface, and also due to trees getting uprooted, officials added. However, contractors who have taken on the job of repairing and laying the new roads will be required to maintain the roads for the next five years, which should negate such problems in the future, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-ooty-gudalur-road-to-be-completed-by-month-end/article64947452.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||13-year-old school girl injured in bull race dies in Vellore hospital||A 13-year-old school girl succumbed to injuries at the Government Medical College Hospital in Adukkamparai near Vellore on Friday after she got hit by a charging bull during a bull race held at Panamadangi village in Katpadi, making her the third victim this year. Police said that N. Vinodini, daughter of S. Naresh, had gone to her relative’s house for Pongal festival last week. A bull race was held in the village on January 15. Like all other residents, Vinodini was also witnessing the event from the space earmarked for spectators along the runway barricaded with wooden logs. Suddenly, one of the bulls charged into the crowd due to the huge noise created by the spectators. The bull hit her causing a head injury. Immediately, she was rushed to the GH in Adukkamparai for treatment where she died on Friday. “A case has been filed. The races will be held up to March-end on all days except Sundays due to complete lockdown making it necessary to ensure the safety of spectators and participants,” the police said. Unlike neighbouring districts like Tirupattur where only 20 villages were allowed to conduct bull races with a few villages organising the event everyday, the district administration in Vellore had allowed bull races in all its 670 villages in a phased manner with at least three villages conducting the event and 150 bulls taking part daily. Two others On January 16, a Class VIII student died at the Pernambut Government Hospital of the injuries he sustained when he was attacked by a charging bull at an unauthorized bull race conducted at Kallicheri the previous day (Saturday). A day later, a 60-year-old farmer from Tiruvannamalai, who had come to witness the bull race in Kilarasampet in Kaniyambadi Block near Vellore, was killed when a bull attacked him while running on the runway. He was witnessing the event from behind the barricades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-year-old-girl-injured-in-bull-race-dies-in-vellore-hospital/article64947209.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district reports 187 new COVID-19 infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 55,210 with 187 new cases reported on Friday. While 52,046 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 2,012. The district’s death toll is 1,152. In Ranipet district, 459 caseswere reported positive and the total stood at 47,965. In Tirupattur district, 355 caseswere reported on Friday taking the total number of positive cases to 31,928. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases stood at 571, taking the overall tally in the district to 59,761. Out of these, 56,194 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 2,890.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-187-new-covid-19-infections/article38306801.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tindivanam MLA tests positive||Tindivanam (Reserved) Assembly constituency MLA P. Arjunan, belonging to the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. He has been admitted to a private hospital in Chennai. Sources said Mr. Arjunan underwent an RT-PCR test at the Murukeri Primary Health Centre on Thursday. The test results returned positive on Friday. The MLA has advised persons who were in contact with him to get tested and remain in isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tindivanam-mla-tests-positive/article38306479.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Municipality is not paying wages fixed by Collector for contract sanitary workers’||Centre of Indian Trade Unions has complained that Virudhunagar municipality has not paid Rs. 428 a day wages fixed by Virudhunagar Collector for 2021-22, but Rs. 385 a day of the previous year, to its cleanliness workers under contract. R. Balasubramanian, district secretary of CITU-affiliated Rural Development and Local Administration Department Employees’ Association said that Virudhunagar municipality has employed over 170 sanitary workers on contract basis and they were paid only Rs. 385 a day wages, fixed for 2019-2020, till December 2021. Mr. Balasubramanian said that many municipalities were not following the daily wages being fixed by the Collector for the particular year. “The local bodies claim that their agreement with the contractor has fixed rate and the wages fixed by the Collector subsequent to awarding of contract could not be paid,” the district secretary of CITU-affiliated Rural Development and Local Administration Department Employees’ Association. The new wages which has to come into effect on April 1 every year is usually fixed after three to four months. The local bodies take this as an advantage without inserting a clause in the agreement making the contractor pay the wages subsequently fixed by the Collector. COVID incentive Stating that it was a great injustice to the sanitary workers who are working putting their lives in danger during the COVID times, he said even the COVID incentive of Rs. 5,000 a month for the frontline workers announced for April, May and June has not been paid to them. “The workers take risk to clear garbage even in COVID containment zones,” Mr. Balasubramanian said. He also complained that Aruppukottai municipality was paying only Rs. 7,000 a month for women cleanliness workers and Rs. 8,000 for male workers, which was far lower than what has been fixed by the Collector. Besides, Mr. Balasubramanian complained of irregularities in payment of wages as the contractor was not deploying the actual number of workers as per the agreement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/municipality-is-not-paying-wages-fixed-by-collector-for-contract-sanitary-workers/article38306497.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman suffers burns||A 46-year-old woman, B. Meenakshi Sangeetha, suffered burns caused by leakage of cooking gas in her house in Pandian Nagar here on Friday. There was an overnight leakage and unknowingly, the woman had tried to switch on a light, which led to the accident. She was rushed to Virudhunagar Government Medical College hospital and has been referred to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-suffers-burns/article38306491.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Caseload continues to rise in Coimbatore||The daily COVID-19 caseload continued to increase in Coimbatore district as 3,653 new cases were reported on Friday, which was higher than Thursday’s 3,390 cases. The Health Department reported two new deaths, taking the overall toll to 2,542. While 1,383 patients recovered from the infection, 18,236 were active cases. Positivity rate of Coimbatore district as per Thursday’s data was 24.8%. Caseload of Tiruppur district crossed the 900-mark as 958 new cases were reported, which was an increase in comparison to Thursday’s caseload of 897 cases. One new death was reported and the toll went up to 1,034. A total of 4,844 were active cases and 491 patients recovered. The district’s positivity rate was 22.4% as per Thursday’s data. In the Nilgiris, 270 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases recorded in the district to 37,216.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caseload-continues-to-rise-in-coimbatore/article64947459.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Trapped||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trapped/article64947451.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||D.J. Academy for Managerial Excellence: Corporate Connect on 'Business Analytics - Trends', 11 a.m.  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Webinar on Competitive Examinations, 6 p.m.  KPR College of Arts Science and Research: Career Development Programme on ‘Pathways for International Careers’, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article38306430.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Meenatchi School of Fine Arts: Online live workshop on fish wall hanging, for children 8 years and above, 5.30 p.m. to 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article38306511.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Medicines at the doorstep for those isolated at home||Dharwad district administration will door deliver medicines to COVID-19-affected persons isolated at home. The initiative began on Friday. This is as per the orders of the State Government that has asked COVID-19 patients with no symptoms or mild symptoms to stay at home. Over 7,700 kits were distributed on the first day. During the first wave, even those with mild symptoms got admitted in hospitals and Covid Care Centres . During the second wave, hospitalisation increased and there was a scarcity of beds and oxygen. However, in the third wave, the situation has changed. Around 95% of the affected persons are at home. To help such persons, the Government has issued specific guidelines. The district administration, Health Department and Hubballi-Dharwad City Corporation will deliver medical kits at the doorstep of the patients. This is to ensure those in quarantine need not come out of their house. This will reduce the chances of them spreading the infection. Apart from this, the para-medical staff will provide counselling to the family members asking them to exercise caution. A 24X7 helpline has been started to distribute medicine to the infected. Those in home isolation can dial 0836-2213803 or 2213806 and get the medicine at their doorstep within a few minutes. A total of 30 vehicles are used to transport medicines and health inspectors and bill collectors have been given the task to deliver medicines. Focus on children To monitor the health condition of children and provide them proper treatment, seven teams of have been formed. They include child experts and others. Doctors appointed under the National Child Health Programme would head teams. The doctors would provide counselling on medicine, food, exercise regimen, among other things.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medicines-at-the-doorstep-for-those-isolated-at-home/article38306526.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Politics should not be dragged into Mekedatu issue: Horatti||Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti has said that there is no need to politicise the issue of utilising the Cauvery waters by building an irrigation project at Mekedatu. “We should not drag politics into the Mekedatu issue. It is not good,” he told reporters during a visit to a school at Uppin Betageri, near Dharwad, on Friday. “The political mileage gained through such politics will not last long. Therefore, all should come together and fight for Karnataka’s share of water,’’ he said. Mr. Horatti said he believes that Karnataka should strongly take up the inter-State water disputes issue and seek its due share of water in every basin. “But for this to happen, all party leaders should come together and speak in one voice. Just politicising the water issue does not suit any political party or its leader,’’ he said. On the demand of guest lecturers to regularise their services, the former Education Minister said the services of guest lecturers cannot be regularised as there were many legal hurdles. Services of guest lecturers There is a long-pending demand to regularise the service of guest lecturers who have completed 10 years of service. But, this can not happen owing to legal problems,’’ he said. He expressed concern that over 2,000 guest lecturers could lose their jobs if the State Government implemented its new scheme of appointing guest lecturers. “There are over 14,500 guest lecturers serving in various first-grade colleges. Around 2,000 guest lecturers may lose their job as they will not have the prescribed workload of 15 hours. However, they need not be disheartened as they will be reappointed when there is vacancy,’’ said Mr. Horatti. On COVID-19 He felt that COVID-19 cannot be controlled just by imposing a night curfew and other restrictions. “People should become more alert and exercise caution. They should follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and continue wearing masks and maintain social distancing,” he said.  But for this to happen, all party leaders should come together and speak in one voice. Just politicising the water issue does not suit any political party or its leader. Basavaraj Horatti Legislative Council Chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/politics-should-not-be-dragged-into-mekedatu-issue-horatti/article38306533.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Women’s varsity in Vijayapura closed till January 27||Karnataka State Akka Mahadevi Women’s University will remain closed till January 27, authorities declared after seven students tested positive for Covid-19. This is in line with the district administration’s circular instructing educational institutions to close down if five students test positive. Vijayapura Deputy Commissioner P. Sunil Kumar had issued an order on January 20 instructing principals to close schools, colleges and educational institutions if five students test positive for Covid-19. In Uttara Kannada, the district administration has closed 10 schools after some students tested positive for Covid-19. They include Mother Theresa high school, Yallapur, S.H. Soorgavi international school, Dandeli, Government higher primary school of B.C. Colony, Government lower primary school-2 , Janata Vidyalaya, Government high school, Idagunji, Government high school Hodke Shirur, and Karnataka Public high school, Santeguli. Deputy Commissioner Mullai Mugilan has issued orders to close these schools till January 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/womens-varsity-in-vijayapura-closed-till-january-27/article38306532.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Science kits distributed to govt. schools||The Dharwad Regional Science Center has begun distributing ‘Lab-in-a-kit’ science models to government schools. On Friday, the DRSC distributed ‘Lab-in-a-kit’ to 20 government schools in the district. Along with this, the students and teachers were also given training on how to use the models in the kit. Gajanan Mannikeri, Joint Director (Administration), Education Department, inaugurated the programme and highlighted the importance of science in day-to-day life. He said owing to lack of knowledge and opportunities, government school children shy away from taking basic science as their career. The DRSC is conducting a year-long programme to instil confidence among the children on science and mathematics and also motivate them to take up a career in science. DRSC director Veeranna Bolishetty said the aim of this programme was to facilitate children develop an interest in science and mathematics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/science-kits-distributed-to-govt-schools/article38306527.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Belagavi DC tests positive||Belagavi district Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath has tested positive for COVID-19. His swab sample was collected, along with those of other staff, in the DC office recently. The RT-PCR results were out on January 21, and Mr. Hiremath tested positive. He last went to office on January 20. The district administration is yet to issue an official release about this development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-dc-tests-positive/article38306525.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Volunteers collect foodgrains||National Service Scheme volunteers of Jagadguru Gangadhar Commerce College in Hubballi launched an initiative to collect foodgrains for the hungry, in Hubballi on Wednesday. Each student was asked to contribute one fist-full of grain. On the first day, around 200 bags were collected. College principal D.V. Honagannanavar said the grain so collected would be distributed to charitable institutions and mutts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/volunteers-collect-foodgrains/article38306529.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Explosives found stored illegally in farmhouse||The police raided a farmhouse and recovered around 500 kg of explosives stored illegally in Honnakatti village on Thursday. They were meant to be sold to stone quarries. Officers raided the farmhouse in a field on the outskirts of Honnakatti and arrested two men on charge of storing these prohibited material without licence. A search is on for another accused. The two accused, Vijay and Manjunath, are farmers of Old Bagalkot. The seized material include 250 kg of gunpowder, 150 kg of sodium nitrate, 52 kg of charcoal powder and 50 kg of Sulphur. A case has been registered in the Bagalkot Rural Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/explosives-found-stored-illegally-in-farmhouse/article38306531.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Traders, industry heave a sigh of relief||The government’s decision to remove weekend curfew has come as a huge relief to traders and those in the hospitality sector. While night curfew between 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. will continue to be in effect, store owners and proprietors of restaurants are hoping that they will receive patrons during the weekend. However, concerns remain over the move among a section of experts and bureaucrats, sources said. Mohammed Nazim, vice-president, Bangalore Commercial Association, welcomed the government decision and said this only increased the responsibility of traders to ensure that COVID-19 appropriate behaviour is being followed. “People, even those working from home, are free only during weekends. A weekend curfew essentially killed all business. Despite lifting the curfew it will take a week for people to come out and shop,” he said. Another senior trade activist Sajjan Raj Mehta from Chickpet said the withdrawal of the weekend curfew came as a big relief as traders have been suffering insurmountable losses for the past two years. Malls will also be open for the weekend. The hospitality industry had two demands - withdrawal of weekend curfew and extension of night curfew deadline to 11 p.m. Though the government has not extended the deadline, the industry seems content over being able to do business during weekends. Ajay Nagarajan, CEO, Windmills Pub, expressed hope that in a few weeks’ time the government will lift the 50% occupancy restriction as well. A section of bureaucrats, however, are not very happy with the rollback of restrictions, sources said. “Given that the city and State are recording new highs during the third wave, and experts projecting that we have not reached the peak, weekend curfew should have remained in force for another two weeks or till we started seeing a downward slide,” said a senior civic official. He pointed out that Tamil Nadu had imposed weekend curfew on Friday, with far fewer cases being reported in the State. However, hospitalisation levels - less than 5% in the State - and not the number of cases being reported was the criteria used to withdraw the weekend curfew, sources said. Revenue Minister R. Ashok who announced the decision said that if hospitalisations increased in the coming week, the government may reimpose restrictions. Bannerghatta Biological Park With the State Government withdrawing weekend curfew, Bannerghatta Biological Park announced that it will remain open to visitors all days of the week barring Tuesdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traders-industry-heave-a-sigh-of-relief/article64947485.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:59 IST,KARNATAKA||Oxygen consumption low in State despite COVID-19 surge||Despite a steep rise in the number of COVID-19 infections over the past few weeks, demand for liquid medical oxygen (LMO) has not increased as it did during the second wave. Oxygen consumption has remained stable at around 180 tonnes a day since October. Oxygen consumption in the State that had stood at 177.4 tonnes on January 19 further reduced to 162.76 tonnes on January 20. Going by the low rate of hospitalisation, COVID-19 experts said oxygen consumption is unlikely to increase even if cases continue to rise. Munish Moudgil, who is in charge of oxygen supply from refilling stations to healthcare facilities, said nearly 98% of the oxygen consumption was for patients with non-COVID ailments in hospitals now. “The State’s consumption is virtually the same as it was in October, 2021 and has, in fact, reduced by some extent on some days. There is no problem on the oxygen front as of now but we are keeping a watch,” he said. “Given the fact that Maharashtra and Delhi did not face any oxygen crisis in the third wave and the wave is abating there, Bengaluru and Karnataka are not expected to be any different,” Mr. Moudgil pointed out. Oxygen demand Although the State has a total of 3,23,143 active cases, not more than 0.5% of these patients are requiring oxygen. As of Friday (January 21), of the total 5,529 active hospital admissions in the State, 1,102 patients occupied oxygen/high dependency unit beds, 329 ICU beds and 132 ICU with ventilator beds. During the peak of the second wave in May last year when active cases crossed the three lakh mark, Karnataka had recorded nearly a five-fold rise in the requirement of LMO. While the maximum usage in 2020 during the first wave was not more than 420 tonnes per day, it shot up to 885 tonnes on May 22 during the second wave. That was when hospitals ran out of oxygen stocks and families were asked to shift out their patients from such hospitals. Oxygen consumption had remained at 120 tonnes per day on an average during the pre-COVID-19 period. M.K. Sudarshan, chairman of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) said the third wave is largely driven by Omicron. “As this mutated virus has a low virulence, the infection is only in the upper respiratory system and very little in the lungs. Hence, the number of people requiring oxygen and critical care is negligible,” he said. “As the virus is highly transmissible, the rate of hospitalisation and oxygen consumption will now be the primary indicators for imposing restrictions and not the weekly Test Positivity Rate (WTPR) as it was earlier,” he said. Home isolation C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force and member of the State’s Clinical Expert Committee, said more than 90% of patients were in home isolation. “We are hardly seeing any lung involvement in patients during this wave and hence there is no stress on the oxygen front. However, we have to be prepared,” he said. In private hospitals H.M. Prasanna, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association , said there were hardly any admissions in private hospitals. “Not more than 2,200 of beds in private hospitals are occupied as of now and none is referred by the Government so far. In this context, I will write to the Government to allow us to use 25% of the beds set aside for government-referred COVID patients and pay us for the unused beds in the remaining 25%,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-consumption-low-in-state-despite-covid-19-surge/article64947480.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:33 IST,KARNATAKA||Drugs case: HC finds procedural lapse by police||Pointing to sheer procedural lapses by the police, the High Court of Karnataka has quashed the criminal proceedings initiated against Virendra Khanna, a party organiser who is an accused in the 2020 case of drug racket allegedly involving film actors and other celebrities, and another case of seizure of narcotic drugs from two foreign nationals in 2018. However, the court granted permission to the persecuting agency to set right all the procedural mistakes and take action against the petitioner in accordance with the law while clarifying that quashing of proceedings will not come in the way of prosecuting him afresh. “It is to be noted here that what is made out by the counsel for the petitioner is a sheer procedural lapse. This can be set right. If really the petitioner’s involvement is there in commission of offences punishable under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act, he must be tried in accordance with the law and punished in case the prosecution is able to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. The lapses in procedural aspect should not come in the way of prosecuting the petitioner,” the court observed. Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar passed the order while allowing the petition filed by Mr. Khanna. He was accused supplying narcotics drugs in the parties that he used to arrange at various places in Bengaluru city during 2015-2020. The First Information Report (FIR) in the drug case involving celebrities, including the petitioner, was registered on September 4, 2019, for the offences committed under NDPS Act and other laws between April 11, 2020, and September 4, 2020, the court noted. However, as the chargesheet states that last involvement of the petitioner was on March 8, 2020, in organising a party called ‘Divine Ex-Maholli’ at Ashoka Hotel, the court wondered how he could have been arraigned as an accused in the FIR registered for the offences committed during a particular period commencing from April 11, 2020. “It was necessary for the police to have registered separate FIRs for those past offences and filed separate chargesheets after investigation. Probably, the police might be under impression that the same FIR would suffice even for those offences relating to the years 2015, 2018, and 2019,” the court said. The police may unearth past incidents of crimes while investigating new cases, but they could not have clubbed all past incidents of offences of supply of narcotic drugs under a single FIR, the court said while pointing that not more than three distinct offences committed by the same person within a span of 12 months can be charged and tried in one trial as per Section 219 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In the 2018 case, the court found that the FIR and the chargesheet were filed against two foreign nationals and an Indian on seizure of narcotic drugs in their premises on November 2, 2018. However, the Court noted that the petitioner was arraigned as an accused in this case only after the police recorded statement of one B.K. Ravishankar, who was a staffer at a regional transport office in the city, on September 3, 2020 during which the latter appeared to have disclosed the names of petitioner and celebrities, including film actors, allegedly indulged in procurement, supply and consumption of narcotic drugs in the parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drugs-case-hc-finds-procedural-lapse-by-police/article64947331.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:59 IST,KARNATAKA||Increase in demand for home healthcare||As COVID-19 numbers surge, the government and hospitals have maintained that hospitalisation remains substantially lower than in the second wave, when there was a mad scramble for beds and oxygen. In the third wave, driven by the Omicron variant, the impact of infections has been relatively mild, with many choosing to get treated at home. This has resulted in a surge in demand for home healthcare services in the city. The market is flush with many such packages, some big hospital chains even terming them Omicron care packages. K. Shweta, medical director, Nightingales Home Health Services, said, “Yes, there has been a rise in demand for home healthcare services. In the last couple of weeks, we have noticed an increase in enquiries for our home quarantine packages. Since most of the current COVID-19 cases have mild symptoms, they can be managed at home through regular interventions. Our seven-day home care quarantine programme comprises medical care kits, multiple video consultations with doctors and nurses, nutritionist support with diet plans, counselling and emotional well-being support. We have been closely working with corporates and RWAs to run Covid Care support programmes in apartments.” Change in perception A concept that found popularity and wider acceptance since the pandemic struck, she said prior to COVID-19, home care was mainly considered for geriatric patients and post operative recovery. “However, the perception about home healthcare changed during the first and the second wave. Demand for doctor tele-consultations has increased exponentially. During the first and second wave, people had doubts on how patients can be treated remotely. This perception has changed, and people now have trust and confidence in home healthcare services,” she added. These packages include, among other things, doctor video consultation, on-call vital review with nursing, on-call consultation with dietitian, remote monitoring of vitals by nurse, on call rehab therapist consultation, motivational activities and/or home kits. The charges vary widely - Rs. 350 a day to Rs. 19,000 for 14 days, with neither being the upper or lower limits. Reluctance to visit hospitals “With the current situation predominantly Omicron-driven, the number of cases being treated at home has increased. In fact, among the cases currently, the hospitalisation rate is just 6% and over 93% of patients are recovering in home isolation as compared to delta driven second wave, where the hospitalisation rate was at 22-30%. Apart from these, elderly patients with other comorbidities are very reluctant to visit hospitals. So, there has been an increase in demand for other services such as doctor teleconsultations for non-Covid related issues, sample collection etc.,” she said. T.R. Hemkumar, Consultant - Internal Medicine, Sakra World Hospital said, “The demand for home healthcare has been subdued in the current wave. It had been very high during the second wave and moderate during the first wave of the pandemic because the isolation rules were much stricter and the severity of the disease was more unpredictable. At present, since people have a better understanding of medication and hospital accessibility, the home healthcare requirements are more towards sample collection and digital consultations. Usually, senior citizens who are away from young family member prefer health home care services.” However, Dr. Satyanarayana, interventional pulmonologist, lung transplant physician, Manipal Hospital (HAL Airport Road) said these packages were meant for very specific categories of people - the elderly, those with diabetes and hypertension, and people who have little family support and rely on interactions with the medical team. ”We’ve noticed that there are a lot of differences between infections caused by Omicron and Delta. Under Omicron, lung involvement, mortality and duration of illness are lesser. The packages offer comprehensive care during that period of time, but shouldn’t become a commercial thing. There has to be merit,” he said. He acknowledged that requests for tele-consultations have “skyrocketed”, and urged people to follow the dos and don’ts strictly to stay safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/increase-in-demand-for-home-healthcare/article38306345.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:33 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Power tariff revision inevitable’||Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar on Friday said the department was planning to revise the power tariff since implementation of development works in the sector needs additional funds. Speaking at a press conference here, Mr. Sunil Kumar said hike in power tariff was inevitable. There has been an escalation in the cost of works taken up by the department and an increase in power tariff was needed to meet the expenditure, he said. Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) has sought to raise power tariff by Rs. 1.58 per unit in 2022. The Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission was expected to hold hearings in various parts of the State based on the petition and pronounce the final tariff order by April or May. A Rs. 8,000-crore project under the Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme of the Centre would be taken up by his department, the Minister said. Various State government departments were yet to clear pending dues of over Rs. 12,000 crore to the Energy Department. The departments with highest dues are Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Water Resources, Urban Development, and Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board , he said. Mr. Sunil Kumar ruled out power shortages in the summer months. The State had received good rainfall ensuring enough hydro power. The State’s power demand had increased from 14,000 MW per day to 15,000 MW. 4 more cultural centres The Kannada and Culture Department would construct four more cultural centres in the city along the lines of Ravindra Kalakshetra, Mr. Sunil Kumar said. While three centres would come up at Devanahalli, Suryanagar, and Devikarani Estate, all in the peripheral areas of the city, identification of land for another centre was in progress. The department would seek funds for construction works in the next Budget, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-tariff-revision-inevitable/article38306365.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah opposes changes in rules for deputation of IAS officers||Expressing “strong reservations” to the Centre’s proposal to amend the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah wrote to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday urging him to oppose the proposal claiming that the change in rules for central deputation of IAS officers will affect states’ administration and implementation of programmes. In a two-page letter, Mr. Siddaramaiah argued that the proposed amendments are against the “Constitution and spirit of cooperative federalism”. The NDA Government was trying to control the State Governments by exercising its control over transfer of IAS and IPS officials according to its whims and fancies, the Congress leader alleged. The proposed amendment forrules for central deputation of IAS officers would lead to escalation of conflicts between the State and Central Governments. “How are the state Governments to implement pro-people programmes if they lose control over their officials?” the Congress leader asked. Mr. Siddaramaiah said six States have already opposed the proposed amendments to the rules. The State Government should inform the Centre to discharge its functions according to the Constitution. He urged the Chief Minister to discuss the issue with the Opposition parties and inform the Centre of Karnataka’s opposition to the proposed amendments to rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-opposes-ias-cadre-rule-changes/article64947305.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||One more extortion case booked against two constables||The two police personnel who were arrested after they were caught dealing in drugs while on security duty at the Chief Minister’s residence on 80ft Road in R.T. Nagar have been booked in yet another case. Head Constable Shivakumar and Constable Santosh have been booked for allegedly taking Rs. 5,000 from a taxi driver after they caught him smoking marijuana near the BDA Complex in Koramangala Third Block. The incident took place on October 25, but came to light only now after the taxi driver, Ilyas, saw the news and realised that they were the same pair who had extorted money out of him last year, said a senior police officer. Based on a complaint filed by Ilyas, a resident of L.R. Nagar, the Koramangala police, on Wednesday, registered an FIR against Shivakumar and Santosh under Section 384 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code. According to Ilyas, the constables had initially tried to extort Rs. 1 lakh from him. “In his complaint, the taxi driver said that Shivakumar and Santosh caught him and his friend smoking marijuana. His friend managed to escape. However, they found a small packet of marijuana on Ilyas and reportedly demanded Rs. 1 lakh from him to let him go without filing a complaint,” said the police officer. Ilyas said they bargained and finally agreed to Rs. 5,000. The duo allegedly let him go after threatening him. “Fearing repercussions, Ilyas did not reveal the incident to anyone until he saw the news on TV about their arrest,” he added. The incident has come as a huge embarrassment to the State Government. The R.T. Police Inspector and PSI were also suspended for allegedly failing to probe the case in detail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-more-extortion-case-booked-against-two-constables/article38306337.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Two die in road accidents||Two persons were killed in separate accidents on Friday morning. One of the deceased was a 19-year-old BBA student who was run over by a truck after she fell from her two-wheeler. According to the police, Mahashri, a resident of Thindlu, was riding pillion with her friend Narasinga on Outer Ring Road on Friday morning. At around 10.45 a.m., as they were crossing Bhadrappa Layout flyover on ORR, their bike hit a wooden plank. They lost their balance and fell, said the police. As the two friends fell onto the road, Mahashri was run over by a speeding truck. She died on the spot, said the Hebbal traffic police, who have registered a case and arrested the truck driver. In another case, a speeding lorry rammed into a bike from behind near K.R. Puram Railway Station around 9.30 a.m. The biker, Bilal Khan, 28, a resident of Banashankari, who worked with a construction company sustained severe head injuries. He was on his way to the worksite when the accident took place, said the police. Though he was rushed to a hospital in the area, he succumbed to his injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-die-in-road-accidents/article38306334.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Nine-year-old boy drowns||A nine-year-old boy Vishnu, who had gone fishing with his brothers in an abandoned quarry pit near Kudlu, Parappana Agrahara, accidentally fell into the water and drowned to death on Thursday afternoon. Vishnu had been living with his parents and brothers, who hail from Nepal but migrated to the city some years ago. His parents work as construction labourers and the family lives in a shed at Singasandra, said police.Rescue teams from the Fire and Emergency Services were pressed into action, and with the help of local swimmers, the boy’s body was found Friday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-year-old-boy-drowns/article38306336.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||BMTC, BMRCL to normalise services on weekends||From this weekend, public transport such as buses and Namma Metro will resume normal services. In a press release, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) stated that starting from January 22, metro services will be available from 5 a.m to 11 p.m. except on Sundays. On Sundays, services will be available from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. BMRCL had curtailed services on weekends citing poor occupancy becaues of the curfew. The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), too, will run service as per schedule on weekends. The BMTC had drastically reduced services after the government imposed weekend curfew. Buses were operated only for people carrying out emergency services and to and from the airport. RTC services Meanwhile, the committee appointed by the State Government to study the functioning of four the Road Transport Corporations has requested the general public to give their opinion on how services can be improved. People can give their opinion/ suggestions by sending a mail to cpro@ksrtc.org or by post to the Chief Public Relations Officer , KSRTC Central office, K H Road – Bengaluru. The Government had formed the committee to make RTCs more efficient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-bmrcl-to-normalise-services-on-weekends/article38306335.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:33 IST,KARNATAKA||JD(S) leader joins Congress||Former JD(S) MLC Kantharaj joined the Congress in the presence of KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah here on Friday. Mr. Shivakumar said many leaders from other parties had submitted applications expressing their willingness to join the Congress and they would be admitted only with the consent of local units of the party. Former KPCC president G. Parameshwara welcomed Mr. Kantharaj into the party. Mr. Kantharaj hails from Tumakuru and was elected to the Upper House on JD(S) ticket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-leader-joins-congress/article38306364.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:59 IST,KARNATAKA||M.Pharm exams: Private colleges unhappy||Many private colleges have expressed unhappiness with the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) for allegedly delaying the notification to conduct PG-CET examinations into M.Pharm courses. R. Raveendra, HoD of RR College of Pharmacy, said that KEA should have conducted exams along with MBA, MCA and others. “Results for other PGCET have already been announced, whereas exams are yet to be conducted for M.Pharm Further delay in issuing notifications and exams will cause inconvenience to the aspirants,” he said. He added that last year too, the KEA had delayed conducting the examination. However, an official of the KEA dismissed the allegations of delay in conducting the exams. “There is no delay. We will issue the notification in a week. Usually, aspirants have time till March 31 to get admitted to the course,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mpharm-exams-private-colleges-unhappy/article38306352.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:59 IST,KARNATAKA||Tarun Souradeep takes over as RRI director||Noted astrophysicist Dr. Tarun Souradeep assumed charge as director of one of the leading institutes in the country, Raman Research Institute (RRI) in Bengaluru. He is a fellow of the National Academy of Sciences, the spokesperson (science) for LIGO-India and member secretary of LIGO - India Scientific Management Board. He was one of the lead proposers of the national mega-science LIGO-IndIa project in 2011. On taking over as director of RRI, Prof. Souradeep said, “It is an honour to be at helm of RRI - an institution with a very rich heritage and unique scientific legacy. It has nurtured a healthy balance of top-end research, together with technological capability that holds great promise for future frontier endeavour at par with the best in the world.” Prior to this, he was professor and Chair of the Physics Department at the Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tarun-souradeep-takes-over-as-rri-director/article64947475.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:59 IST,KARNATAKA||50 KSRP personnel test positive||As many as 50 State Reserve Police Force personnel, including 42 from Mysore Battalion and eight personnel from Tumakuru battalion deployed for Mekedatu padayatra, have tested COVID-19 positive. They are among the 170 personnel deputed to escort padayatra. Luckily they are having mild symptoms and have been given special care with home quarantined, Alok Kumar, ADGP, KSRP, said. The other personnel have also been subjected to RT-PCR tests and the grants released from SDRF to be used for the required masks, sanitizers and sanitization have been taken up, Mr. Kumar said. Senior officials will be visiting the recovered personnel to express their gratitude for risking their lives in the line of duty. Meanwhile, around 141 police personnel in the city were reported COVID-19 positive on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/50-ksrp-personnel-test-positive/article38306351.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:59 IST,KARNATAKA||48,049 new cases, 22 deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 48,049 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 34,25,002. Of the new cases, Bengaluru Urban reported 29,068. With 22 deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,537. This is apart from 29 deaths due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 18,115 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 30,63,292. The State now has 3,23,143 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 19.23%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.04%. As many as 2,49,832 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,94,039 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 6,01,14,815.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/48049-new-cases-22-deaths/article38306349.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:59 IST,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Sunday (January 23) from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the areas serviced from 220/66/11 kV New Jigani MUSS owing to quarterly maintenance work. The areas that will be affected are: Green Meadows Layout, Nuthan Layout, Harappanahally, Koppa Village, Koppa Gate, Aishwarya Layout, Jigani Double Road, Mahanthalingapura Village, Kallubalu Road, Otis Circle, H. Manchanahally, Vakil TownScape, Jigani, Haragadde, Jigani Industrial Area and surrounding regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article38306344.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. college insists on uniform dress code||The College Development Committee of the Government Pre-University College at Tirthahalli in Shivamogga district has insisted that students follow the uniform dress code in classrooms, irrespective of the religion they belong to. The committee took up this issue at a meeting recently after a group of Muslim girls began attending classes wearing a scarf while a few youths sought permission to wear a saffron shawl.  “All this began roughly in the last one month. Prior to that, there was no such issue in our college, which has earned a good name with its high pass percentage,” said CDC vice president Nagaraj Shetty told The Hindu on January 21.  Of the nearly 1,050 students in the college, around 25 girls wear scarfs. Another group of students wanted permission to wear saffron shawls. Mr. Shetty said, “We held a meeting and took a decision to ensure students follow a dress code. The principal has spoken to parents of children in this regard. We are hopeful that the issue will be resolved soon,” Mr. Shetty said. A couple of parents met principal Y.M. Sudha on January 20 and sought her permission to allow their children to attend classes wearing a scarf. The principal told the parents that a decision to follow a uniform dress code was taken at a meeting of the CDC. She has conveyed the same to seniors in the Department of Pre-University Education as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-college-insists-on-uniform-dress-code/article64947308.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Minor raped; two held||Hosanagar police, on Friday, arrested two persons on charges of raping a minor girl and video recording their act. The arrested are Santhosh, 24 and Sunil, 26 of Hosanagar taluk. The accused who were familiar to the girl had made her get into their car on January 15 and took her to a room, where they raped her. They had allegedly video recorded their act. The accused threatened her that they would make the video clip viral if she told anyone about the incident. The victim knew the accused as they had visited her house for some work recently. The accused asked her to accompany them again and she refused. The accused allegedly shared the video clip with two of their friends. As she got to know about this, she filed a complaint with the police on Friday. Within hours after registering the case under POCSO Act, the police arrested the two, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minor-raped-two-held/article38306714.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Workers assured of benefits||Karnataka State Safai Karmachari Commission Chairman M. Shivanna has assured workers engaged by Mc Gann Hospital through outsourcing agencies for cleaning work that he will speak to the Chief Minister about regularization of their services. Mr. Shivanna interacted with the workers during his visit to the hospital at Shivamogga on Friday. They submitted a memorandum to him demanding job security. The chairman said many workers hired through outsourcing agencies had sought regularization of their services. The commission would take up the issue and discuss the same with the Chief Minister. The hospital had hired 163 such employees and a majority of them were women. The administration of the hospital should ensure the workers get all due facilities. The workers were entitled to additional honorarium for their work during the pandemic. The government had released Rs. 3.5 crores to pay the dues. The officer should distribute the same soon. Besides this, the hospital authorities should ensure the workers get health safety equipment while on duty, the chairman said. Mr. Shivanna said the government had identified 5,080 manual scavengers in the state. The government should take strict measures to stop manual scavenging, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workers-assured-of-benefits/article38306713.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Educational qualification to be KSP member opposed||Hassan district Kannada Sahitya Parishat president H.L. Mallesh Gowda has said he is opposed to the idea of fixing any educational qualification to become a member of the parishat. At a press conference in Hassan on Friday, Mr. Gowda said many noted writers, who contributed to Kannada literature, had not passed matriculation. “When the issue of fixing an educational qualification for membership came up for debate in the first executive committee meeting of the parishat, I opposed it. The basic we can expect is that a person, who knows to write and read Kannada can become a member,” he said. Reacting to central Kannada Sahitya Parishat president Mahesh Joshi’s statement that the parishat was contemplating a written test for those who seek membership, Mr. Gowda said this was not discussed in the executive meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/educational-qualification-to-be-ksp-member-opposed/article38306710.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:54 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Will demand mercy killing’||Upset with the Government’s refusal to fulfil their demands, guest lecturers of government degree colleges have written to the President seeking permission for mercy killing. As many as six lecturers, representing the lecturers of Hassan district, displayed post cards written to the President at a media conference in Hassan on January 21. Yathish Kabbal, president of Hassan district unit of Guest Lecturers’ Coordination Committee, said of 14,500 guest lecturers in Karnataka, 953 were from Hassan. All guest lecturers across Karnataka had resolved to write to the President seeking permission for mercy killing. “Even after serving as guest lecturers, many are in dire straits, unable to feed their family. As the State Government has not fulfilled our demand, we are left with no option but to seek mercy killing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-demand-mercy-killing/article38306707.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:54 IST,KARNATAKA||1,999 fresh cases in Hassan||Hassan reported 1,999 fresh cases of COVID-10 and one death due to the infection on Friday. The total number of active cases increased to 8,900 and deaths went up to 1,390. Of the infected people under treatment, 12 are in ICUs. As many as 1,198 people were discharged from the hospitals on the day. Among the fresh cases the highest of 946 were reported in Hassan taluk. Alur reported 63, Arkalgud 119, Arasikere 219, Belur 157, Channarayapatna 195, Holenarasipur 239 and Sakaleshpur reported 61. The district administration has declared holidays for schools (up to Class 9) in Hassan, Alur and Channarayapatna taluks up to January 23 due to the increase in number of cases. In Shivamogga Shivamogga reported 525 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death due to the infection on Friday. The total number of active cases has gone up to 2,300. Among the active cases, 2,164 are in home isolation, 32 are under treatment at dedicated COVID Health Centres, 49 are at designated COVID Hospitals, 20 are in private hospitals. Of the fresh cases, 239 were reported in Shivamogga taluk, 138 in Bhadravati, 44 in Thirthahalli, 23 in Shikaripur, 29 in Sagar, 18 in Hosanagar, 27 in Soraba and seven more cases were from other districts. So far, 1,076 people have died due to the infection in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1999-fresh-cases-in-hassan/article38306716.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:32 IST,KARNATAKA||Efforts to alter name of women’s varsity opposed||Opposing what they called “preparation behind the scenes” to remove the word “women” from the Karnataka State Akkamahadevi Women’s University, Vijayapura, women’s activists, writers, and intellectuals demanded that the Government make no changes in the current name of the institution. In a press release on Friday, S.G. Jayalakshmi, Akkai Padmashali, Saraswathi D., Akhila Vidyasandra, Sabiha Bhumigowda, Chandravathi S., Vasundhara Bhupathi, Prathibha R., K. Sharifa, and others alleged that those who were supposed to help the university face challenges and achieve its goals were “conspiring to close the institution”. “It is an irony that we have to fight for protecting the women’s university when the country is gearing up for diamond jubilee celebrations of independence... As per the recommendations of the women’s task force and the D.M. Nanjundappa Committee, the university was established in 2003 for achieving women’s empowerment and increasing women’s participation in higher education in North Karnataka. The university has been striving to achieve its goals despite facing many hurdles and hardships,” they said. They demanded that politicians should not unnecessarily interfere in the affairs of the university but allow the institution to make strides towards achieving gender equality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/efforts-to-alter-name-of-womens-varsity-opposed/article64947332.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Two killed in accidents||Two persons were killed in as many accidents in Kalaburagi district on Thursday. According to the police, Megharaj Vittalrao, 17, a first PU student, died following a head-on collision between his motorcycle and a school bus near Tilak Nagar in Kalaburagi city. In another case, a 49-year-old woman died after a tractor hit her at an agricultural field at Hasargundagi village in Afzalpur taluk of Kalaburagi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-killed-in-accidents/article38306524.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Over 3,000 COVID cases in KK region||COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kalyana Karnataka on Friday, but there were no deaths owing to the infection in the region . The region registered 3,089 cases, with Kalaburagi seeing 1,164 cases, Ballari 767, Raichur 367, Bidar 351, Koppal 324, and Yadgir 116 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-3000-covid-cases-in-kk-region/article38306528.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:06 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Widening Shiradi Ghat will damage the ecosystem further’||Some green activists have opposed the Union Government’s move to widen the Shiradi Ghat stretch of Mangaluru-Bengaluru National Highway 75 into four lanes. The proposed project in addition to further damaging the ecosystem of the fragile Western Ghats will only lead to more landslips on the ghat stretch, they said. The Chief Minister’s Office announced on Thursday that the Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari had approved a Rs. 1,200-crore project to widen the ghat stretch from Maranahalli in Hassan district to Adda Hole in Dakshina Kannada. Dinesh Holla, convener, Sahyadri Sanchaya, Mangaluru, which spearheaded the campaign against Yettinahole project, said the ecosensitive Western Ghats had already been damaged due to various projects such as hydel power projects, railway line, Mangaluru-Hassan-Yediyur/Mysuru LPG pipeline commissioned in 2016, Mangaluru-Hassan pipeline for petroleum products laid in 2001, KPCL’s high-tension overhead power transmission line laid from Nandikur to Shantigrama and the latest being the Yettinahole project. He said that the hydel power projects constructed in the Shiradi Ghat belt at Gundia, Betta Kumbri, and Maranahalli have proved to be failures. But their construction activities had already damaged the greenery to a great extent. The Yettinahole project, which Mr. Holla said was another failure, had damaged the ecosystem at Maranahalli, Hebbasale, and Heggade areas on the Shiradi Ghat belt. In addition, the Yettinahole project had damaged the sensitive ecosystem at Haradanahalli, Hiridanahalli, Haravanahalli, Kadagarahalli, Aluvalli, and Hongara Halla areas which are away from the NH 75. Mr. Holla said about two lakh trees could have been felled for Yettinahole project against the Government’s claim of 60,000 trees. Tree cutting If the highway is to be widened on the ghat stretch many more trees would have to be cut again, he said. Mr. Holla said that unlike Khandala and Lonavala ghats in Maharashtra which are wide, Shiradi ghat is not wide for enabling highway widening project unless trees were cut. If the ghat section is further damaged, it will hit the water absorbing and water holding capacity of the Western Ghats, he said. H.A. Kishor Kumar, president, Malenadu Janapara Horata Samithi, Hassan, said widening the ghat stretch would result in more landslips which the Government was now trying to prevent it in the same stretch. “India is a signatory to Glasgow Climate Change Conference 2021 which resolved to conserve forests and toreconstruct forests to limit global temperature rise. But the Government is doing contradictory to it as how can the ghat stretchbe widened without cutting trees,” he asked. Mr. Kumar said that the Government appears to be going ahead without studying the carrying capacity of the Western Ghats which is already under stress. Both said that the existing two-lane concrete road in the ghat stretch was enough to carry the traffic. In addition, the Bisle Ghat and Charmadi Ghat roads should be properly made use of for traffic movement. The activists also questioned the Minister simultaneously instructing the NHAI to study the proposal to build a six-lane tunnel through the same ghat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/widening-shiradi-ghat-will-damage-the-ecosystem-further/article64947379.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:07 IST,KARNATAKA||Two arrested in honeytrap case||The city police have arrested two persons allegedly involved in honeytrapping an astrologer from Chikkamagaluru. The arrested are Bhavya, 30, from Somawarpet in Kodagu district and Kumar alias Raju, 35, from Arkalgud taluk of Hassan district. The two resided in an apartment in Mary Hill in the city. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters on Friday that Kumar, a driver, and Bhavya had been living together for the last two years. Raju knew the astrologer, who is also a priest, for the last few weeks and called the latter to his apartment in August for a “homa”. According to the priest, Bhavya reportedly made advances and caught the act on camera. Threatening the astrologer of releasing the pictures and video on social media, Bhavya and Kumar reportedly extorted a total of Rs. 49 lakh from him on different dates. While Rs. 15 lakh was taken in cash, the remaining was deposited in various accounts mentioned by the arrested on different dates. Mr. Kumar said the arrested threatened the astrologer using mobile phones. They posed as activists, mediapersons, and police to threaten him. The harassment had led him to attempt suicide. Following the complaint by the astrologer, the two accused were arrested. The police recovered Rs. 31,000, two gold rings worth Rs. 37,000 and their four mobile phones. As the case involves two districts and investigation has revealed the possibility of more victims, Mr. Kumar said further investigation will be done by Central Crime Branch sleuths. He called upon victims to report to the police about the harassment they have undergone from the arrested persons. The arrested persons have reportedly used Rs. 10 lakh of the extorted money to take a residential flat on lease. They have also purchased furniture worth Rs. 7 lakh and also purchased a two-wheeler using the same money. The two have also visited different places in the country in the last few days. All these aspects were being investigated. The police is going through the four mobile phones of the arrested persons and other evidence to find other alleged associates. The court has allowed the police to keep the arrested persons in their custody for five days, Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-in-honeytrap-case/article64947376.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Hijab: NSUI to file writ in support of students||The Government PU College in Udupi, which is in news following protest by some students demanding that they be allowed to wear hijab in the classroom, will remain closed for seven days following six students and a lecturer reporting positive for COVID-19. “As per the prevailing COVID norms, we have closed temporarily for period of seven days,” said college principal Rudre Gowda. All the lecturers, other staff members, who are primary contacts, have undergone RTPCR test on Friday. Students will also undergo tests, he added. Meanwhile, Udupi MLA Raghupathi Bhat, who heads the College Development Committee, said a letter has been written to the PU Department asking to clarify whether the institution can continue with uniform, which is in vogue since 1985.  “Though the State Government does not prescribe any uniform in government colleges, the institution has continued with the uniform since 1985. In light of the controversy, we have written asking for clarification on the uniform. Reply from the Government is awaited,” Mr. Bhat told The Hindu . He reiterated the stand of the institution in favour of uniform.  On December 31, 2021, six students protested demanding allowing hijab in classroom. They said the college was not allowing them to attend classes for the past 15 days. A meeting of parents and college development committee was held on January 1 where it was decided to continue with the uniform, while asking clarification from the State Government on the issue. On Thursday, five students protested on the college premises and reiterated their demand for allowing hijab inside the classroom. Terming the action of students as an “act of indiscipline”, Minister B.C. Nagesh said educational institutions are not the place to practice one’s religion. If the students are adamant in practicing their faith they are open to leave the college and join an institution where hijab is allowed, he said. A delegation of National Students’ Union of India led by State vice-president Faraq Bayabe on Friday submitted a memorandum to Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao to allow students to sport hijab in the classroom. NSUI State secretary Shathabish Shivanna said the NSUI will file a writ petition in the High Court questioning the bar on sporting hijab, which, he said, which goes against fundamental right to religion of those students. “We are supporting the cause of the students,” he said. Hindu Jagaran Vedike Mangaluru divisional secretary Prakash Kukkehalli, in a statement to media, said if girls are allowed to wear hijab then other students will come with saffron shawls to institutions across Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hijab-nsui-to-file-writ-in-support-of-students/article38306357.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:06 IST,KARNATAKA||Mega vaccination drive in city today||Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) will conduct a mega vaccination drive against COVID-19 in the city on Saturday, according to its Commissioner Akshy Sridhar. The vaccination will be held across 39 centres, including 10 urban primary healthcare centres (UPHCs), malls, public spaces, and markets, he said in a press release. He appealed to the people and citizen welfare organisations to convince unvaccinated people and encourage them to visit the vaccination sites. Mobile vaccination Mobile vaccination facility is also available on request. Contact ward COVID nodal officer, UPHC nodal officer, UPHC medical officer or MCC COVID nodal officer to avail of the facility, he said. Mr. Sridhar said that it had been noted that 50% of the unvaccinated population in Dakshina Kannada resides in the jurisdiction of the corporation. The Government had taken serious cognisance of the unvaccinated population in MCC limits. As per the Government Order, citizens who have not received first and second doses of the vaccine must be identified and vaccinated. To weaken the impact of the third wave and protect the elderly, medical staff and COVID warriors everyone must be vaccinated. It had also been mandated that all COVID warriors must receive the booster dose, the Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mega-vaccination-drive-in-city-today/article38306691.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:06 IST,KARNATAKA||Dakshina Kannada DC asks BLOs to identify non-vaccinated persons||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Friday directed the booth level officers (BLOs) to visit houses carrying voters’ list with them and identify those who have not taken vaccine against COVID-19 and convince such persons to get themselves jabbed. At a virtual meeting with the BLOs, Dr. Rajendra said the district had 1,861 BLOs. In addition, there are 186 supervisors to supervise them. For voters’ list Along with identifying those who have not taken the vaccine, the BLOs should enrol the names of those aged 18 and above in the voters’ list by carrying Form no. Six with them. They should also take steps to remove the names of those deceased from the voters’ list. The BLOs should inform the Health Department about the persons who were found not vaccinated. He instructed the taluk-level officers to organise vaccine mela in taluks every Tuesday and Friday. Those front line workers who have not taken the booster dose should take it, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dakshina-kannada-dc-asks-blos-to-identify-non-vaccinated-persons/article38306690.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:06 IST,KARNATAKA||1,915 new COVID cases, five deaths in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi districts||A COVID-19 patient died in Dakshina Kannada, while the district reported 897 new cases on Friday. With 794 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 5,900. A total of 9,290 people were vaccinated on Friday, taking the number of those who have received the vaccine to 31.46 lakh in the district. While 17.32 lakh have received their first dose, 13.92 lakh have been given their second. Meanwhile, 22,301 people have received the precautionary dose. In Udupi Udupi district reported four deaths and 1,018 new cases. With 281 patients discharged, the number of active cases in the district stood at 5,825. As many as 2,665 people were vaccinated in the district on Friday, taking the total number of such people to 19.11 lakh. While 10.3 lakh have taken their first dose, 8.66 lakh have taken their second. And, 14,725 people have received the precautionary dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1915-new-covid-cases-five-deaths-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-districts/article38306688.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:06 IST,KARNATAKA||Car driver arrested for blocking ambulance||The Mangaluru Traffic North police have arrested Monish, a resident of Attavar, for allegedly blocking the way of an ambulance.  The police registered a suo motu case after a video of the act went viral on social media.  The police said the ambulance driver was taking a patient from Father Muller Hospital in the city to Bhatkal. Monish reportedly overtook the ambulance near Mulky and refused to give way for the ambulance till Udupi. This was even as the ambulance driver had kept the siren on. The video of the act was captured from the ambulance and posted on social media. The police said Monish is accused of offences punishable under Section 279 of Indian Penal Code and under Section 184 of Indian Motor Vehicles Act. The co-passenger in the car was not booked as he was not an accused, the police said. Policemen assaulted The Mangaluru East police arrested Dyany Paul, 39, and Maxim Joseph, 54, for allegedly assaulting civil police constables D.T. Shivananda and Beerendra S. Meti of Mangaluru East police station on January 18. The police said the arrested persons waylaid the two police personnel, who were returning to their quarters after night curfew duty, at Yeyyadi junction on the night of January 18. Accusing the police personnel as fake policemen and claiming themselves as real police personnel, the two accused assaulted the policemen. Immediately, they called personnel from the police station and the two accused persons were secured. The police seized the car of the accused. The two were accused of offences punishable under Sections 341, 353 and 332 of Indian Penal Code, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/car-driver-arrested-for-blocking-ambulance/article38306689.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:06 IST,KARNATAKA||21bg_mglr_Briefly||There will be no power supply in some areas of Udupi district on January 25 from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Ambalpady, Kinnimulki, Ajjarakadu, Kannarpady, Manipal Syndicate Circle, MGC School, Vidyaratnanagara, offices of Deputy Commissioner and Regional Transport Officer, Perampalli, Alevoor, Moodubelle, Parkala, Hiriyadkka, Baje, Perdoor, Padigara, Marne, Sagrinole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/21bgmglrbriefly/article38306695.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:54 IST,KARNATAKA||End of weekend curfew welcomed in Mysuru||Business and commercial establishments, and traders in Mysuru have thanked Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai for lifting weekend curfew that was in force across Karnataka for the last two weeks. They assured the government to comply with guidelines for containing the spread of the third wave of COVID-19. The decision has come as a breather to business establishments as the curfew during weekends had choked business and the livelihood of people because of the closure of trade and businesses, barring those selling essential goods. Traders will continue to run businesses, respecting the government’s decision and complying with Covid-19 guidelines, said Federation of Organisations and Associations of Mysuru president B.S. Prashanth. In anticipation of the government’s decision, the Federation got over 4,000 posters that will be pasted on the premises of shops, hotels, restaurants, theatres and other business establishments, urging customers to comply with COVID-19 guidelines to emphasise the joint responsibility in containing the spread of Covid-19. “We cannot be reckless and neglectful as we too have families, and we too have to look after our health as well. At the same time, it’s the question of our livelihood. However, we need to manage everything keeping safety as our priority amidst the threat with Mysuru being one of the high-risk districts. The vaccination of the staff will be our top priority besides face masks and social distancing,” he added. Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association president C. Narayana Gowda welcomed the government’s decision. “It’s a good decision by the government keeping in view various factors that were expressed in the form of petitions justifying the demand from hoteliers, traders and others for withdrawing the curfew,” he said. Mr. Gowda said the association will extend all support to the government for ending the third wave of Covid-19 by complying with guidelines issued by the government. The exhibitors’ association in Mysuru said that it was going ahead with its decision of suspending shows for an indefinite period citing that no new films are being released this weekend. Association secretary M.R. Rajaram said, “Despite the weekend curfew being lifted, the theatres don’t have new films to screen with releases put on hold over curbs imposed on theatres (50% seating capacity). Therefore, screening of films will continue to be suspended from January 21.” Mysuru MP Pratap Simha was among those who had favoured lifting of weekend curfew citing the problems faced by the common people and those running businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/end-of-weekend-curfew-welcomed-in-mysuru/article64947315.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Jal Bhavan inaugurated||Jal Bhavan, the newest public office in Mysuru city, was on Friday inaugurated at Saraswathipuram. It will house the divisional office of Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board. Minister for Urban Development B.A. Basavaraj (Byrathi Basavaraj) inaugurated the Bhavan in the presence of Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar, MP Pratap Simha, MLAs L. Nagendra, Tanveer Sait, Mayor Sunanda Palanetra and others. Built at a cost of Rs. 18 crore, the four-storied building was designed keeping in view the city’s heritage image. It took four years for the construction to complete. The old building was demolished to make way for the grand structure. On the occasion, the Minister told the officers to work towards easing drinking water needs of the people in districts coming under the division, executing works at a faster pace, with the Board getting an independent building. Vani Vilas Water Works, an arm of the KUWS&DB, handles the drinking water distribution of Mysuru city on behalf of the Mysuru City Corporation. The responsibilities of the VVWW will go up further with new drinking water projects under way for easing the water needs. The Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board implemented the Bidaragod project in Nanjangud taluk. Mr. Somashekar had urged Minister for Energy V. Sunil Kumar last year for immediate intervention in upgrading the power supply to the project as only if Bidaragod was linked with a 66 kV line, 180 MLD water can be pumped to the city from the present 60 MLD from Kabini. Also, the project of supplying water from Hale Undawadi scheme is also under way and the Mysuru MP has urged the KUWS&DB to retain the original proposal of the project, implementing the scheme at the original estimate of Rs. 563 crore instead of the revised estimate of Rs. 350 crore, as the new estimate was inadequate to realise the objections of the project, which draws Cauvery water from KRS backwaters. Once this project is implemented, the city and nearly 92 villages will get nearly 300 mld water from Cauvery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jal-bhavan-inaugurated/article64947313.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru’s tourist attractions to reopen for weekends||As the weekend curfew is lifted, prominent tourist attractions in Mysuru that were closed for visitors during the last two weekends, will be kept open on the coming ones. The management of Mysuru zoo said it will keep the zoo open for visitors for the coming weekends. It had kept the zoo open on Tuesdays despite being a holiday for it, after the weekend lockdown was announced. Henceforth, with weekend curfew suspended, the zoo and the Karanji Lake Nature Park will remain closed on Tuesdays, and open on weekends, said the zoo authorities. Nevertheless, the footfall to major sites has come down drastically with a spike in COVID-19 cases. Tourism in Mysuru has taken a beating amidst the onset of the third wave and those dependent on tourism for their livelihood are struggling, with curbs imposed on the entry of inter-state tourists to the State amidst the spike with the Omicron threat. Poor footfall is a big worry for attractions like the Mysuru zoo which sustains itself on gate collections. The zoo maintenance and staff salaries are looked after by the revenue through entry fees. Same in the case of Mysuru palace which has also reported steep drop in footfall after the onset of the third wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysurus-tourist-attractions-to-reopen-for-weekends/article38306715.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:55 IST,KARNATAKA||MUDA to augment Kabini water supply||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) will augment the drinking water being supplied to the city from Kabini river. A proposal for Rs. 150 crore was approved by the Minister for Urban Development Bhyrathi Basavaraj at a review meeting conducted at MUDA here on Friday. The project entails augmenting the water supply from 60 MLD at present to 180 MLD and it will cater to the residential areas in the south western part of Mysuru and layouts along the periphery of the Outer Ring Road. The MUDA will fund the project entirely and the work will be implemented by the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board. The Minister directed the MUDA officials to submit a DPR and gave his concurrence for the project on being apprised that the city’s water supply should keep pace with its projected growth of population and cannot be dependent entirely on supply from the KRS. Besides, the installed capacity of the Kabini water works at Bidaragodu was 180 MLD of which only 60 MLD was being harnessed. H.V. Rajeev, Chairman, MUDA, said the cost involves replacing the existing water 450 HP pumps with 1250 HP pumps besides procuring installation of three pumps as a standby as it entailed 24x7 water supply. Also, the 11kV substation has to be upgraded to 66 kV capacity and the storage capacity of the tanks too have to be increased, he added. Meanwhile, MLAs Tanvir Sait and L. Nagendra who were in the meeting urged MUDA officials to ensure water supply within the city before catering to the outskirts. Mr. Sait said that many areas in N.R. constituency were receiving water once in two or three days and there was problem with distribution. However, a section of officials confided after the meeting that that the MUDA jurisdiction extends beyond the city limits and hence its decision to provide water to all the layouts approved or developed by it was justified. The Minister also assured the MUDA officials that its proposal for group housing entailing construction of high-rise apartments would also be approved in due course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muda-to-augment-kabini-water-supply/article64947307.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:59 IST,KARNATAKA||Weekend curfew lifted; night curfew to stay||On an average, one infected person is infecting about 2.6 persons, according to a statement from the Chief Minister’s office. Experts said the number of COVID-19 cases would reach a peak next week.A large number of doctors and paramedical staff too have been infected with the virus. The Minister justified the continuation of night curfew on the grounds that it would restrict activities in bars, clubs and restaurants, and create awareness among the public about the prevalence COVID-19 in Karnataka. All existing rules related to a ban on protests, demonstrations and rallies would continue across Karnataka. Existing restrictions related to the number of people attending marriages and public functions too will continue. All hotels, pubs, bars, restaurants and malls would operate with 50% capacity. Mr. Ashok said several organisations in the organised and unorganised sectors, and Congress leaders too, had demanded removal of weekend curfew in Karnataka. The Government had taken the decision mainly on “scientific grounds based on the suggestions given by experts”, he said. Neighbouring States The meeting took stock of prevailing positivity rates in neighbouring States of Kerala and Maharashtra, and decided to strictly impose COVID-19 restrictions to control the spread of the pandemic in the coming days, the Minister said. Members of the Technical Advisory Committee of Karnataka, experts from WHO and NIMHANS, Ministers K. Sudhakar, Araga Jnanendra, and Govind M. Karjol attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-curfew-lifted-night-curfew-to-stay/article38306350.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:59 IST,KARNATAKA||BMTC bus catches fire in Bengaluru||A Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) bus caught fire near Makkala Koota Park in Chamrajpet on Friday. All the 40 passengers disembarked in time, and no one sustained injuries. The bus, attached to Deepanjali Nagar depot, was headed towards K.R. Market. Around 11.30 a.m., the driver saw thick smoke coming out of the engine. He immediately stopped the bus and alerted the passengers who started deboarding. Moments later, the fire spread to the front section of the vehicle, to the driver’s section and a few passenger seats. Fire and Emergency services personnel, who arrived at the scene, doused the fire. The incident forced the police to divert traffic in the area for some time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-bus-catches-fire-in-bengaluru/article64947483.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:06 IST,KARNATAKA||First copy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-copy/article64947377.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:59 IST,KARNATAKA||Samskritipex-2022||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/samskritipex-2022/article64947484.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||Teaching Learning Centre opened at SD College||Though India is surging ahead with increasing number of higher educational institutions, the scientific understanding of the complex physiological and psychological processes associated with teaching and learning is woefully inadequate in the campuses, observed Edamana Prasad, former Head of the Teaching Learning Centre at the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras. He was delivering the keynote address during the inauguration of the Sanatanam Teaching Learning Centre (TLC) at Sanatana Dharma (SD) College, Alappuzha, recently. He said faculties of higher educational institutions in the country were appointed based on subject knowledge which was essential but not sufficient. The teachers need to be equipped scientifically and trained to use the latest educational technologies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teaching-learning-centre-opened-at-sd-college/article38306659.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:41 IST,KERALA||Wayanad panchayat gets finance panel nod||The Wayanad district panchayat has become the first district panchayat in the country that has received the approval of the Central Finance Commission for projects submitted for the 2022-2023 fiscal.  The last date for submitting projects for the amount granted by the Commission through the eGram Swaraj portal of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj is January 28. But, the local body was able to get the approval earlier, Wayanad district panchayat president Shamshad Marakkar told The Hindu .  The Commission has allotted Rs. 6,97,68,000 as grant to the local body. According to the norms, 60% of the amount could be used only for drinking water and sanitation projects. The remaining amount could be used for other projects, said Mr. Marakkar. According to the project submitted by the local body, a sum of Rs. 4,18,61,000 would be used to solve drinking water shortage, construct drains in tribal settlements, set up sanitary napkin vending machines in schools, and install incinerator machines, he said. The remaining amount would be used to procure combined harvesters and develop infrastructure facilities, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-panchayat-gets-finance-panel-nod/article38306589.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:41 IST,KERALA||Veteran CPI(M) leader P.A. Muhammed dies||Senior leader of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and its former Wayanad district secretary P.A. Muhammed passed away on Friday. He was 84 and had been ailing for some time. The end came at 11.30 a.m. at a private hospital where he was admitted on Wednesday. The body was taken to the CPI(M) district committee office. The funeral was held at the Juma Masjid Kabarstan near Meppadi. Hundreds paid their last respects to the departed leader. Muhammed had played a major role in strengthening the party in the district. He served as the district secretary of the party and as State committee member from 1982 to 2007. He was vice chairman of Kerala State Cooperative Consumers’ Federation, director board member of the KSRTC, president of Meppadi grama panchayat, CITU district president, director board member of Deshabhimani daily, and president of Vythiri Cooperative Bank .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/veteran-cpim-leader-pa-muhammed-dies/article64947427.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:10 IST,KERALA||Over 18 kg of cannabis seized||A team of Excise officers on Friday arrested a youth and seized 18.25 kg of cannabis from him at the Excise checkpost on the Kerala-Karnataka border. The arrested was identified as Muhammed Mubasheer, 28, of Pandikkadu in Malappuram district. The narcotic was kept in five bags and hidden inside the bonnet and secret chambers of the car. The team led by Excise Inspector R. Nigeesh arrested the accused on a tip-off. During interrogation, the accused reportedly said he was transporting the narcotic from Karnataka to Malappuram for sale. In Kozhikode An Excise squad from Manjeri on Friday arrested three persons from Malappuram with 10.5 kg of ganja from Koombara village in Kozhikode. Sufail Yusef, Mohammed Hashir, and Shibin Chanthakkunnu were detained when they were trying to flee with the smuggled cannabis by car. Excise officials said the three were arrested during an inter-district search ordered by the Excise Commissioner covering Kozhikode, Malappuram, and Wayanad. As much as 36 kg of ganja was recovered from the three districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-18-kg-of-cannabis-seized/article38306579.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||CPI(M) truncates its Kasaragod conference||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) truncated its three-day district conference that began at Madikai grama panchayat here on Friday to just one day. The CPI(M) went ahead and began the conference on Friday morning even as the district reported a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases. This drew criticism from various quarters. The decision of District Collector Bhandari Swagat Ranveer Chand to revoke an order that imposed restrictions in view of the increasing COVID-19 case added fuel to the fire. She was accused of helping the CPI(M) to conduct the district conference at Ambalathukara at Madikai panchayat, where the test positivity rate was reported to be 67.5%. But the Collector clarified that the order was cancelled based on the State government’s new guidelines. The guidelines called for imposing restrictions by considering the increase in the number of hospitalisation instead of the TPR, she added. Later in the day, a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court directed the Collector to ensure that no meetings are conducted within the district allowing participation of more than 50 persons. Meanwhile, the Collector is going on leave from Saturday to February 2 “for personal necessities”. The CPI(M) district conference in Thrissur that began on Friday will conclude on Saturday. The decision to conclude the conference in two days, which was initially scheduled for three days, was taken following the declaration of lockdown-like restrictions on Sunday in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-truncates-its-kasaragod-conference/article38306663.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:41 IST,KERALA||‘Federalism being destroyed’||CPI(M) Polit Bureau member S. Ramachandran Pillai has said that the Narendra Modi government has put the judiciary in the hands of the executive. He was inaugurating the district conference of the party at Madikai here on Friday. The Supreme Court does not take decisions on issues that are not in the interest of the Central government. It will erode people’s confidence in the judicial system. Mr. Pillai said the Centre was destroying democracy and federalism to establish a Hindu State. Laws are passed with the help of the Speaker without discussion in Parliament. Attempts are being made to influence the Election Commission. The media and the public are monitored. He said the Congress would not be able to replace the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/federalism-being-destroyed/article38306584.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Protesters remove K-Rail survey stones||Public protests against the Left Democratic Front government’s flagship SilverLine (K-Rail) semi-high-speed railway line went up a notch in Parakkadavu grama panchayat near Angamaly after people on Friday morning removed the survey stones laid for the project in a paddy field there. The majority of the 15 survey stones laid in Ward 16 was removed on Thursday night by the local people before the K-Rail Virudha Janakeeya Samiti acted on its decision to do so. Four stones The remaining four stones were uprooted by samiti office-bearers in the morning. Around 30 protesters, under the aegis of the samiti, marched to the Triveni paddy field at Puliyanam and removed the survey stones placed by the authorities. “We also put wreathed survey stones at three junctions in the panchayat through which the project passes. We have made it unequivocally clear that we will protest against the project with people’s participation if the authorities ignore public sentiments,” says Nithin Saju, member of Ward 16 and samiti patron. Members of Wards 17 and 18 are also part of the samiti since the project passes through their wards as well. A surveyor visited the site on Friday morning to prepare a report about the removal of the stones. K-Rail authorities, with the support of revenue officials and a large police contingent, laid the survey stones on Thursday morning after being forced to turn away a day before in the face of popular protest. An emergency meeting of the samiti on Thursday night decided to intensify the protest against the project and enlist women and children, if needed. It was also decided to launch a door-to-door campaign against the project, which is likely to displace about 50 families in the area, and to oppose the laying of survey stones. “They have laid survey stones on paddy fields until now. The protest will be stiffer if they enter residential areas and even the police will find it hard to tackle the situation,” warns Mr. Saju. Meanwhile, the Angamaly police are awaiting a statement from the K-Rail authorities to register a case in connection with the uprooting of the survey stones. Angamaly legislator and Congress leader Roji M. John, in an FB post, said: “Salute to those brave hearts who gave a befitting reply to the arrogance shown by the Pinarayi Vijayan government who goes ahead with the SilverLine project challenging the people,” he said.  ( With inputs from Press Trust of India )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protesters-remove-k-rail-survey-stones/article64947400.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:45 IST,KERALA||Three-month study under way to ‘restructure’ Vyttila Junction||The National Transportation Planning and Research Centre(NATPAC) and the consultant of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) would work in tandem with the traffic police and the Public Works Department (PWD) to ready short and long-term solutions to end traffic congestion at Vyttila, while a pair of flyovers will be built at Edappally to decongest that junction, Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve said on Friday, after a site visit to both the junctions. Sources in NATPAC said a three-month study had begun to ‘restructure’ road infrastructure at Vyttila as a short-term measure. A portion of a multi-rise building that protrudes into the NH on the eastern (Thripunithura) side would ultimately have to be taken over to ensure smooth and safe flow of vehicles at the junction, they said. Traffic congestion at the two junctions on the NH 66 bypass, even after flyovers were built, had led to angry reactions from members of the public. The Minister directed District Police Chief (Kochi City) C.H. Nagaraju to convene a meeting of stakeholders to speed up restructuring of infrastructure at the junction. Traffic regulations Referring to interim traffic regulations put in place by the traffic police at Vyttila, he said commuters (from the Palarivattom side) saved on time, even as they commuted a longer distance (1.80 km) to cross over to SA Road. The agencies concerned ought to ready a sustainable and lasting solution to traffic hold-ups at the two junctions. A preliminary study by NATPAC and NHAI’s consultant is over to redesign traffic islands (and the roundabout) beneath the Vyttila flyover. Steps will also be taken to ensure pedestrian safety within a span of two weeks, he added. Signal system Mayor M. Anilkumar, who too was part of the team which visited the two junctions, said the signal system at Vyttila would be remodelled alongside the chipping away of parts of medians and the roundabout beneath the flyover. Estimate submitted “The PWD (NH wing) that built the flyover has submitted an estimate of Rs. 1.20 crore to the Kerala Road Fund Board [KRFB] for this, to shift utilities and widen the bellmouth from the NH bypass to the Vyttila Mobility Hub.” The KRFB will decide on further course of action, of short and long-term measures to decongest Vyttila, based on a NATPAC study report that is expected in a couple of months, said a senior PWD official. “This will hopefully help make optimal use of space, including the two-lane portion on the Palarivattom side of the flyover’s roundabout where traffic was banned when the police rerouted vehicles coming from SA Road. The study will also shed light on relocating the police watch tower at Vyttila that protrudes into the national highway. “A long-pending proposal to develop an alternative underpass beneath the Vyttila railway bridge on the southern side of the rail track would in all probability be taken up after the short-term measures are implemented,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-month-study-under-way-to-restructure-vyttila-junction/article64947409.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:45 IST,KERALA||Ernakulam records 7,339 fresh cases||Ernakulam district recorded 7,339 new COVID-19 cases on Friday. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 50.86%. As many as 5,592 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection was not confirmed in 1,717 cases. Among the infected, 27 were health workers. A total of 10,081 persons were placed under home isolation on Friday. The number of active cases in the district was 33,873. The public can contact the District Control Room nos: 0484 2368802/2368902/2368702 for clearing their doubts about the pandemic situation. The facility will be available round-the-clock. Home isolation The Health department urged those under home isolation not to come in contact with other family members. The room meant for isolation should be properly ventilated. Those under isolation have to wear either N95 or double masks. They need to wash hands or sanitise at regular intervals. Other family members should not use plates or clothes used by the patient. Isolation rooms have to be disinfected. Pulse oximeter should be used to check the oxygen level. Those tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 should not resort to self-medication. Persons having fever should remain at home and not venture out into public places. Home isolation will end when the person either completes seven days or is free of fever for three consecutive days. They need not undergo COVID-19 tests after this mandatory period. The public have to comply with the revised guidelines issued by the Health department related to quarantine and treatment, according to an official communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-7339-fresh-cases/article64947413.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||22 college-based clusters reported in district||Ernakulam district has recorded nearly 22 college-based COVID-19 clusters as on Friday. The spike in the number of such clusters is likely to continue as the government has not yet decided to suspend offline classes. Hostels on campuses figure in the nearly 22 college-based clusters in the district, according to official estimates. V. Jayasree, District Medical Officer, said the heads of institutions could take a decision on whether to stop academic and hostel services based on the assessment of the caseload. Those tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 could be sent home and follow-up measures should be taken to ensure the quarantine of others and compliance with health protocols, she said. Higher educational institutions having adequate infrastructure and support systems need not shut down hostels. However, they should ensure steps to check the spread of the disease among students, teachers, and members of the non-teaching staff. Dormitories set up in limited spaces within hostels need to be shut down in the wake of a cluster formation, according to the authorities. Colleges, which have witnessed cluster formations, are in a fix as they have not been able to take a call on whether to stop offline sessions and hostels. Principals pointed out that Mahatma Gandhi University had not yet cancelled the semester exams. “How can we ask students to leave hostels and return home when the exams are being held as per the schedule?” they asked. Students have also raised concerns over the decision by the varsity to conduct exams at a time when many college-based clusters are getting reported from different districts. Despite making repeated pleas, the university authorities are yet to understand the serious health situation, they said. Even though the varsity has asked managements to make arrangements for infected students to write exams in separate rooms, students said that it was not easy for many to report for exams while being under severe health and mental stress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/22-college-based-clusters-reported-in-district/article64947416.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:45 IST,KERALA||KWA to set up new water treatment plant at Aluva||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) is about to set up a new 143 mld water treatment plant at Aluva to cater for the future drinking water needs of Ernakulam. The Rs. 180-crore plant has been conceived to address the potential water shortage anticipated by 2050. It will benefit Kochi Corporation, Aluva, Kalamassery, Thrikkakara and Eloor municipalities and 13 panchayats. Administrative sanction has already been received for the project, and funds have been sanctioned. Technical sanction is expected within a month after which the project will be tendered. “More funds may be needed for the project for completing the distribution network and related works, which are expected to be allotted in due course. The plant is likely to take two years for completion from the date of commencement of construction,” said Jochan Joseph, superintending engineer, Ernakulam circle of KWA. “A special team constituted at the directions of Additional Chief Secretary T.K. Jose and managing director of KWA Venkatesapathy S. is working on fine-tuning the project design and preparing a more detailed drawing. The idea is to submit the proposal for technical sanction within 21 days. The project is a timely augmentation of the water supply system in keeping with our surging needs,” said Mr. Joseph. The existing treatment plant at Aluva has an installed capacity of 225 mld. However, it is often overloaded in excess of 245 mld to meet the demand.  The project is a timely augmentation of the water supply system in keeping with our surging needs Jochan Joseph Superintending engineer, KWA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-to-set-up-new-water-treatment-plant-at-aluva/article38306607.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||Women visual artists protest gender bias||A group of women artists on Friday staged a unique protest in the courtyard of the Durbar Hall Art Gallery here to decry the State government appointing three men as top office-bearers of the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi. “The government preaches gender equality but practices absolute male bias as is evident from the appointment,” said noted artist P.S. Jalaja, one of the members of A Collective of Women in Visual Arts of Kerala, which took out the protest. A memorandum signed by 116 women visual artists had been submitted to the government in June last year demanding, among other things, equal share for women in key positions of the Lalithakala Akademi. “It’s unfortunate that the Akademi has not had even a single woman artist in a decision-making position in the last 60 years. And after T.K. Padmini, no woman artist has been considered worthy of any position anywhere. The way the State government has appointed the new committee shows its scant regard for gender parity,” Ms. Jalaja said. A note circulated by the collective also took exception to the new committee featuring an office-bearer who has been accused of supporting an accused in a sexual harassment case. While artist Sajitha Sankar expressed her disappointment at no woman artist being adequately recognised in Kerala, at the event organised by the Akademi and the T.K. Padmini Trust for presenting the T.K. Padmini Award, the secretary-designate of the Akademi just brushed it off as a “needless anxiety”, the note added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-visual-artists-protest-gender-bias/article64947418.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:45 IST,KERALA||Water stethoscope to put an end to digging up of roads||Digging up even freshly-surfaced roads in search of blocks in the pipeline may soon become a thing of the past, thanks to an improvised water stethoscope developed by the Ernakulam circle of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA). The water stethoscope is essentially a pressure gauge that could read pressure to the minutest point of 0.01 kilogram per square centimetre. It has a hosepipe that can be attached to the main pipeline that could be accessed by removing the union of independent water meters upstream of the area experiencing shortage of water supply. “Blocks in the pipeline result in sudden drop in pressure, which could be precisely detected by using the water stethoscope at consecutive water connection points. This will help avoid digging up roads indiscriminately for detecting blocks,” said Jochan Joseph, superintending engineer, Ernakulam circle of the KWA. At present, the KWA follows a primitive method to identify blocks whereby a team comprising an assistant engineer, assistant executive engineer, and a plumber manually check the pressure at public taps in the affected areas by pure hypothesis. This could lead to inaccurate diagnosis of blocks and by extension wasteful digging up of roads. The water stethoscope would help gauge the pressure precisely between different points facilitating target digging. “Besides, all the 45 engineers in our circle have also been asked to document the pressure in Google spreadsheets periodically even in the absence of specific complaints. This could serve as a database for detecting pressure variations when a problem arises,” said Mr. Joseph. A training session for engineers is on the anvil for familiarising them with the use of water stethoscopes. All officers from superintending engineer to assistant executive engineer associated with the maintenance have been asked to carry a water stethoscope henceforth. While the blocks cause a sudden pressure drop in the water supply between different points along a pipeline, the drop in pressure caused by leakages is uniform across an entire pipeline making its accurate detection even with the help of a water stethoscope near impossible. However, the equipment coupled with the water pressure database on Google Spreadsheet is supposed to give a fair idea about a potential leak enabling a more targeted digging of roads after which the leak could be accurately detected by attaching a flow measuring equipment to the main pipeline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-stethoscope-to-put-an-end-to-digging-up-of-roads/article64947412.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:45 IST,KERALA||Man arrested on charge of bid to kill mother||The Puthenvelikkara police on Friday arrested a man on the charge of attempting to kill his mother. The police said Francis, 50, of Thuruthippuram had severely beaten up his 73-year-old mother. He also allegedly smashed the door of the house and television. The incident took place on the night of January 17. Francis was nabbed from Kottayam. The police investigation team comprising Sub Inspectors M.P. Sudheer and M.S. Murali and Assistant Sub Inspectors P.A. Shahir and P.A. Anoop made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-on-charge-of-bid-to-kill-mother/article38306608.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||KCBC Commission expresses concern||The KCBC Commission for Social Harmony and Vigilance has termed as “condemnable” statements and campaigns by people from the socio-cultural and media spheres that led to the Catholic Church and the life of priests and nuns being portrayed in bad light. It is clear that vested interests are leading such “misleading and organised campaigns,” the KCBC forum said. The government, law enforcement agencies, and the judiciary must step in to prevent such vested interests reaping undue benefits from the ensuing communal polarisation. Court orders must be treated with due respect, failing which a free for all will ensue, said Father Michael Pulickal, secretary of the Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcbc-commission-expresses-concern/article38306593.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:45 IST,KERALA||Suspension for Kochi Corporation staff||An employee of the Kochi Corporation’s Palluruthy zonal office who allegedly demanded bribe from a young woman entrepreneur (who recently shared her ordeal on social media) will be suspended from service, while another employee who reportedly did not adhere to office decorum will be posted in another section, Mayor M. Anilkumar said in a release. This follows a report obtained from a Deputy Secretary in the Local Self Government department. Further action will be taken on the basis of a detailed probe. In addition, a health inspector and two others who allegedly siphoned off the civic body’s user fee collected for garbage removal have been suspended, the Mayor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suspension-for-kochi-corporation-staff/article38306601.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||BIS raids toy store in city||The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) on Friday raided a retail store for selling toys without ISI mark. A huge stock of toys was seized from the store at a mall here. Toys were brought under the mandatory certification of the Union government with effect from last January considering the safety of children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bis-raids-toy-store-in-city/article38306598.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:58 IST,KERALA||Death of newborn: bail granted to mother||The Kerala High Court on Thursday granted bail to a woman from Kanjirappally in Kottayam district who allegedly drowned her four-day-old baby in a bucket of water. The case against Nisha Suresh, mother of five children, was that she, along with her 15-year-old child, caused the death of her newborn by dropping the infant in a bucket of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-of-newborn-bail-granted-to-mother/article38306652.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:58 IST,KERALA||WCC members meet Minister, want to present their findings||Members of the Women in Cinema Collective (WCC) on Friday said the name of the victims (of sexual harassment and gender inequality) who had deposed before the Hema commission appointed by the government to study the problems faced by women in Malayalam cinema should not be made public. "But we want the government to publish the findings and recommendations of the panel to make the Malayalam film industry a safe space for all genders," said Rima Kallingal, actor and WCC member, after meeting P. Rajeeve, Minister for Law, as part of the collective's decision to meet Ministers and all concerned to press its long-standing demand for a comprehensive law to regulate the industry. Terming the publication of the full panel report in the public domain as 'dangerous', the WCC members said the privacy of the victims and the confidentiality clause had to be ensured. "Our prime importance is that the names of the victims should not be made public," they said. The members said they should be given an opportunity to present their findings before the three-member committee which was appointed by the government to examine and formulate an implementation to address the recommendations made by the Hema commission. "Before a law is eneacted, we should be heard as stakeholders, who had been studying the issues faced by women in the Malayalam film industry for the last four years despite being isolated and attacked from various quarters," they said. Mr. Rajeeve said that the Departments of Culture and Law would initiate time-bound measures to come up with a comprehensive law to regulate the Malayalam film industry. The government would positively consider the request by the WCC that they should be heard before the Bill was drafted, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wcc-members-meet-minister-want-to-present-their-findings/article38306673.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:45 IST,KERALA||Edappally to have two more flyovers||Bottlenecked parts of Edappally Junction will be redeveloped, a pair of flyovers built and U-turns redeveloped to streamline traffic flow at the junction where NH 66 and NH 66 bypass meet NH 544, it was decided on Friday. The process has begun as per the directions of the Minister for Public Works Mohamed Riyas. Similarly, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has awarded the tender to widen NH 66 (Edappally-Kodungalloor stretch), Industries Minister P. Rajeeve said. As per the plan, the two-lane road in front of LuLu Mall will be merged with a portion of the 2.10-m wide footpath to ensure smooth flow of vehicles. In addition, a pair of flyovers have been proposed (perpendicular to the existing four-lane flyover which failed to decongest the junction), NHAI officials said. Likewise, the U-turn on the Kalamassery side at Edappally Junction will be relocated 60 metres towards Kalamassery to streamline vehicle flow. Overbridges Later, a review meeting of overbridges at Atlantis and Vaduthala was held. It was decided to complete land acquisition and kick-start their construction this year itself. The overbridge proposed by the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala(RBDCK) at Vathuruthy can be realised only if government agencies surrender their land,” Mayor M. Anilkumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/edappally-to-have-two-more-flyovers/article38306602.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Satheesan slams govt. for compromising on norms||The Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has slammed the government for compromising on the COVID-19 restrictions for facilitating CPI(M) district meetings. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Mr. Satheesan accused CPI(M) leaders of turning into carriers of the pandemic and dubbed them ‘merchants of death’. The COVID-19 restrictions had been compromised for helping CPI(M), Mr. Satheesan said. Hundreds of CPI(M) leaders who participated in the Thiruvananthapuram district meeting had turned positive for COVID-19, he said. Mr. Satheesan accused that notwithstanding the high test positivity rate (TPR), Kasaragod and Thrissur districts have not been included in any of the categories related to the pandemic-related restrictions to facilitate the conduct of the party district meetings. “CPI(M) leaders are turning into carriers of the disease in their hubris to hold party meetings at any cost. Watering down the pandemic-related restrictions for the party is a challenge to the people,” he said. BJP leader and Union Minister of State for Foreign Affairs V. Muraleedharan asked the CPI(M) to show more civic responsibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/satheesan-slams-govt-for-compromising-on-norms/article38306667.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||LuLu Group to open seafood processing centre||LuLu Group will open its seafood processing and export hub in the State at Aroor near here by April. The export-oriented centre will come up at an investment of Rs. 150 crore. Apart from processing raw seafood, the new facility will also produce value-added products like squid rings, buttered shrimps, shrimp salad, etc, according to a release issued here on Friday. About 2,000 tonnes of processed seafood will be exported monthly to more than 220 LuLu hypermarkets across the Gulf, Egypt, Indonesia and Malaysia as per the proposed plan. The group will explore markets in the US, UK, Europe, Japan, Korea, and China in the next phase. The centre is expected to generate employment for more than 450 people, both directly and indirectly, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lulu-group-to-open-seafood-processing-centre/article38306594.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:44 IST,KERALA||PF adalat on February 10||A provident fund pension adalat and complaint redressal camp will be held online at 3 p.m. on February 10. Those who wish to participate in the adalat must submit their UAN, PF account/PPO number, cell number, Aadhaar number, e-mail ID, and complaint details before January 31 to pro.pfkochi@gmail.com. ‘Pension Adalat’ must be mentioned prominently in the e-mail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pf-adalat-on-february-10/article38306595.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||It’s raining discounts in tourism sector||Faced with the prospect of COVID-19 playing spoilsport with the third tourist season in a row, accommodation units and houseboat operators have slashed rates to woo guests. Most houseboat operators are offering substantial discount to attract tourists, considering the sudden lull in the arrival of guests following the surge in cases, says Jobin Akkarakalam, president of the Kerala Houseboat Owners’ Federation. “Most people from within Kerala prefer day trips, while those from other States opt for night stay as well. The possible third wave of the pandemic led to little inflow of tourists even during the Pongal week.” The net result is that business is confined mostly to weekends. The impending travel curbs on Sunday could further dampen arrivals. Already, houseboats having deluxe suite slashed tariff from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 6,000, while luxury vessels decreased rates from Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 16,000. Lowering of tariff alone will not help, most boat operators are in dire need of government help to maintain their vessels, this being a capital intensive sector, he says. Homestays too have considerably slashed rates, including at Fort Kochi. The Fort Kochi destination committee of the Kerala Homestay and Tourism Society decided on Thursday to slash tariff by a minimum of 25%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-raining-discounts-in-tourism-sector/article38306666.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||HC directive to State on crowdfunding||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the State government to file an affidavit indicating the present stage of the concept note on raising crowdfunding for treatment of rare diseases as also the steps taken for identification of beneficiaries, and for engaging services of social media groups for encouraging donations for treatment. Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar asked the State to indicate in the affidavit the impediments, if any, in making arrangements in one or more medical colleges in the State for treatment of rare diseases included in the national policy for treatment of rare diseases formulated by the Centre. The court issued the directives on a writ petition filed by Arif of Malappuram seeking a directive to the State government to provide drugs for treatment of his son afflicted by a rare disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-to-state-on-crowdfunding/article38306665.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||More antigen tests in Kollam||As the Kollam district is reporting a surge in COVID-19 cases, the number of antigen tests will be increased, said Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal here on Friday. The Minister was speaking at a meeting of local body representatives online. The decision was taken after grama panchayat representatives demanded more antigen tests as the number of contact cases is going up. The services of mobile testing units will also be utilised. Minister J. Chinchu Rani, district panchayat president Sam K. Daniel, District Collector Afsana Parveen, Mayor Prasanna Ernest and representatives of various local bodies in Kollam district attended the meeting. Meanwhile, the Health department urged the COVID-19 patients currently under home care to avoid hospital visits and avail themselves of the e-Sanjeevani outpatient service. Through the app, patients will immediately receive medicines for the symptoms communicated over the phone. Patients contacting government hospitals through this 24x7 system will receive free medicines. The app can be downloaded from Google Play Store and Apple Store. General OP will be available from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., while specialty OP will function from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Those currently undergoing treatment can also upload required information through the app. After registering, patients can select the OP they need and use video call facility for consultation. Toll-free number for information is 1056 and the District Medical Officer has requested the public to make maximum use of the system. The department has also mobilised ward-level RRTs (Rapid Response Teams) to contain the escalation of COVID-19 cases. The objective is to assess the health status of those under observation and provide immediate treatment. Officials from the health centre concerned have been given the responsibility of coordinating the teams. Arrangements will be made to transfer pulse oximeter readings of patients under home care to the RRT at regular intervals and ward-level WhatsApp groups will be formed for the purpose. Those in need of emergency care will be transferred to hospitals. Facilities have been arranged at 10 major hospitals in the district, COVID-19 first-line treatment centre at Valakam and the second-line treatment centre functioning at Hockey Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-antigen-tests-in-kollam/article64947395.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:56 IST,KERALA||Master plan mooted to revive cashew sector||A high-level meeting attended by Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal and Industries Minister P. Rajeev has decided to formulate a master plan for the modernisation and diversification of the cashew industry. Based on the plan, the government will offer required financial support to strengthen the ailing sector. The decision was taken at a meeting of trade unions and processors convened recently to discuss the problems and possibilities in the cashew sector. A review meeting to assess the performance of the Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) and Kerala State Cashew Workers Apex Industrial Cooperative Society (Capex) was also held. The meeting observed that the rising prices of raw cashew nut and the increase in import duty have put the cashew industry in a crisis. The participants pointed out that the cost of production in Kerala is more than double compared to other states and the lack of modernisation as the main reason. The master plan will also focus on addressing the issues related to marketing and the manufacturing of value-added products. The assistance of professional agencies will be sought for this and the RIAB will be responsible for overseeing the KSCDC and Capex. Corporation chairman S. Jayamohan said that no working day was lost in government-run factories since the present government came into power. The Cashew Board is instructed to procure quality raw cashew nuts when it is available at affordable prices in the international market. The processors complained that some banks were not implementing the provisions of the one-time settlement formula and the Ministers promised that they would intervene in the matter. KSCDC chairman S. Jayamohan, Capex Chairman G. Sivasankara Pillai, trade union leaders K. Rajagopal, B. Tulsidhara Kurup,A.A. Aziz, B. Sujeendran, G. Lalu, Koketh Bhaskaran and Sooranad Sreekumar were among those who present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/master-plan-mooted-to-revive-cashew-sector/article38306646.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||Study to identify title deed beneficiaries||All deserving persons from Kollam district will be issued title deeds, said Revenue Minister K. Rajan at a meeting of taluk-level officials convened online on Friday. As the first step, a comprehensive study will be conducted to identify the right beneficiaries from the grassroots level. A team of MLAs, people’s representatives and officials will work towards this. The Minister directed the officials concerned to settle cases related to the Kerala Paddy and Wetland Conservation Act in order of priority. “Grievances should be addressed immediately and long-term cases must be resolved within six months. Time-bound action is essential to implement the government policy of ‘land for all, document for all land and all services smart’,” he said. The Minister also assessed the progress of various projects of the Revenue department and instructed the officials to create awareness about drone survey. Tahsildars informed the Minister about the applications received for the title deeds from various taluks. District Collector Afsana Parveen, Subcollector Chetan Kumar Meena, Additional District Magistrate N. Sajitha Begum, deputy collectors and other officials also attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/study-to-identify-title-deed-beneficiaries/article38306658.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||Transgenders’ club formed||The District Youth Centre of the Kerala State Youth Welfare Board formed a Transgenders’ Club in Kollam recently. Board member Santosh Kala inaugurated the function at the District Panchayat Hall. Club president Natalie presided over the function. District youth programme officer V.S. Bindu, district coordinator S. Shabeer, Shraddha, Sneha and Ardra spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/transgenders-club-formed/article38306660.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||Virtual job fair till Jan. 27||The Kerala Economy Mission Virtual Job Fair will be held online till January 27. Candidates can register through the link http://knowledgemission. kerala.gov.in and complete the profile registration, including qualifications and experience. Multiple job openings will be offered to the participants selecting virtual job fair mode. For more information, contact 0471-2737881.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virtual-job-fair-till-jan-27/article38306661.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||Interview for SC promoters||An interview for Scheduled Caste (SC) promoters for the Pavithreswaram grama panchayat under the Vettikavala Block Scheduled Caste Development Office will be held at the Kollam District Scheduled Caste Development Office at 10.30 a.m. on January 24. Permanent residents coming in the 18-40 age group with Plus Two can attend. The age limit for Scheduled Caste candidates is 50 years and eligibility is SSLC. For details, call 0474-2794996.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interview-for-sc-promoters/article38306655.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:11 IST,KERALA||Rain triggered landslips: report||The landslips triggered by torrential rainfall at Koottickal in Kottayam and Kokkayar in Idukki in October 2021 had occurred in locations earlier pinpointed as hazardous zones by the National Centre for Earth Science Studies, a study report released on Friday by the Kerala Sashtra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) says. KSSP president O.M. Sankaran on Friday released the study report, conducted jointly by the Kottayam district committee of the Parishad, Integrated Rural Technology Centre (IRTC), Palakkad, and the Centre for Natural Resource Management, Christ College, Irinjalakuda. Existing zonation maps need to be updated on appropriate scales at panchayat levels, as the extreme rainfall incidents are to be expected more frequently in future. Local bodies should maintain permanent voluntary disaster management teams for assisting people in hazard zones, it said. Streams and rivulets The report noted that the landslips had all occurred in connection with streams and rivulets which appeared during the rainy season. The triggering factor was the intense rainfall, more than 240 mm in the 24 hours starting 8.30 a.m. on October 16, in that watershed alone, it said. Outlining policies to reduce similar tragedies, the report recommended that rain gauge stations be deployed in the region. Adequate warning systems should be put in place. It recommended a ban on all constructions near first and second order streams on steep slopes. Unscientific agricultural practices such as making trenches and terraces for water conservation should be restricted. Proper drainage for run-off water should be ensured in slopes before rains. The practice of rebuilding houses on the sites of the damaged ones should be discouraged. New buildings on slopes should be designed based on the position of the land and firmness of soil. For this, a technical team comprising a geologist and a geotechnical engineer should be maintained at the district level. Reconstruction and development in the affected areas should be on watershed basis. To coordinate the work in these panchayats located in two districts, a special officer should be appointed. S. Sreekumar, former director of the IRTC and visiting professor in environment in Kerala University, headed the study team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-triggered-landslips-report/article64947257.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:41 IST,KERALA||Conolly canal to be a major waterway||The project to develop Conolly canal in the city into a major waterway is all set to be speeded up, with Kerala Waterways and Infrastructures Ltd. (KWIL) zeroing in on an agency to conduct a feasibility study and prepare a detailed project report (DPR). Lee Associates, a Canadian firm, has been shortlisted from 10 companies that submitted expressions of interest to KWIL.  The 23 bridges, including four on major roads, across the Conolly canal are the main hurdles to the development of the canal. “All the bridges are very low and hence need to be raised, so that boats could pass under them,” KWIL sources told The Hindu .  A call on widening or deepening the canal can be taken only on the basis of the DPR. However, roads and houses along the 11.2-km canal may be affected if the waterbody is widened. “We are trying to ensure optimum use of available space without having to acquire more land. The mini bypass could be elevated to accommodate a wider canal,” the sources said. Some vacant government land is available on the eastern side of the canal, and it could be used in case the canal has to be widened. “The boundaries of the canal, constructed in 1848, have not been properly determined yet,” they added. Closing drainages that open into the canal and the development of a waste water disposal facility are likely to be considered. Lee Associates will submit the DPR in less than six months. KWIL has been taking care of the canal for the past few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conolly-canal-to-be-a-major-waterway/article64947424.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:10 IST,KERALA||Calicut varsity to tighten curbs as Omicron cases surge||In the wake of the surge in Omicron cases, Calicut University has decided to tighten controls and create awareness on the pandemic situation on the campus. Online services A meeting chaired by Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj on Friday directed students to avoid visiting the university except for essential services. They have been asked to make use of online services. The university park will remain closed from Saturday. Also, the C.H. Mohammed Koya Library will not function on the next two Sundays. Besides, awareness campaigns will be organised for those who are reluctant to get vaccinated. Work shifts Meanwhile, employees of Pareeksha Bhavan will be considered for work on shift basis. A separate camp will be held in collaboration with the Department of Health to provide booster doses of the vaccine to employees, it was decided. Departments that do not require laboratory sessions will revert to online mode of teaching. Students leaving hostels after 9.30 p.m. will have to secure special permission. The COVID-19 cell on the campus will hold campaigns on the COVID-19 protocol. Pro Vice Chancellor M. Nasser, Registrar E.K. Satheesh, Controller of Examinations C.C. Babu and Finance Officer K. Jugal Kishor, teachers and other employees attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-to-tighten-curbs-as-omicron-cases-surge/article38306583.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:41 IST,KERALA||SANKALP job fest planned to support differently abled, transgender persons||Considering the warm response from job seekers to the previous editions of district-level job fairs, the district administration and the District Skill Committee under its control are gearing up to host one more mega job fair with focus on improving the placement opportunities of differently abled and transgender persons. Though the fest to be hosted on February 20 will be open for all, the participating recruiters will be encouraged to give special consideration to the groups. The district administration is also considering awards for employers who recruit the highest number of differently abled candidates and transgender persons. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy, who is also chairman of the skill committee, held a meeting with potential employers about the purpose of the fair. According to the fair coordinators, it is the first such drive to be held under the Skills Acquisition and Knowledge Awareness for Livelihood Promotion (SANKALP) programme in Kozhikode. The Kerala Academy for Skills Excellence (KASE) will coordinate the programme with the support of the Labour department. Interested candidates may visit the portal, www.statejobportal.kerala.gov.in. “We have started the registration of employers who wish to participate in the selection drive. From February 1, the job seekers can start registering their names,” said Febina V. Rahoof, District Skill Coordinator. Meanwhile, the virtual job fest of the Knowledge Mission began on Friday. During the seven-day fair, candidates will be recruited through virtual interviews and tests. To register, visit the portal www.knowledgemission.kerala.go.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sankalp-job-fest-planned-to-support-differently-abled-transgender-persons/article38306588.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:41 IST,KERALA||Girl’s death exposes failure in sheltering POCSO victims||The death of an 18-year-old girl who had been extensively abused by different men in Kozhikode and Malappuram districts in the last couple of years has exposed the failure of the government system in providing care and shelter to victims of rape. The girl was found dead at her house at Tenhipalam on Thursday. Her mother said that the girl had attempted to commit suicide many times before and that her requests to the authorities to give treatment and counselling to the girl had fallen on deaf ears. “None cared for my daughter,” she sobbed. The girl had been raped by several men and three cases were registered at Feroke Police Station under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The rape had taken place when they lived near Feroke in Kozhikode district. Another case for sexual abuse was also registered at Kondotty Police Station. The victim had lived with her mother and younger brother at different places, including Feroke and Kondotty. She had been abused by several people, including her cousins, over a long period of time. The police said that they had mentioned the vulnerability of the girl’s family in their chargesheets. They said they had recommended treatment and counselling to the girl. The authorities responsible for the protection of children, including the District Child Protection Officer, in Kozhikode said that they had not been alerted about the need for giving counselling to the girl. Meanwhile, several questions were raised on Thursday about how the girl was allowed to rejoin her vulnerable family in spite of having been repeatedly raped by different men. The Child Welfare Committee and the District Child Protection Officer are responsible for ensuring the safety of the victim in any POCSO case. The District Child Protection Officers in Kozhikode and Malappuram are being blamed for allowing POCSO victims to rejoin their families in vulnerable circumstances. In Malappuram district, for example, the victims of POCSO cases that took place in Pandikkad, Edappal, Mankada, Areekode and Tirurangadi were sent back to their families, raising serious concerns about their safety. The Child Welfare Committee takes a decision about sheltering the POCSO victims on the basis of the recommendation by the District Child Protection Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girls-death-exposes-failure-in-sheltering-pocso-victims/article38306585.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:10 IST,KERALA||Govt. help sought for conduct of Mamangam||Re Echo, an environment organisation based at Tirunavaya, has demanded that the government come forward to conduct the Mamangam festival at Tirunavaya. Re Echo and Mamangam Memorial Trust jointly launched the legendary festival on the banks of the Bharatapuzha at Tirunavaya on Friday. Organisers said the Mamangam awards would be distributed next month. “It will also mark a historical conclave and Navaya Garima,” said Ummer Chirakkal, coordinator of Re Echo. Friendship gathering Aloor Kalarikkal Manoj, who holds the symbolic position of the Zamorin’s astrologer, lit the lamp on the northern bank of the Bharatapuzha on Friday. It followed a friendship gathering held at the historic place. Tirur block panchayat president U. Zainuddin inaugurated the celebrations. Changampalli Ummer Gurukkal presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-help-sought-for-conduct-of-mamangam-festival/article38306645.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:10 IST,KERALA||Cholanaikans unbundle woes in front of judge||Malappuram District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) secretary and Sub Judge Noushadali K. visited the primitive Cholanaikan tribespeople living in the deeper areas of the Nilambur forests on Thursday in the wake of the death of a newborn due malnutrition. The tribespeople living in the hamlets of Kuppumala, Chempukallu, Nagamala, Varganmala, and Mathilmala unbundled their woes in front of the judge. “We have not got any help from them [Integrated Tribal Development Project officials and health officials]. Nobody cared for us,” they told the judge. Officials of the Legal Services Authority had visited the hamlets on January 7 to study their living conditions. The Sub Judge had alerted the authorities, including the District Collector and the ITDP authorities, about the condition of a pregnant tribal woman named Asha on January 13. He also had sought an action taken report from the ITDP on the matter. Asha’s journey On January 15 morning, Asha started her journey on foot through the jungle as she entered into labour pain. After a day-long walk through the elephant-infested jungle, she spent the night behind a giant rock in the river and resumed her journey on January 16. Asha reached Sayivila, a point inside the jungle where vehicles can reach, in the afternoon, and from where she was taken to the Government District Hospital at Nilambur. She gave birth to a female baby at 7 p.m. But the baby died as it was being shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital at Manjeri. “It was a clear case of malnutrition death,” said Mr. Noushadali. However, ITDP officials, in their report to the Sub Judge, said they had provided nutritional and health support to tribespeople, including Asha. “No sir, they are lying. They don’t give us what the government is spending for us. I am yet to get the rent of the vehicle that we hired to carry me to hospital after I was attacked by a wild gaur sometime ago,” said Kumara Kallan. Pathetic conditions  K.N. Subhash, Taluk Legal Services Committee secretary who accompanied the Sub Judge, told The Hindu that Cholanaikans, the only primitive tribe living in the forests of Nilambur, were in a pathetic state. “They shy away from mingling with the outer world. But they badly need care,” said Mr. Subhash.  Mr. Noushadali said the case was being investigated. The role and failure of all stakeholders concerned, including ITDP, health and revenue officials, will be probed, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cholanaikans-unbundle-woes-in-front-of-judge/article38306578.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Public events banned as cases surge||With the daily COVID-19 caseload continuing to remain alarmingly high, the district administration on Friday issued orders prohibiting public functions and ramping up pandemic control measures. Friday’s caseload was lower than that of Thursday but still sat above the 7,000 mark for the second consecutive day. The district logged 7,896 cases and 2,318 recoveries, even as the active case pool rose to 54,280 cases. Public functions — social, political, religious and cultural events included — stand banned until further orders. A maximum of 20 persons are permitted at marriages and funerals, an order issued by District Collector Navjot Khosa, in line with the guidelines issued by the State government based on hospital and ICU admissions, said. Permissions granted by authorities for public programmes or functions also stand cancelled, the order noted. Offline classes are permitted only for classes 10, 11 and 12. While this condition is not applicable to BUDS and special schools, they are required to remain shut for 15 days if clusters form. The new measures require places of worship in the district to conduct prayers online and shopping malls to shut down play zones. Guidelines for Sundays The district administration has also issued specific guidelines for the next two Sundays, (January 23 and January 30) where only essential services will be permitted as per a decision taken by the State government on Thursday. Home delivery Hospitals, nursing homes, dispensaries, ambulance services and medical shops will function. Shops selling fruits, vegetables, fish, meat and liquor can remain open from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Parcel/home delivery is permitted at restaurants and bakeries from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Central and State autonomous and public sector institutions operating as essential services can function as per the directions issued by their heads. Employees should carry their identity cards with them. Important industries, companies, and other establishments can function 24x7. IT companies should function with bare minimum staff. As train services, flights and long-distance bus services are permitted, passengers travelling to bus and railway stations and the airport should carry valid travel documents. Tourists who have made bookings in advance can travel to resorts. They should have their stay vouchers with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-events-banned-as-cases-surge/article38306787.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:58 IST,KERALA||Slight dip in cases, active case pool over 2 lakh||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph on Friday showed a slight dip for the first time in the past 19 days. However, the dip in cases can be attributed to the dip in testing, as the State did 20,139 tests less on Friday than was done the previous day. On Friday, the State logged 41,668 new cases when 95,218 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. On Thursday, the State had recorded the highest daily caseload recorded till date, at 46,387. The State’s active case pool crossed the two lakh mark on Friday and the State now has 2,23,548 patients. Of these, 3% are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like first-line/second-line treatment centres. The Health department’s data say that during January 14-20, the average active cases were 1,28,961, out of which an average of 0.7 % were admitted in oxygen beds and 0.5% in ICUs. New cases increased by 206% (1,25,678 cases), while active cases increased by 201% during this period, in comparison to the previous week. Hospitalisations increased by 80% and ICU occupancy by 56%. It should come as a relief that while new cases are soaring on one side, the State has begun to record a good number of recoveries too. A total of 17,053 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on Friday. Hospitalisations are rising daily in proportion to the increase in new cases. On Friday, the number of patients who newly entered the hospital showed a slight dip from 1,337 to 1,139. The number of patients admitted with COVID in hospitals went up from 7,193 on Thursday to 7,772. ICU and ventilator ICU and ventilator occupancy are rising and on Friday 81 persons entered the ICUs. Current ICU occupancy of patients in public and private hospitals now stands at 919, while the ventilator occupancy remains steady at 210. The cumulative case fatality now stands at 51,607, with addition of 106 deaths to the official list. These include 33 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 73 deaths now accepted as COVID deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/slight-dip-in-cases-active-case-pool-over-2-lakh/article64947398.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Cluster management planto combat surge||The Health department has devised a cluster management strategy in the context of the surge in COVID-19 cases and the formation of a large number of case clusters in many institutions, offices and hospitals. The department reckons that given the high level of vaccination in the State, the immunity afforded in the population because of prior infection and the good proportion of the population developing hybrid immunity, the risk of progression of infection even if they get infected is low. Proper strategies The focus is thus on proper strategies to limit the spread of infection to prevent the total closure of offices and other institutions, so that normal life is not affected. Closure of institutions should be considered as the last resort. Having fought the pandemic in a highly centralised fashion these past two years, the department is now emphasising on individual responsibility to protect themselves against infection. Even within institutions, the department is now focussing on intra-institutional measures to limit transmission, rather than the department imposing restrictions from above. All staff members should remain in home isolation for seven days if they develop symptoms. Of the contacts, only those with comorbidities need to get tested. The cluster management strategy also envisages the setting up of an infection control team in all institutions, schools and offices. Infection Control Team (ICT) members will be trained online in infection control protocols and practices as well as contact tracing. Symptom checking The ICT will be responsible for doing symptom checking daily using a checklist among all staff members. In the case of any case clusters, all high risk contacts should be identified and quarantined. A cluster is said to have formed if more than two persons with confirmed or suspected COVID are identified within seven days in the same class, office room, or institution. It is considered to be a large cluster if more than 10 sick persons are identified The ICT should ensure that eating together is not practiced in offices/institutions and lunch break timings should be staggered. They should also ensure that all are wearing well-fitting N-95 masks and that the office space/classrooms are well ventilated. If a large cluster is identified, the institution/classroom should be closed for 10 days. In case more than five large clusters are identified, the institution may be closed down for five days. Wherever possible, schools, offices and institutions should remain open.  The department is now emphasising on individual responsibility||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cluster-management-planto-combat-surge/article38306664.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Three second-line centres opened||With the district in the grip of the third COVID-19 wave, the district administration on Friday decided to open three second-line treatment centres (SLTC) and ramp up facilities at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here. Beds earmarked for COVID-19 patients at the MCH have been increased from 205 to 400. The hospital is also doubling the number of ICU beds from the present 21. The district administration has directed the MCH to assign more wards for pandemic-related treatment by reducing in-patient admissions of non-COVID cases. Special OP The MCH will arrange a special OP for category 'C' patients needing special care and admit such cases on a priority basis. Category 'B' patients will be shifted to SLTCs, and Category 'A' patients to home isolation. The district administration has issued directions for ensuring that the guidelines are strictly followed at referral centres. The Government ESI Hospital, Peroorkada, will serve as the referral centre of the MCH for Category 'B' patients. For tackling emergencies, doctors and staff in non-clinical divisions will be redeployed for COVID-19 duty. The three new SLTCs have been opened at the Government ESI Hospital, Peroorkada; RIMS Hospital, Nedumangad; and the Family Health Centre, Chenkal. The ESI Hospital, which falls in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits, is equipped with 60 beds. The hospital superintendent has been directed to ensure the smooth functioning of the SLTC, the administration said. RIMS Hospital has 80 beds and, the FHC Chenkal, 50 beds. Orders have also been issued for equipping 20% of the beds in these facilities with piped oxygen supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-second-line-centres-opened/article38306788.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:10 IST,KERALA||KPCC accuses Bindu of self-dealing||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran has accused Higher Education Minister R. Bindu of bending the rules to wangle a professorship for herself from Calicut University. Mr. Sudhakaran said Dr. Bindu had circumvented government orders, university norms and University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations to grant professorship across the board to Calicut University teachers who had retired after 2018, so she would benefit ultimately. He claimed that Dr. Bindu's "self-aggrandisement." had shamed the Pinarayi Vijayan government, and political propriety demanded she quit the Cabinet. Dr. Bindu had resigned from Calicut University in 2018 to contest the Assembly elections. Nevertheless, she had "falsely" described herself as "Professor" R. Bindu on the ballot and election papers. Consequently, the election "hyperbole" had elicited a legal challenge from her United Democratic Front opponent Thomas Unniyadan. The case was pending in the High Court. Dr. Bindu's move to grant professorship to those who retired or resigned from Calicut University after 2018 was aimed to weaken Mr. Unniyadan's legal challenge. Mr. Sudhakaran said the public exchequer would incur an expense of more than Rs. 10 crore in terms of salary backlog and reworked pension by conferring professorship to the retired teachers. Mr. Sudhakaran said the Minister had recently "coerced" Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to extend the tenure of the Kannur University Vice Chancellor beyond the retirement age. He alleged the unlawful service extension was in reciprocation for installing the wife of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's private secretary as an associate professor in Malayalam at the university. In the process, the university had rejected the application of highly qualified Joseph Zachariah. He, later, emerged first in the interview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kpcc-accuses-bindu-of-self-dealing/article38306656.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||KSRTC fuel outlets need not apply for licence||The Local Self-Government Department (LSGD) has exempted retail fuel outlets recently launched by the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) from applying for licences from the respective local bodies. The exemption has been given considering the fact that the KSRTC is a public sector unit and that its fuel outlets would be equally beneficial for the public. The KSRTC had earlier requested the LSGD to exempt it from the requirement for a licence under the Section 447 of the Kerala Municipality Act, which stipulates licences for industries, factories, and other trades. As per the order issued this week, the exemption has been given under Section 442 of the Act, which says that the State government or the Central government is not required to take out a licence in respect of any place in the occupation or under the control of or any property belonging to such government. Public can access pumps The KSRTC ventured into running Yatra Fuels, its chain of retail fuel outlets, last year as part of diversifying its services and to achieve financial sustainability. As per the initiative, the public could access retail petrol and diesel pumps being set up on KSRTC station premises. Out of the 75 retail fuel outlets proposed, several have already started functioning. Besides at East Fort in the capital, such facilities have come up in Kozhikode, Cherthala, Chadayamangalam, Munnar, Muvattupuzha, Chalakudy, and Kilimanoor. It is being undertaken in association with public-sector oil firms.  KSRTC started Yatra Fuels to diversify its services and achieve financial sustainability||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-fuel-outlets-exempted-from-licence/article38306650.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Bid to sexually assault minor: man arrested||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police on Friday arrested a 24-year-old man on charges of attempting to sexually assault a minor girl at her house in the Parippally police station limits on November 30 last year. The accused has been identified as Mithun, alias Achu, from Kadambattukonam. According to the police, the accused is a history-sheeter against whom cases related to robbery and other crimes are pending in various police stations in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts. The Tamil Nadu Police has also been on the lookout for him related to a chain-snatching case. The accused, who has been in hiding for the past two months, was nabbed by a team led by Varkala DySP P.Niyas. He has been charged under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-under-pocso-act/article38306657.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:10 IST,KERALA||VHSE students to the aid of the bedridden||Nearly 15,000 Plus One Vocational Higher Secondary Education (VHSE) National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers are set to visit their bedridden or frail neighbours suffering from lifestyle diseases to monitor their blood sugar and pressure as part of the second phase of the Snehasanjeevani project. Snehasanjeevani was initiated during the first COVID-19 lockdown to facilitate supply of medicines to bedridden elderly patients by student volunteers. During the second wave of the pandemic, the students made home visits to help people register online for COVID-19 vaccine. To monitor 10 persons Under the new initiative, the National Health Mission (NHM) has provided one glucometer with test strips and digital blood pressure (BP) apparatus to each of the 330 VHSE NSS units Statewide. Each student will closely monitor the parameters of 10 persons in their neighbourhood, and report to the Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD) cell of a nearby primary health centre (PHC) periodically. Officials say that that the cost of reaching testing facilities can be a drain on the income of bedridden patients or those living alone. The volunteers will help check these social costs involved in testing. The project will be undertaken continuously with the support of the NCD and the National Tobacco Control Programme cells of the NHM, Kerala. The student volunteers (each unit has 50) have been practising how to test blood sugar and measure BP and to determine if the parameters are high or low. They are being trained by the Health officials. Omicron impact At the field level, students will work with the NCD cell of a PHC. Some NSS units have already conducted camps where patients have come to the school to get sugar and pressure tested. The first phase of the field-level activities is 30% complete, as is most of the training. The field-level activities could get postponed owing to the spread of Omicron, say officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vhse-students-to-monitor-vital-signs-of-the-bedridden/article64947264.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:10 IST,KERALA||VS tests positive, hospitalised||Veteran Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] leader and former Chief Minister V.S. Achuthanandan was admitted to a private hospital on Thursday night after he tested positive for COVID-19. Condition stable The nonagenarian leader is being treated in a separate ICU and his condition was stated to be stable by the hospital authorities. Mr. Achuthanandan had been keeping away from public functions and had been confined to home for the past one year or more following age-related ailments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vs-tests-positive-hospitalised/article38306577.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Man killed in accident||Sineesh Lal, 47, died after a truck knocked down his motorcycle near Kallambalam at 10 a.m. on Friday. He hailed from Kollam. The accident occurred when the truck driver was trying to overtake his motorcycle, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-killed-in-accident/article38306786.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||54 more Omicron cases identified||Kerala has identified 54 more Omicron cases from amongst the COVID-19-positive samples sent for genomic analysis. Of these, 11 are cases identified amongst the contacts of primary cases or in the community. So far, 761 Omicron cases have been identified in Kerala, even though there is no information on the number of samples that were sent for genomic sequencing. Of these, 99 are cases identified amongst contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/54-more-omicron-cases-identified/article38306662.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Directive on pregnant women||Pregnant women admitted in private hospitals should be provided isolation facility in the same institutions if they test positive, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said. Only cases needing emergency care should be referred to SAT Hospitalr. Private medical colleges should be adequately equipped to handle deliveries and Caesarean sections. Violation of the order will attract action under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, District Collector Navjot Khosa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directive-on-pregnant-women/article38306784.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Work from home for pregnant school staff||The Director of General Education has issued a circular detailing guidelines for functioning of schools in the wake of the COVID-19 situation in the State. As per the circular, Principals or headmasters can allow work from home for pregnant women working in schools. Women employees with children below two years of age, cancer patients, and those with other critical illness can also be allowed to work from home on producing a certificate from an allopath. All teachers who work from home have to participate in online classes and other academic activities. While Classes 1 to 9 will be fully online for two weeks, it will not be applicable to special schools that hold therapy sessions. Teachers from Classes 1 to 9 need not attend school on January 22 and 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-from-home-for-pregnant-school-staff/article38306790.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:10 IST,KERALA||CPI(M) Thrissur meet will conclude in 2 days||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) district conference in Thrissur that began on Friday will be concluded on Saturday. The decision to conclude the conference in two days, which was initially scheduled for three days, was taken following the declaration of lockdown-like restrictions on Sunday in the State. All programmes, including the virtual public meeting scheduled for Sunday, have been cancelled, said party district secretary M.M. Varghese. Criticism from various quarters and the court order against the Kasaragod conference are said to be the reasons for the party to cancel Sunday’s programmes. Thrissur recorded a TPR of 35.06% on Friday. Moreover, the new order issued by the District Collector on Friday evening permits only 150 people in socio- political meetings conducted outdoors and 75 people indoors. The conference, conducted at the peak of the third wave of COVID-19, began on Friday amidst strong criticism from the Opposition. Satheesan’s charge The COVID guidelines were compromised to exclude Thrissur from the ‘A’, ‘B’, and ‘C’ categories for conducting the party conference, said Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan. According to the Health Minister, Thrissur was excluded from these categories on the basis of occupancy of COVID patients in the ICU. Refuting Mr. Satheesan’s allegations, CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who attended the Thrissur meet, said the decisions on COVID regulations were taken by the government. “The CPI(M) has not asked anybody to change guidelines in favour of the party. Will the party like to get its workers infected with the pandemic,” he asked. He asked whether all positive persons were infected by attending party meets. The pandemic protocol had been strictly followed at the meeting, he said. He asked the Leader of the Opposition to check facts before making such allegations. The district conference was being conducted scientifically by maintaining the pandemic protocol, said Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-thrissur-meet-will-conclude-in-2-days/article64947262.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:10 IST,KERALA||Lights, cameras destroyed in first Kuthrian tunnel||Several lights and cameras installed at the first tunnel at Kuthiran were destroyed as a tipper lorry with a lifted carriage tried to pass through the tunnel. As many as 104 lights and cameras in a stretch of 90 metres were reportedly destroyed in the accident in the tunnel. Loss put at Rs. 10 lakh Preliminary estimate indicates a loss of Rs. 10 lakh. The police took a lorry belonging to a native of Irumbu Palam, near Kuthiran, into custody in connection with incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lights-cameras-destroyed-in-first-kuthrian-tunnel/article38306739.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Hridayam given the right treatment||When a Vineeth Sreenivasan movie is about to arrive, one can sense the all-round feel-goodness from miles away, right from its carefully-crafted promos to the songs, which arrived in good old audio cassettes this time. It was apt, since nostalgia of various kinds happens to be his other selling point. Yet, there were points in Hridayam when Vineeth displayed more than a desire to break free of that cheerful, heartwarming mould and let his characters run wild, laying bare their demons. But then, the characters seem to get sudden realisations about the kind of movie that they are in, and get back to radiating goodness.  The film has been conceived as different phases in the life of Arun Neelakandan (Pranav Mohanlal), that has shaped the person that he is at present. Rather than banking on a solid plot, the script takes us along on a journey which stretches to probably a decade or more from Arun’s life, beginning from his heady days in an engineering college in Chennai, to his life as a married man. Taking almost as much space in the narrative is Darshana (Darshana Rajendran), with whom Arun falls in love early on during their college days. It is a love story which is quite short-lived, but the impact of which remains with them, and by extension in the narrative. This also brings out their worst sides, but Vineeth, the writer, holds them back from being destructive and taking the movie away from its ‘feel-good’ purpose. For instance, the brooding Arun, who has a wild streak, mysteriously starts studying hard one fine morning, though it is not clear what prompted the change. In the latter half, which chronicles Arun’s post-campus life, things are not so eventful with everything, including his relationship with Nithya (Kalyani Priyadarshan), proceeding a bit too fast. But for all the lack of depth that Vineeth is often accused of, he has a certain knack of keeping the audience engaged, even when telling stories that we have seen many a time before on-screen. He gets it right in the packaging and the pacing. Hesham Abdul Wahab’s music also adds a lot of verve, although there were points one wished the background music was toned down a bit and the violinist given some rest. Though there is still room for improvement, Pranav has come a long way from his initial solo outings in which even his parkour skills could not make up for the lack of expressions. Here, he is much more assured, managing to carry the film for a good part, though Darshana steals the show whenever she gets an opportunity. Hridayam might not stir your soul, but Vineeth has delivered enough to keep you entertained, which is no mean task when you have a runtime close to three hours.  S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hridayam-receives-the-right-treatment/article64947279.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:58 IST,KERALA||Jumbo ceremony||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jumbo-ceremony/article64947397.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:05 IST,KERALA||Clean-up brigade||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clean-up-brigade/article64947278.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka opposes phase 2 of T.N.’s Hogenakkal project||The Karnataka Government on Friday said it will oppose Tamil Nadu’s plan to take up the second phase of the Hogenakkal combined drinking water project. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday had said a detailed project report would be prepared for the second phase of the Hogenakkal Integrated Drinking Water project at an estimated cost of Rs. 4,600 crore. It is aimed at supplying water to Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts in Tamil Nadu. Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol told presspersons here that the State Government would legally oppose the proposed project by Tamil Nadu as it falls within the geographical jurisdictions of both Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. “The Survey of India has not finalised the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border at Hogenakkal,” he said. “Any project that Tamil Nadu wants to implement in the Cauvery basin should be in line with the allocation of water made by the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal and Supreme Court orders,” he said. “Tamil Nadu has not placed the proposed project before the Tribunal or the Supreme Court. Therefore, we will oppose it,” the Minister added. Mr. Karjol also said that as per Section 13 of the Cauvery Tribunal’s order, the Hogenakkal project should be taken up through the Central Water Commission. Both States have been at loggerheads on implementing water projects in the Cauvery Basin. Tamil Nadu has opposed Karnataka’s balancing reservoir project at Mekedatu to provide drinking water to residents of Bengaluru city. The Mekedatu project has also been at the centre of a political slugfest within Karnataka between the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-opposes-phase-2-of-tns-hogenakkal-project/article64947106.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 Maoists from Chhattisgarh surrender||Two members of the banned CPI (Maoist) from Chhattisgarh surrendered before the police in Kothagudem of Telangana’s Bhadradri-Kothagudem district on Friday. Vemula Nanga, 30, Section Commander, and Podium Adami alias Manjula, 28, Deputy Commander of the CPI (Maoist) from Chhattisgarh’s south Bastar region, turned themselves in before Superintendent of Police, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, in the district headquarters town of Kothagudem, police said. Joined the party Vemula Nanga joined the outlawed front as a dalam member in 2013 and Adami in 2014. He was elevated as Deputy Commander of the Basaguda Local Organising Squad (LOS) in 2016. He was subsequently made Section Commander of the supply team of the banned outfit. In 2014, Adami joined the CPI (Maoist)’s Jagargunda LOS and worked as a dalam member, the police said, in MMC (Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh) zone till 2017. She was subsequently elevated as Deputy Commander and shifted to the outfit’s supply team in Jagargunda area of Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district. Decision to be together In June 2021, Nanga and Adami decided to live together but the outfit refused to allow them to marry. They decided to quit the banned outfit unable to bear harassment by the Maoist party members and surrendered to lead a better life, according to top-ranking police officers who issued a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-maoists-from-chhattisgarh-surrender/article64947191.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Full lockdown in T.N. tomorrow||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday announced that a complete lockdown would be in place across the State on January 23, in view of the rising cases of COVID-19. “All essential services that were permitted on January 16 would be allowed. All services and activities that were restricted on that day would be restricted [on January 23],” an official release said on Friday. For the benefit of passengers arriving at the Chennai Central and Egmore railway stations and the bus terminus at Koyambedu, autorickshaws and app-based cab services would be allowed. “This would be applicable at railway stations and bus terminuses in the districts,” the press release added. The Chief Minister reiterated his request for cooperation from the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-lockdown-tomorrow/article64947112.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe ordered into death of boy in NGO home||An orphan, Gajuboina Anil (12), who was admitted to a Child Care Institution in West Godavari district, reportedly died under mysterious circumstances in May last year. The incident came to light a few days ago when Anil’s sister G. Bhagya Sri, an intermediate student, enquired about his well-being with the staff of the CCI. She lodged a complaint with the village Sarpanch, Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW), Juvenile Welfare and other officials, following which West Godavari Collector Kartikeya Misra ordered an inquiry.  “A two-member committee comprising Joint Director (Social Welfare Department) Madhusudhan Rao and Women Development and Child Welfare Project Director K. Vijaya Kumari conducted the inquiry,” the Collector told The Hindu on Friday.  According to sources, N. Varalakshmi, then Sarpanch of Yerraguntapalli village, Chintalapudi mandal, identified two children, Bhagya Sri and Anil, who were abandoned by their parents. She admitted the boy in Asha Jyothi Handicapped Welfare Society at Appanaveedu while the girl was given shelter in Balayogi Gurukul Girls Hostel in June, 2020. “Recently, Bhagya Sri, who is studying in the Collegiate Home, Tanuku, wanted to see her brother and showed tendencies of depression. The WD&CW officials took her to meet her brother on January 10. On learning that Anil died, she collapsed,” said Ms. Vijaya Kumari. “We visited the home and conducted an inquiry. Asha Jyothi Home management did not alert the District Juvenile Welfare or the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) of the WD&CW about the death of the boy,” the committee members said. “The committee will submit a report on the incident. It will find out why the death of the boy was not intimated to the authorities concerned. We will book a criminal case against the home management, if found guilty,” Mr. Kartikeya Misra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-ordered-into-death-of-boy-in-ngo-home/article38306102.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||One hurt, vehicle damaged in violence in Gudivada||The district police on Friday registered cases in connection with rioting and stone pelting witnessed in the town during the TDP leaders’ visit. One person suffered injuries and a vehicle was damaged in the incident. Tension prevailed for a while when the members of a fact-finding team of the TDP tried to visit the town to inquire into the alleged conduct of a ‘casino-style’ gambling in a convention hall owned by Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) during the Sankranti celebrations. A couple of days ago, the TDP had lodged a complaint with the police in this regard. The TDP later constituted a fact-finding committee with leaders Varla Ramaiah, Kollu Ravindra, Nakka Ananda Babu, Tangirala Sowmya, Alapati Rajendra Prasad, Konakalla Narayana Rao, and Bonda Umamaheswara Rao, and announced that the committee would visit the convention hall. In this backdrop, the police deployed forces and stopped the vehicles of the TDP leaders on the national highway at Pamarru and prevented them from proceeding towards Gudivada. Meanwhile, the YSRCP leaders arranged a party meeting in the convention hall on Friday. The TDP leaders alleged that gambling and other banned games were organised in the convention hall, and demanded that the government remove the Minister from the cabinet. ‘Probe on’ Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao said cases were registered in connection with the violent incidents witnessed at different places. “Investigation is on,” he added. “A panel headed by SP Siddharth Kaushal is investigating into the allegations,” the DIG said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-hurt-vehicle-damaged-in-violence-in-gudivada/article38306736.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anthology of poems released||An anthology of poems, Patriot, penned by NCC cadets of RVR and JC College of Engineering was released by NCC Officer Commanding 1 (A) Engineering Coy, Colonel S. Chander on Friday. The anthology has 20 writings (poems, short stories, essays) of 1 (A) Eng Coy NCC 10 (A) girls battalion NCC cadets from the college and has come after a workshop on Literature and Authorship Development,’ was held. Colonel Chander lauded the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anthology-of-poems-released/article38306804.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Monkey birth control centres soon||The State Government has decided to establish centres to control birth among the monkey population in all districts as part of its plans to reduce their menace to standing crops, at a time when crop diversification is in focus after the advice to farmers no to go for paddy in the rabi season. Farmers’ problems including huge crop loss being suffered with troops of monkeys swarming the farm fields, eating and damaging the standing crops, steps to control the monkey menace and the methods being adopted in other States to tackle the problem were discussed at a high-level review meeting held here on Friday. Ministers A. Indrakaran Reddy (Forests) and S. Niranjan Reddy (Agriculture), Rajya Sabha Member K.R. Suresh Reddy held the meeting with convenor of Committee to Control Monkey Menace and Secretary (Agriculture) M. Raghunandan Rao, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Social Forestry) R.M. Dobriyal, Conservator of Forests (Hyderabad) M.J. Akbar and others. The Ministers stated that the government had already formed a committee to tackle the monkey menace for agriculture sector and even studied the problem and the methods being followed there to tackle the problem. The Ministers stated that as per the Forest Department estimate, the monkey population in the State was about 5 lakh to 6 lakh and a centre to treat monkey with birth control measures was already opened in Nirmal district. It was decided at the meeting to establish a centre in every district to implement birth control measures among monkeys including examining the possibility to set up such centres with public-private partnership. The Ministers admitted that monkeys were causing huge loss to farmers by eating up, damaging and sometimes destroying the standing crops. The Ministers asked the officials to examine other possibilities to check the menace within the purview of laws and also to study the methods being followed in Himachal Pradesh to control monkeys stating that it would hold key to the diversification of crops in the State. They suggested growing different plants in the forests and along highways as also in ‘Palle Prakruti Vanalu’ (village parks) so that fruits were available to monkeys in every season. The committee was also told to take up enumeration of monkey population and the loss being caused to farmers with the monkey menace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/monkey-birth-control-centres-soon/article64947193.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sports quota recruitment for Army from Feb. 21 to 24||All-India open rally for selection of sports cadets in athletics (sprints and jumps) and handball disciplines into Army Boys Sports Company of Indian Army’s Artillery Centre, Hyderabad, will be held at the Artillery Centre here from February 21 to 24. Preliminary selection rally for induction of raw and proven players (age between 8 and 14 years) as sports cadets from February 1 to 9, for athletics from February 1 to 3 at Trivandrum (Kerala), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Kaushambi (Uttar Pradesh) and from February 7 to 9 at Guntur (Andhra Pradesh), Bhiwani (Haryana), and Jalandhar (Punjab). Preliminary selection will be conducted for handball discipline from February 1 to 3 at Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh) and February 7 to 9 at Prakasam (Andhra Pradesh), Bhiwani (Haryana), Jalandhar (Punjab). Sportsmen selected during preliminary selection, will be called for final selection. Induction rally open to all Induction rally will be opened to all civilians desirous and not restricted to those identified during preliminary selection rally. Interested sportsmen/boys are requested to assemble at Makhan Singh Athletics Stadium of Artillery Centre, Hyderabad, at 7 a.m. on February 21. SAI to oversee selection trials The selection trials, physical and technical skills’ test in sports disciplines, will be held under Sports Authority of India coaches and board of officers. The selection process will remain provisional until approved by Integrated Headquarters of Ministry of Defence (Army)/Sports Authority of India. Selected cadets will be called up after final approval, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sports-quota-recruitment-for-army/article38306550.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Computer operator held for online fraud in Kadapa||Proddatur police on Friday arrested a computer operator based in Proddatur town on charges of indulging in online fraud bymanipulating emails and social media accounts of customersat an internet café after they would leave without logging out of their accounts. The accused used to gain access to bank details and transactions of the customers through their email and WhatsApp accounts. Six months ago, a womannamed D. Aruna visited theinternetcentreonsome workand left without logging out of her account. The accused then gained access to the username and password of her bank account. After a painstaking procedure, the accused managed to obtain a new SIM cardwith the victim’s phone number. He thenlogged into the victim’s bank account and siphoned Rs. 4.31 lakh without her knowledge. The police who cracked the case after receiving a complaint from the victim on January 19 recovered a partial amount of the siphoned money from the accused, besides seizing the computer system used for the fraud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/computer-operator-held-for-online-fraud-in-kadapa/article38306100.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:49 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roosters cram police stations in East Godavari||Many police stations in East Godavari district are currently filled up with the roosters seized from various cockfight arenas during the recent Sankranti festivities. This is an annual phenomenon and for the police the birds are guests as well as the accused. The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, allows the police to seize the roosters and arrest their owners and organisers of cockfights. A whopping 988 roosters have been seized in the district beginning from January 15 and more than half of them were from the Konaseema region which is considered as the hub for cockfights drawing punters from across South India during the festive season.  Amalapuram DSP Y. Madhav Reddy told The Hindu that the seized roosters would be produced before the respective local courts for further proceedings and auctioned under the aegis of the court.  Until then, the care of the roosters becomes the responsibility of the staff of the police stations. Amalapuram rural police station staff said as the roosters could not be put in the station cells, they were keeping them safely at other places on the station campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/roosters-cram-police-stations-in-east-godavari/article38306752.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:49 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to achieve Jal Jeevan Mission targets by 2024||East Godavari Zilla Parishad Chairman Vipparthi Venu Gopala Rao has appealed to the officials concerned to expedite the proposal of providing drinking water connection to every household by 2024 across the district. The ZP Standing Committees on Friday reviewed the progress of the welfare programmes and other projects in agriculture, health, rural development and housing in the ZP Hall here. “The drinking water connections will address the woes during the summer. The officials and the public representatives must ensure that the targets set under the Jal Jeevan Mission in the district are achieved,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Rao. The officials were directed to complete construction of government buildings through the NREGS. The Grama Panchayats were told to utilise the vehicles supplied under the Clean AP programme for better sanitary conditions in villages. R. Padmavathi, Chairman of the Standing Committee on Women and Child Welfare, enquired about the maternal care and malnutrition level among the children in the rural pockets. Vice-Chairperson B. Anubabu, Vice-Chairperson-2 M. Padmalatha, ZP CEO N.V.V. Satyanarayana, Rural Water Supply SE M. Srinivas, DRDA Project Director K. Sriramani and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-achieve-jal-jeevan-mission-targets-by-2024/article38306749.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Antarvedi Kalyanotsavam to begin from February 8||The Endowments, Revenue and Police Departments are gearing up for the ten-day annual Kalyanotsavams at Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in the Konaseema region of East Godavari district. The Kalyanotsavam will begin on February 8. Thousands of devotees from across South India are expected to have darshan of the standing deity during the festival. On Friday, Amalapuram Revenue Divisional Officer N.S.V.B. Vasantha Rayudu announced that 60 swimmers would deployed at the Antarvedi beach to avoid any untoward incident during the festival. The Fisheries Department has been told to arrange boats to guard the beach to tackle the rush of devotees who throng here to take a holy dip. Mr. Vasantha Rayudu stated that the sale of liquor would be banned in Antarvedi during the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/antarvedi-kalyanotsavam-to-begin-from-february-8/article38306098.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gold worth Rs. 34 lakh seized at Kannur airport||The Customs air intelligence unit arrested a passenger in Kerala on the charge of attempting to smuggle gold worth Rs. 34 lakh through the Kannur International Airport. The passenger was identified as Ahammedil of Peringala in Kasaragod. He arrived from Dubai by a Go Air flight on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gold-worth-rs-34-lakh-seized-at-kannur-airport/article38306056.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC brings restrictions in Kasaragod||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the Kasaragod District Collector, who is the chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority, to ensure that no meetings are conducted within the district allowing participation of more than 50 persons. The Bench comprising Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice C. Jayachandran ordered on Friday that the directive would remain in force for one week. The court passed the interim order on a public interest litigation challenging the District Collector's order issued on January 20 withdrawing the January 17 order which had restricted the attendees at a public meeting, including political gatherings, to 50. The petitioner, a High Court advocate clerk, contended that by withdrawing the order, the order issued on January 4 which allowed a maximum of 150 persons in open space and 75 in closed spaces would come into force. CPI(M) meet It was withdrawn with a view to facilitating participation of more number of persons for the CPI(M) district conference being held from January 21 to 23. (The conference has since been truncated to one day.) The court observed: "We are on the cusp of the third wave of COVID-19 is the general perception. The government has decided that the restriction need not be on the basis of test positivity rate (TPR) and that the admission rate in hospitals should be the criterion. The question to be addressed are whether based on a different stipulation there should be relaxation and then, whether that is the purport of the present order dated January 20." The court noted that even in Kasaragod district, there was 36% admission in the available COVID beds and 18% in ICU beds, and fortunately no ventilator have been put to use for now. R-Day celebrations Even for the Republic Day celebrations on January 26, the stipulation by the government was that there should be only a gathering of 50 persons. The court said the general purpose of the order issued on January 20 provided for stringent restriction with very limited participation of 50 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-brings-restrictions-at-kasargod-meet/article64947108.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC to hear bail plea of Dileep today||The Kerala High Court will hold a special sitting on Saturday to hear anticipatory bail petitions filed by actor Dileep and others in the case relating to allegedly hatching a conspiracy to finish off the investigation officers in the actor sexual assault case. When the anticipatory bail petitions were taken up for hearing, Justice Gopinath P. observed that “not that this case is more important than others, but I hear there is a counter-affidavit and a lot of material to go through. We can have a patient hearing tomorrow [Saturday] and decide the matter accordingly.” Both the prosecutor and counsel for the petitioners agreed to the suggestion of the court. Opposing the anticipatory bail pleas, the Crime Branch, in a statement, contended that the material collected by it indicated that actor Dileep and five others had hatched a conspiracy. The allegations were very serious and therefore their custodial interrogation was necessary to unearth the truth. If the petitioners were granted bail, the entire investigation would be sabotaged. The Crime Branch pointed out that it was the first time in the history of the State that a person accused of a serious offence had hatched a criminal conspiracy to harm the life of investigating officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-to-hear-bail-plea-of-dileep-today/article64947107.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for tiger count at Bandipur, Nagarahole||Tiger census will commence at Bandipur on Saturday and at Nagarahole on Sunday as part of the All-India Tiger and Mega Herbivore Estimation. This is part of the nation-wide enumeration that is held once in four years and is the fifth such exercise being taken up —the earlier ones being held in 2006, 2010, 2014, 2018. The authorities at Bandipur have divided the 912.04 sq km national park into three blocks to carry out the enumeration. While the enumeration exercise will be held in block 1 from January 22 to 27, it will be held in block 2 from January 28 to February 2 and the tiger count exercise in block 3 will be taken up from February 3 to 8. This year’s enumeration exercise entails the use of MSTRIPES (Monitoring System for Tigers Intensive Protection and Ecological Status) app and apart from the tiger counts, the exercise will also throw up data on mega herbivores, including elephants and gaurs. The use of apps ensures that the data is not only digitised but is uploaded on a real-time basis and is robust. The training was imparted by experts from Wildlife Institute of India and the enumeration is being held as per the protocols stipulated by the National Tiger Conservation Authority. The authorities have deployed only the department officials and frontline field staff apart from members of the Special Tiger Force squad for the exercise. While nearly 300 people will be on duty at Bandipur, around 350 will take part in the exercise at Nagarahole. The enumeration in Nagarahole will be held from January 23 to February 1. Sign survey will be held in all the 91 beats and line transects will be conducted in two phases, according to Nagarahole Tiger Reserve Director Mahesh Kumar. He said they would do the sign survey, including tiger scat, pug marks etc., for carnivores. The enumeration would also throw up data of the tiger numbers in non-protected areas. Safari to be affected In view of the census, the safari has been affected, including cancellation of a few trips at Nagarahole. In the 2018 census, there were 125 tigers in Nagarahole whereas there were 72 tigers in the 2014 exercise which was a big jump. But experts believe the tiger numbers at both Bandipur and Nagarahole may have reached their optimum levels and could have stabilised or shown a marginal increase this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-tiger-count-at-bandipur-nagarahole/article64947194.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brain dead youth in Mysuru transforms lives of five persons||A 24-year-old brain dead man could transform the lives of at least five persons, including a patient in Tamil Nadu, by donating his organs. The family of the youth donated his heart, two kidneys, liver and corneas, which were taken by various hospitals for transplanting on needy patients. Darshan was rushed from a private hospital in Mysuru to the Apollo BGS Hospitals in the city on the night of January 18 in a critical condition. A CT scan revealed that the patient showed brain stem infarction. He was shifted to the ICU for life support and intensive care. He was declared brain dead due to brain stem failure around 4 a.m. on Friday. “Darshan was healthy before this incident. Further tests confirmed his eligibility for organ donation. His family was counselled for organ donation as per the defined protocol. The deceased patient’s father came forward to donate his organs,” according to a statement from the hospital. A panel of doctors at Apollo BGS Hospitals, Mysuru, which is now a licensed centre for Multi-organ Transplant, initiated the organ donation procedure, as per the protocol laid down by the Transplantation of Human Organs Act, 1994. According to the organ donation protocol, officials from Jeevasarthakathe, which was earlier known as ZCCK, initiated the process by referring to the organ recipients’ waiting list. At around 2.45 p.m., Darshan’s organs were harvested at Apollo BGS Hospitals in Mysuru. A green corridor was created from the hospital to Mysuru airport at Mandakalli on Ooty Road for transporting the harvested heart, which was later airlifted to MGM Healthcare in Chennai, Tamil Nadu. N.G. Bharateesha Reddy, vice-president and unit head, Apollo BGS Hospitals, Mysuru, thanked the family of the deceased for coming forward for the noble cause of promoting organ donation. One kidney and liver were received by the Apollo BGS Hospitals in Mysuru. Another kidney was taken to Manipal Hospital, Whitefield, Bengaluru, while the corneas went to the JSS Eye Bank in Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brain-dead-youth-in-mysuru-transforms-lives-of-five-persons/article38306050.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Horticulture varsity adopts ‘organic village’ in agency||Dr.Y.S.R. Horticulture University on Friday adopted Kakavada village which was declared as ‘Organic Village’ by the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare for their organic practices in agriculture. The village in the Rampa agency is home for the Konda Reddy tribe, a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group in Andhra Pradesh. A group of 20 farmers have formed into a group in Kakavada and are growing cashew, millets and some other crops through the organic method and bagged the ‘Organic Village’ tag. Our University-Our Village The Ministry has issued Participatory Guarantee System (PGS-Green) Certificate for their products which have been tested by the local scientists. The scientists of the Krishi Vignan Kendra (KVK-Pandiri Maamidi) have groomed the tribal farmers in the organic farming methods. University Vice-Chancellor Prof. T. Janaki Ram announced the adoption of the village under the initiative ‘Our University - Our Village’. KVK principal scientist P. Lalitha Kameswari, scientists B. Srinivasulu, P. Raja Sekhar, D.S. Adarsha and others were present during an interaction with the tribal farmers in the Rampa agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/horticulture-varsity-adopts-organic-village-in-agency/article38306751.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kerala not for tough measures’||Kerala’s strategy during the third wave of COVID-19 is not to delay the peak or flatten the curve but to ensure that people’s lives and livelihood are protected and that there is minimal disruption to normal life and economic activities. During the first wave, very little was known about the virus and all governments thought that lockdown was the way out of the pandemic. During the second wave (April-May 2021), vaccination had just reached 24%. The State adopted a strategy of delaying the epidemic peak so that the health system’s surge capacity was not breached by an influx of patients into hospitals. Since then, the State’s primary focus has been on completing the vaccination exercise as fast as possible. “The third wave began even before the second wave hit the baseline. The State cannot afford to go through another disruptive lockdown like before, which can cripple the economy and adversely affect livelihoods. In trying to strike a balance between protecting lives and livelihood, we are banking on the high vaccination rate we have achieved and the fact that Omicron is a milder variant than Delta. That said, it does not mean that we should disregard the illness caused by Omicron and we will have to protect our elderly and those with comorbidities from it,” Health Minister Veena George said while addressing the media here on Friday. Oppn. criticism She was responding to the criticism raised by the Opposition that the government did not have a clear strategy or planning to face the third wave. She pointed out that when Omicron was spreading like wildfire, keeping an eye on hospitalisations was indeed a more scientific strategy than going by the test positivity rate (TPR). The TPR as an indicator to measure disease transmission was a strategy that the Health department had given up during the second wave itself because it was not wholly scientific and the denominator (number of people who are tested) could be manipulated. Also, because Omicron was easily transmissible, almost all of those with symptoms will test positive, pushing up the TPR across the State. Hence, depending on the TPR to impose restrictions would mean that the entire State go into a lockdown-like situation. Since Omicron was leading to a huge number of cases everywhere, an increase in hospitalisation or ICU occupancy would be a better indicator of how many people were becoming seriously ill. She said the Health department had been systematically planning to meet any exigency. Hospitalisations had begun to increase but even so, the situation was being closely monitored and only 3% of the 1.99 lakh active cases were in hospital, with just 0.6% requiring ICU care. “Hospitals and institutions should do their best to ensure that COVID protocols are followed, to prevent case clusters. Closing down institutions should be the last option. People with fever or any respiratory symptoms should not go to work and should isolate themselves at home to prevent disease spread,” Ms. George said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-not-for-tough-measures/article64947109.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanchi seer to attend ‘Sri Yagam’, being held after 5 decades||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) Trust Board chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Friday met Kanchi Mutt pontiff Sri Vijayendra Saraswathi in Kancheepuram to invite him to attend the valedictory of the “Navakundatmaka Sri Yagam”, a week-long ritual initiated at the temple of Goddess Sri Padmavathi Ammavaru at Tiruchanur, on January 27th. The TTD trust board chief informed the Kanchi seer that it was significant that the ‘Sri Yagam’ had commenced at the temple on Friday, after a hiatus of five decades. Later, Mr. Subba Reddy said that the seer had consented to grace the concluding session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kanchi-seer-to-attend-sri-yagam-being-held-after-5-decades/article38306101.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Evolve policy on hiring transgenders for govt. services, HC directs State||The High Court directed the State government to frame a policy for the recruitment of transgenders to various posts within three months, while disposing of a petition filed in 2019 by M. Ganga Bhavani, a transgender (TG) from Rayalacheruvu village in Anantapur district. The grievance was that the lack of reservations for TGs resulted in the petitioner’s disqualification from the process of recruitment of sub-inspectors of police (civil), for which a notification was issued in November 2018. Declaring that the petitioner is not entitled to appointment as there is no clarity on reservations to TGs, Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy made an oral observation that some States appear to have sanctioned 1% quota in all government services to TGs. Government pleader Y.N. Vivekananda argued that Bhavani was not entitled to be appointed because of failure to secure the minimum prescribed marks, and in the impugned notification, the reservation was caste-specific but not gender-specific. Bhavani had stated in an affidavit that the act of non-inclusion of TG category in the website meant for submitting online applications to the said post, was in itself a blatant violation of the Supreme Court direction in National Legal Services Authority V/s Union of India & Others in a batch of writ petitions that date back to the years 2013 and 2014. The petitioner claimed to have been forced to register as a female due to the non-availability of the option to identify as a TG, and disqualification happened in the first round of the recruitment process purportedly on the ground that there was no stipulated quota for TGs. Bhavani had argued that though there is reservation for various categories and castes, TGsdo nothave any quota. As a consequence, the TGs were not in a position to compete with male and female genders. The Supreme Court had laid down that apart from the binary genders, ‘hijras’ should be treated as the ‘third gender’ for the purpose of safeguarding their rights under Part-III of the Constitution and the laws made by Parliament and State Legislatures, Bhavani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/evolve-policy-on-hiring-transgenders-for-govt-services/article64947093.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meet explores career opportunities for A.P. students in Germany||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) on Friday conducted the third round of the roundtable German-AP Forum on Higher Education on the topic ‘The Era of Emerging Trends in Engineering Education-Career Opportunities in Germany’ in virtual mode. The APSCHE, in partnership with the German Varsity for Advanced Studies and Indo-Euro Synchronisation, had created a platform to promote higher education. The German-AP Forum on Higher Education proposed a roundtable action plan for six months (initiated on November 5, 2021) to improve standards and international opportunities for students of Andhra Pradesh. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh was the chief guest while Principal Secretary, Department of Higher Education J. Syamala Rao and APSCHE Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy spoke on various key aspects. The session focused on providing access to students to the employment-linked higher education opportunities in Germany to the students of Andhra Pradesh and exploring the best practices of Germany which could be adopted in the engineering education of the State. The primary objective is to forge research cooperation, bilateral coordination and collaboration for joint degree programmes between the universities of Andhra Pradesh and Germany. The roundtable mainly discussed three aspects of learning— skill-based learning, internship-based learning and employment-based learning. Research Director at European Centre for Mechatronics, FH Aachen University, Germany Prof. Ing. Gunther Starke, Chairman of Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation K. Ajay Reddy and Andhra University V-C P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy spoke about skill-based learning. Vice-president, faculty of Robotics, University of Kempten, Germany Prof. Ing. Dirk Jacob, Andhra Pradesh Electronics and Information Technology Agency CEO Nanda Kishore and V-C of JNTU-Anantapur G. Ranga Janardhan threw light on internship-based learning. Mr. Hemachandra Reddy said the discussions stressed on a curriculum directed towards addressing the needs of the industry, multi-sectoral cooperation of different branches of engineering, upskilling students in emerging technologies, skill-based learning integrated to formal learning and stimulation scenarios to get practical learning. Blended skilling programmes, competition-based learning, establishment of Industry Advisory Board in each department, virtual internships, micro internships, linking local projects with the industry were the key takeaway points from the discussions, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meet-explores-career-opportunities-for-ap-students-in-germany/article64947199.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transport Dept. not issuing PVC cards for a year now||Vehicle users in the State are deprived of the services of the Transport Department as the Finance Department has ‘twice vetoed’ the latter’s proposals of deducting the PVC card supplier’s charges before remitting the fee collected from vehicle users into the government’s account. For more than a year now, the Transport Department has stopped issuing PVC cards for various services leaving the vehicle users a harassed lot. The department is unable to go ahead with its plans to print the cards in each of its offices as the Finance Department turned down its proposals. According to information, the problem cropped up for two reasons: the old card supplier/contractor stopped their services as bills to the tune of Rs. 34 crore were kept pending. aLSO, the government did not finalise the terms for fresh tenders though the old contract ended years ago. The contract for supply of PVC cards ended two years ago but the government extended the agreement with the same vendor as a ‘one-time measure’ for a year as no other bidder came forward. The government is yet to finalise the terms for a fresh tender. “Even the extended contract ended a year ago but the vendor, who delivered over 38 lakh cards, was not paid Rs. 34 crore,” sources say. Though the government invited bids last year, there has been no response from the vendors as there is no guarantee on payments. To tide over the problem, Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) came up with a suggestion that a card-printing unit be set up in each transport office to ensure same-day delivery. He also mooted the idea of remitting the fee to the government account in real-time after deducting the vendor’s charges. “The Finance Department, however, disapproved of the Minister’s proposals and insisted that all fees should be directly credited into the government account in full,” sources say. Now, the proposal has been laid for Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s consideration as it would be a win-win for all. “We hope this gets cleared this week,” says an official. On an average, three lakh PVC cards with an electronic chip embedded inside it are issued per month in the State transport offices for new vehicles registered and driver’s licenses. As the issuance of PVC cards was stopped, there is a huge pendency of card deliveries for over a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transport-dept-not-issuing-pvc-cards-for-a-year-now/article38306737.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seminar for UPSC aspirants in Narsaraopet today||The Hindu Future India Club, in association with Sri Harini IAS Academy, Narasaraopeta will conduct a seminar titled ‘Careers in UPSC& APPSC’ for civil services aspirantsat Narasaraopeta Town Hall on January 22 (Saturday) at 5.30 p.m. The programme will help the aspirants inpreparing for the exams. Joint Collector (Guntur) Anupama Anjali, will be the chief guest, while Narasaraopeta Revenue Divisional Officer and Sub-Divisional Magistrate M. Seshi Reddy and faculty from Delhi T. Sanjay Kumar and Amith Singh will be the guests of honour. The speakerswill share valuable inputs with the participants that would help them prepare better. The seminar will be followed by an interactive session where queries from students would be addressed. Sri Harini IAS Academy director K. Narendra, along with P. Srinivasa Sai, A.V. Ramesh Babu and K. Ankanna of the Academy would be present. “The seminar would be very usefulfor students of a Tier-3 town like Narsaraopeta, and students should make the best of this opportunity,” said Mr. Narendra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seminar-for-upsc-aspirants-in-narsaraopet-today/article64947200.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leader serves legal notice to YV||BJP leader G. Bhanuprakash Reddy has issued a legal notice to Y.V. Subba Reddy, Chairman of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Trust Board, and its Executive Officer, for allegedly not displaying all of its resolutions on the TTD website (tirumala.org). In the notice, the BJP leader’s counsel, K. Ajay Kumar, said that for the Financial Year 2021-22, no resolutions, except those passed in February 2021, had been published on the website. This apart, more than 30 resolutions were missing from the February 2021 list. Several board meetings were held thereafter, the notice said. The resolutions used to be displayed on the website regularly since its launch for the sake of transparency. The practice was stopped last year, due to which the devotees were in the dark about the utilisation of the TTD funds, the notice said. It was alleged that the TTD was updating the website with its activities, but concealing the resolutions, which was against the constitutional rights of the devotees. “The TTD should post all the resolutions with effect from FY 2021-22 within 15 days of receipt of the notice, failing which a petition will be filed in the High Court,” the notice warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leader-serves-notice-on-ttd-chief/article64947097.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD special invitees case posted to Feb.||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court headed by Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and Justice N. Jayasurya posted the petitionschallenging G.O.s 568 and 569, through which two special invitees were nominated to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Trust Board and 50 special invitees to the TTD respectively, to Februarywhile recording the government’s submission that it planned to make certain amendments to the Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1987. Appearing on behalf of Kakumanu Lalith Kumar, one of the petitioners who challenged the G.O.s, advocate Umesh Chandra P.V.G. argued that the principal Act (A.P. Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowment Act, 1987) neither defined a ‘special invitee’ nor laid down any qualifications and therefore, the government was not empowered to issue the impugned G.O.s in the first place. Senior advocate S.S. Prasad represented the TTD. He informed the court about the proposed amendments to the said Act and sought time to file a counter. Arguing on behalf of another petitioner Madineni Uma Maheswara Naidu, advocate Y. Balaji said that even the Central and the State Cabinets are not as large as the TTD and its Trust Board would be if they are allowed to give effect to the above G.Os. Advocate Nagi Reddy presented arguments on behalf of Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy who is one of the two persons nominated as special invitees to the TTD Trust Board and whose implead petition had been admitted..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-special-invitees-case-posted-to-feb/article38306732.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Economic activity can continue in adherence to COVID norms’||Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)-Andhra Pradesh has suggested to the government to allow economic activity to continue during the prevalence of COVID-19by takingappropriate safety guidelines. After two years of fighting against the pandemic, it is critical to ensure that economic recovery remains on track and to evolve a proper framework for restrictions in tackling the pandemic, CII-AP chairman D. Tirupathi Raju said in a press release. While quoting from a CII note titled ‘Approach for Economic Activities during COVID-19 and a Safer Future’, Mr. Tirupathi Raju said the industries would extend all possible support to the government in setting up required oxygen plantsat various hospitals and taking otherappropriate COVID-19 mitigation measures. Suggestions Mr. Tirupathi Raju said the CII note stressed on the continuation of economic activities while avoiding mass congregations of people and social activities. The CII made the following suggestions related to the micro-containment zones: there can be normal activities withCOVID Appropriate Behavior (CAB) if the occupancy of bedsatCOVID hospitals is less than 25%, social activities should be restricted,COVID protocols should be strictly implemented and punitive action taken for non-adherence to CAB if 25% to 50% beds are occupied inCOVID hospitals and there should be calibrated lockdowns if the bed occupancy exceeds 75%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/economic-activity-can-continue-in-adherence-to-covid-norms/article38306730.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||NABARD aid for setting up three medical colleges, five hospitals||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has sanctioned a loan of Rs. 1,392.23 crore under its Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) for establishment of three medical colleges-cum-hospitals in Kadapa, Vizianagaram and East Godavari districts and five multi-speciality hospitals in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, East Godavari, West Godavari and Prakasam districts. These infrastructure projects will improve the healthcare facilities in the State and provide timely healthcare in the remote tribal areas. The medical colleges-cum-hospitals will have facilities such as operation theatres, clinical OPDs, dialysis, burns, casualty and specialised clinical-cum-surgical wards, and oxygen plant, besides quality infrastructure for improved medical education. The multi-speciality hospitals will be equipped with consultation rooms, Aayush clinic, treatment procedure room, dialysis ward, diagnostic labs, OT complex, OPD and general / paediatrics / orthopaedic wards, among other facilities. NABARD Chief General Manager, Andhra Pradesh Regional Office, Sudhir Kumar Jannawar, said the bank had been actively partnering with the government to improve health and education infrastructure in the State. School projects The bank has so far sanctioned Rs. 3,092 crore to school projects being implemented under the government’s flagship Nadu-Nedu programme. The support will enable creation of additional classrooms and provision of toilets and drinking water facilities in 25,648 schools. “NABARD has also supported the government in the establishment of anganwadi centres and integrated agri \ aqua labs,” Mr. Sudhir Kumar Jannawar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nabard-aid-for-setting-up-three-medical-colleges-five-hospitals/article38306735.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allow people living on railway land some time, Lokesh urges official||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national general secretary Nara Lokesh wrote a letter to the South Central Railway (SCR) Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager Shivendra Mohan urging him to allow people to continue to live on the railway land until the State Government arranged suitable accommodation for them. The railway officials had recently served eviction notices to families, most of them belonging to socially and economically backward sections, asking them to vacate by January 22. In the letter dated Friday, Mr. Lokesh drew the railway official’s attention to the fact that about 650 families have been living on railway lands located in 6, 14, 15, 16 wards in Tadepalli, falling under the Vijayawada division, for four decades now and that they do not have an alternative place to go. Moreover, many of them earn their income through manual and unskilled labour work. Mr. Lokesh added that the pandemic had pushed them into severe financial distress, and in such times, they would be homeless if they were made to vacate. “All political parties have agreed that the government should provide housing on an alternative land at the earliest,” he said, requesting the DRM to consider allowing people to continue living here until the government provides an accommodation for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allow-people-living-on-railway-land-some-time-lokesh-urges-official/article38306811.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||VRSEC inks pact with NIT-Warangal||VR Siddhartha Engineering College (VRSEC), Vijayawada, on Friday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Warangal, for collaboration in academic and research activities. College Principal A. V. Ratna Prasad said this partnership would facilitate academic and research collaborations in mutually interested areas, faculty fellowships and summer internships for students at NITW. “The NITW will provide an opportunity to our faculty members to register for PhD at their institute. Joint project proposals can be developed by the faculty members from NITW and VRSEC and submitted to funding agencies and any intellectual property rights (IPR) of the joint projects would belong to both the institutions, as per the MoU,” he explained. NITW Director N. V. Ramana Rao said the VRSEC students could now undergo summer and winter internships as per AICTE mandatory internship regulation. He said the NITW and VRSEC would support and help each other in conducting academic events like workshops, conferences and seminars by arranging short visits, guest lectures and training programmes for the faculty members and students. President of the Siddhartha Academy Ch. Nageswara Rao, secretary P. Lakshmana Rao, convener M. Rajayya and heads of the various departments in VRSEC were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vrsec-inks-pact-with-nit-warangal/article38306814.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC earns Rs. 144 cr. revenue via specials||The A.P. State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has earned revenue of Rs. 144 crore through the special bus services it operated during Sankranti festivities, from January 7 to 18. In a statement on Friday, the Corporation’s Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao thanked the commuters for choosing APSRTC buses as their mode of transport. 5,422 buses He said during the festival period, the RTC had operated 5,422 special buses to places like Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai as well as places within the State such as Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Amalapuram, Rajamahendravaram, Palakonda, Bhimavaram, Kanigiri, Gudivada, Macharla, Nellore, Chittoor, Pulivendula, Nandyal and Kadiri. Mr. Rao said that so far, nearly 1,350 buses were plied from Andhra Pradesh to Hyderabad, while 4,072 buses were operated within the State. The highest number (36 lakh) of commuters travelled on January 17, as a result of which the Corporation could earn a revenue of Rs. 15.4 crore on a single day. He said as school holidays in the neighbouring States had been extended till January 31, the RTC had pressed into service sufficient number of buses to these States from every district headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-earns-rs-144-crore-revenue-via-sankranti-specials/article38306810.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR cancels 55 trains||The South Central Railway (SCR) has cancelled 55 trains in various routes in the zone due to COVID-19. In the wake of the pandemic, the SCR cancelled the trains from January 21 to 24, officials said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-cancels-55-trains/article38306103.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||OTS to be collected in two instalments||The State Cabinet approved a proposal regarding the revision of rates in rural areas to be collected from the original allottees/ legal heirs by Andhra Pradesh STate Housing Corporation Limited(APSHCL) as one time settlement under Sampoorna Gruha Hakku pathakam. The Cabinet, in its meeting on Friday, decided to collect two instalments of Rs. 5,000 each - one before Ugadi and another before Deepavali. The scheme is made applicable to eligible alienees on a par with original allottee/legal heir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ots-in-two-instalments/article38306812.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||POCSO courts need of the hour, says CJ||Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Prashant Kumar Mishra on Friday said special courts set up under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act were the need of the hour with rising crimes against children and women. Inaugurating the POCSO court in Machilipatnam in the virtual mode, Mr. Justice Mishra said more number of these courts were required to have a deterrent effect and bring the culprits to book. He exhorted the advocates to assist the courts in reaching the right decisions in order not to put the innocent behind the bars and to ensure that the offenders did not escape from the clutches of law. Mr. Justice Mishra also stressed on the need for maintaining the highest standards in dealing with the court proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pocso-courts-need-of-the-hour-cj/article38306813.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||IPS officers decry remarks on DGP||Members of the IPS Officers’ Association condemned the allegations made by Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader Varla Ramaiah on Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. ‘Objectionable language’ In a statement issued here on Friday, association joint secretary Rajeev Kumar Meena said that some TDP leaders, including Mr. Ramaiah, were using objectionable language against the DGP and other senior IPS officers. The political leaders should fight on public issues with their counterparts, but should not target bureaucrats and insult them. The leaders were using vulgar language and criminal cases would be booked if they did not mend their ways, the association members warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ips-officers-decry-remarks-on-dgp/article38306733.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP mocks CM’s ‘one district-one airport’ idea||JSP Political Affairs Committee chairman Nadendla Manohar expressed dismay through Twitter over Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s concept of ‘one district - one airport’. He said he was at a loss to understand how the government, which failed in laying roads, has conceived the idea of establishing an airport in every district. “There are no proper roads to many district headquarters. Who will believe the Chief Minister when he says that there will be airports in all the districts?” Mr. Manohar questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-mocks-cms-one-district-one-airport-idea/article38306734.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Render services with commitment’||Krishna district Collector J. Niwas on Friday said the complaints or grievances received at village secretariats should be resolved immediately. Surprise visit Mr. Niwas made a surprise visit to the Mulapadu-I village secretariat and examined all records. Addressing the staff, he said they should make themselves available to the people and try to render services with commitment. The Collector examined the attendance register, employees’ moments register, calendar of the welfare programmes and posters of various government schemes. COVID-19 test He directed the auxiliary nursing midwife (ANM) to recommend COVID-19 test only for people with symptoms of cold, cough and high fever. He enquired about the number of people in the jurisdiction of the secretariat who had been inoculated and if all frontline warriors had received the booster dose. Vaccination drive He wanted the vaccination drive to be expedited and said the staff should educate people on the need to strictly exercise COVID-appropriate behaviour. He also asked the digital assistants about the details of Jagananna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku scheme and said that they would ensure that the beneficiaries make the best of the programme. Mr. Niwas said the fruits of the various government schemes should reach the beneficiaries in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/render-services-with-commitment/article38306805.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five teachers test positive in city||Five teachers, including the Principal of a Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) High School School at Allipuram, tested COVID-19 positive here on Friday. The administration has shut down the school and sent the children to their homes after lunch. It was learnt that the Principal of the school has been on leave after showing symptoms and testing COVID-19 positive, for the past few days. Four more teachers from the school have also tested positive on Friday morning. “To contain further spread of the virus, we had closed the school after lunch. We are also sanitising the school. Again on Monday, we are planning to conduct tests for the staff and the students,” said the GVMC Education Officer Srinivas. The incident has created panic among the parents who are now in a dilemma whether to send their children to schools or not. Several teachers from the rural areas have also tested COVID-19 positive in the last few days, it is learnt. A large number of doctors, nurses and hospital staff in various hospitals treating COVID-19 cases are also testing positive. It was learnt that around 100 personnel, including doctors, nurses, employees and other departmental staff in KGH and CSR block in KGH, had tested COVID-19 positive. Three more deaths “I do not have the exact number, but a number of doctors, nurses and staff had tested COVID-19 positive. However, we had expected this. Around 40 nurses have applied for leave after they tested positive. We are taking measures to ensure services are not disturbed,” said KGH Superintendent P. Mythili. Meanwhile, the tally crossed the 2,000-mark consecutively for the second day in a row in Visakhapatnam. In the last 24 hours ending Friday morning, as many as 2,244 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Visakhapatnam, taking the total tally to 1,73,894. The day-tally was highest among other districts in the State. Visakhapatnam district has recorded 10,600 new cases in the last one week. Meanwhile, 309 persons infected with the virus were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the total discharges to 1,59,751. The district also recorded three COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the total death count to 1,123. It may be noted that 11 persons succumbed to the infection in the last four days in the district. The active cases have further increased to 13,020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-teachers-test-positive-in-gvmc-school-in-vizag/article64947115.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah Naidu calls for increasing indigenous production of crude oil||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Friday called for increasing indigenous production of crude oil through strong R&D efforts to ensure energy security of the country. He was delivering the convocation address at the first convocation ceremony of the Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE), in Visakhapatnam. Highlighting ‘Atma Nirbharta’ (self-reliance), Mr. Naidu said there should be more focus on increasing domestic exploration of petroleum, harnessing the full potential of renewable sources and aiming for excellence and innovation in the energy industry. Mr. Naidu pointed out that India was the world’s third-largest consumer of crude oil and yet import-dependent for more than 80% of its needs. He underlined the importance of increasing production, not only to save foreign exchange but also to ensure energy security. He noted various policy reforms of the government such as the Hydrocarbon Exploration Licensing Policy (HELP) is aimed at increasing exploration in new sedimentary basins. He pointed out that IIPE is a dedicated university for petroleum research and was recognized as an Institution of National Importance in 2017 through an Act of Parliament. “This institute is also one of the promises made during the bifurcation of the State,” he said. Mr. Naidu said that ‘India’s primary energy demand is expected to grow at an average rate of more than 3% till 2045 as compared to less than 1% growth for the rest of the world.’ He called upon IIPE and other energy institutes to bridge the supply gap of skilled manpower for the petroleum sector and build stronger industry-institute linkages with the prominent market players. He also suggested encouraging Ph.D. students to undertake research on problems faced by the industry and thus ‘bring a multi-disciplinary approach into academic research, which is also the aim of National Education Policy 2020.’ He also said that the country was blessed with ample renewable sources such as solar, wind and tidal power, and suggested tapping of these sources to reduce the use of fossil fuels. And this is where such specialised institutes can play a major role, he said. Earlier, Prof. V.S.R.K. Prasad, the director of IIPE, in his address said that the convocation was held for two batches at a time and about 170 students will be given away their B. Tech degrees in petroleum engineering and chemical engineering. Mr. Naidu gave away the gold medals to recipients. The gold medal winners were Kandala Viswakanth, Bhamidipati Sai Harsha, Vaibhav Sharma, Dangeti Sree Karthik, Abhinav Tiwari and Konala Reshma Reddy. Addressing the convocation, Union Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Rameswar Teli, said that efforts are on to decrease the dependency on crude imports by promoting ethanol blending. We are now working to extract ethanol from rice, sugarcane and bamboo. This will not only save foreign exchange but the farmers also will get a better income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiah-naidu-calls-for-increasing-indigenous-production-of-crude-oil/article64947119.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make technology available to farmers, officials urged||District Agriculture Advisory Committee chairman Chikkala Rama Rao has called upon the officials concerned to make technology available to farmers in the agriculture and allied sectors. Presiding over the district-level AAC meeting here on Friday, Mr. Rama Rao said that agriculture tools should be provided on subsidy to enable farmers to get higher yield at lower cost. The farmers should be given tips on raising crops, which give better yield, based on the fertility of the soil. He asked the bank officials to advance crop loans to eligible farmers and renew them year after year. Custom Hiring Centres Director of Agriculture B. Mohan Rao said that Custom Hiring Centres would be launched at every Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) by March-end and tractor servicing centres would be opened in all the districts. A scientist of RARS, Anakapalle, said that ‘Indravathi’, a bio-fortified ragi variety, was being promoted. AAC Members M. Saraswathi, S. Ramana and G. Ananda Rao, Joint Director of Fisheries Lakshmana Rao and Lead Bank Manager Srinadh Prasad participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-technology-available-to-farmers-officials-urged/article38306820.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID fear grips fever patients||Amid COVID-19 outbreak, fever cases see a steep rise in the city. Private and government hospitals have been receiving a number of people complaining fever and common cold or cough for the past few weeks, while several others taking medicines on their own. Due to the rise in COVID-19 cases in the urban limits, many fear that fever and other symptoms are due to the pandemic. Several people suffering from fever are approaching the outpatient block the King George Hospital. People are also visitng the Urban Primary Health Centres(UPHCs) and asking the staff to conduct COVID tests. The staff at the UPHCs are convincing them that it could be a regular fever or common cold and are prescribing medicines. K Aruna, a resident of Isukathota, said that herself, her husband and two college-going children suffered from fever and common cold, one by one for the past one week to 10 days. “We took medicine for a couple of days. While my husband and I suffered fevers, both the children had just common cold. Now, everyone is fine. We do not know whether it was COVID-19 or not, but we are grateful the fever subsided within a day or two,” she added. The sudden spike in fevers is also creating a scare among parents as even a number of children of all small ages are suffering from common cold, cough and running nose. K. Gopi Krishna, a resident of Midhilapuri Colony, Madhurawada, was frightened when two of his daughters — Sangeetha and Sarada — suffered cold and cough. “I had taken them to the doctor immediately, as there were some news that third wave might affect more children. Fortunately with the medication, their cold is subsiding,” he said. ‘No need to worry’ Speaking on the issue, Superintendent of King George Hospital P. Mythili said that all fevers are not COVID-19 and there is no need to worry and rush for COVID-19 testing. After taking medicines prescribed by the doctors, if still symptoms are not subsiding or not responding to the medicine or even if there are additional symptoms like severe bodyaches, that is an indication that they may come for testing, she said. “Moreover this is season for fevers and recently there were short spell of rains. In KGH, we are not testing all the fever cases. Only those having proper symptoms are being tested,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-fear-grips-fever-patients/article38306818.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Simhachalam authorities studying feasibility of operating electric buses||The authorities of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy (SVLNS) Devasthanam, Simhachalam, are evaluating the feasibility of replacing the old diesel buses of the temple with electric buses to save on fuel costs apart from protection of the environment. Former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, who is a founder family member of the devasthanam, has been suggesting to the temple authorities to consider replacement of the old diesel buses with electric ones in view of their advantages and also suggested to the authorities to go through the FAME scheme of the Central government and do a viability analysis and prepare a project report. In a letter to Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, temple Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala noted that officials of the RTC and the Department of Heavy Industries were consulted and the required information was gathered. The Devasthanam owns five diesel buses, including one new bus, which are mainly used to ferry devotees from the foothill to the hill top temple and back. The Devasthanam has a 1 MW solar power plant, which has been generating power for the past five years, to meet the requirements of the temple. It had generated surplus units to the tune of 4,09,832 units between February 2021 and September 2021. Ms. Suryakala noted in her letter to Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju that the details gathered would be placed before the temple Trust Board at its next meeting for further deliberations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/simhachalam-authorities-studying-feasibility-of-operating-electric-buses/article38306761.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||11-year-old girl raped at Nakkapalle||A girl aged around 11 years was raped allegedly by a 22-year-old youth at Nakkapalle mandal in Visakhapatnam district. Though the incident occurred on Thursday evening, it came to light after the girl along with her family members lodged a complaint with the local police, on Friday morning. According to Circle Inspector of Nakkapalle Police Station, Narayana Rao, the incident allegedly occurred at around 4.30 p.m. on Thursday, when the girl had gone to collect firewood in her village. The victim who is a class VII student, in her statement claimed that the youth, who stays in the same colony had approached her while she was collecting firewood. He forcibly took her to an isolated place, which was about 300 metres from the spot, showed her pornographic videos and allegedly raped her, said circle Inspector Narayana Rao. Nakkapalle Police have registered cases under the relevant sections of rape, and POCSO Act. The CI said that facts are yet to be ascertained in the case and the accused is also yet to be taken into custody. We are investigating the case and meanwhile, the victim has been sent to King George Hospital for medical tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-year-old-girl-raped-at-nakkapalle/article38306816.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘stealing’ mobiles||The Railway protection Force (RPF), Waltair Division, arrested a 32-year-old man for allegedly stealing mobile phones in running trains. According to the officials, the accused Amit Kumar Barik (32) was found moving suspiciously in Visakhapatnam-Bhubaneswar Intercity Express. Upon questioning, the RPF officials found that he was stealing mobile phones in trains running between Vizianagaram and Brahmapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-arrested-for-stealing-mobile-phones-in-trains/article38306760.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Augmentation of additional AC-3 coaches||The railways have decided to augment the following trains with one additional AC-3 tier coach each for the convenience of passengers. The augmentation is being done on a permanent basis, according to A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Waltair Division. Train no. 17482 Tirupati – Bilaspur Express with effect from January 23, 17481 Bilaspur – Tirupati Express with effect from January 25 and 17480 Tirupati – Puri Express with effect from January 24 and train no. 17479 Puri – Tirupati Express with effect from January 26 will be added the coach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/augmentation-of-additional-ac-3-coaches/article38306758.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Smoke beneath coach of AP Express creates scare||Smoke emanating from underneath the bogie of train no. 20805 Visakhapatnam – New Delhi AP Express caused anxiety among passengers at Nekkonda railway station in Warangal district of Telangana on Friday morning. The smoke erupted from beneath the S-6 compartment . The smoke reportedly occurred due to brake binding as the brakes were applied all of a sudden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/smoke-beneath-coach-of-ap-express-creates-scare/article38306762.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cataract surgery performed on one-month-old baby||A one-month-old baby, diagnosed with cataract, was successfully operated by Suparna, a specialist in paediatric ophthalmology, and her team, at Sankar Foundation Super-speciality Eye Hospital here. The baby was delivered at INHS Kalyani Hospital and the doctors there had recognised that the baby was not responding to the torch light beam, flashed in his left eye. The parents were in for a shock on coming to know that their baby was having a problem in his left eye and had to be referred to the Sankar Foundation immediately.  “In paediatric cataract cases, the surgery has to be done as soon as possible. But, we had to wait for one month as giving anaesthesia to an infant poses a major risk. We performed the surgery one month ago but getting the boy’s vision was another challenge. We asked the parents to perform vision exercises at home on their child,” Dr. Suparna told The Hindu on Friday. K.B.N. Manimala, Managing Trustee and CEO, commended Dr. Suparna and her team for the successful surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cataract-surgery-performed-on-one-month-old-baby/article38306748.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:49 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 COVID Care Centres set up in Vizianagaram district||Witha significant jump in COVID-19 casesin the last one week, the district administration has set up 12COVID Care Centres in the district. Threecentres were set up up in the district headquarters and two in S. Kota Assembly constituency, according to officials. Other Assembly constituencies such as Nellimarla, Gajapathinagaram, Cheepurupalli, Kurupam, Saluru, Parvatipuram and Bobbili will get one centre each. The centres will have acombined bed strength of 1,160, and patients admitted here would be monitored round the clock by nodal officers. Medical officers and staff would provide treatmentto the patients and refer serious cases to the district headquarters hospital. The district administration has swung into action after a steep rise in COVID-19 cases. Till a few days ago, the daily tally of positive cases stood at around 200. This number has now risen to 1,029 on Thursday, while 681 fresh cases were reported on Friday. Currently, 3,390 patientsare under the observation of authorities. The officials identified 30 places in the district from where the most number of COVID-19 cases are being reported. District Medical Officer S.V. Ramana Kumari said that top priority was given for more tests so that the positive cases could be identified quickly.  In the backdrop of a report published in The Hindu over lack of testing facilities and collection of up to Rs. 1,500for tests in laboratories,Dr. Ramana Kumariissued orders regulating charges for the testsat private laboratories. She said that no laboratory should collect more than Rs. 350 per COVID-19 test.  “All hospitals and laboratories which were authorisedto conducttests should display the charges prominently, failing which action would be taken in accordance with the rules framed by the Indian Council for Medical Research,” Dr. Ramana Kumari said. She urged people to follow COVID-19 protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/12-covid-care-centres-set-up-in-vizianagaram-district/article64947320.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:49 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged to clear PF, other applications of retd. staff||The Andhra Pradesh Government Retired Employees’ Association president Ramachandra Panda on Friday asked the government to clear all pending applications of retired employees with regard to provident fund and other financial benefits. A majority of them could not get those benefits due to the inordinate delay in the processing their applications at various levels. Many retired employees were doing the rounds of government offices for statutory benefits, which they needed for performing marriages of their children and constructing houses. “Many employees who are about to retire are also not happy with the enhancement of the retirement age up to 62 years. They want to lead a peaceful life with retirement benefits which are due for them,” said Mr. Panda. He urged the government to reconsider the PRC recommendations which had done ‘injustice’ to the retired staff also with restrictions on payment of quantum of pension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-urged-to-clear-pf-other-applications-of-retd-staff/article38306750.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM wants zero COVID-19 deaths during third wave’||“As the cost of power generation is much higher than others in the region, it has been decided to hand over the operational maintenance through bidding,” Mr. Nani said. Land for Kidambi Srikanth The Cabinet also approved the proposal to allocate five acres land in Tirupati to badminton player Kidambi Srikanth for developing a coaching facility. The Cabinet also approved the proposal to amend the Endowments Act, affecting the appointment of TTD special invitees. Retirement age The Cabinet also ratified the enhancement of retirement age of the government employees from 60 to 62. It also approved compassionate appointments in place of those who had lost their lives due to COVID-19 by June. Vacancies in the village and ward secretariats would also be filled with compassionate posts, he said. Smart townships The Minister said 10% plots in Jagananna Smart Townships would be earmarked for the government employees. Similarly, 5% of plots would be reserved for the pensioners. Each Assembly constituency would get one township. A 20% rebate would be given to the government employees in these ventures, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-wants-zero-covid-19-deaths-during-third-wave/article38306738.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:49 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unsafe approach||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unsafe-approach/article64947321.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:26 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paying the price||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paying-the-price/article64947204.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||For the silver screen||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/for-the-silver-screen/article64947098.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||Karnataka gets Rs. 3,467 cr. from Centre||The Centre has released an instalment of tax devolution of Rs. 3,467.62 crore to Karnataka. Of this amount, Rs. 1,733.81 crore is regular January 2022 instalment and Rs. 1,733.81 crore is in the form of advance instalment. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai tweeted the release of GST amount to the State and extended thanks to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on the behalf of the people of Karnataka. “The amount will help drive expenditure in key sectors, strengthen demand and aid economic growth in Karnataka. Especially when the State is facing third wave of COVID, the advance instalment is a welcome relief,” the Chief Minister tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tax-devolution-centre-releases-rs-3467-cr-to-state/article38306361.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||More than 1L COVID tests done daily: CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Friday informed that more than one lakh COVID tests were being done daily and one crore medical kits are available with the government to tackle the Omicron-induced third wave of the pandemic in Telangana. The government has also made available more than 56,000 beds, both in public and private hospitals, equipped with oxygen facilities. He appealed to people to participate in the household fever survey taken up to identify COVID patients and provide necessary medicare. The CS, who visited Hill Top Colony at Khairatabad on Friday to take stock of the door-to- door fever survey, said that it was being conducted by various government departments including GHMC, and Health and Family Welfare. While the Health officials explained to him about the manner in which the survey was taken up in the colony, the latter said that CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao had asked for a multi-disciplinary team comprising ASHA, ANM, municipal and panchayat staff, who should visit every colony to check the health parameters of citizens. Vaccination at doorstep The objective is to identify individuals with COVID symptoms and distribute medical kits to them. They are also being isolated immediately so as to break the transmission chain. Also, people who are not vaccinated are going to be inoculated at their houses. Mr. Somesh Kumar said that the government had earlier done fever surveys twice and the success in the earlier phases has encouraged it to launch a similar drive this time as well. GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar, Hyderabad Collector Sharman, Additional Commissioner Ravi Kiran, DMHO Venkat and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-than-1l-covid-tests-done-daily-cs/article64947296.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||‘Crops over 25 lakh acres lost’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Malkajgiri MP, A. Revanth Reddy demanded that the chilli farmers who lost their crops be paid a compensation of Rs. 50,000 per acre while other farmers should be given a compensation of Rs. 25,000 per acre. In an open letter to the Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday, he said crops spread across 25 lakh acres of land worth nearly Rs. 8,633 crore were lost in Telangana due to the recent unseasonal rains and insect attack. Unable to bear the losses several farmers committed suicide, he said and families of such farmers should be paid an ex-gratia of Rs. 10 lakh each. Mr. Reddy also criticised the Chief Minister for not visiting the farmers despite officially announcing the same. Instead ministers and officials went to the undivided Warangal district and neither they could assess the losses nor give any concrete assurance to the affected farmers. He said this year chilli was cultivated on nearly 4 lakh acres spread across Khammam, Mahabubabad, Kottagudem, Warangal Urban, Warangal Rural, Nalgonda and Suryapet districts. The farmers invested about Rs. 1.5 lakh per acre and expected a yield of nearly 25 quintals per acre and an income of Rs. 3.57 lakh for the entire yield. However, their crops were destroyed by Thrips Parvispinus, an invasive insect from Indonesia which was first seen in 2015. Consequently, the yield was less than three quintals causing huge losses to the farmers, he said. He said crops spread over 50,000 acres of land were damaged due to unseasonal rains in North Telangana alone pushing the farmers towards suicides. On an average, about 4 to 5 chilli farmers in Nalgonda, Khammam and Warangal are committing suicide every day, he alleged. Although the farmers are entitled for compensation for the losses to their crops due to natural calamities under the Disaster Management Act, the Central Government always neglected the farmers of Telangana. While Rs. 1,515 Crore were earmarked under 14th Finance Commission for the period 2015-20, an amount of Rs. 3,310 crore was allocated for the years 2021-2026. But the State Govt did not utilise those funds appropriately. While the crop damage was reported in 20 lakh acres in 2020, the authorities have claimed compensation for just 12,32,436 acres due to faulty enumeration of losses. This amount too was not compensated by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-writes-to-kcr/article64947284.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||HMDA continues demolition drive||HMDA, together with the district level task forces, has continued its spree of demolitions within the limits of Outer Ring Road, taking action against 13 more structures raised without necessary permissions on Friday. On the fifth day of the drive against illegal structures, the task force teams visited four municipalities, namely Medchal, Pedd Amberpet, Narsingi and Shadnagar, and pulled down 10 illegal structures besides seizing three structures which were being constructed as warehouses without permissions. Four illegal structures were demolished and two warehouse structures were seized in Narsingi municipal limits, while in Medchal, three unauthorised structures were pulled down and one warehouse structure was seized. Three structures each in Pedda Amberpet and Shadnagar municipal limits which were under construction without permissions were taken down during the drive. So far, action has been taken against a total of 58 structures, a statement from HMDA informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hmda-continues-demolition-drive/article38306563.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||Massive land acquisition for RRR||A picture on the massive land acquisition for a portion of the regional ring road (RRR) that will travel through eight new districts over 344 km was likely to emerge at the end of the month with the fixing of borders for the four lane expressway on the northern side of the prestigious project to be implemented under Bharat Mala Pariyojana of the Centre. Twelve teams armed with latest technology like Differential Global Position System (DGPS) were involved in fixing the borders of the alignment on the northern side of the road with latitudes and longitudes precisely to the inch with the aid of Google based maps. The survey commenced in Sangareddy town recently. The teams were mounting the equipment on two stones for every five km to measure the alignment but permanent mile stones for the road were avoided till the gazette notification shortly. The Centre will issue the gazette notification and invite objections for 21 days on land acquisition from owners proposed to be taken up on northern side This will be followed by a public hearing after which permanent borders for the 100-metre road will be fixed. All this was likely to take a couple of months, sources said. The project was divided into two parts - north and south - to acquire an estimated 12,500 acres. While the permission for the northern portion was already received from the Ministry of Transport and National Highways, the southern part was being resurveyed by a specialised private agency to study the volume of traffic in the backdrop of concerns that the latter was not feasible as it did not have matching vehicular traffic. A road project of this nature was taken up for the first time after the construction of Outer Ring Road in 2005. The four-lane road which will be expanded to eight lanes in future will go over 158 km on northern side and 182 km on the south. An estimated 4,500 acres was assessed for northern side and 7,500 acres for southern part. The northern road will go over 20 mandals and 111 villages in Sangareddy, Medak, Siddipet and Bhongir districts. The southern side will cover Choutuppal, Chevella, Shankerpalli, Amangal and Sangareddy. The Centre will meet the entire construction cost while the land acquisition will be handled by Centre and State governments on 50 : 50 basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/massive-land-acquisition-for-rrr/article38306559.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Honing young sporting talent||Former footballer Prudhvi Kolaventy has set up a one-destination sports events and management destination called Citadel Sports Co. Pvt Ltd to cater to the needs and aspirations of the young sporting talent across TS. “We have started Citadel Sports with a dream of nurturing sports holistically across all dimensions,” Mr. Prudhvi said on Friday. “The firm indulges in sports events, providing online sports ground bookings, coaches, referees, enthusiasts, and volunteers through an organised database, enabling player development pathways,” he said. Tournament from today “And as part of this endeavour, we will be hosting the Diego Maradona men’s five-a-side football tournament at Play The Field at Madhapur from January 22 to 23,” he said. “The championship features 12 teams and scope for four more entries and the winners purse is Rs. 50,000, the runner-up Rs. 25,000, while the third-placed will get Rs. 15,000 and the fourth-placed team gets Rs. 10,000,” he said. With former India football captain and now coach of Telangana State team Shabbir Ali as the mentor, Mr. Prudhvi hopes to get the right kind of momentum for the activities. “We are lucky to have someone like Shabbir Sir in our scheme of things and we will sincerely follow his advice in giving football first the kind of fillip before venturing to other disciplines too,” he said. Citadel Sports will soon start a football league championship with details like the format and the number of teams being worked out. For his part, Shabbir Ali felt that Futsal was fast growing in terms of popularity and acceptance among the young talent, which is desperately looking for some kind of a platform to showcase its skills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/honing-young-sporting-talent/article64947298.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Six charged with creating fake COVID reports||Sleuths of Hyderabad City Police Commissioner’s Task Force, South Zone, on Friday arrested two lab technicians and travel agents in Humayun Nagar and Malakpet police limits for allegedly arranging fake negative RTPCR reports and full-dose vaccination certificates. The lab technicians would send the dummy samples for negative diagnosis, and by an arrangement with a primary urban health centre, without administration of any dose, would get vaccination certificates, the police said. In the first case, P. Laxman, who owns a diagnostics centre at Malakpet, used to collect between Rs. 2000 and Rs. 3000 for test reports to rule out COVID-19 infection. While mixing the collected nasopharyngeal swab samples in viral transport media for diagnosis at a higher centre is the practice, the accused used to tear up the kits and send only dummy samples for the ‘negative result’. 65 ‘reports’ seized Sixty-five such reports and 20 sample collection kits were seized from him. A similar modus operandi was followed by another accused, medical lab technician Md. Tariq Habeeb, who mostly catered his services to tourism and travel agents. Joining hands with computer operators at urban primary health centres, such as with one Ms. Kumari at Afzal Sagar, he obtained full vaccination certificates without the actual administration of the doses. Meanwhile, three travel agents - Gulam Musthafa Shakeel of Mehdipatnam, Abdul Basheer of Asif Nagar and Irfan Ur Rub Ansari - were arrested. The police seized 50 fake COVID-19 vaccination certificates and 10 negative result reports in the raid. A full investigation is underway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/six-charged-with-creating-fake-covid-reports/article38306772.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||LVPEI and Bajaj Group to establish retina care centre||LV Prasad Eye Institute(LVPEI) partnered with theBajaj Groupto establish ‘Anant Bajaj Retina Institute’ as a centre of excellence and a global resource centre for retinal diseases. The memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between chairman and managing director of Bajaj Electricals Shekhar Bajaj and LVPEI executive chairDr. Prashant Garg on Friday. Anant Bajaj Retina Institute will be an integral part of LVPEI to enhance access to high-quality retina care for people. The centre will train ophthalmologists and eye care personnel, build capacity of other eye care organisations, promote and enhance research capacity, scale up community eye health programmes and utilise technology for better care of retinal diseases. “LVPEI is developing institutes of excellence and global resource centres for controlling all major forms of blindness and visual impairment through dedicated efforts from health promotion to the treatment of complex eye diseases and rehabilitation of the incurably blind. We are excited to partner with Mr. Bajaj and the Bajaj Group,” saidDr. Garg. “We are pleased to partner with an institution reputed for its excellence and innovation in providing world class service towards eye care.Together we can make a big difference through multiple eye care centres to provide preventive and rehabilitation services to all, especially those in rural areas. Anant’s dream was to combine cutting-edge technology with philanthropy to make a difference in the lives of people,” saidMr. Bajaj. Retina is the innermost layer of the eye and plays a critical role for sight. Once damaged, it results in irreversible vision loss and retinal problems are diabetic retinopathy, macular degeneration, retinal detachment, retinitis pigmentosa and other hereditary retinal diseases. These can be controlled and managed if diagnosed early and treated in time,said network head of the fledgling newinstitute Dr.Raja Narayanan. The LVPEI, established in 1987, has 236 centres spread across Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Karnataka and had served 3.21 crore people with more than 50% free of cost, providing high quality and comprehensive — prevention, curative and rehabilitation — eye care to all,said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lvpei-bajaj-group-to-establish-retina-centre/article64947297.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||‘BJP works as ‘B’ team of TRS’||Telangana Congress spokesperson and Dalit leader Addanki Dayakar has ridiculed the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) meeting to win in the SC and ST constituencies in Telangana and asked the party to explain their contribution to these suppressed communities in the last seven years. At a press conference here, he said the BJP was working as the ‘B’ team of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and did nothing to the cause of these communities. It is laughable that BJP wants to focus on the SC and ST constituencies without working for them despite several policies of the TRS that hurt these communities. Mr. Dayakar also ridiculed the BJP stating that it insulted President Ramnath Kovind, a Dalit, when he was forced to break the coconut only at the steps of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. He said Congress was the only party that had been raising their issues whether the rising attacks on them or forgotten promises of the TRS like three-acre land to Dalit families. Dalita Dandora of the Congress shook the TRS and it was now worried.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-called-b-team-of-trs/article38306556.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||KTR seeks Central support for handloom, textile projects||Telangana Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao on Friday sought Central government support for various handloom and textile projects in the State, including an early approval as well as sanction of Rs. .897.92 crore for the Kakatiya Mega Textile Park (KMTP) in Warangal. In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Union Textiles Minister Piyush Goyal, he said sanctioning of the fund will help take up infrastructure works at the Textile Park, which is developed on over 1,200 acres. The Minister also urged the Centre to finalise the policy for development of manufacturing regions for textile and apparel sector so that projects like KMTP can be suitably benefitted. Though not the first time, as he has in the past written to the Union Ministers many times on the issues, the latest communication assumes significance as it comes days ahead of the presentation of Union Budget 2023. IIHT sought Besides for KMTP, the Minister wanted Central government sanction for the Mega Powerloom Cluster at Sircilla and Rs. .49.84 crore, out of a projected outlay of Rs. 993.65 crore, for filling the infrastructure gaps and towards implementation of different components, including modernisation and expansion of production base, strengthening of value chain, skill development and capacity building. The State government will contribute Rs. 756.97 crore towards the project. Urging the Centre to establish an Indian Institute of Handloom Technology (IIHT) in Telangana, Mr.Rao said sufficient land with constructed building for such a facility is available at the Handloom Park in Pochampally, Yadadri Bhongir district, said a release from his office on the letter to the Union Ministers. “After the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh, the Indian Institute of Handloom Technology, Venkatagiri has gone to the residuary state of A.P. At present there is no such Institute in Telangana State to offer courses in Diploma in Handloom Technology,” he said. The Minister also wanted the Centre to set up National Textile Research Institute and Handloom Export Promotion Council in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-seeks-central-support/article38306558.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||Impressive show on revenue front, but State lags in targets||The State Government has apparently landed in a piquant situation in terms of finances. The State registered impressive performance in all sectors, be it revenue from goods and services tax, stamps and registration, sales tax or state excise duties. But from a revenue surplus of Rs. 6,743 crore estimated in the current year’s budget, the State is facing a deficit of Rs. 6,942.31 crore at the end of November. The major contributors for the situation are the estimates of grants in aid and contributions and non-tax revenue estimates in the current year’s budget which are not anywhere near the projected figure. The non-tax revenue for the year 2021-22 was estimated at Rs. 30,557.35 crore but the actuals up to Nov was Rs. 4,395.12 crore little over 14 per cent of the target. The same is the case with the grants in aid and contributions that were estimated at Rs. 38,669.46 crore but the actual achievement was just around 15 per cent, Rs. 5,687.79 crore till the end of Nov, according to the monthly key indicators posted in the Comptroller and Auditor General of India’s website. As a result, the State’s total revenue receipts till November end stood at Rs. 74,940.86 crore against the Rs. 1.76 lakh crore projected for the total year showing a deficit of Rs. 1 lakh crore with just four months left for the completion of the financial year. Performance in terms of tax revenue during the period was impressive at Rs. 64,857.95 crore against the Rs. 1.06 lakh crore projected for the entire year, marking 60.67 per cent realization. Stamps and Registration department continued its stride crossing Rs. 7,000 crore mark by Nov (Rs. 12,500 crore projected for the total year) reaching Rs. 7,028 crore, up about Rs. 1,200 crore from Oct.’s Rs. 5,880 crore. Performance in terms of State Excise duties too was no less impressive with the State registering Rs. 11,070 crore revenue against Rs. 17,000 crore projected for the year marking achievement of over 65 per cent. Revenue through GST was Rs. 20,859.43 crore till Nov end against Rs. 35,520 crore estimated for the entire year. and sales tax revenues were pegged at Rs. 17,181 crore against Rs. 26,500 crore for the year. The State’s share of union taxes was Rs. 5,560.29 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/impressive-show-on-revenue-front-but-state-lags-in-targets/article38306557.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||Mosques in Vemulawada to make weddings cheaper||At a time when opulence in weddings, meaning long guestlists and a lavish spread at the dinner table, is commonplace, eight mosques from Vemulawada have taken the lead to discourage this trend. For, at a recent meeting, the heads of these committees, along with community members, put their heads together and resolved to make weddings simpler by drastically reducing the number of dishes at the dinner table. Speaking to The Hindu, Mohammed Akram, who is the president of the Vemulawada Muslim Town Committee, a body that collaborated with the managing committees of these mosques, took the decision recently. The move, he said, is intended to significantly reduce the burden of expenses on the bride’s family. “Managing committees of eight mosques, including a recently constructed one, are on board. Some of these are Mohammadia Masjid in Subhash Nagar, Jama Masjid in Uppugadda, Masjid-e-Arfa near the bus stand in Tippapur, Moin Masjid in Bhavani Nagar, Madina Masjid in Urban Colony, and the Jamia Masjid in Shatrajpally,” Mr Akram said.  Explaining the rationale behind the move he said, “Invariably, the expenses of the wedding day are high and are borne by the bride and her family. Here in Vemulawada, the tariff for a decent shaadikhaana (marriage hall), on average, is Rs. 40,000.   The cost of decoration runs into tens of thousands, and the cost of food is a crucial expenditure which also is very high, runs into lakhs. The expenses can go up depending on the spending capacity. A lot of people are in debt because of these lavish weddings. So we got together and decided to settle on bagara khaana (rice), mutton or chicken dish and sweet. This way the burden on the bride’s family will reduce tremendously.”  Mr Akram said that the deliberations began earlier this month. And in two or three meetings spread over a fortnight, the managing committees of eight mosques were on board.  “So far, we have taken signatures of over 100 people, of musallis (those who visit the the masjid to pray), in this regard. Even if 60% of them put this into practice, it will be an important achievement,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mosques-in-vemulawada-plan-to-make-weddings-cheaper/article38306561.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||UoH advises students to return home||The University of Hyderabad (UoH) has advised its students to return home to minimise the risk of exposure to COVID-19. Classes and examinations will be conducted online only. “Students staying in hostels and other campus residences should go home in their best interest as the university has limited resources to isolate students infected by the virus. While we are making all efforts to address the evolving situation, we may be forced to escalate our decision if the numbers increase,” Vice-Chancellor B.J. Rao said in a statement. He said the increase in the number of cases is causing stress on student welfare and healthcare systems available on the campus. “UoH will not be able to accommodate infected students and staff beyond a point. Therefore, we appeal to them to return to the safety of their homes,” he said. Meanwhile, the UoH Task Force has recommended that classes will continue online for all semesters. The end-semester evaluation will also be conducted online or open book or take-home mode as was done during the second wave of COVID. The UoH Health Centre is also making self-testing kits available at the pharmacy. Stakeholders experiencing symptoms can purchase the kit for self-testing or get themselves tested at government or private testing centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/return-home-says-uoh/article38306551.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||84 power staff petition CMs of TS, AP||A group of 84 employees of power utilities have requested the Chief Ministers of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to amicably settle the issue of their postings at the earliest and allow them to join duties in Telangana as decided by the One-man Committee appointed by the Supreme Court. Speaking to mediapersons here on Friday, they stated that they were working for the power utilities for the last 25 years and were allotted from AP to Telangana utilities based on the One-man (D.M. Dharmadhikari) Committee and were relieved by AP utilities on March 14 and June 26 in 2020. However, on reporting at Hyderabad after being relieved by AP, the managements of AP utilities had refused to allow them join duties for reasons not known to them. Later, the managements of AP power utilities had also kept silent when they brought the action of TS utilities to their notice. They had also filed a contempt petition before the Supreme Court but the judgement was kept reserved since September 30 last year. They were thrown literally onto the roads by the managements of power utilities of Telangana and AP even after putting in over two decades of services without employment and salary for more than last 18 months now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/84-power-staff-petition-cms-of-ts-ap/article38306552.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||CSIR-NGRI holds training programme on seismology||CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) had organised an online training programme on “Seismology - Theory, Practice and Applications” for students at the Master’s level in geology/geophysics or B. Tech. students in civil engineering on January 17 and 18. This was an initiative by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) under the Integrated Skill Development Programme. The aim of the course was to train the young generation in the field of seismology with emphasis on practical aspects and make them industry ready. Emeritus scientist V.K. Gaur addressed the participants where characteristics of earthquakes in the Himalayan region were highlighted and importance of building a resilient society to mitigate earthquake hazards in the country through modern scientific approaches was stressed. NGRI director V.M. Tiwari, chief scientist N. Purnachandra Rao and senior principal scientist Abhey Ram Bansal also spoke, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/csir-ngri-holds-training-programme-on-seismology/article38306768.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:02 IST,TELANGANA||AP Express stopped||South Central Railway (SCR) has informed that train no. 20805 VSKP-NDLS - Visakhapatnam to New Delhi AP Express, while passing through loop line at Nekkonda station around 7.15 a.m in Secunderabad division was stopped when smoke was noticed to be coming from the under gear of the S-6 coach on Friday. Immediately the smoke was extinguished with fire extinguishers and no damage had occurred to any coach components due to this. The smoke is said to have occurred due to ‘brake binding’. The crew and the guard attended to the affected coach at Nekkonda and released brake binding after which the train was started with a detention of 39 minutes. The coach was thoroughly checked at Warangal and the brakes were released manually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ap-express-stopped/article38306777.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Page 3 - Briefs - Manthan talk tomorrow||Hyderabad This Sunday’s Manthan talk will be by historian Bhangya Bhukya, who will discuss the cultural history of Telangana and answer questions like - How was the heterogenic environment of the region crucial to shaping its rationalistic culture?; why were heterodox sects such as Buddhism, Jainism, Vira Saivism and Sufism welcomed in Telangana?; How unique is Telangana personality? - among others. The event will start at 10.30 a.m. Login for online access at: https://vid.manthanindia. com/9094b1||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-briefs-manthan-talk-tomorrow/article64947290.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Man records selfie video before ending life||A 42-year-old person allegedly committed suicide here late on Wednesday night after recording a selfie video blaming his own brother for his drastic step. The police identified the deceased as T Srinivasa Chary of Tirumalanagar in the town. He allegedly recorded a selfie-video before consuming pesticide at his house on Wednesday night. He was shifted to a hospital in the town, where he died during the course of treatment a few hours later. In his selfie-video, he alleged that his brother Anjaneyulu deceived him in a property issue. He also blamed his sister over some financial matters. Karimnagar one-town police registered a case and are investigating. (Roshini -SuicidePrevention Helpline: 040-66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-records-selfie-video-before-ending-life/article38306773.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||POCSO court sentences 40-year-old man to 20-year jail term||In a judgment pronounced in virtual court, the Khammam POCSO-I court on Thursday sentenced a 40-year-old man to 20 years of imprisonment for raping a 10-year-old girl in Kallur mandal in 2018. Senior Judge Md Afroz Akthar convicted Madugula Krishna, 40, a labourerof Chinnakorukondiin Kallur mandal, after finding the latter guilty of the heinous crime. The judge ordered him to pay a fine of Rs. 25,000, which shall be paid to the victim as per the Section 6 (2) of the POCSO Act. The victim has been awarded a compensation of Rs. 50,000 under Section 33 (8) of the POCSO Act, payable by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pocso-court-sentences-40-year-old-man-to-20-year-jail-term/article38306774.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:00 IST,TELANGANA||Complete fever survey in district in 5 days: KTR||Minister forMunicipalAdministration, IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao has asked officials to expeditiously complete the door-to-door fever survey by 479 teams to cover all 1.50 lakh houses in the district in the next five days. He reviewed COVID-19 preventive measures and the progress of various development works with Collector Anuraag Jayanthi and other district officials at the Collectorate in Sircilla on Friday. He wanted the health machinery to remain alert at all levels to rein in the spread of COVID-19. The State government has kept the requisite infrastructure and medicines ready in all government hospitals to deal with any eventuality, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/complete-fever-survey-in-district-in-5-days-ktr/article38306769.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:01 IST,TELANGANA||United stand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/united-stand/article64947289.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:27 IST,||BJP leaders Bharti, Pragya seek liquor ban in M.P.||Senior BJP leader Uma Bharti on Friday sought total prohibition in the party-ruled Madhya Pradesh, a demand endorsed by her colleague and Lok Sabha MP Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur who, however, added that “liquor works as a medicine under ayurved if consumed in a limited quantity”. The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has just unveiled a new excise policy under which it has permitted setting up of home bars and slashed liquor prices by 20%. Former Chief Minister Bharti, in a series of tweets, said in the first phase of her move for total prohibition, she had discussions with State BJP chief and the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-leaders-bharti-pragya-seek-liquor-ban-in-mp/article38306722.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:28 IST,||Manipur celebrates 50th Statehood day||Manipur observed its 50th Statehood day on Friday. A large number of Ministers, MLAs, senior officials and others were present at the function held at 1 Manipur Rifles Ground in Imphal. Meghalaya and Tripura also celebrate their Statehood day. The three territories achieved Statehood on the same day in 1972. In his message on the occasion, President Ram Nath Kovind expressed his happiness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/manipur-celebrates-50th-statehood-day/article38306639.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:28 IST,||Forest cover decreases in Sariska, Ranthambore tiger reserves||The famous Ranthambore and Sariska tiger reserves in Rajasthan have registered a decrease in their forest cover over the last decade, while there was a marginal increase of 25.45 sq. km in other parts of the State as compared to 2019. A major portion of the loss was in the open forest areas, which are an important part of the wildlife sanctuaries. The Indian State of Forest Report, a biennial publication of the Forest Survey of India under the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, has revealed that the total area of green cover decreased by 44.57 sq. km in Ranthambore and 15.95 sq. km in Sariska. The forest cover with respect to the areas of digitised tiger reserve boundary was 45.39% in Ranthambore and 66.83% in Sariska. Elsewhere in the State, the patches of land with very dense forest were found in Alwar, Bikaner, Hanumangarh and Jaipur districts and their size remained unchanged at 78.15 sq. km, while there were some changes in the moderately dense and open forest cover. The area of 16,645.96 sq. km of the green cover in the State comprised 4.87% of the total area of the State, according to the report. The report has analysed expansion of forest cover inside and outside the recorded forest area in different categories and given a finding that the green cover across the State has increased marginally by 25.45 sq. km. Besides, as many as five invasive species of trees have occupied a total of 511 sq. km of the recorded forest area.  Forest and wildlife experts here have attributed the shrinking size of forest cover to the encroachments for agriculture and an unchecked grazing of animals over extensive areas. Tourism & Wildlife Society of India (TWSI) honorary secretary Harsh Vardhan told The Hindu that since the pasture lands had been largely destroyed, there was an extreme pressure of grazing on the forest land.  Invasive shrubs  Mr. Vardhan said wherever an expansion in the green cover was visible, it was because of the spread of the invasive shrubs of Prosopis juliflora . These plants cause negative impacts, affect the native biodiversity and cause economic losses in the habitats where they grow.  After a plantation exercise undertaken in Jaipur district’s Neota village recently, the livestock grazing on the land destroyed half of the 500 saplings planted on the land. Experts said the grazing on the forest land was often facilitated by the people enjoying political influence, which rendered the task of forest protection difficult.  The experts also suggested replication of a model involving eco-restoration of a rocky tract of land near Mehrangarh Fort in Jodhpur, which was earlier densely covered by Prosopis juliflora , and its conversion into a green habitat. After the project's completion, the fort is surrounded on three sides by a natural landscape which has become a much-admired nature park.  The work was described in a report on “compensatory conservation”, submitted by a seven-member committee to the Supreme Court on January 5. The apex court had appointed the committee, headed by M.K. Ranjitsinh Jhala, last year with the mandate to develop a set of scientific and policy guidelines governing the decision making on cutting of trees for development projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/forest-cover-decreases-in-sariska-ranthambore-tiger-reserves/article64947346.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:28 IST,||Pujari in police custody||Anti Extortion Cell on Friday took custody of gangster Suresh Pujari in connection with a extortion case.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pujari-in-police-custody/article38306724.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:27 IST,||‘No right, only expectation of conjugal relations with wife’||There is no “right” but only an “expectation” of conjugal relations with wife in a marriage and the same also cannot lead to the husband having forced relations with her, the Delhi High Court was told on Friday. Senior advocate Rebecca John, who has been appointed amicus curiae to assist the court on the petitions seeking to criminalise marital rape, said that expecting a sexual relationship is not wrong in marriage but if the wife withdraws, the remedy is through dialogue or the husband may seek a civil remedy. “Expectation cannot result in the husband having forced sex with his wife… The consequences (of the withdrawal) maybe something else. It may result in the marriage breaking down. I'm not denying that. It may result in the husband seeking a civil remedy. In a given situation, the husband may be right and the right may be unreasonable….(but) there is no right. There can be an expectation. The expectation cannot lead to forceable sex on your wife,” the senior lawyer told a Bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and C. Hari Shankar. “I don't want to trivialise it. This is not about expectation and one woman saying one day that I’m not in the mood. This is about a man exercising his dominant right over his wife despite the wife saying that I cannot and will not do it with you,” she explained. Ms. John’s submissions were in response to the court’s observation that there was a “quantitate difference” between a married and unmarried relationship, with the former entailing an element of expectation of a reasonable sexual relationship. The Bench is hearing PILs filed by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association, a man and a woman seeking striking down of the exception granted to husbands under the Indian rape law. In response to the court’s query that if the offence of rape was to be analysed from the perspective of the act and not the woman, Ms. John said that unlike several offences under the Indian Penal Code, the offence of rape was “gendered” and has “consent” of a woman as one of the ingredients. The court also questioned whether the marital rape exception could be said to be unconstitutional if the law was gender-neutral. She also highlighted that under Section 376B IPC, sexual intercourse with one’s wife, who is living separately, whether under a decree of separation or otherwise, without her consent, was punishable. The petitioners have challenged the constitutionality of the marital rape exception under section 375 IPC (rape) on the ground that it discriminated against married women who are sexually assaulted by their husbands. The court will hear the matter next on January 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-right-only-expectation-of-conjugal-relations-with-wife/article38306627.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:17 IST,||DU releases draft UG curriculum framework, seeks feedback||Delhi University on Friday released a Draft Undergraduate Curriculum Framework (UGCF) which has been formulated to orient its undergraduate programmes towards the ethos of the National Education Policy 2020. The UGCF is a structure for four-year undergraduate programmes in different disciplines with multiple exit options made possible by a system of earning credits. Option of allied courses The framework allows students to opt for one, two, or more disciplines of study as core disciplines depending on their choice. It also provides the option of studying allied courses either from the selected discipline or diversifying in other areas of study. In the fourth year, students are provided flexibility to opt for writing a dissertation or pursue academic projects or entrepreneurship depending upon their choice and their future outlook, post completion of their formal education, the university said. Creative combinations DU Vice-Chancellor Yogesh Singh said that the framework has been formulated with a student-centric approach providing creative combinations of disciplines for study with multiple entry and exit points, providing an ease to the student to learn at their own pace. “The framework incorporates the spirit of NEP in terms of providing multidisciplinary and holistic education with the rooting in culture and ethos of the nation and emphasis on research, skill development and higher order thinking skills, to promote innovation and employability,” Mr. Singh said. The university has circulated the draft curriculum framework in the public domain and asked for views of all stakeholders by January 30, before it implements it in the upcoming academic session. The draft says that the framework aims to provide a holistic development to the students by imparting life skills in initial years. “These life skill courses shall include courses on ‘Environment and Sustainable Development Studies’, ‘Communication Skills’, ‘Ethics and Culture’, ‘Science and Society’, ‘Computational Skills’, ‘IT & Data Analytics’, and similar such skills which shall make the students better equipped to deal with the life’s challenge,” Mr. Singh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-releases-draft-ug-curriculum-framework-seeks-feedback/article64947445.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:18 IST,||Restrictions have worked, we have averted danger, says Jain||Experts had warned that Delhi could record one lakh cases daily during this wave but the danger has been averted, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday. Despite the arrival of new cases every day for the last few days, the number of patients admitted to hospital is stable at present, he added. The Capital recorded 10,756 new COVID-19 cases on Friday along with 38 deaths. The health bulletin said that 59,529 tests have been conducted with a positivity rate of 18.04%. In the past 24 hours, 17,494 patients have recovered while 48,356 remain in home isolation. Of the 61,954 active cases in the city, 2,555 are admitted in hospitals. The Delhi government said that the city reported the highest number of cases of this COVID wave on January 12, which was nearly 28,000. About 8-10 days ago, the positivity rate was around 31%, but now it wasdown to around 17%. Assessing the downward graph, it said that restrictions imposed in the Capital had worked and suggested that some of them could now be lifted. Mr. Jain said: “The government had taken steps ranging from weekend curfew to closure of educational institutions in public interest to protect the health of the people and save as many lives as possible. These restrictions have worked and have brought the situation under control, which led to a decline in the number of cases.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/restrictions-have-worked-we-have-averted-danger-says-jain/article64947443.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:28 IST,||DCI official booked for fraud||The CBI has booked a Chief Project Manager of the Dredging Corporation of India (DCI) Limited, Van Oord India Private Limited (VOIPL) and others for alleged corruption of about Rs. 50 crore in the dredging work at the Mumbai Harbour Channel and the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Channel in 2020-21. The official, B. Durga Prasad Babu, has been accused of conniving with the Mumbai-based company pertaining to the award/execution of the tender. The DCI had invited the tender for dredging and dumping the extracted material at a designated site. The payment was to be made based on the quantity of the dredged and dumped material. In this regard, three work orders were issued to the lowest bidder, VOIPL, with a cumulative quantity of work as 20.01 million cubic metre, with the overall contract value of Rs. .144.96 crore. When the pre-dredging survey was conducted in October 2020, the company submitted charters and volume computation of 27.5 million cubic metre. The Port Trust rejected it as ‘unrealistic’ and ‘exorbitant’. As the company had allegedly inflated the quantities, the DCI directed independent reconfirmation survey by IIT-Chennai. It reported 23.22 million cubic metre as the quantity. According to the FIR, VOIPL started the dredging work on October 28, 2020, and raised two bills, before the survey approval, which stated that the quantity was 10.42 million cubic metre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dci-official-booked-for-fraud/article38306640.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:18 IST,||‘Provide cover to woman till reunion with husband’||The Delhi High Court has directed Delhi Police to provide protection to a woman, who was alleged to be illegally confined by her father, until she was reunited with her husband. The High Court directed the police to lodge the woman at Nirmal Chhaya Home, Tihar Jail, Hari Nagar, under the care and custody of a police officer. The order was delivered on a habeas corpus plea filed by the husband claiming that his wife was being illegally detained by her father who was against their marriage. The couple, represented by advocate Raghunatha Sethupathy B, along with advocate A. Rajarajan, produced their marriage certificate issued on November 22, 2021, by the Arya Samaj Mandir Vivah Bandhan Trust, Tis Hazari, as evidence. The plea stated that the couple had plans to settle at Jaipur and had moved there on December 12 last year. However, on the same morning, the woman’s father along with police officers took her away, the plea further stated. The court took note of the fact that the woman, who appeared before it through videoconferencing, was a ‘major’ as she was born on August 26, 1997.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/provide-cover-to-woman-till-reunion-with-husband/article64947444.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:17 IST,||Two arrested for duping people by promising jobs||The Delhi police have arrested two persons for allegedly duping people on the pretext of arranging jobs for them in an airlines company at IGI Airport, officers said on Friday. According to DCP (IGI) Sanjay Tyagi, the accused have been identified as Naveen Pathak and Kamal Sharma. Three of their accomplices have already been arrested by the police. According to police, on June 17, they received a complaint from one Surender Singh who claimed that some persons promised him a job in Spicejet Airlines at the IGI Airport and cheated him. He said he had deposited money in the bank account of one Shubham Tiwari and Arun Kumar Sharma as security deposit, insurance charge and other hidden charges but was not provided the promised job. An FIR was lodged at the IGI police station and during investigation it was found that many had been cheated using the same modus operandi. The three accused arrested earlier, namely Shubham Tiwari, Ajay Thakur and Himanshu, revealed the name of Naveen, who used to provide bank accounts in which the cheated amount got transferred. Through technical intelligence, Naveen was arrested on January 9. At his instance, Kamal was arrested, the DCP said. Another accused Arun Kumar Sharma is absconding, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-arrested-for-duping-people-by-promising-jobs/article38306455.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:17 IST,||BJP supports Delhi govt. on easing curbs||The proposal by the Delhi government on Friday to allow resumption of private offices and markets in the city has found support from the Opposition BJP. The BJP requested Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal to reconsider his decision to continue the night and weekend curfews in addition to the odd-even rule for opening of shops. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said given the decline in COVID cases in the Capital, it was necessary to give relief to the business class. “The proposal of the Delhi government should be approved with the condition that it will ensure strict implementation of COVID rules in the markets,” he said. Due to the closure of some shops in a market, the LoP said, crowds were gathering outside other shops defeating the purpose of the odd-even rule. It was bothering the business class and affecting the livelihood of workers in shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-supports-delhi-govt-on-easing-curbs/article38306458.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 04:17 IST,||DCPCR notice to North body||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on Friday issued a notice to the North Delhi Municipal Corporation over the demolition of two primary schools in Karol Bagh to construct a multi-level parking lot. It asked the civic body to submit all records within seven days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dcpcr-notice-to-north-body/article38306457.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:28 IST,||SC judge recuses from Tejpal’s case||Supreme Court Judge Justice L. Nageswara Rao on Friday recused himself from hearing the appeal of journalist Tarun Tejpal against the Bombay High Court’s order rejecting his plea for an in-camera hearing of the proceedings challenging hisacquittal in a 2013 rape case. “I recuse as at some stage in 2016, I had appeared for the State of Goa in the matter. Let it be listed in some other court next week,” said Justice Rao, who was sitting with Justice B.R. Gavai on the Bench. The Bench was to hear the plea of Tejpal whose application for conducting an in-camera hearing of the proceedings under section 327 of the CrPC was rejected by the Goa Bench of the Bombay High Court last year. Theacquittal of Tejpalwas challenged by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sc-judge-recuses-from-tejpals-case/article38306465.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:17 IST,||Iran, Russia and China begin naval drill||Iran, Russia and China on Friday began a joint naval drill in the Indian Ocean aimed at boosting marine security, state media reported. Iran’s state TV said 11 of its vessels were joined by three Russian ships including a destroyer, and two Chinese vessels. Iran’s Revolutionary Guard will also participate with smaller ships and helicopters. The report said the manoeuvrers would cover some 17,000 square km in the Indian Ocean’s north, and include night fighting, rescue operations and firefighting drills. This is the third joint naval drill between the countries since 2019. It coincided with a recent visit by Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi to Russia that ended on Thursday. “Improving bilateral relations between Tehran and Moscow will enhance security for the region and the international arena,” Mr. Raisi said upon returning from Russia on Friday, the official IRNA news agency reported. Tehran has sought to step up military cooperation with Beijing and Moscow amid regional tensions with the United States. Visits to Iran by Russian and Chinese naval representatives have also increased in recent years. Iran has been holding regular military drills in recent months, as attempts to revive its 2015 nuclear deal with world powers flounder. Russia is also at loggerheads with the U.S. and the West over its neighbour Ukraine, where it has sent some 1,00,000 troops that Washington, Kiev and their allies fear will be used to invade the country. Russia on Thursday announced sweeping naval maneuvers in multiple areas involving the bulk of its naval potential — over 140 warships and more than 60 aircraft — to last through February. The exercises will be in the Black Sea, the Mediterranean, the northeastern Atlantic and the Pacific Ocean, in addition to the joint exercise with Iran in the Indian Ocean.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-russia-and-china-begin-naval-drill/article38305990.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Family of four, believed to be Indians, frozen to death||Four individuals believed to be Indian nationals — a man, woman, teenager and baby — have been found frozen to death just north of the U.S. border in Canada. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) found the deceased in a field near Emerson, Manitoba, on Wednesday, after they were alerted by their counterparts in the U.S. One American citizen has been arrested in connection with the case on the U.S. side of the border. Seven other Indians were detained by police in the U.S. — one of whom is in the hospital after sustaining serious weather related injuries. “I know that what I am about to share is going to be difficult for many people to hear,” RCMP Assistant Commissioner Jane MacLatchysaid at a press briefingon Thursday. “It is an absolute and heartbreaking tragedy,” she said, offering her condolences to the loved ones of the deceased. Ms. MacLatchy said she was using the word “victim” on purpose, according to a video of the press interaction. She expressed concern that the individuals were “left on their own, in the middle of a blizzard when the weather hovered around minus 35 C, factoring [in] the wind.” The individuals faced not only cold weather but also “endless fields” winds and darkness, she said. Human smuggling  “We have not confirmed the identity of the four deceased persons at this time and the investigation is ongoing,” RCMP spokesperson Julie Courchaine told The Hindu via email. “A thorough search was conducted and thankfully no other victims were located,” she said.  The U.S. Department of Justice charged a 47-year-old Florida man, Steve Shand, with human smuggling, Acting U.S. Attorney Charles J Kovats announced. Mr. Shand, who was driving a 15-passenger van, had been arrested just south (i.e., within a mile on the U.S. side) of the U.S.-Canada border on Wednesday. Two individuals in the van were determined to be undocumented Indian nationals, as per the U.S. Attorney’s office. As Mr. Shand and the two Indian nationals were being driven to a border patrol station, a group of five Indian nationals was seen walking in the direction of where Mr. Shand was picked up, according to court documents described by the DoJ. The group had been walking approximately 11 hours and said they were waiting to be picked up by someone, as per the DoJ. “...Agents encountered five additional people walking on a nearby road experiencing severe signs of hypothermia and frostbite due to exposure to the extreme cold and wind chill. Agents immediately rendered aid, called for Emergency Medical Services and began transporting two of the individuals to an area hospital,” the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) said. One member of the group had a backpack that he said belonged to fellow travellers who had been separated from him. The bag contained “children clothes, a diaper, toys, and some children’s medication,” the DoJ said. The U.S. Border Police alerted the RCMP and received a report on the same day (Wednesday) from them that four deceased individuals had been found. Two of the surviving Indians were taken to the hospital. One of them , a man, was discharged and is back in the custody of U.S. authorities while one of them, a woman, has been shifted to a hospital in St Paul, Minnesota for advanced care. Speaking of those who died, Ms. McLatchy said, “We don’t know how these individuals got to Emerson, but our investigators are certainly going to look into every aspect of their deaths.” The Hindu reached out to a CBP Great Plains official, who declined to comment beyond the published statement, saying the investigation was ongoing. “Shocked by the report that 4 Indian nationals, including an infant have lost their lives at the Canada-US border. Have asked our Ambassadors in the US and Canada to urgently respond to the situation,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar tweeted on Friday. An Indian consular team was travelling to Minnesota on Friday to assist in the matter, India’s Ambassador to the U.S., Taranjit Singh Sandhu said on Twitter in reference to Mr. Jaishankar’s tweet. Another team was on its way to Manitoba, India’s Ambassador to Canada, Ajay Bisaria said on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/family-of-four-believed-to-be-indians-frozen-to-death/article64947170.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||At least 70 dead in air strike on Yemen prison: aid agencies||At least 70 people were killed in an air strike on a prison and at least three children died in a separate bombardment as Yemen’s long-running conflict suffered a dramatic escalation of violence on Friday. The Houthi rebels released gruesome video footage showing bodies in the rubble and mangled corpses from the prison attack, which levelled buildings at the jail in their northern heartland of Saada. In the port city of Hodeida, the children died when air strikes by the Saudi-led coalition hit a telecommunications facility as they played nearby, Save the Children said. Yemen also suffered an Internet blackout. The UN Human Rights Office said the reports of intensifying coalition air strikes on populated areas were “deeply shocking”. Eight aid agencies said they were “horrified by the news that more than 70 people, including migrants, women and children, have been killed... in a blatant disregard for civilian lives.” The coalition attacks come after the Houthis took the seven-year war into a new phase by claiming a drone and missile attack on Abu Dhabi that killed three people on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/scores-killed-in-strike-on-yemen-jail/article38305988.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Oil giants exit Myanmar over rights violations||Oil majors TotalEnergies and Chevron Corp, partners in a major gas project in Myanmar, said on Friday they were withdrawing from the country, citing the worsening humanitarian situation following last year’s coup. Shell, in its first public acknowledgement of the move, also said on Friday that it no longer held exploration licences in Myanmar as of last year. Myanmar has been in turmoil since the army overthrew the elected government in February 2021 and detained its leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The junta has used brutal force to put down protests. TotalEnergies and Chevron, along with other firms, were part of a joint venture operating the Yadana gas project off Myanmar’s southwest coast, and the MGTC transportation system carrying gas from the field to the Myanmar/Thailand border. They are the latest Western companies to pull out in the wake of the coup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/oil-giants-exit-myanmar-over-rights-violations/article38305989.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Call for Nepal Minister’s ouster over ‘hate speech’||Members of civil society in Nepal have called upon Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba to sack Transport Minister Renu Yadav after she alluded to an infamous 2007 massacre and threatened to target opponents. Ms. Yadav, who represents the Janata Samajvadi Party, threatened her opponents at a political event in Gaur of Rautahat district and made incendiary remarks. The activists’ statement warned that Ms. Yadav’s remarks have the potential of igniting inter-ethnic violence in Nepal. In the speech of January 19, Ms. Yadav acknowledged the involvement of her party’s previous incarnation — Madhesi Jana Adhikar Forum (Madhesi People’s Rights Forum) in the Gaur massacre of March 21, 2007, which led to the killing of 28 Maoist cadre. In a widely circulated video, she can be seen threatening C.K. Raut, leader of Janamat Party, with a repeat of Gaur killings. The Gaur killings have not been dealt through the legal process till now and the statement reiterated the need to fix accountability for the killings, which was one of the last major massacres of Nepal’s 11-year long civil war. “We are clear that a person who cannot hold the dignity of a Minister’s position, demonstrates criminal mindset, and publicly concedes to acts of murder, is ineligible to retain any position of public responsibility. The fact that a sitting Minister can threaten target killings, and also proudly take ownership of a massacre, is the result of the unchecked lack of accountability in the country,” declared the statement, which was signed by Kanak Mani Dixit, Indra Prasad Aryal and six other leading activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/call-for-nepal-ministers-ouster-over-hate-speech/article38305994.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Pope vows justice to victims of clergy abuse||Pope Francis vowed on Friday to provide justice to victims of clergy sexual abuse after a report faulted Pope Benedict XVI for having botched four cases of abuse. Church officials in the Vatican had difficulty digesting the findings that a Pope credited with having turned the Vatican around on the abuse issue had in fact mishandled cases earlier in his career.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pope-vows-justice-to-victims-of-clergy-abuse/article38305991.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Russia seeks exit of NATO from Bulgaria, Romania||Moscow said on Friday it wanted troops from NATO member states to leave Romania and Bulgaria as part of security demands it is seeking from the U.S.-led alliance. Russia wants the “withdrawal of foreign forces, hardware and arms” from countries that were not NATO members before 1997, the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. “These include Bulgaria and Romania," the statement added, singling out the two former Warsaw Pact allies that joined NATO in 2004. Russia also demands that NATO must not admit new members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-seeks-exit-of-nato-from-bulgaria-romania/article38305993.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||11 killed in IS attack on Iraq military base||Eleven soldiers were killed in an overnight attack by the Islamic State group against a base in eastern Iraq, authorities said Friday, in the jihadists’ deadliest operation in the country this year. A senior military official based in Iraq’s Diyala province said “eleven soldiers... have been killed during an attack carried out by the Islamic State” against a military base in the Hawi al-Azim area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/11-killed-in-is-attack-on-iraq-military-base/article38305987.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Booster shots key to fighting Omicron: CDC||Three studies released on Friday offered more evidence that COVID-19 vaccines are standing up to the Omicron variant, at least among people who received booster shots. The papers echo previous research — including studies in Germany and the U.K. — indicating available vaccines are less effective against Omicron than earlier versions of the virus, but also that boosters enhances protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/booster-shots-key-to-fighting-omicron-cdc/article38306304.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:32 IST,||The young, educated hatemongers||It was around 10:30 p.m. on January 5. The Bishnoi family had already turned in when a Delhi Police team arrived at their house in Jorhat, Assam. They stared at the police in confusion as the officers spoke about an application called ‘Bulli Bai’, created, apparently, by Dasrath Bishnoi’s young son, Niraj. “We are not educated so we didn’t understand a lot, but the police said that Niraj had created this app. I had no idea what was happening,” says Dasrath. After being questioned for half an hour, Niraj was whisked away. Soon, the formalities began to take him to the capital. Niraj is a 20-year-old Bachelor of Technology student from a college in Bhopal. He has been suspended from college since. The college is angry that he has brought disrepute to the institution and his parents are upset that he has given them a bad name. Niraj, the police say, stands accused of building Bulli Bai to “auction” Muslim women. The app announces a “Bulli Bai of the day”. The app creators seem to have taken a leaf out of online sales and ‘lightning deals of the day’ to put women up for sale online. Investigators say the motive is to defame Muslim women. One hundred-and-two women’s names and photographs were fed into the code of the app, they say. Niraj, in front of his parents, agreed that he had built the application. “I don’t know why and how he did this. What was going on in his head,” his distressed father asks. The arrests Niraj was not the first to be arrested in the ‘Bulli Bai’ app case. On January 3, Vishal Kumar Jha, 21, was pulled out of class from an engineering college in South Bengaluru, questioned in the college campus, and then flown to Mumbai where he was arrested. Vishal’s arrest came as a shock not only to many people who were following the case but also his college. One of his professors, who did not wish to be named, says Vishal was not bothersome. “During the first year, all the students study together. From the second year, they are divided into groups according to their choice of streams.We had limited interactions with him as classes started only in October 2021. We called his parents when his attendance dropped below 60%. But for that, he was neither remarkable nor troublesome,” he says. Enquiries revealed that Vishal was not close to any of his classmates. The college has maintained that it will not take any punitive action against Vishal until the probe is concluded. Vishal hails from Patna, Bihar, and is the son of a ticket examiner in the Indian Railways. He has an elder sister working for a multinational company, sources say. His father, Sudhir Kumar Jha, is reported to have told mediapersons that he believes his son is innocent and was “trapped”. The next day, Shweta Singh, an 18-year-old woman was arrested from Uttarakhand by the Mumbai Police. Shweta, who lost one parent to cancer and another to COVID-19, was active on social media and often posted extreme views, the police say. Soon after, Mayank Rawat, 21, was also arrested by the police. The bail pleas of both Shweta and Mayank were rejected on the grounds that they had intentionally used Sikh names on Twitter to promote enmity between Muslims and Sikhs. The same week, Aumkareshwar Thakur, 26, was arrested from Indore by the Delhi Police. Aumkareshwar completed his Bachelors in Computer Applications. He and Niraj, who was nabbed around the same time, were remanded in police custody till January 27. The fifth arrest was made from Odisha by the Mumbai Police cyber cell. The accused is an MBA graduate, Neeraj Singh (28). All the arrested men and women are young and educated and hail from different parts of the country. A loner and his laptop According to his parents, Niraj Bishnoi led a disciplined life. He would wake up at 7 a.m. every day, take a bath, and head to the neighbourhood temple where he would worship Shiva and Hanuman for at least an hour. He would then return and “study on his laptop” for the next few hours before having lunch. After an afternoon nap, he would spend an hour reciting ‘Sundara Kanda’, a Hindu epic dedicated to Hanuman. He would then return to his laptop. Niraj, who didn’t have a separate room, would sleep around 9:30 p.m., like everyone else in his family, his father says. “His mother is very religious and he is very close to her. She is probably the only one he talks to,” Dasrath, who owns a grocery shop, says. Niraj was a good student in school and secured admission in an engineering college on merit, his father says. His parents say they were proud of him. But his father admits he never understood what Niraj did on his laptop. “About a year ago, he used to watch a TV news channel. He got so addicted to news that his mother had to dissuade him from spending so many hours before the TV,” Dasrath says. An investigator who questioned Niraj for hours found him “abnormal” with a strong dislike for Muslims. This irrational dislike, he says, must have found an outlet through the app. “He is very confused. Sometimes he says he is a communist. He also believes a woman’s place is inside the home,” says the officer investigating him. According to his family, Niraj has been raised in a “healthy environment”. He has two sisters: one studies law in Noida and the other is pursuing a Masters in Science. The sisters don’t believe Niraj hates Muslim women. Niraj was a loner who had no friends and no social life, his family says. Link to Sulli Deals The police arrested Niraj as the “main conspirator, creator and mastermind” behind the Bulli Bai application on GitHub, the hosting platform. Investigators say Niraj used five Twitter handles that had the name ‘Giyu’, a Japanese gaming character, to communicate in the virtual world. According to them, Niraj not only created the Bulli Bai app, but one of the handles used by him also appeared in the investigation of the Sulli Deals app. Sulli Deals was created six months ago. Niraj tried to mislead the police by saying that the Sulli Deals app, which auctioned prominent Muslim women, was created by a Muslim man, Javed Alam, an engineering graduate from Uttar Pradesh. Investigators also say Niraj posed as a female journalist and tried to get details about the Sulli Deals probe. An officer says the accused was also involved in an earlier case of online harassment. News of the Bulli Bai app hit the headlines when a 23-year-old Delhi-based journalist shared a screenshot on Twitter when she found herself featured as the “Bulli Bai of the day”. She lodged a complaint with the District Police and an FIR was registered on January 2. The FIR was sent to the Special Cell’s Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations Unit which began investigating the matter. Within two days of taking up the investigation, the team arrested Niraj after what they called “backtracking the digital footprint”. The investigators questioned Niraj for seven days with each day bringing forth “shocking” revelations. Niraj admitted to have started hacking websites at the age of 15. “He defaces websites regularly. He claims to have hacked into and defaced the websites of various schools and universities in India and Pakistan,” an officer says. Niraj lived in the virtual world, investigators contend. His connections with people were only through Twitter group chats and closed social media groups. When questioned, Niraj mentioned that he was in touch with the creator of the Sulli Deals app, Aumkareshwar Thakur. The investigators say there is “no doubt” that Niraj was the brain behind the app. When the police wrote to GitHub to share details, they also sent him an email as part of protocol, informing him that they were seeking details on the email account used by him. When the police made some arrests in Mumbai, Niraj felt that the arrests were not right and announced on Twitter that he was the creator of the app. He also spoke to a journalist and shared the email sent to him by GitHub to prove that he was the mastermind. “He was using ProtonMails and a different VPN. He believed he wouldn’t be traced,” the officer says. When Niraj was arrested, one question was raised by many, including the women who were ‘auctioned’: why did the Delhi and Noida police make no headway in the Sulli Deals app case? For six months starting last July, when the case was registered, the police maintained that they had written to GitHub asking for details on the account linked to the application and were following the MLAT (Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty) process to get the required information from GitHub’s office in the U.S. It was only later that the Sulli Deals creator too was booked. ‘Stunned, frightened, disgusted’ On New Year’s day, Sidrah Patel received a photograph on WhatsApp with a message that read: “They have started again”. “I did not download it immediately, but I could make out the photo through that blurred image. I have been attacked in the online space multiple times earlier. But when I finally opened the photo, I was stunned, frightened and disgusted. I didn’t know what to do,” Sidrah says. Sidrah, a resident of Mumbai and a vocal Muslim woman on social media, was one of the hundreds of victims, all Muslim women, who had been “auctioned” on the Bulli Bai app. It seemed like the Sulli Deals nightmare, which had happened in July 2021, had begun again. An FIR registered with the Delhi Police by victims of Sulli Deals led to no arrests then as the Delhi Police, which falls under the Union Home Ministry, could neither trace the creator nor stop this from taking place again. “My friend called me and told me that last time, the complaint was made to the Delhi Police. She asked me whether I would like to file the complaint since I am from Mumbai. I said no. I wanted to stay away from all of this. Meanwhile, the whole list came out. It had women of my mother’s age in it. I felt so disturbed that I felt I should do something. Around the same time, Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi also called me asking whether I want to file the complaint. She spoke to me and assured me of all support,” Sidrah says.  Priyanka says the Delhi Police, which was supposedly working on the Sulli Deals case, did nothing until October 2021. “I kept raising the issue even though it was becoming clear that nothing was going to come out of it,” she told The Hindu .   Mumbai Police’s cyber crime branch got in touch with Sidrah soon. As she did not want to open the screenshots, Sidrah sought the help of Mohammed Zubair of Alt News , a fact-checking website, who had flagged the issue on Twitter. The police began their work. Sidrah went to the police station at around 10 a.m. on January 2 by which time they were prepared with all their background work on the case. By evening, an FIR was filed. The first arrest was made on January 4.  A day later, Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale held a press conference announcing the arrest of Shweta and Mayank after finding their connection with Vishal in the same case. A day later, the Delhi Police arrested the alleged mastermind of the Bulli Bai app, Niraj, from Jorhat. Interestingly, a Mumbai Police team was also heading to arrest Niraj then and was barely few hours away from Jorhat. Since then, Niraj has been kept in the custody of the Delhi Police, while the Mumbai Police team which is probing the case is demanding his custody for further investigation. Sidrah points out that even before the Sulli Deals in July 2021, Pakistani women used to be “auctioned”. “All the accounts and their conversations have been online for months since then. It is not that like this incident has happened out of nowhere,” she says. Modus operandi Mohammed Zubair has been following all these happenings and believes that the Sulli Deals and Bulli Bai app have a lot in common. “The code was identical. Even in the source code of the Bulli Bai app, the word Sulli was used,” he says. A month after the Sulli Deals app controversy broke, a person named Javed Alam from U.P. began to be blamed for the app. Screenshots and Telegram chats were created to place the blame on him, Zubair says. The Delhi Police were tagged in posts seeking action against Javed. The police swooped in and detained Javed for about a week without even registering a case. But Zubair, who has been following the Sulli Deals case, knew which accounts had created the Sulli Deals. He gave this information to Javed’s brother who passed it on to the police. The Delhi Police called one more person named Krunal Patel while interrogating Javed. Krunal was among those who had blamed Javed for creating the Sulli Deals app. But the police let him go within a few hours. According to Zubair, Krunal is connected to those who have been arrested in the Bulli Bai case. Zubair says he has stored Krunal’s interactions, which the latter had deleted. Javed was reportedly told by the police to not trouble or blame Krunal before he was let go. Zubair closely followed the Bulli Bai app when the allegations exploded on December 31, 2021, and was among the first to ensure that all the data and screenshots were stored. These were later handed over to the cyber cells of both the Mumbai and Delhi Police. “Some accounts had shared the link to the Bulli Bai app. The first thing I did was to screenshot all the victims, around 100 names with photos, which were shared with the victims personally. Later on, we retrieved the source code,” he says. Sources within the Mumbai Police say they had received a few online complaints about Sulli Deals but could not do much as nobody came forward to provide information. There was also the problem of jurisdiction. Even in the Bulli Bai app case, social media platforms such as GitHub and Twitter were reluctant to share information. “There is no seriousness about the issue that multiple apps are being created to silence women. No priority is given to this issue. There is no understanding of the sensitivity of online crimes,” says Priyanka. She had communicated with the Union Information Technology Minister over the need to tackle this issue and the need to bring in necessary amendments in law, but received a half-hearted reply in return. An ecosystem of hate While the attack was an attempt to target vocal Muslim women who speak truth to power, seek justice and amplify voices against hate crimes, it is also seen as an attempt to sexualise women and normalise such sexualisation. “Nobody can work with so much impunity and continue to challenge the Mumbai Police. The network has to be really big. This cannot just be the work of 21-year-olds or 18-years-olds working on the Internet. There are many other players who are yet to be unmasked and that can only happen if the investigation is fair,” says Sidrah. Sulli Deals and Bulli Bai are not the only such apps. There are ‘Trads’ (short for Traditionalists), for instance, who label anyone who opposes them as ‘Raitas’. The Trads are so extreme that they even abuse Bharatiya Janata Party and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leaders for being soft on Muslims. “Trads are against Muslims, liberals, Dalits and all castes other than Brahmins. They abuse even the Jains. They make vulgar comments under the photos of women, even of Hindu women who are not Brahmins. They are everywhere: on Twitter, Reddit, Telegram. We don’t see them because we dismiss most of them as trolls. But they exist,” says Zubair, who has been working extensively on understanding the methodology of online hate-spewing groups. Zubair believes that this work cannot be done in isolation. He also makes an interesting observation. Many of the photos on the app, he says, were of Muslim women who were neither active on social media nor vocal against the BJP government at the Centre. Some were not related to politics, nor did they make any political comments. Almost 30% to 40% of the photos of the women were from the Sulli Deals app and some were old display pictures. “Somebody supplied them with these photographs. I am not sure if these guys even know who these women are,” he says. According to the Mumbai Police, all the accused are also involved in the Sulli Deals app. On January 20, Metropolitan Magistrate Komal Sing Rajput rejected the bail pleas of Vishal, Mayank and Shweta citing the seriousness of the offences and said the investigation is still at a primary stage. All the accused are booked under Sections 153A (promoting enmity on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc.), 153B (Imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 354D (stalking), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 500 (criminal defamation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act. With inputs from K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj in Bengaluru and Sonam Saigal in Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-young-educated-hatemongers/article64947519.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:31 IST,||The ground rules of ‘the one land of many’||This month we celebrate another Republic Day, the 72nd anniversary of the entry into force of our Constitution. In so doing we reaffirm the essence of Indian nationalism, reified in a constitution adopted after almost three years of debate, and in the process implicitly salute the ‘idea of India’ that emerged from both the nationalist movement and its institutionalisation in the Republic. A gift and a vision The idea of India as a modern nation based on a certain conception of human rights and citizenship, vigorously backed by due process of law, and equality before law, is a gift of the Constitution. Earlier conceptions of India drew their inspiration from mythology and theology. The modern idea of India, despite the mystical influence of Tagore, and the spiritual and moral influences of Gandhiji, is a robustly secular and legal construct based upon the vision and intellect of our founding fathers, notably (in alphabetical order) Ambedkar, Nehru, and Patel. The Preamble of the Constitution itself is the most eloquent enumeration of this vision. In its description of the defining traits of the Indian republic, and its conception of justice, of liberty, of equality and fraternity, it firmly proclaims that the law will be the bedrock of the national project. To my mind, the role of liberal constitutionalism in shaping and undergirding the civic nationalism of India is the dominant strand in the broader story of the evolution and modernisation of Indian society over the last century. The principal task of any Constitution is to constitute: that is, to define the rules, the shared norms, values and systems under which the state will function and the nation will evolve. The way in which the ideals embedded in that document were implemented and evolved, in a spirit of civic nationalism, through the first seven and a half decades of India’s independence, have determined the kind of country we are. To shape a new citizen Every society has an interdependent relationship with the legal systems that govern it, which is both complex and, especially in our turbulent times, continuously and vociferously contested. It is through this interplay that communities become societies, societies become civilisations, and civilisations acquire a sense of national and historical character. The Chairman of the Drafting Committee of the Constituent Assembly, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, not only understood this but explicitly hoped the Constitution would help shape a new kind of citizen. ‘I do not want that our loyalty as Indians should be in the slightest way affected by any competitive loyalty,’ said the great constitutionalist, ‘whether that loyalty arises out of our religion, out of our culture or out of our language. I want all people to be Indians first, Indian last and nothing else but Indians.’ This was a greater challenge than it might have been in another country than India. It was not just the elements he mentioned — religion, culture and language — that divided Indians and seemed to fly in the face of an idea of shared citizenship. There was, as Ambedkar knew all too well, the dark shadow of caste and social hierarchy. ‘In politics we will be recognizing the principle of one man one vote and one vote one value. In our social and economic life, we shall, by reason of our social and economic structure, continue to deny the principle of one man one value. How long shall we continue to live this life of contradictions?’ Ambedkar famously asked. Incorporating the underclass Ambedkar’s eloquent assault on discrimination and untouchability for the first time cogently expanded the reach of the Indian idea to incorporate the nation’s vast, neglected underclass. Ambedkar — a product of Columbia University and the London School of Economics, and principal of the prestigious Government Law College in Bombay — was deeply troubled by the iniquities of the caste system and the fear of many Dalits that national independence would merely lead to the social and political dominance of the upper castes. As an opponent of caste tyranny, and a nationalist, he believed that Dalits must support India’s freedom from British rule but that they must pursue their struggle for equal rights within the framework of the new constitution that he had a major hand in drafting. Despite his own pessimism, Ambedkar’s solution has worked. As I had pointed out in this space, the most important contribution of the Constitution to Indian civic nationalism was that of representation centred on individuals. The establishment of a constitutional democracy in post-colonial India involved an attempt to free Indians from prevailing types of categorisation, and to place each citizen in a realm of individual agency that went beyond the immutable identity conferred by birth. In the process the Constitution transcended all those identities that both defined and divided Indians. The Constitution provided a legal structure to an implicit idea of India as of one land embracing many. It reflected the idea that a nation may incorporate differences of caste, creed, colour, culture, cuisine, conviction, consonant, costume, and custom, and still rally around a democratic consensus. That consensus is around the simple principle that in a democracy under the rule of law, you do not really need to agree all the time — except on the ground rules of how you will disagree. The reason India has survived all the stresses and strains that have beset it for three quarters of a century (and that led so many in the 1950s and 1960s to predict its imminent disintegration), is that it maintained consensus on how to manage without consensus. Today, some in positions of power in India seem to be questioning those ground rules, and that, sadly, is why it is all the more essential to reaffirm them now. The rule of law Indian nationalism is thus the nationalism of an idea, the idea of what I have dubbed an ever-ever land — emerging from an ancient civilisation, united by a shared history, sustained by pluralist democracy under the rule of law. What knits this entire concept of Indian nationhood together is, of course, the rule of law, enshrined in our Constitution. The struggle for Indian independence was, after all, not simply a struggle for freedom from alien rule. It was a shift away from an administration of law and order centred on imperial despotism. It is from this that the idea of ‘constitutional morality’ was born, meaning a national commitment to pursuing desirable ends through constitutional means, to upholding and respecting the Constitution’s processes and structures, and to doing so in a spirit of transparency and accountability, free speech, public scrutiny of government actions and legal limitations on the exercise of power. This was how freedom was intended to flourish in India. The Constitution’s spirit Of course, Ambedkar realised it is perfectly possible to pervert the Constitution, without changing its form, by merely changing the form of the administration to make it inconsistent with the spirit of the Constitution. Ambedkar argued that constitutional morality ‘is not a natural sentiment. It has to be cultivated. We must realize that our people have yet to learn it. Democracy in India is only a top-dressing on an Indian soil which is essentially undemocratic’. He insisted that the Directive Principles — an unusual feature of the Indian Constitution not found elsewhere — were necessary because although the rules of democracy mandated that the people must elect those who will hold power, the principles confirmed that ‘whoever captures power will not be free to do what he likes with it’. To recall these basic principles today is to recognise how far we are currently straying from them, and the dangers inherent in the present government’s practice of paying lip-service to the Constitution while trampling on its spirit. This Republic Day, as we gear up to commemorate the 75th anniversary of our Independence a little over six months later, we must remind ourselves of, and rededicate ourselves to, the ideals that lie behind the Constitution whose entry into force we all celebrate on January 26. Shashi Tharoor is Lok Sabha MP for Thiruvananthapuram and the author of 23 books, most recently ‘Pride, Prejudice and Punditry’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-ground-rules-of-the-one-land-of-many/article64947522.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:31 IST,||Setting sail for a powerful India-German partnership||A military vessel probably will not be your first thought when it comes to Germany’s role in India. Nonetheless, against all COVID odds and with due health precautions in place, the German Navy frigate Bayern landed in Mumbai on Thursday, January 20, 2022. A port call ( picture ) which might be business as usual for India with regard to many other friendly countries is, on close inspection, a remarkable step for Indo-German relations.  The setting of a new order  Germany has realised that the world’s political and economic centre of gravity is, to a large degree, shifting to the Indo-Pacific region, with India as a key player, strategic partner and long-standing democratic friend at the hub. Here is where a significant part of the future international order is being shaped. The visit of the Bayern shows that we are not just talking. Here is a concrete outcome of the Indo-Pacific Policy Guidelines that Germany adopted in autumn 2020 and the European Union’s Indo-Pacific Strategy published last year. So why did we come up with such guidelines at this particular time?  Germany is determined to contribute to buttressing the rules-based international order at a time when it is exposed to grave challenges. For Europe, just like for India, it is vital that trade routes stay open, that freedom of navigation is upheld and that disputes are resolved peacefully on the basis of international law. India is a maritime powerhouse and a strong advocate for free and inclusive trade — and, therefore, a primary partner on that mission. The challenges The Indo-Pacific, with India as its centrepiece, looms large in Germany’s and the European Union’s foreign policy. Why? The Indo-Pacific region is home to around 65% of the global population and 20 of the world’s 33 megacities. The region accounts for 62% of global GDP and 46% of the world’s merchandise trade. On the other hand, it is also the source of more than half of all global carbon emissions. This makes the region’s countries key partners in tackling global challenges such as climate change and sustainable energy production and consumption. As much as India, Germany is a trading nation. More than 20% of German trade is conducted in the Indo-Pacific neighbourhood. This is why Germany and India share a responsibility to maintain and support stability, prosperity and freedom in this part of the world. Europe’s key interests are at stake when championing a free and open Indo-Pacific.  The Bayern ’s seven-month journey in the region is coming full circle in India. Even before its first port call, the Indian Navy “greeted” the Bayern on the high seas and our troops undertook a joint passing exercise — a strong and warm Indian welcome for Germany to the region. After having visited Japan, Australia, Vietnam, Singapore and other countries in the region, Mumbai is the last station before the Bayern sets course to return to Germany. Our message is one of cooperation and inclusiveness. But inclusiveness does not mean blind equidistance. We will not stand by when the multilateral order is challenged and when attempts are made to try to place the law of power over the power of law. The Bayern participated in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and European Union missions Sea Guardian in the Mediterranean Sea and Operation ATALANTA — formally European Union Naval Force (EU NAVFOR) Somalia — in the Arabian Sea. On her way from Tokyo to Busan, she helped monitor United Nations sanctions against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  A chance for coordination After 16 years of Angela Merkel’s chancellorship, Olaf Scholz took the helm of the German government in December 2021. During their inaugural conversation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and he agreed that as major democracies and strategic partners, India and Germany will step up their cooperation to tackle common challenges, with climate change on top of the agenda. No global problem can be solved without India’s active involvement. This year, Germany will hold the G7 Presidency, and from December 2022, India will assume the same role for the G20. This is an opportunity for joint and coordinated action. I am particularly confident about one aspect of our relations: Germany cooperates with India to the tune of €1.3 billion a year in development projects, 90% of which serves the purpose of fighting climate change, saving natural resources as well as promoting clean and green energy. No country receives more such support from Germany than India. What world leaders agreed upon at COP26 in Glasgow, Germany and India are putting into practice. Together we work on a sustainable path for India’s growth that will benefit both our countries. For example, we have been supporting the construction of a huge solar plant in Maharashtra’s Dhule (Sakri). With a capacity of 125 Megawatt, it serves 2,20,000 households and generates annual CO2 savings of 155,000 tons. As India celebrates 75 years of independence, this visit sends a signal of friendship and cooperation. We are setting sail for a powerful partnership, in calm waters and heavy seas alike. And hopefully, we will exceed your expectations, every once in a while. Walter J. Lindner is the Ambassador of The Federal Republic of Germany to India. Prior to this, he was Germany’s Foreign Secretary as well as Ambassador to South Africa, Kenya, and Venezuela||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/setting-sail-for-a-powerful-india-german-partnership/article64947524.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 00:00 IST,||Himalayan questions||In the run-up to the February 14 Uttarakhand Assembly elections, temples and development are among the issues raised by politicians. Former Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s attempt to bring the four shrines of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri as well as other temples under one board ended with the 2019 Act being withdrawn in November 2021, after continued opposition from priests. The new Chief Minister, Pushkar Singh Dhami, who in July 2021 replaced Tirath Singh Rawat, who had replaced Mr. Trivendra Singh Rawat in March of the same year, carried out a review. Mr. Dhami said while the decision to constitute the board may have been taken with good intentions, it had been rolled back after discussion within the Government. Going into the elections, everyone from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to local leaders in the BJP have touted the redevelopment of Kedarnath as among the achievements of what they call the “double engine” government in the Centre and Uttarakhand. In December, Mr. Modi inaugurated the start of the Lakhwar multipurpose project and Rs. 8,700 crore-worth of road projects. With the Government backing major infrastructure projects, Mr. Modi termed this the decade of Uttarakhand. While environmentalists have raised concerns over rules being broken for the large infrastructure projects, major parties have not yet raised the environmental concerns. Issues of national security and the welfare of ex-service members are also dominating the campaign. With a large population of retired soldiers, Uttarakhand politics has always witnessed some grandstanding on issues that appeal to them. The brother of the late Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, Col. (retd.) Vijay Rawat, joined the BJP this week. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has projected another retired colonel, Ajay Kothiyal, as its chief ministerial candidate and promised government jobs to all ex-service members in the State. Mr. Dhami has spoken as the “son of a soldier” and said the BJP alone respects the forces. The BJP is trying to fight anti-incumbency and the impression that it is a divided house, having changed two Chief Ministers within months in 2021. The Congress is hoping to wrest back power, after having lost it in 2017. Infighting and tussles over ticket distribution within the party have come out into the open, with former Chief Minister Harish Rawat being one of the claimants to the leadership position. AAP has joined the race with the promise of development, replicating the Delhi model, and an end to the “power sharing” between the BJP and the Congress. A raft of promises, from free water and electricity to better schools, is being made. What is lacking is an informed debate on a development model that is suitable to the ecologically fragile place that Uttarakhand is.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/himalayan-questions/article38305977.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:32 IST,||Wrong remedy||That the wrong remedy could exacerbate an ailment and not cure it is a well understood adage. This holds true for the Union government’s (Department of Personnel & Training – DoPT) proposals to amend Rule 6 related to deputation of cadre officers of the IAS (Cadre) Rules 1954. Reports have shown that the deputation from States to the Union government has been uneven. Some States have not nominated officers for deputation adequately to work with the Union government; in this, West Bengal (11 out of the 280 officers are on central deputation), Rajasthan (13 out of 247) and Telangana (7 out of an authorised strength of 208) stand out. This has led to vacancies across Union government ministries. Numbers accessed by The Hindu show that actual deputation as a percentage of the mandated reserves fell from 69% (2014) to 30% (2021), suggesting that there is merit in the DoPT’s identification of shortages in deputation being an issue. But does this necessitate the rule changes proposed by the DoPT, which include acquiring overriding powers for the Union government that will do away with seeking approval from the States for transferring IAS and IPS officers?   Two of the rules are particularly problematic — in case of any disagreement between the Union and State governments, the States shall give effect to the former’s decision “within a specified time”. And in some “specific situations”, States would have to depute certain cadres whose services are sought by the Union government. These changes amount to arm-twisting States and unwilling bureaucrats to be deputed to serve the Union government and also presenting a fait accompli to States for “specific situations” which have not been defined and prone to misinterpretation and politicisation. These proposed changes have unsurprisingly raised the hackles of State governments. As governance responsibilities during the pandemic have shown, States are quite dependent upon the bureaucracy, and deputation to the Union government should not be done at the cost of State requirements. Also, the Union government must address the key question of the reluctance of capable civil servants to be deputed away from the States. Reports have indicated that civil servants have found the top-down culture in Union government offices to be stifling and prefer the relative autonomy at the State level. There is clearly a need for a more qualitative approach that tackles such work culture issues. Besides, a State-by-State look at deputation that disincentivises those States which depute officers much below the mandated numbers to the Union government by adjusting future cadre strength reviews by the Union Public Service Commission should also address the shortage problem. These steps are better than any rule changes that amount to fiats striking at federalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/wrong-remedy/article38305982.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:32 IST,||LettersN||It is unfortunate that the Prime Minister has decried rights (Page 1, “Focus on rights made India weak, says PM”, January 21). Indeed, the basket of rights in India remains small and most of it out of reach. There are more cases of authorities denying and violating people’s rights than of people availing them. When it comes to protesting against the abuses of authority, most Indians are in fact acutely wanting in the knowledge and consciousness of their rights. In fact, it may be said that, deprived of any meaningful sets of rights, a vast number of Indians, especially the down-trodden, have yet to attain the dignified status of citizenship. Moreover, it is contradictory to blame people’s struggles for rights as having weakened the nation, since the nation does not stand in opposition to the people, but it is the people who make the nation. Struggles and aspirations for rights imply that people are lacking the same. As it is, there is a huge sense of the thin architecture of the rights to information, rural employment, education, etc. being hollowed out, if not razed, by an insensitive regime. As for the false binary between rights and duties, a just balance would be to hold the powerful — including those in the government — accountable in terms of their duties, and enlarge the spectrum of rights for the weak, and the citizens at large. Finally, 75 years of Independence is just the right time to empower people by strengthening citizenship rights through legislation and ensuring that they are neither abused nor violated with impunity by the administration, instead of haranguing against what little has been gained by fellow citizens. Firoz Ahmad, New Delhi In the context of violations and attacks on democratic and human rights in the country, the words of the Prime Minister sound ominous. Are we being prepared for further doses of illiberalism? Fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution should remain non-negotiable in a country like India, steeped in social and economic inequalities. Manohar Alembath, Kannur, Kerala Fundamental rights and duties are complementary to each other, not substitutes. A democracy cannot thrive in the long run without an alignment between the two. Vardan Gupta, Sonipat, Haryana  I endorse the Prime Minister’s view. But I believe the remedy should start from the top level of our administration. Political leaders and the bureaucratic elite should get rid of the privileges enjoyed by them at the expense of the common man and lead a simple and transparent life. “ Yadhaa Raja , Thadhaa Praja ” is an old saying — equally valid in a modern democracy like ours; only the “selection of the Raja ” is through periodic elections. The BJP should lead in implementing a “duties first, rights later” concept in day-to-day life.  M.V. Nagavender Rao, Hyderabad   The article, “Drop the IAS cadre rules amendments” (Editorial page, January 21), appears to only highlight the State perspective and does not consider the AIS policy for the country as a whole. Now, the perception is that many officers have taken to political patronage. For policy formulation, officers must have experience and knowledge of various fields. It is high time State governments broaden their vision and send all AIS officers on central deputation by rotation, narrowing the gap between policy formulation and policy implementation. Ranjan Kumar Sharma, Pune   Dr. V. Shanta (Tamil Nadu, “Remembering a tall leader”, January 19) was a phenomenon that happened to India’s medical fraternity when cancer care seemed a distant dream. She once said, “When the sick approach the gates of the institute, weak in body and spirit, and full of fear, there is only one response — you have to become a part of them.” It may be recalled that when a journalist used the word ‘cancer’ as a metaphor to report a mega bank scam, Dr. Shanta strongly objected to it and said, “Corruption is a crime and something to be ashamed of; cancer is not.” R. Sivakumar, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lettersn/article64947520.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||RIL net rises 42%; retail, shale sale buoy||Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) on Friday reported consolidated net profit for the quarter ended December 31 grew 41.6% from a year earlier to Rs. 18,549 crore, aided by a strong showing at its retail and refining businesses and a one-time gain from the sale of U.S. shale gas assets. Gross revenue surged 52% in the quarter to Rs. 2,09,823 crore. India’s largest private sector company also had an exceptional gain of Rs. 2,836 crore from the divestment of the shale gas assets. “Both our consumer businesses, retail and digital services have recorded highest ever revenues and EBITDA,” Chairman and Managing Director Mukesh Ambani said in a statement. “We continued to focus on strategic investments and partnerships across our businesses to drive future growth.” Mr. Ambani added that activity had normalised at the retail business with strong growth in key consumption baskets on the back of the festive season and as lockdowns had eased across the country in the last quarter. The retail unit posted a 23.4% jump in profit at Rs. 2,259 crore as revenue rose 52.5% to Rs. 57,714 crore. The Jio Platform Ltd. business reported net profit of Rs. 3,795 crore, up 8.9% on gross revenue of Rs. 24,176 crore, which was higher by 13.8%. “Our digital services business has delivered broad based, sustainable, and profitable growth through improved customer engagement and subscriber mix,” Mr. Ambani said. Oil & gas volume growth He said the recovery in global oil and energy markets supported strong fuel margins and helped the company’s oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business deliver robust earnings. “Our oil and gas segment delivered strong growth in EBITDA with volume growth and improved realisation,” he added. The O2C segment reported revenues of Rs. 1,31,427 crore, up 56.8% year-on-year primarily on account of an increase in crude oil prices and higher volumes. The EBITDA of this segment improved by 38.7% year-on-year to Rs. 13,530 crore, primarily on account of better transportation fuel cracks and higher polyester chain delta, the company said. However, the EBITDA margin for the quarter declined by 130 bps year-on-year to 10.3%. This was primarily due to base effect driven by higher feedstock and product prices, it said. Mr Ambani said RIL was making steady progress towards achieving its vision of net carbon zero by 2035. “Our recent partnerships and investments in technology leaders in the solar and green energy space is illustrative of our commitment to partner India and the world in the transition to clean and green energy. We continue to pursue growth initiatives and collaborate with global leaders who share our vision of a sustainable future for our planet,” he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-net-rises-42-retail-shale-sale-buoy/article64947180.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:28 IST,||‘Time to look at healthcare differently’||Apollo Hospitals MD Suneeta Reddy said on Friday the healthcare sector should not only be the focus of the Budget, but must also remain at the centre of the economy as the country aspired to become a $5-trillion economy. “It is important that infrastructure is created in this [healthcare] sector,” Ms. Reddy said. “I believe 20 years ago, the government gave IT services a national priority by offering them tax holidays for 15 years, capital subsidies, etc., and with that the IT sector really grew,” she said. “Healthcare deserves that position now more so because we are a nation where 70% of healthcare spending is out of pocket. It is time to look at healthcare differently,” she added.  Ms. Reddy was delivering the keynote address at ‘Countdown to Budget 2022’ organised by The Hindu BusinessLine in association with BoB Financial, the credit card arm of Bank of Baroda and Hitachi India. The theme was ‘Accelerating India’s economic growth’.  ‘Infra help needed’ Highlighting the huge demand-supply gap in hospital beds, the MD said it was time to look at the fact that the healthcare sector needed much more investments and infrastructure help. She said healthcare could be made more affordable through thoughtful changes in the GST regime. “It [GST] makes healthcare expensive. We do not have a set-off against the input tax, so the healthcare industry is observing all these taxes and in certain cases tax rates are as high as 18%,” Ms. Reddy said. “If the government can give us either zero or 5% GST, it would benefit the sector immensely,” she added. She said the pandemic had shown the importance of preventive healthcare, and the government, by rationalising GST rates, could make insurance and healthcare spending more affordable. “Currently, India provides the best quality healthcare in the world at one-tenth of the cost. At Apollo, we already have patients coming from 147 countries and I believe there is still a huge opportunity in creating medical value travel. With government support, we should be able to do much more in that space,” Ms. Reddy noted. She added that India had been emerging stronger despite several waves of the pandemic and had now learnt to meet the challenges. Ms. Reddy said the budget must focus on three priorities namely unemployment, upskilling of workforce and signalling support to ideas or sectors that would drive growth in the next century. “Clean energy, manufacturing hubs to serve the Indian industry, logistics, fintechs, e-commerce and digitally enabled services are some of the sectors that will drive growth,” Ms. Reddy said. “The government has done so much in the past two years and I am sure it will continue to support these,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/time-to-look-at-healthcare-differently/article64947185.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:28 IST,||Importers, govt. duel in SC over GST on ocean freight||The government is engaged in a pitched legal battle in the Supreme Court against importers over its decision to levy Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) on ocean freight on a reverse charge basis. With tax authorities reportedly raising fresh queries even while the dispute is pending before a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, importers are miffed. A hearing set for January 11 was postponed after two Judges on the Bench took ill. At the centre of the spat are two notifications issued on June 28, 2017, levying IGST on ocean freight. The Gujarat High Court, which had in January 2020 declared the levy ultra vires to the IGST Act, concluded that IGST on ocean freight under the provisions of the notifications was “not permissible in law”. ‘Ocean freight’ is the cost of moving goods internationally over sea to India. An agreement is entered into between two foreign parties, usually between an exporter, and a shipping line to transport goods to India. In its appeal, the government, represented by Additional Solicitor General N. Venkataraman, has argued that the ultimate beneficiary of the transaction is however the recipient of the goods in India, who is importing the goods on a cost, insurance and freight (CIF) basis. The government contends that companies importing goods on the CIF basis are paying the freight directly or indirectly. “Transport of goods which is carried out by a person other than the importer himself is an activity, which gives rise to the aspect of providing transportation and as such gives rise to a taxing incident distinct from tax on import of goods,” the government says. “The eventual recipient and beneficiary of the transportation service is the 'importer' of the goods.” ‘Being taxed twice’ Importers, represented by advocate Malak Manish Bhatt, have countered that: “for the purposes of taxability, the service has to be rendered in India, to be provided to an Indian. The service rendered by a non-Indian to a non-Indian cannot be taxed merely due to the fact that ultimate benefit was reaped by an Indian as the goods had arrived in India”. The importers have complained that IGST was being levied on them twice on the very same transaction by segregating portions of it. “Importers... in addition to the customs duty, also pay IGST under IGST Act on the imported goods on the value as determined under the Customs Tariff Act. This value includes the value of ocean freight,” they argue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/importers-govt-duel-in-sc-over-gst-on-ocean-freight/article64947184.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Adani Wilmar’s Rs. 3,600-cr. IPO to open on Jan. 27||Adani Wilmar Ltd.’s Rs. 3,600-crore intial public offering (IPO) will open on January 27. The price band has been fixed at Rs. 218- Rs. 230 per equity share of face value of Rs. 1 each. A discount of Rs. 21 apiece is being offered to eligible employees bidding in the portion reserved for them. The IPO would close on January 31. Of the proceeds, Rs. 1,900 crore will be allocated for capital expenditure and Rs. 1,058.9 crore for debt repayment. It will spend Rs. 450 crore on strategic acquisitions and investments. The IPO will value the 50-50 joint venture between Singapore agribusiness Wilmar International and Indian conglomerate Adani Group at $4.01 billion at the top end of the price range. The firm has cut the IPO size to Rs. 3,600 crore from Rs. 4,500 crore announced in 2021. Adani Wilmar sells kitchen commodities such as edible oil and wheat. (With Reuters inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adani-wilmars-rs-3600-cr-ipo-to-open-on-jan-27/article64947183.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Missions can popularise NSWS: Goyal||The National Single Window System (NSWS) shouldbe taken to the Indian diplomatic missions across the world, said Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal. The digital platform of NSWS assists investors ‘to identify and apply for approvals,’ according to a government press note. The renewed focus on the NSWScomes days after the digital platform granted its first approval to a vehicle scrappage facility in Gujarat which has the capacity to process 67,000 vehicles. This particular project was processed under NSWSin 63 days. Mr. Goyal also suggested that greater awareness should be created about the NSWS through presentations before largecorporations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/missions-can-popularise-nsws-goyal/article38305966.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||FedEx starts EV trials in India||FedEx Express has announced the start of electric vehicle (EV) trials in India as part of its global goal to achieve carbon neutral operations by 2040. The trial, which is expected to conclude in a month in Bengaluru, will test the vehicle technology within the company’s operations, FedEx Express said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fedex-starts-ev-trials-in-india/article38305965.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:28 IST,||Vodafone Idea Q3 loss widens to Rs 7,231 cr||Vodafone Idea on Friday reported widening of its consolidated loss to Rs. 7,230.9 crore for the third quarter ended December 2021. The company had posted a loss of Rs. 4,532.1 crore in the year earlier. Consolidated revenue from operations declined by 10.8% to Rs. 9,717.3 crore from Rs. 10,894.1 crore in the corresponding quarter of 2020-21.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vodafone-idea-q3-loss-widens-to-rs-7231-cr/article64947186.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,||Clinical South Africa puts India to the sword, seals series||A young South Africa punished a jaded Indian team for its outdated approach, handing it one of the most comprehensive series defeats in recent times with an easy seven-wicket victory in the second ODI here on Friday. A target of 288 was below-par on a flat track and the seasoned Quinton de Kock (78 off 66 balls) in the company of rising sensation Janneman Malan (91 off 108 balls) added 132 for a match-deciding opening stand. The home team eventually reached the target in 48.1 overs to take an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-game series. Too defensive The batting, save Rishabh Pant’s cavalier style, was too defensive starting with skipper Rahul’s (55 off 79 balls). The match slipped away from India’s grip during their innings once Pant was gone as the others simply failed to get going when the ball didn’t come on to the bat and it was not a track that offered firm and even bounce. A veteran like Bhuvneshwar Kumar (8-0-67-0) was swept as well as pulled for sixes by de Kock while Malan would hit him through the covers. Yuzvendra Chahal (10-0-47-1) tried his best. Had Pant not played the role of an enforcer to perfection, even a target of 288 wouldn’t have been possible. And this was after it seemed India would score close to 315 when he was having a steady stand of 115 with his skipper. The approach hurt even though Pant, with 10 fours and two sixes, took charge to keep the run-rate at a healthy five-plus per over. But there dismissals in quick succession saw Proteas make a comeback on a Boland Park strip where stroke-making wasn’t an easy proposition for a new batter. Shreyas (11 off 14 balls) and Venkatesh (22 off 33 balls) found it a real struggle to get going with the ball not coming onto the bat as the momentum completely shifted. South Africa was not very impressive on the field, missing four catches and an easy run out but it hardly paid for its mistakes. Both slow left-arm orthodox Keshav Maharaj ( (9-0-52-1) and left-arm wrist spinner Tabraiz Shamsi (9-0-57-2), who otherwise looked good, were made to look pedestrian by Pant. Before that, rookie pacer Sisanda Magala (8-0-64-1), in his second spell varied the pace of his deliveries to force Rahul to play an aerial flick that was taken at short mid-wicket by Rassie van der Dussen. Magala and Andile Phehlukwayo (8-0-44-1) really kept things tight between 33rd to 43rd over with a lot of slower deliveries and cutters being mixed and matched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/clinical-south-africa-completes-comprehensive-series-win/article64947099.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:28 IST,||Sindhu overcomes Supanida, Prannoy ousted||In spite of playing way below her best, top seed P.V. Sindhu managed to settle a score with Thailand’s all-attacking Supanida Katethong in three games to reach the semifinals, but H.S. Prannoy, the lone surviving seed in the men’s draw, was not so lucky in the $150,000 Syed Modi India International badminton on Friday. In what was seen as the final before the final after Supanida’s stunning victory over Sindhu in the India Open semifinals last week in Delhi, the Indian lived dangerously throughout the 28-minute decider before pulling away to a 11-21, 21-12, 21-17 triumph in 64 minutes. Breaking away The speedy 30th-ranked left-handed Thai tested Sindhu’s defensive skills and did not let her unleash aggressive strokes for the better part of the match. Finally, it was Sindhu who broke away from 17-17 in the decider and forced a match-point with a forceful cross-court smash. She closed the match with a powerful forehand down-the-line ‘kill’ from the backhand court. Sindhu faces fifth seeded Russian Evgenia Kosetskaya for a place in Sunday’s final. From the bottom half where all four quarterfinalists were Indians, Malvika Bansod avenged the loss suffered to Aakarshi Kashyap in the India Open with a 21-11, 21-11 thrashing. Malvika plays Anupama Upadhyay on Saturday. The men’s quarterfinals saw 121st-ranked Mithun Manjunath upstage 71st-ranked Russian Sergey Sirant 11-21, 21-12, 21-18 after trailing 11-15 in the decider. With the World No. 24 Prannoy falling to 79th-ranked Frenchman Arnaud Merkely in 19-21, 16-21 after failing to control the streak of unforced errors, Manjunath is the only Indian in the men’s draw. Next, Manjunath clashes with Merkely. All Indian semifinalists Meanwhile, Indian pairs occupied all semifinal berths in mixed doubles, three in men’s doubles and two in women’s doubles. The Covid positive count went up with doubles players Apeksha Nayak and Malaysia’s Chen Tang Jie failing the tests.  The results: Quarterfinals (Indians unless stated):   Men: Arnaud Merkley (Fra) bt H. S. Prannoy 21-19, 21-16; Mithun Manjunath bt Sergey Sirant (Rus) 11-21, 21-12, 21-18; Nhat Nguyen (Ire) bt Julien Carraggi (Bel) 21-14, 21-14; Lucas Claerbout (Fra) bt Cheam June We (Mas) 21-11, 21-19.   Women: P.V. Sindhu bt Supanida Katethong (Tha) 11-21, 21-12, 21-17; Evgenia Kosetskaya (Rus) bt Tereza Svabikova (Cze) 21-8, 21-14; Anupama Upadhaya bt Samiya Imad Farooqui 24-22, 23-21; Malvika Bansod bt Aakarshi Kashyap 21-11, 21-11.   Men’s doubles: Prem Singh Chouhan & Rajesh Verma bt Astitva Kale & Aniruddha Mayekar 21-17, 21-13; Krishna Prasad & Vishnuvardhan Goud bt Ishan Bhatnagar & Sai Pratheek 21-17, 21-18; M. R. Arjun & Dhruv Kapila bt Fabien Delrue & William Villeger (Fra) 21-16, 19-21, 21-19; Man Wei Chong & Kai Wun Tee (Mas) bt Vladimir Ivanov & Ivan Sozonov (Rus) 21-13, 21-12. Women’s doubles: H. M. Haritha & Ashna Roy bt Tanishka Deshpande & Shruti Mundada 13-21, 26-24, 21-11; Anna Ching Yik Cheong & Teoh Mei Xing w/o. Ramya Venkatesh & Apeksha Nayak; Low Yeen Yuan & Valeree Siow (Mas) bt Vivian Hoo & Lim Chiew Sien (Mas) 17-21, 21-15, 21-19; Treesa Jolly and Gayatri Gopi Chand bt Anastasiia Akchurina Olga Morozova (Rus) 24-22, 21-10.   Mixed doubles: M.R. Arjun & Treesa Jolly bt William Villeger & Anne Tran (Fra) 24-22, 21-17; Ishan Bhatnagar & Tanisha Crasto bt Ashith Surya & Pranjal Chimulkar 21-13, 21-19; Akshan Shetty & Simran Singhi bt Balkeshari Yadav & Swetaparna Panda 21-15, 22-20; Nagendra Babu & G. Srivedya w/o. Chen Tang Jie & Peck Yen Wei (Mas) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-overcomes-supanida-prannoy-ousted/article64947190.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,||India, Pakistan meet at MCG||India and Pakistan will lock horns at the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) on October 23 in a T20 World Cup group clash for the second year running. The fixtures for the October-November 2022 tournament in Australia were announced on Friday. The 16-nation tournament will begin on October 16 with Sri Lanka facing Namibia in Geelong — one of seven venues as Australia hosts for the first time. The final will be played at the MCG on November 13 under lights. The tournament will begin with a six-day preliminary stage of two four-team groups. Sri Lanka and Namibia in Group A, and West Indies and Scotland in Group B will be joined by four qualifiers yet to be determined. Australia was scheduled to host the T20 World Cup in 2020 but it was delayed two years because of the coronavirus pandemic with India retaining the 2021 edition — though that edition had to be shifted to Dubai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-pakistan-meet-at-mcg/article38306073.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Commanding wins for Shahan Ali Mohsin and Ruhaan Alva||Agra’s Shahan Ali Mohsin won the battle of the teenagers in the MRF F 1600 category while Ishaan Dodhiwala (Rayo Racing) from Hyderabad avoided a first corner incident to triumph in the Indian Touring Cars category at the third round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Car Racing Championship 2021 here on Friday. Comfortable Meanwhile, 15-year old Bengalurean Ruhaan Alva (MSport) displayed good pace while comfortably winning a Safety Car-interrupted Formula LGB 1300 race. Shahan, 17, enjoyed a good start from pole position and went on to pip two 16-year old Bengalureans Chirag Ghorpade and Rishon Rajiv, for his third win of the season. The victory took the Agra teenager’s tally to 109 points in the championship, just 14 short of leader Chirag. Earlier, in the Indian Touring Cars race, Dodhiwala steered clear of a Turn-1 incident involving championship leader Arjun Balu (Race Concepts) and Jeet Jhabakh (Rayo Racing) to chalk up a fluent win, his first of the season.  The results (provisional, eight laps unless mentioned):   MRF F1600 (Race-1): 1. Shahan Ali Mohsin (Agra) (13mins, 31.446s); 2. Chirag Ghorpade (Bengaluru) (13:32.719); 3. Rishon Rajiv (Bengaluru) (13:33.917).   Indian Touring Cars (Race-1): 1. Ishaan Dodhiwala (Rayo Racing, Hyderabad) (15:26.029); 2. Arjun Balu (Race Concepts, Coimbatore) (15:42.328); 3. Jeet Jhabakh (Rayo Racing, Hyderabad) (16:06.177, incl 15-second penalty).   Indian Junior Touring Cars (Race-1): 1. Varun Anekar (Race Concepts, Bengaluru) (16:01.284); 2. K Srinivas Teja (Performance Racing, Chennai) (16:13.396); 3. Charen Chandran (Pvt, Coimbatore) (16:29.012).   Super Stock (Race-1): 1. Deepak Ravikumar (Performance Racing, Chennai) (16:11.010); 2. Rithvik Thomas (Race Concepts, Bengaluru) (16:19.707); 3. R.P. Raja Rajan (Performance Racing, Chennai) (16:23.196).   Formula LGB 1300 (Race-1): 1. Ruhaan Alva (MSport, Bengaluru) (19:08.955); 2. Deepak Ravikumar (Momentum Motorsport, Chennai) (19:14.841); 3. Tijil Rao (Momentum Motorsport, Bengaluru) (19:15.168).   Volkswagen Polo (Race-1): 1. Oshan Kothadiya (Pune) (15:57.549); 2. Sandeep Kumar (Chennai) (16:01.665); 3. Saurav Bandyopadhyay (Thane) (16:02.115).   MRF Saloon Cars (Toyota Etios, 10 laps) Race-1: 1. Justin Singh (Red Line Racing, Haryana) (16:47.458); 2. Fahad Kutty (Red Line Racing, Mumbai) (16:48.378); 3. Anand Prasad (Red Line Racing, Chennai) (16:49.775).   Race-2: 1. Fahad Kutty (Red Line Racing, Mumbai) (21:09.211); 2. Bala Prasath (Quest Motorsport, Coimbatore) (21:12.259); 3. Angad Matharoo (Red Line Racing, Chandigarh) (21:13.716) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/commanding-wins-for-shahan-ali-mohsin-and-ruhaan-alva/article64947178.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,||Former stars bring joy to the fans||Her name may make you think of golf, but it is not the club that Aditi Ashok Lakhwni prefers to swing. Give her the cricket bat — or ball for that matter — any day. The seaming all-rounder, who plays for Indian School Wadi Kabir here, cannot hide her excitement at the Al Amerat Cricket Stadium on this windy night. She has just watched her favourite cricketer Kevin Pietersen bat at the nets. Aditi is thrilled she will be able to watch another player she admires: Shoaib Akhtar. And when the legendary Pakistan fast bowler comes on to bowl the first ball of the India Maharajs innings, the stadium erupts. The cheers are loud from the spectators, who have paid anywhere between 10 and 130 Omani Rials for their tickets. The Legends League Cricket, the first edition of a tournament that brings together some of the world’s finest retired cricketers, has got off to a solid start. “I am so happy that my first social event during this pandemic is this cricket event,” says Aditi, who has come along with her teammates Shifa Kazi and Alifiya Sayed. “It is lovely to watch all these great cricketers in action.” Among those who batted for Asia Lions — put in by Maharajs captain Mohammed Kaif — Upul Tharanga (66, 46b) and skipper Misbah-ul-Haq (44, 30b) looked in good touch. They helped Lions post 175 for seven. Seamers Manpreet Gony and Irfan Pathan scalped five between them. The score is more than what the curator C.K. Anoop had said would be par (150 to 160). “A tournament like this is great for cricket in Oman,” he says. A little later, Pietersen tells the contingent of Indian reporters that it is a great concept.”Getting recently retired cricketers together is unique,” says the former England batter, one of the most entertaining of his generation. “The second season could be even better.” The first match of the first edition proved entertaining enough, with Yusuf Pathan making a ruthless 80 off 40 balls from. His stand of 117 for the fourth wicket with Kaif (42 n.o., 37b) ensured Maharajs got home — with five balls to spare — much to the delight of Aditi and other Indian expatriates. (The writer is in Muscat at the invitation of Legends League Cricket).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-stars-bring-joy-to-the-fans/article64947104.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,||Anisimova dethrones Osaka, books a meeting with No. 1 Barty||Defending champion Naomi Osaka was dumped out of the Australian Open in the third round on Friday by unseeded American Amanda Anisimova. Anisimova, ranked 60th in the world, saved two match-points before stunning the four-time Major champion 4-6, 6-3, 7-6(10-5). It was a hugely disappointing end for Osaka, having also gone out at the same stage at the US Open in September, after which she took a break. In the men’s draw, Rafael Nadal underlined his status as one of the favourites with a four-set victory over Russian 28th seed Karen Khachanov. But day five at Melbourne Park was all about the 20-year-old Anisimova. “I’m speechless, I can’t stop smiling,” she said. Anisimova will be eyeing another major scalp in the form of World No. 1 and favourite Ashleigh Barty, who was a comfortable 6-2, 6-3 winner over Italian 30th seed Camila Giorgi, inching closer to a maiden Grand Slam crown on home soil. Also into round four is two-time champion Victoria Azarenka. The 24th seed crushed 15th seed Elina Svitolina 6-0, 6-2. Fifth seed Maria Sakkari and eighth seed Paula Badosa also went through. Nadal drops a set In the absence of defending champion Novak Djokovic and injured Roger Federer, Spanish legend Nadal is attempting to become the first man to win 21 Majors. He dropped a set for the first time at this tournament but called his 6-3, 6-2, 3-6, 6-1 win over Khachanov under the lights his best performance since he returned this year following a foot injury that ended his 2021 season early. Olympic champion and World No. 3 Alexander Zverev in powered his way into the last 16 with a superb serving display against Moldova’s Radu Albot. Zverev will next take on Canada’s 14th seed Denis Shapovalov. Also through is Italian seventh seed Matteo Berrettini, who came through a five-set epic against talented Spanish 18-year-old Carlos Alcaraz 6-2, 7-6(3), 4-6, 2-6, 7-6(10-5). Gael Monfils, who won the Adelaide warm-up event, continued his great early-season form with a 7-6(4), 6-1, 6-3 romp against 16th-seeded Christian Garin of Chile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anisimova-dethrones-osaka-barty-marches-on-with-an-easy-win/article38306071.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:07 IST,||Kochi’s setters good for PVL format, says coach Kumara||It has coach M.S. Kumara, who guided Chennai Spartans to the PVL title two years ago, and India captain A. Karthik to inspire it. Still, the word around is that home team Kochi Blue Spikers has put itself in a spot in the sport’s most important - that of a setter. It appears all the more glaring since Kochi had the seasoned setter M. Ukkrapandian in the 2019 PVL. But Kumara, also a setter in his prime a few decades ago, brushed away those worries.  “Yes, the setter is the brain behind the team. But we have one foreign setter (Asham Ali), he has played with foreign players in UAE tournaments,” said Kumara, in a chat with The Hindu at the team’s training base at Triprayar in Thrissur, on Friday.  “And he knows how to distribute well. And we have another setter, Prasant Saroha. He played the finals at the Nationals last year, so we are no way inferior. Both the setters are very good. “And unlike the Nationals (25-point sets), the PVL has 15-point sets. For our league format, these setters are enough.” Kochi dished out sparkling volleyball in the 2019 league and when the new Prime Volleyball League begins at the Rajiv Gandhi indoor stadium here on February 5, expectations will be high. And Asham, the ‘foreigner’ who hails from Kerala and is now settled in Abu Dhabi, will be closely watched too. “It was a big surprise for me when I got the call to come here. And it’s a big challenge for me especially since Ukkarapandian was with Kochi last year and the team entered the semifinal,” said the 38-year-old Asham. “I’m settling down well with the team.” Kochi, owned by the Muthoot Pappachan Group, began its PVL preparatory work nearly 10 days ago but the planned friendlies against Navy and Customs have been dropped to keep the team safe in COVID times. The team is now waiting for the arrival of its two foreigners, Americans Colton Cowell and Cody Caldwell. “Only after the foreign players arrive and we train with them will we know how good we are. That’s the case for the others too,” said Kumara. Nice mix The side is in a sort of bio-bubble and the quiet training base has helped too. The team is a nice mix. “Some of the players in our team are young, they have only played at the university level. For them, this is like a dream,” said the coach. And the boys are clearly hungry for the league to start.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kochis-setters-good-for-pvl-format-says-coach-kumara/article64947270.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:08 IST,||CAS judges ‘lacked anti-doping expertise’ at Tokyo Games: WADA||The Court of Arbitration for Sport has been criticised for picking judges to work at the Tokyo Olympics who were not expert enough to handle doping cases. Days before CAS opens its special Olympic courts at the Winter Games in Beijing, it was singled out in a wide-ranging report published by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) that broadly praised operations at last year’s Games. Some CAS judges in Tokyo had an “insufficient level of anti-doping knowledge” relating to rules and previous cases, independent observers appointed by WADA said Friday. “Some questions asked by panel members in at least one of the hearings highlighted this,” the observer team said. The 44-page report did not identify which members of the CAS anti-doping division in Tokyo — a president, co-president and six arbitrators — were thought to lack expert knowledge for the handful of cases they dealt with. Of the six arbitrators at the Tokyo Games, only one is returning among the four selected by CAS for anti-doping cases in Beijing. The observers did not suggest any athlete in Tokyo was judged unfairly but they did object to not being notified about two hearings where a provisional suspension was to be imposed. “It is important that an (observer) participates in hearings to ensure that the parties’ procedural rights are maintained,” the WADA-appointed panel said. The Lausanne-based court did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the report’s findings. CAS said before the Tokyo Olympics opened on July 23 that its anti-doping judges “selected to participate in these special CAS structures are all experienced lawyers, judges or professors specialised in sports law, anti-doping regulations and arbitration.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cas-judges-lacked-anti-doping-expertise-at-tokyo-olympics-wada/article38306444.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:28 IST,||Talent development should be coach-led and athlete-centric: Pandoo||Aveenash Pandoo, the new high-performance director of Indian weightlifting, has said that a change in mindset of coaches and an athlete-centric approach is essential for the development of the sport. At a virtual press conference organised by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) on Friday, Pandoo — who has worked with South Africa and Indonesia national teams and is a member of the International Weightlifting Federation’s coaching and research committee — shared his vision of youth development. “I will sit around a table with SAI and Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) and start looking at the roadmap where talent is coming from, why it is coming from that region and not from other regions. Talent development should be coach-led and athlete-centric. Coaches’ education is next on the roadmap,” said Pandoo, a Mauritian based in South Africa. Stressing that good performance could come without doping, Pandoo said, “With a solid programme and a change in mindset of coaches (it is possible). A very good understanding of anatomy, physiology, nutrition and coach education and why doping is not good for athletes (is needed). We have to educate them on the side effects...We have to make them understand to train cleanly and smartly. “Train the trainer smartly is the key. We are embarking on a new adventure with our coaches, we have to monitor them closely. We have to look how peaks of certain athletes are shooting up.” Pandoo said an elite athlete like Olympics silver medallist Mirabai Chanu should pick and choose her competitions. “Mirabai has to be selective about her competitions because there are three years adding up to her age (for the Paris Olympics). Eko Yuli Irawan from Indonesia is a four-time Olympics medallist. He has proved that it can be done on a selective and intelligent way of preparing. I am sure (chief coach) Vijay Sharma will be able to put it together and Mirabai will deliver in Paris.” Support system In reference to Mirabai travelling to the USA to treat her shoulder and back issues before the Olympics, Pandoo said a good support system would be necessary for the athletes. Pandoo, who would also oversee coaches and referees’ development programmes, said, “The landscape is changing and this is where we have to revisit the coaches’ mindset. We have been doing the same things and expecting better results. Train, review, monitor and evaluate should be the way forward,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/talent-development-should-be-coach-led-and-athlete-centric-pandoo/article64947187.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:21 IST,||Dahiya in line for a double||Second seeded Aman Dahiya of India lined himself up for a double crown as he eased his way to the boys singles final before winning the doubles title with compatriot Chirag Duhan, in the CEAC- CGST ITF Juniors tennis tournament at the BTA Complex on Friday. Dahiya will take on unseeded Ruslan Tiukaev of Russia in the boys’ singles final on Saturday. Aman Dahiya, who beat unseeded Aryan Shah in straight sets, remains the only Indian player surviving the challenge in the singles event as rest of his compatriots bowed out in the semifinals. The other Indian in the boys’ singles semifinals, fourth seeded Saheb Sodhi, failed to live up to his billing and lost in straight sets to the unseeded Tiukaev. The girls’ singles event saw both the Indians – top seeded Shruti Ahlawat and fourth seeded Suhitha Maruri – failing to match up to the strong games of their international opponents and lost by identical scorelines (6-2, 6-0) against third seeded Lanlana Tararurudee of Thailand and second seeded Daria Shadchneva of Russia.  The results: Boys: Semifinals: Ruslan Tiukaev (Rus) bt Saheb Sodhi 6-1, 6-1; Aman Dahiya bt Aryan Shah 6-2, 6-2.   Doubles: Final: Aman Dahiya & Chirag Duhan bt Anargha Ganguly & Denim Yadav 7-5, 6-2.   Girls: Semifinals: Lanlana Tararurudee (Tha) bt Shruti Ahlawat 6-2, 6-0; Daria Shadchneva (Rus) bt Suhitha Maruri 6-2, 6-0.   Doubles: Final: Vlada Mincheva (Rus) & Anya Murthy (USA) bt Victoria Milovanova (Rus) & Daria Shadchneva (Rus) 1-6, 6-4, [10-6] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dahiya-in-line-for-a-double/article38306445.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:21 IST,||Milan, Juventus will look to put behind recent setbacks||Both AC Milan and Juventus have recent bad memories of San Siro ahead of their eagerly-anticipated Serie A match at the iconic stadium on Sunday. Juventus lost the Italian Super Cup to Inter Milan last week, when Alexis Sánchez scored the winner with the last kick of the match at the end of extra time. Milan’s last match at its home stadium was on Monday when a refereeing error cost it dearly in a dispiriting 2-1 loss to relegation-threatened Spezia. “It’s hard to lose like that. It’s a missed chance that no one wanted, we’ve missed an opportunity,” Milan coach Stefano Pioli said. “Unfortunately we didn’t manage to bring home the win, but now we’ll think of the next matches. “The season is still long, everyone can have an off day. It’s good for us that now we have two difficult matches because that will give us great motivation and we’ll find the strength to bounce back.” Milan could have moved above league leader Inter Milan with a win but Spezia scored in stoppage-time shortly after a potential winner from Junior Messias was disallowed for Milan because the referee whistled a foul on Rossoneri forward Ante Rebic in the build-up, just as Rebic was passing the ball to Messias. Referee Marco Serra apologized. Milan now finds itself two points behind Inter, which it plays the following weekend. Defeat to Juventus could see Milan head into the derby five points behind its bitter rival and having played a match more. Inter hosts relegation-threatened Venezia this Saturday. Napoli is also only two points behind Milan and plays last-placed Salernitana. Pioli will be hoping Milan recovers its attacking prowess after uncharacteristically stuttering against Spezia. The Rossoneri missed several opportunities to put the game to bed long before the controversial finale. Milan has the second best attack in Serie A, having netted 47 times this campaign. Juventus has scored only 34 goals — fewer than any of the top 10 teams in the Italian league, apart from Torino — but there are signs the Bianconeri are beginning to get into their stride after struggling at the beginning of the season under returning coach Massimiliano Allegri. Allegri’s last loss in the league was back in November, against Atalanta. That left Juventus seventh in the league, seven points behind fourth-placed Atalanta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milan-juventus-will-look-to-put-behind-recent-setbacks/article64947366.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:28 IST,||Bhutia praises the Blue Tigresses||The Indian women’s football team could not force a win against Iran in its Asian Cup opener but the performance has drawn praise from the legendary Bhaichung Bhutia. Bhutia, who watched the proceedings from the venue on Thursday, said the Indian team was unfortunate not to end on the winning side. “I am extremely impressed by the manner in which the girls played. They were unfortunate not to get three points. The Iranian goalkeeper also came up with some amazing saves which further denied us,” Bhutia said. “Women’s football has come a long way,” said the former captain. “The Blue Tigresses were so organised and maintained their shape throughout. They were able to open up during the attacks, and narrow it down while defending — all of which are hallmarks of a well-drilled squad,” he said in a release from All India Football Federation. “They (players) moved back to positions fast, and there was always someone to support the other.” “Coach Thomas Dennerby needs to be complemented. He has done an awesome job,” Bhutia. On Friday, captain Sam Kerr struck five goals for the tournament’s first hat-trick in Australia’s 18-0 mauling of lowly Indonesia in their opening match. The star Chelsea striker, who was named the FIFA Best Player Award runner-up recently, began the match one goal behind Tim Cahill in Australia’s all-time (male-or-female) top scorers’ list and ended it four ahead for a total of 54 in her 105th match.  The results: At Mumbai: Australia 18 bt Indonesia 0; the Philippines 1 bt Thailand 0.   At Pune: Japan 5 bt Myanmar 0; South Korea 3 bt Vietnam 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhutia-praises-the-blue-tigresses/article64947189.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:21 IST,||CFC locks horns with NEUFC||After 11 matches, Chennaiyin FC’s Indian Super League campaign looks rudderless ahead of its clash against NorthEast United FC at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Saturday. The two-time champions have only 15 points and are currently seventh in the points table with just one win in the last five outings. Business-end woes Time is running out for Bozidar Bandovic’s men to turn things around and the team’s season-long struggle in the final third of the pitch has not abated yet. The Men in Blue have struggled to create chances from the midfield in recent matches and it is something Bandovic admitted has to change soon. “We need to improve in attacking, decision making and play with more confidence. I believe, to make a stronger team in the future, we need to improve this more,” said Bandovic on Friday. “We have trained and prepared for it. We need to try to move the ball, be ahead in possession and dominate the game,” he added. The team will be boosted by the return of key foreign players Vladimir Koman and Ariel Borysiuk who have recovered from their injuries. For the first time this season, CFC will have all six foreign players available for selection. Weak defence The game against NorthEast offers the best opportunity for CFC to get its campaign back on track with the Highlanders having the worst defensive record in the league so far conceding 25 goals, the most by any team. NorthEast is currently last in the points table with no wins in its last five matches and would desperately need some miracle to turn around its fortunes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cfc-takes-on-neufc/article38306367.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:16 IST,||My Opinion triumphs||Trainer B. Suresh’s ward My Opinion, ridden by Akshay Kumar, won the South India Stayers Trial Stakes, the feature event of the races held here on Friday (Jan. 21). The winner is the property of M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Jockey C. Umesh scored a treble on the day.  1. YANKEE DOODLE HANDICAP (Div. II) ,  (1,400m), rated 00 to 25: SYMPHONY IN STYLE (C. Umesh) 1, Roses In My Dreams (C. Brisson) 2, Vibrant Approach (S. Kamble) 3 and Dream Run (A. Ayaz Khan) 4. 1/2, 3-1/4 and 1-1/2. 1m, 29.87s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah rep. GMMSR Advisory Services. Trainer: Uthiah.  2. WISH UPON STAR HANDICAP (1,100m), 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: VALESKA (C. Umesh) 1, Sovereign Power (Shyam Kumar) 2, Elegant Touch (Ramandeep) 3 and Supreme Angel (Santosh G) 4. 5-1/2, 3 and 3/4. 1m, 7.35ss. Owners: Mr. Vazhaparambil J. Joseph & M/s. Rapar’s Galloping Star. Trainer: Sebastian.  3. TALK OF THE TOWN HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,000m), rated 20 to 45: CONSTANT VARIABLE (Santosh G) 1, Prince Of Windsor (Nakhat Singh) 2, God’s Wish (Shaliyar Khan) 3 and Feni (B. Dharshan) 4. 2-1/2, 1-1/2 and lnk. 1m,1.31s. Owners: Mr. Niel Madan Bahal & M/s. Jai-Govind Stud Agri Farm. Trainer: A. Jodha.  4. TALK OF THE TOWN HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,000m), rated 20 to 45: WONDER BLAZE (Antony Raj) 1, Lady Solitaire (Nakhat Singh) 2, Henrietta (C. Umesh) 3 and Grey Twilight (H.M. Akshay) 4. Not run: Oberon. 1, 1 and lnk. 1m, 0.81s. Owner: Dr. Murali Venkataswamy. Trainer: V. Ajith Kumar.  5. MOON FLOWER HANDICAP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65: KNIGHT IN ARMOUR (C. Umesh) 1, Beethovan (A.M. Alam) 2, Manzoni (Shane Gray) 3 and Diamond And Pearls (Nikhil Naidu) 4. 1-1/2, nk and 3/4. 1m, 27.00s Owner: Mr. K.K. Belliappa. Trainer: Mandana.  6. RED CHIEFTAIN PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): EMPEROR ASHOKA (Nikhil Naidu) 1, Sporting Spirit (C. Umesh) 2, Rubirosa (Shane Gray) 3 and Sheer Elegance (Shahar Babu) 4. Not run: Blue Sapphire. 1, 3/4 and 2-1/2. 1m, 14.86s. Owners: Mr. Bharat V. Epur & Mr. Ayyadevara Srinivas. Trainer: Sebastian.  7. GOVERNOR’S TROPHY (1,200m), rated 80 & above: STORM BREAKER (Yash Narredu) 1, Mzilikazi (P. Trevor) 2, Night Hunt (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Classic Remark (Ram Nandan) 4. 1/2, 1-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 12.26s. Owners: Mrs. B.E. Saldanha, M/s. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding &, M/s. Byramjee Jeejeebhoy Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: D. Narredu.  8. SOUTH INDIA STAYERS TRIAL STAKES (2,400m), 4-y-o & over (Terms): MY OPINION (Akshay Kumar) 1, Angelino (C. Umesh) 2, Lake Tahoe (Antony Raj) 3 and Pissarro (P. Trevor) 4. 1-3/4, 4-1/2 and 2-1/2. 2m, 32.17s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: B. Suresh.  9. YANKEE DOODLE HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25: HADAR (A.M. Alam) 1, Platini (M. Bhaskar) 2. Wild Passion (C. Umesh) 3 and Amazing Kitten (C. Brisson) 4. 1-1/4, 3/4 and 2-1/4. 1m, 29.03s. Owner and trainer: Mr. G.S. Parmar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/my-opinion-triumphs/article38306368.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:29 IST,||Vidit in joint lead||Vidit Gujrathi easily held Anish Giri to a 33-move draw before being joined in the lead by the victorious duo of Richard Rapport and Shakhriyar Mamedyarov after five rounds of the Masters section of Tata Steel chess tournament in Wijk Aan Zee on Thursday. Vidit, Rapport and Mamedyarov have 3.5 points and enjoy a half-point lead over Magnus Carlsen and Andrey Esipenko. Rapport defeated R. Praggnanandhaa (2) in a wild game lasting 56 moves. In the Challengers’ section, top seed Arjun Erigaisi (4.5 points) scored his fourth successive victory at the expense of Russia’s rising talent Volodar Murzin in 71 moves. Arjun now has a one-point lead over Surya Shekhar Ganguly and two others.  The results: Fifth round (Indians unless stated):   Masters: Anish Giri (Ned, 2) drew with Vidit Gujrathi (3.5); Richard Rapport (Hun, 3.5) bt R. Praggnanandhaa (2); Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 2.5) lost to Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze, 3.5); Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 3) drew with Fabiano Caruana (USA, 2.5); Nils Grandelius (Swe, 1) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 3); Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 2.5) drew with Sergey Karjakin (Rus, 2); Daniil Dubov (Rus, 2) drew with Sam Shankland (USA, 2).   Challengers (involving Indians): Arjun Erigaisi (4.5) bt Volodar Murzin (Rus, 3); Surya Shekhar Ganguly (3.5) bt Roven Vogel (Ger, 1.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-in-joint-lead/article38305969.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,||India mauls Malaysia||Holder India thrashed Malaysia 9-0 to start its title defence on an emphatic note at the women’s Asia Cup hockey tournament here on Friday. Open goal India took the lead through Vandana Katariya, who tapped in an open goal. The Indians two penalty corners in quick time, the second of which was brilliantly converted by Deep Grace Ekka. Navneet Kaurscored with a fierce reverse hit from top of the circle to hand India a commanding 3-0. Navneet scored her second goal of the day minutes from the breather as India went into half-time with a 4-0 lead. Just after the change of ends, Neha Goyal scored India’s fifth goal before an unmarked Lalremsiami found the back of the Malaysian net to lead 6-0. Monika soon registered her name in the scoresheetad. Navjot Kaur scored the team’s eighth goal. Sharmila Devi made it 9-0 five minutes from the final hooter.  The result: India 9 (Vandana Katariya, Deep Grace Ekka, Navneet Kaur 2, Neha Goyal, Lalremsiami, Monika, Navjot Kaur, Sharmila Devi) bt Malaysia 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-mauls-malaysia/article64947101.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:20 IST,||Replacements fly out today||Five players are set to join the India squad at the Under-19 World Cup as back-up for those who have been quarantined after testing COVID-19 positive. The five cricketers — Uday Saharan (Rajasthan), Abhishek Porel (Bengal), Rishith Reddy (Hyderabad), Ansh Gosai (Saurashtra) and Pushpendra Singh Rathore (Rajasthan) — will leave for Antigua on Saturday to serve the mandatory six-day quarantine. The Hindu understands that the decision was taken during a conference call between the National junior selectors, the team management, that includes National Cricket Academy head of cricket V.V.S Laxman, and BCCI authorities on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/replacements-fly-out-today/article38306070.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:20 IST,||I’m not God, says Osaka||A philosophical Naomi Osaka said on Friday she “is not God” and cannot always win. “I fought for every point, I can’t be sad about that,” said Osaka. “You know, I’m not God. I can’t win every match. “I just have to take that into account and know that it would be nice to win a tournament but I can't think winning a Grand Slam at the start of the year every time. “I feel like I grew a lot in this match. The last match that I played in New York (US Open), I think I had a completely different attitude... of course, I lost, but I’m happy with how it went,” said Osaka. "To me, it's exciting. Not the loss itself, but the person I lost to because it's showing the growth of tennis.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/im-not-god-says-osaka/article64947224.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:28 IST,||Spurt in positive cases at SAI||A total of 34 positive COVID-19 cases have been identified from 128 test results at the SAI National Centre of Excellence here. Sixteen athletes and one coach from the Indian senior men’s hockey team, training at the centre ahead of the upcoming FIH Pro League in South Africa, have tested positive. They are all asymptomatic. Fifteen players have tested positive in the Indian junior women’s hockey team, training for the World Cup in April. While three of them are asymptomatic, the rest are symptomatic. The two other positive members constitute an India senior women’s hockey team player, who is symptomatic, and a masseuse from the athletics team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spurt-in-positive-cases-at-sai/article38306108.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:33 IST,||Hardik, Rahul named captains||Hardik Pandya will captain the Ahmedabad franchise and K.L. Rahul the Lucknow team, the two new IPL teams confirmed on Friday while announcing their three draft picks ahead of the mega auction. The CVC-owned Ahmedabad has picked Hardik and Afghanistan star Rashid Khan for Rs. 15 crore each while shelling out Rs. 7 crore for Shubman Gill, its director of cricket Vikram Solanki announced on Star Sports. The RPSG group-owned Lucknow franchise signed Rahul for Rs. 17 crore, Australia all-rounder Marcus Stoinis for Rs. 9.2 crore and uncapped leg-spinner Ravi Bishnoi for Rs. 4 crore. The rest of the squad will be picked at the mega auction in Bengaluru on February 12 and 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hardik-rahul-named-captains/article38306317.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 06:32 IST,||COVID-hit India takes on Uganda today||Five Indian players, including skipper Yash Dhull, were on Friday ruled out of Saturday’s final league game against Uganda in the Under-19 World Cup after testing positive for COVID-19 in the latest RT-PCR tests. Out of the six players, who were isolated before the match against Ireland on Wednesday, only all-rounder Vasu Vats tested negative. Skipper Dhull, Aaradhya Yadav and Shaik Rasheed, who had tested positive in the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), have returned positive reports in the RT-PCR test along with Manav Parakh, who tested negative in RAT. Sidharth Yadav had already tested positive in the RT-PCR test before the Ireland game. England and Pakistan defeated UAE and Afghanistan respectively to book a place in the quarterfinals. Bangladesh beat Canada to register its first win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/five-indian-players-test-positive-for-covid/article38306074.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 14:12 IST,||Saivism’s basic tenets||It is held that Tirumoolar learnt the Siva Yoga Sastra from the Lord in Kailasa and has conveyed this knowledge in the 3,000 verses of the Tirumandiram. In this unique siddhanta text comprising nine sections that are classified as nine tantras, Tirumoolar establishes Siva as the Supreme Deity, the sole Master and Lord, the Para Tatva, pointed out Sri C. Balu in a discourse. In the Para State, Sivam together with Shakti is responsible for the five functions — creation, srishti, sustenance, stithi, destruction, samhara, tirodana, veiling, and anugraha, grace. Though engaged in creation etc, Siva along with Sakti stands beyond all this. None can fully fathom His inexplicable greatness. But He can be realised in one’s inner self by one who is keen to seek His grace. Tirumoolar describes the birth of deities such as Muruga, Vinayaka, and others but states that Siva is ‘pirappili,’ one who has no birth and is ‘anadi’, the one without ‘aadi’ and ‘antham,’ beginning and end. He also explains with great clarity the truth in the three basic concepts of Saivism — Pati, Pasu and Pasam. All three are considered ‘anadi’, meaning, without any beginning. Pati is the Lord, always Supreme and independent. He is eternally free and the Master who should liberate the jiva. The jiva, the soul, is called Pasu, and it is tied by the Pasa or rope of bondage. The Pasa itself is owing to the three malams or impurities. These are the ‘anava or avidya mala’ which is the primordial ignorance attached to the jiva, the ‘karma mala,’ the result of the good and bad deeds of the jiva, and the ‘maya mala,’ which is manifest as the jiva’s attachment to the world. Though the jiva can be rid of karma and maya malas by following the path of devotion and self discipline, it is only God’s grace that can remove the soul’s anava mala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/saivisms-basic-tenets/article38306035.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:23 IST,||Longing for the skies||For me, COVID’s biggest blow has been the one it’s dealt cruelly to the solar plexus of my travel plans. Sigh. How I yearn to take off again into the welcoming skies. Given below, in no particular order, are all the things I so miss.  I miss waking up four hours in advance (my bowels need cajoling, okay?) to be able to make it to the airport two hours (I’m a stickler, okay?) in advance. I miss showing my ID to the Hindi-speaking security guy in namma Chennai who’s never convinced it’s me in the photo but lets me in anyway thinking, bah, what can this sap do. I miss having that guy behind me in the check-in queue bump his giant strolley into my foot repeatedly till the skin comes off my ankle. I miss taking my belt off for security and holding my pants up with sheer willpower when I’m made to stand like SRK by the (again, north Indian) frisker.   I miss the guy on the phone seated next to me, eyes closed, giving someone the uncensored, director’s cut of his anaesthesia-free haemorrhoid removal. I miss going to the airport loo one last time to be on the safe side and finding neither mug nor toilet paper and things I will need therapy to get over. I miss eating a samosa bought at the food court and watching a small family of rodents walk out cheerily from behind the stall.   I miss the namaste and smile of the flight attendant that says ‘I’ll kick you in the crotch if you call me more than once.’ I miss the large guy who comes just as soon as I’ve buckled up in the aisle seat (which I’ve paid extra for) who makes me get up to take the middle seat. I miss the even larger guy who comes to take the window seat after both of us have buckled up. I miss their stepping on my feet like Sunny Paaji in Yaara O Yaara as they go to the loo twice each on a one-hour flight.   I miss the family that sits behind me that uses my backrest as support to sit down and get up, catapulting my head into the backrest of the seat ahead of me every time they let it go. I miss their unannounced knuckle-sandwiches to my cranium (reminiscent of Pattu Miss’s kottus ) in their efforts to be seated. I miss the guy who sits in front of me who has to recline as soon as he is seated and remains that way till eternity.   I miss the two-minute upma priced at Rs. 300 that is apparently manufactured by Madras Cements. I miss fighting for one half of the arm rest that’s rightfully mine with a guy who looks like he eats puppies for breakfast. I miss trying to guess whether it’s the guy next to me or the guy in front of me who passed wind four times in quick succession. I miss trying to somehow convey silently to everyone else on the plane that the wind-passer wasn’t me. I miss being brained as I’m dozing off by a bag that is suddenly needed from the overhead locker above me by someone six seats away. I miss the guy who talks on his phone even as we are taking off and doesn’t stop till we land. I miss everyone getting up in unison, like the National Anthem is being played, as soon as the first wheel touches the runway on landing.  Ah, to travel again. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/longing-for-the-skies/article64947362.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:23 IST,||Audio rewind||James Clear’s Atomic Habits leads the list ofAudible’s top10 audiobooks of 2021, whileRujuta Diwekar’s Secrets of Good Health is among the top accessed originals. Proof that self-care and self-improvement were among the top priorities, pandemic or not! Access the list on audible.in. In music,Drakewas the most streamed artist of 2021, in the U.S., with 8.6 billion on demand downloads. The numbers add up thanks to his full-length album,Certified Lover Boy, as Apple Music and Spotify will attest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/audio-rewind/article64947360.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:22 IST,||R-Day parade||Gearing up: While the spectator count has been curtailed due to COVID-19 restrictions, the Defence Ministry promises AI tech and eco-friendly materials at the 10.30 a.m. parade. Many ‘firsts’ are expected, including the ‘largest and grandest’ flypast ever. Meanwhile, the rejection of tableaux proposals from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and West Bengal has created a political storm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/r-day-parade/article64947364.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:22 IST,||The days we were young||ArtistShiv Kumar Soni’sTreasure Trove of Childhood Memoriescomes at a time when nostalgia is at its peak. His polychromatic celebration of this period of innocence can be seen at Goa’s ‘living gallery’ hotel,The Project Cafe, till Jan. 31. @theprojectcafegoa. Meanwhile, the third edition ofPrinsep’s‘The Nationalism Book Auction’opens at 10 a.m., Jan. 25, and includes works printed pre- and post-Independence, such as Gandhi’sYoung India(1922). Est. Rs. 30,000-Rs. 1 lakh. On prinseps.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-days-we-were-young/article64947363.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:23 IST,||Rum with benefits||Chef Prateek Bakhtiani’s chocolate brand,Ether, has macarons with Japanese springtime flavours this season. But don’t missEther’s collab with Diplomaticofor a limited edition box available in Goa, Delhi and Mumbai. TheReserva Exclusiva, a fine Venezuelan rum, is paired with the Ether Sierra. Rs. 2,999, details at 9833731902. Still in the gifting mood? Try the handpainted gift-wrapping paper fromProvenance Gift Boutique, Mumbai. Rs. 100 per roll @provenanceindia||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rum-with-benefits/article64947359.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:23 IST,||Tiger watch||As we enter the Year of the Tiger, luxury brands are rolling out themed collections. One such is from Japanese brandOnitsuka Tigerthat collaborates with famous artists to create products with the tiger motif. Part 1 has what the late legendary Japanese illustratorYasushi Nirasawacreated for the brand, the OnitsukaTiger Man. Rs. 6,999-Rs. 11,999 on onitsukatiger.com. Elsewhere,Moleskinehas a ‘Tiger’ collab with Chinese calligrapher Lok Ng. Rs. 2,000-Rs. 6,500 on moleskine.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tiger-watch/article64947357.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:23 IST,||Laugh, learn or both?||Done bingeing Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and the rest? How about a workshop by storyteller and theatre personalityVikram Sridhar? He will teach you how to build a strong, memorable character as you spin a tale, with ‘Antagonist and Stories: Building Strong Characters’. On Jan. 22 at 11 a.m. via Zoom, for 16+. Rs. 570 on insider.in. Or if you prefer some laughs, chartered accountant/stand-up comic Arun Sriram’shour-long specialCtrl+ Zis about super powers. Via Zoom on Jan. 29 at 6 p.m. Rs. 299 on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/laugh-learn-or-both/article64947356.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:23 IST,||Gucci’s new NFTs||‘Supergucci’, a limited series ofCryptoJanky NFTsand handmade ceramic sculptures byGucci and Superplastic, makers of limited-edition vinyl toys and digital collectibles, go on sale Feb. 1. The 10 exclusive NFTs are each accompanied by a ceramic sculpture co-designed by Gucci and Superplastic. On superplastic.co and Gucci Vault. Meanwhile,Hermèsis suing NFT creator Mason Rothschild for his line of digital assets‘MetaBirkins’. About time brand trademarks also covered the digital realm?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/guccis-new-nfts/article64947355.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:24 IST,||Silk sensibility||Everafter,Ekaya Benaras’ latest RTW collection, boasts scarlet, cloud pinks, and vivid Turkish blues accentuated by goldzari. Stags and flamingos, peonies and delicate foliage appear as prints and woven patterns in these Indian styles. On ekaya.in, Rs. 30,000-Rs. 70,000. Also stock up on dresses and separates from Manan, now showcasing the Afra collection with eri silk metallic stripes. Together withVineet Rahul and Shivani BhargavaatCollage’s‘Kaleidoscope’. Till mid-Feb. @collage_chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/silk-sensibility/article64947354.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:23 IST,||Career ambitions||A survey by the networking platform found that 82% of professionals in India are considering a job change this year. Reasons range from poor work-life balance to career ambitions. And the ‘great reshuffle’ is being led by freshers (94%) and Gen Z professionals (87%). According to their research, flexible working arrangements and better pay will be the game changer. Employers listening?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/career-ambitions/article64947358.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:50 IST,||Front row seat to the apocalypse||Early on in Shaunak Sen’s documentary, All That Breathes — while carefully examining an injured bird before them — two brothers discuss the potential ramifications of a nuclear war based on a news report one of them came across. If it wasn’t for the bird on the table, you’d have guessed it was just another Delhi basement: crammed with boxes, peeling walls, and the soot-coated bulbs illuminating just enough.   If you ask the 34-year-old director — beyond the casual references to the said nuclear obliteration — Delhi is already in the throes of an apocalypse and the brothers have front row seats to it. And he has captured this in All That Breathes , the only Indian documentary to have a world premiere at this year’s Sundance Film Festival in Utah, USA (scheduled to be held virtually from January 20).  “Essentially, the film is about the relationship of the people of Delhi with the polluted skies, through the lenses of those black dots [the silent casualty of the city’s darkening skies, the black kite] that we often see gliding through it,” he says. Through the story of the two brothers, Nadeem Shahzad (44) and Mohammad Saud (40), Sen wanted to capture the fact that “nature is not happening elsewhere but right in the heart of our urban jungles”. Black spots, dark lives The story of the brothers appealed to Sen because they were treating black kites selflessly from their basement while also running a soap dispenser business on the side. (Sen was actively looking for people who work with birds and reached out to the duo after coming across their story in various news reports.) Through their bird rehabilitation organisation, Wildlife Rescue, the brothers treat more than 2,000 raptors a year.  Shahzad and Saud are not trained veterinarians. Sen explains they both developed a “hypnotic fascination” towards black kites during their childhood in Old Delhi. “According to Islam, tossing meat to the kites is virtuous. This one time, two decades ago, when they came across an injured kite and took it to a government bird hospital in Delhi, they were turned away under the pretext that it [the bird of prey] was non-vegetarian.” The brothers had then proceeded to operate on the said kite themselves. It helped that they were into bodybuilding — poring over scores of Flex magazine issues aided them in understanding the world of wounds, tears, and fractures.  But as the documentary progresses, the birds from owls to falcons falling from the skies due to the twin effects of pollution and lethal kite-flying enthusiasts only keep increasing. Even the black kites — migratory raptors who visit Delhi from Russia during the winter months — are injured and can never go back. “The injured birds keep coming to them in cardboard boxes carted in auto rickshaws, their personal relationship goes through ups and downs, and the social violence of Delhi percolates in their neighbourhood too. Yet they soldier on with a wry sense of humour.” In the documentary, as environmental toxicity and social unrest in Delhi escalates, the relationship between this Muslim family and the neglected kite forms a poetic chronicle of the city’s collapsing ecology and rising social tensions. Malaise of the urban jungle The team tracked the brothers over three years to get a ringside view to their lives, and through that, the larger story of Delhi itself. “If you look at anything long enough, things are revealed to you,” says Sen. “For me, it was important to situate the good work of the brothers in a larger setting. The best books or films that I personally love touch upon the whole through the particular.” The documentary is peppered with languid shots of rats scurrying around for food in the heart of the bustling city; pigs framing the edges of an elite township; and even a turtle moving over garbage bags, contemplating the endless traffic on the road. Sen and his team spent the better part of the shooting schedule patiently and painstakingly getting these shots right, as they formed the heart of the film. “The city wants to give you the impression that nature is happening elsewhere,” he says. “But we live in a time when the finger span of the lizards has increased because they now have to navigate concrete homes. So, we used the story of the brothers as a springboard to show how the social and ecological malaise of the city has truly pervaded the world of all that breathes.” Sen insists that the documentary is not a social justice film, at least not explicitly, and neither is it a nature documentary because “no one in the team simply has that skill set”. It does, however, rely on the cold facts unfolding before us. Or as he puts it: “We’ve tried to render the scientific into the poetic.” Being the only Indian documentary to premiere at Sundance is an honour Sen certainly does not take for granted. And he credits the universal appeal of the film to its themes. “The brothers provided me with an emotional crutch and then there are fewer things in life more universal than the man-animal relationship.” The Sundance Film Festival is on from January 20-30, on sundance.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/front-row-seat-to-the-apocalypse/article64947502.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:48 IST,||Longing for the skies||For me, Covid’s biggest blow has been the one it’s dealt cruelly to the solar plexus of my travel plans. Sigh. How I yearn to take off again into the welcoming skies. Given below, in no particular order, are all the things I so miss.  I miss waking up four hours in advance (my bowels need cajoling, okay?) to be able to make it to the airport two hours (I’m a stickler, okay?) in advance. I miss showing my ID to the Hindi-speaking security guy in namma Chennai who’s never convinced it’s me in the photo but lets me in anyway thinking, bah, what can this sap do. I miss having that guy behind me in the check-in queue bump his giant strolley into my foot repeatedly till the skin comes off my ankle. I miss taking my belt off for security and holding my pants up with sheer willpower when I’m made to stand like SRK by the (again, North Indian) frisker.   I miss the guy on the phone seated next to me, eyes closed, giving someone the uncensored, director’s cut of his anaesthesia-free haemorrhoid removal. I miss going to the airport loo one last time to be on the safe side and finding neither mug nor toilet paper and things I will need therapy to get over. I miss eating a samosa bought at the food court and watching a small family of rodents walk out cheerily from behind the stall.   I miss the namaste and smile of the flight attendant that says ‘I’ll kick you in the crotch if you call me more than once.’ I miss the large guy who comes just as soon as I’ve buckled up in the aisle seat (which I’ve paid extra for) who makes me get up to take the middle seat. I miss the even larger guy who comes to take the window seat after both of us have buckled up. I miss their stepping on my feet like Sunny Paaji in Yaara O Yaara as they go to the loo twice each on a one-hour flight.   I miss the family that sits behind me that uses my backrest as support to sit down and get up, catapulting my head into the backrest of the seat ahead of me every time they let it go. I miss their unannounced knuckle-sandwiches to my cranium (reminiscent of Pattu Miss’s kottus ) in their efforts to be seated. I miss the guy who sits in front of me who has to recline as soon as he is seated and remains that way till eternity.   I miss the two-minute upma priced at Rs. 300 that is apparently manufactured by Madras Cements. I miss fighting for one half of the arm rest that’s rightfully mine with a guy who looks like he eats puppies for breakfast. I miss trying to guess whether it’s the guy next to me or the guy in front of me who passed wind four times in quick succession. I miss trying to somehow convey silently to everyone else on the plane that the wind-passer wasn’t me. I miss being brained as I’m dozing off by a bag that is suddenly needed from the overhead locker above me by someone six seats away. I miss the guy who talks on his phone even as we are taking off and doesn’t stop till we land. I miss everyone getting up in unison, like the National Anthem is being played, as soon as the first wheel touches the runway on landing.  Ah, to travel again. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/longing-for-the-skies/article64947514.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:47 IST,||’Social media has turned us all into performers’||Seize the moment, tell your story. That’s the sentiment that’s driven veteran dancer Anita Ratnam for the last 30 years — first in her interaction with the internet and, more recently, social media platforms. “People unknown two years ago have become huge stars on social media, all because they have seized the moment. They are younger and more nimble, but that doesn’t mean that at any age we can’t continue to morph and use technology,” says the enthusiastic 65-year-old, one of the first to have a website way back in 1996. (Narthaki.com started off as a telephone directory with 1,000 names — an idea that took shape when the American Broadcasting Company couldn’t reach dancer Yamini Krishnamurthy, and Ratnam helped source her number.) “Media and visibility are so democratised now. The towers and castles have all been demolished. So, why should I be sitting in one?” Having worked for 10 years in New York as a television producer, media was not new to her. Neither was imagining the camera to be her best friend. Keeping things social  Ratnam took to social media “for myself — to stay sane, curious, centered and positive”. During the pandemic, it was a matter of jugaad. “I could not order lights. I was balancing my phone on a book stand and opening the curtains hoping for light on my face.”  Though her last stage performance was in Baroda in March 2020, she hasn’t missed dancing. “I feel I’ve performed so much. Digital media is performative. Whether we’re talking on Zoom or any kind of environment, we’ve all become performers because of this rectangle screen.” In the last two years, the producer in Ratnam has largely been at the helm of things. In April 2020, when the pandemic began, she hosted a month-long Facebook series of invited written pieces, called Pandemic Ponderings — where she asked creative people ‘What are you feeling?’ In May, she ran a live series called ‘Boxed’ on Instagram for over eight weekends, with five presentations every day. “We asked them to choose one place in their home they spent the most time in. Some chose the bathroom, the bathtub, kitchen, couch, or balcony. It helped them psychologically.” The digital series has been nominated for an award from UK-based Manch Arts, a virtual platform that promotes cross-arts events.  Since then, there’s been Taalam Talkies , a six-episode series on cinema and Bharatanatyam on YouTube; Devi Diaries , a series of dance commissions on Narthaki’s YouTube channel (she did two seasons in October 2020 and 2021, for 31 days, at 6 am and 6 pm — 62 original performances); and Andaal’s Garden , an original series produced during Margazhi 2020, and more.  Digital responsibility Now, two years in, she is thinking about legacy. “I don’t run a school, I don’t have students. My entire legacy, as it is, is in the digital media.” In 30 years, Narthaki has collected “valuable information and the writings of well-known writers whose last writings are with us. It’s a huge responsibility”. She’s working with a consultancy “to look at how Narthaki can stay as a platform of value for the next three years. I don’t like to make five-year and 10-year plans because things are shifting so quickly”. She also launched neonarthaki.com in August 2020 as a platform to address issues around dance that the main brand was not addressing. “It started with #metoo and the caste issue in dance, and went on to embrace diversity, identity, LGBTQI+, etc.” Ratnam is looking forward to 2022. And it will be a hybrid approach. She’s part of an international storytelling festival in February, she’s accepted to act in a play in San Francisco. “I’m keeping myself open as to what I’m going to do — either offline or online.” Anita Ratnam speaks about the late Birju Maharaj’s legacy on weekend.thehindu.com   Ratnam on colleagues who have utilised social media in creative ways.  invited us into her daily practice, preparations and relentless pursuit towards a perfectly articulate body.   urged her dancers to create in isolation and posted videos of her non-stop exercise and fitness routines.   used the lockdown to travel all over the country to examine what it means to be secular in India. He took a piece of white cloth on which he wrote ‘The secular project’ and used his own body to display it — wrapping it around it, dancing in it, sleeping on it.   used her Instagram handle to become an important influencer. She’s now sought after by Bose headphones, Dove Hair Care and other brands.    Instagram outshines all other media, she insists. “Between Reels, Stories and IGTV, this platform has become the most effective place to mirror the distraction, shrunken attention spans, and insatiable appetite for the new.” Ratnam has completed nearly 100 talks on Insta Live. “I had less than 5,000 followers in March 2020. Now I have over 50,000. I’ve learnt how to use Reels; I think Insta is perfect for the way we feel now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/social-media-has-turned-us-all-into-performers/article64947518.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:50 IST,||A busy 2022 for India’s food industry||From exclusive dinners in offbeat locations to a couple of big-ticket launches in foreign destinations such as Seattle and Monaco, Indian restaurants and the food industry has plans for 2022 — if Covid does not play spoil sport yet again! “I hear that 40-50 new restaurants are opening in Goa itself,” says a bemused top chef as we discuss what to expect this year. Most restaurateurs seem headed to the sunshine state, even as some of us bemoan the fact that it has become a mini ‘Delhi-Mumbai-Bengaluru’! “It is going to be like Bangalore of a few years ago, with experimental and creative projects but with prices in restaurants and bars lower than in Mumbai and Delhi,” says the chef, known for his foraging and farm to table experiments. First up, bar-friendly Goa India’s most creative bartenders, distillers and the bar community in general seem to have shifted en masse to Goa, not just because of an easier lifestyle but for its easier bar and bottling policies. 2021 saw Bar Tesouro come up in Colva, very international but also rooted in its tightly-knit south Goa community. By two of India’s leading bar experts — Pankaj Balachandran and Arijit Bose (with restaurateur Donovan Vaz as partner) — it quickly zipped up the World’s 50 Best Bars list at no 65. Now ‘Bose’, as he is popularly called, and ‘I Say Negroni’ (his Instagram handle) Balachandran plan to set up another bar in Goa in 2022. But not Tesouro “as we don’t want to dilute it”, says Balachandran. “It will be very international while still being a local bar. You can call it a five-star local bar,” he chuckles. Ashish Kapur, the restaurateur known for his chic bar-meets-dining concepts such as The Wine Company (Delhi) and Antares (Goa), now spends half the year in Goa. He is ready to open a beach club-restaurant Morjim in 2022, plus a boutique hotel in Assagao. Meanwhile, Mumbai’s successful Izumi is looking to sprout a second outlet in Goa. What many are eagerly awaiting, however, is the local Goan bar and tapas brand Antonio in Fontainhas opening a “Japanese small bites sort of a place, post April,” according to an older Goa settler. Pop ups and supper clubs If Goa is the OG destination, the OG trend for 2022 is luxe pop-ups in non-restaurant locales. Chef Prateek Sadhu of Masque, who has just come up with a concept called “Pravas” (or “journey”), is set to travel to different regions in India, beginning with the northeast. He plans to research local ingredients and traditions, develop dishes around these, and then go back to these locations with full-fledged pop-up dinners. “I did two dinners in Gwalior recently at the Jai Vilas Palace with food inspired by Gwalior. We sold tickets and diners flew in from Delhi, Mumbai and elsewhere,” he says. He aspires to create “bespoke journeys” and pop ups in other parts of the country every few months — at around Rs. 10,000 per head.  Storytelling in London around India’s lesser-known culinary cultures is set to gain ground too, where chef and restaurateur Asma Khan will focus on her supper clubs. Her restaurant Darjeeling Express (now at Covent Garden) did relatively well through the pandemic with its biryani and thali lunches — actor Paul Rudd aka Marvel’s Antman posted pictures on Instagram last year. “Through the pandemic, I realised I want to tell stories more, about the women who cook food in Indian homes, so I want to do more of the supper club thing,” says Khan.   In Kolkata with her family after two years, Khan got to hear some stories herself over a new year meal with a Malda zamindari family. Oiendrila Ray Kapur, who comes from Harishchandrapur in Malda, served up ancestral recipes in her central Kolkata home near Ballygunje as a specially curated offering. We will see more such experiences coming into their own now.  Bengaluru for the global young Indian In Bengaluru, one of the hottest under-the radar ‘non-restaurants’ of 2021 has been Farmlore. Helmed by three chefs with work experience at Michelin-starred and the World’s 50 Best restaurants, it is set within a 37-acre farm, offers freestyle, degustation-only menus to just 18 diners thrice a week, and tells stories about local produce and customs.  Nirupa Shankar of the Brigade Group, who spent New Year’s Eve there, says this exclusivity married to farm-to-table gastronomy will be in demand once the market opens up. Shankar, whose company owns several hotels in Bengaluru, is in the process of rejigging her own restaurants to cater to a younger, more global customer. Their Glass - Kitchen & Bar at the Holiday Inn on Racecourse Road, has opened recently in collaboration with Chef Abhijit Saha. Offering modern Indian regional food, with several offbeat dishes like hemp protein-enhanced idli and ajwain leaf fritters, it uses cleanly sourced ingredients, and is all instagrammable, as Shankar says. This may be a way forward for younger diners, marrying international trends with local flavours.  When brands like Avartana travel Avartana, the modern South Indian restaurant brand at ITC Grand Chola, is set to go national with an offshoot in Kolkata to begin with. There has been buzz that Indian Accent is set to open in Mumbai, while restaurateur AD Singh of the Olive group is bringing a new brand to Gurugram later in the year. “It is something that I have seen internationally but not in India,” he says mysteriously. Zorawar Kalra is opening his first restaurant in the US, in Seattle — Farzi Cafe, tailored for North America — “at an epic location” (he is still tight-lipped about it) by mid year, while one of India’s largest and most profitable restaurant companies, the Amit Burman-Rohit Aggarwal promoted Lite Bite Food will focus on the UAE (besides smaller Indian cities like Pune, Kochi, Lucknow and Bhubaneshwar) with Punjab Grill restaurants. This market is being looked upon as a sort of modern-day Casablanca for those seeking to escape pandemic hardships. Finally, in what is one of the most unusual locations, The Wine Company’s Ashish Kapur is zeroing in on Monaco for a fully Indian experiment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-busy-2022-for-indias-food-industry/article64947503.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:49 IST,||Why Siddhant Chaturvedi isn’t copying SRK||When actor Siddhant Chaturvedi began to get into the skin of Zain, the character he plays in director Shakun Batra’s Gehraiyaan , he automatically gravitated towards the stereotypes that Bollywood peddles about love. “I started by writing notes in a diary as Zain, and most of them were rejected by Shakun. That’s when I realised that having grown up on a diet of Bollywood romantic films [most of them starring Shah Rukh Khan], I was conditioned to see romance in a certain way.” As the process continued, Chaturvedi unlearned all that he knew about love and its depictions. “He [director Batra] made me see beyond all the gloss and glamour. He showed me a mirror which was so human, intimate and nuanced.”  The Hindu Weekend spoke with the 26-year-old via Zoom just as the film’s promotions were starting and he was still looking for the right words to describe the film. “It’s a relationship drama, but unlike anything you’ve seen before. We called it domestic noir for the longest time and didn’t even have a title until much later because it’s so new and fresh.”  Gehraiyaan , a Dharma Production that also stars Deepika Padukone and Ananya Pandey, is Chaturvedi’s third film. The actor had a dream debut of sorts in Zoya Akhtar’s Gully Boy (2019) as MC Sher — who helped Ranveer Singh’s Murad channel his angst and achieve his dream of a career in hip-hop. When I met Chaturvedi days after the release of that film, he was still in a daze processing all the praise that was coming his way. ‘Surreal’ was a word he used often during that conversation and almost three years later that feeling hasn’t changed for the actor, last seen in YRF’s Bunty Aur Babli 2 . “Things still feel surreal. I actually have a film releasing! I’m still very young and new, so I think this feeling will last. It is also a validation that I’m doing something right and that I am living my dreams.”  ‘Either good stories or great scale’  Like everyone else’s life, Chaturvedi’s also had to hit pause in March 2020 on what seemed like the beginning of a dream run. It would have been natural for him to be frustrated, but he is confident in his abilities and choices. “I knew I’d be working. After this, there’s Phone Booth , Yudhra , and Kho Gaye Hum Kahan . So I was fine, but I was sad about what’s happening in the world. I just wish this [the pandemic] would get over and children can go back to school — they’ve missed three years of their lives. My brother who’s going to be turning 18 has not seen college yet; he couldn’t give his boards. I think it’s bad for one’s mental health.”   Even as he was preparing for Gehraiyaan and his other films, Chaturvedi used the last two years to “sit back and study people and watch their tastes change”. “Thankfully, I haven’t signed much and I’ll take all of this into consideration while signing the other films I’m going to do,” he says, adding, “Attention spans aren’t what they used to be, so you need really good content. Now, stories and writers are the most important part because you need the audience hooked. I really need some great stories and, if not, I need big scale [like multilingual films RRR or Pushpa ]. Don’t give me something that’s mediocre.”  Of complex modern relationships  For now, though, he’s anxious to see audience reactions to Gehraiyaan , a film where “you’ll feel like you’re watching yourself at times”. Shooting schedules were delayed because of the pandemic, though Chaturvedi believes it helped the film. “I’m glad it [the shoot] didn’t happen at that time because there were so many things we came up with during the lockdown. Shakun came up with ideas about the characters and picked up those little nuances from real life, real people, and real experiences. It was a never-ending process and he was even tweaking things while dubbing. Because of the pandemic, so many things have changed. The definition of love and relationships, tastes, consumer preferences — everything is evolving and it’s all happening very quickly.”   Batra’s tweaking of the film to reflect the ‘now’ meant that the actors had to bring their A-game and own their characters. The filmmaker’s collaborative directorial process helped. “Us actors prepped for a year, doing workshops, playing games, and doing team building exercises. We would all come up with things to help each other and own our characters. Shakun made sure we were all on the same page. Apart from discussing our characters, he would ask us our opinions on the others and why someone was feeling a certain way.”  And for fun, he made sure to bring something extra to the set. “For every scene, I had my own Bollywood take. So, I’d do the scene that Shakun wanted and then do one in the Shah Rukh Khan style. Shakun shot all of those takes just for fun!” he concludes.  Gehraiyaan will premiere on Amazon Prime Video on February 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/why-siddhant-chaturvedi-isnt-copying-srk/article64947505.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:48 IST,||Faith and tiny masterpieces||Sometimes, serendipitous encounters lead to sumptuous outcomes. This was the case when product designer Vikram Goyal found himself at dinner with Mapin Publishing’s Bipin Shah, the pasha of coffee table book publishing. What began as a casual conversation in early 2020 turned into a lockdown project, culminating in a limited edition 192-page hardcover that is a collectible. Shringara of Shrinathji , written by noted artist and scholar Amit Ambalal and conceptualised by Goyal, displays 60 miniatures of Shrinathji, a manifestation of Lord Krishna, from the collection of Goyal’s grandfather, the late Gokal Lal Mehta.   Reproduced for the first time, the museum-worthy collection was passed down from their ancestor, Pradhan Rai Pannalal Mehta (1843-1919), the former prime minister of the erstwhile state of Mewar (now Udaipur), a champion of education, development and philanthropy. Pannalal attributed his fortunes to Shrinathji and built up a sizeable collection of ornate miniatures, now accessible through this visually-arresting volume. The miniatures document the shringara (dressing, ornamentation) of the lord through changing seasons and during festivals. Goyal’s mother, Vanmala Mehta, writes in her foreword: “For us, these paintings are more than just pieces of art: they are a bridge that connects us to each other and our ancestors, and to our devout faith in Shrinathji.”  Priests and paintings The artworks are from the Nathdwara school, so named after the deity in the Nathdwara temple in Rajasthan. As Ambalal writes in an expansive essay accompanying the illustrations, the miniatures shown in the book were undertaken under the patronage of Tilkayat Govardhanlal (1862-1934), one of the temple’s most significant head priests. It was during his period that such paintings achieved their greatest heights, in terms of quality and detailing.  Further, he attributes the Mehta family paintings to Sukhdev Kishandas Gaur, the mukhia (chief artist) of the temple. “Sukhdev was the first of the Nathdwara artists to adopt a photographic perspective to painting,” Ambalal writes. “The high quality of workmanship, such as the concern for immaculate detail, refined portraiture and colour tonalities in the artworks, these 60 paintings could be attributed with certainty to Sukhdev.” Indeed, looking at the works, many of which are enlarged in scale for ease of viewing, it is astonishing to see the photographic nature of the artistry.  Love in the details  Despite their age, Goyal points out how contemporary many of the backdrops, colour palettes and motifs found in the artwork are. Stripes, solid colour including black backgrounds, and circular patterns continue to look as fresh today as they would have when they were first painted. “The book is an extension of my contemporary take on traditional arts,” explains the designer (and co-founder of wellness brand, Kama Ayurveda). His own designs, for example, include repousse panels inspired by traditional pichwai paintings.  The miniatures are a testimony to the artists’ talent. That painstaking attention to detail, and refinement of creation stems from excellence, and from a singular love of the deity. They were, after all, doing God’s work. From Mapin Publishing, the book (priced at Rs. 9,500) is available online on shringaraofshrinathji.com and amazon.co.in. Or call 9987536039.    The paintings are rooted in the Pushtimarg culture (the sect founded by Vallabharchya, a leader of the Bhakti movement that arose in 16th century India). It de-emphasised devotion through an ascetic path, in favour of the joys found in daily life: , (food and drink) and (devotional songs).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/faith-and-tiny-masterpieces/article64947513.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:47 IST,||A modern guide to Indian shrines||The role of religion in its most fundamental aspect is to soothe. All faiths were invented (or should we say discovered, named or received) to allay the fears and nourish the hopes of us humans.  There is another important role that religion plays and that is as a keeper of the culture of a people. In this, it is intertwined with history and geography, culture and aesthetics, symbols and myth. The book, Where the Gods Dwell , broadly falls under this ambit. It is a series of 13 essays, some better than others, about the sacred history of shrines. My one-line descriptions of the essays definitely do not do the essays justice, but such is the nature of anthologies, and for that matter, hapless writers like me who would like to amplify the audience for such books.  My favourite essay is Trisha Gupta’s piece on Khajuraho, which describes the sexual sculptures in the temple complex, attempts to unravel their history and talks about current India’s discomfort with their frank sensuality. Yours could be one of the other essays, depending on your proclivity or geography. In that sense, there is something in this book for every stripe of reader. These essays offer an opening, and interested parties can choose a shrine that attracts them to delve deeper.  In Tamil Nadu, outside the Hindu temples that I used to visit as a child, shops typically sold a tiny booklet. You bought it for pittance: Rs. 25 or Rs. 50. Written in Tamil, it was simply titled Sthala Puranam . History of the sacred place. Occasionally, the priest or guide would perform this function, recounting the sacred history of the land upon which the temple stood. Usually, it involved a fantastic story of a god’s choice of a particular place.  Where the Gods Dwell offers a modern view of these old-fashioned sthala puranas . It also raises the idea of how a site’s history is — and should be — transmitted. Books in this genre offer a portable, expert’s perspective. They offer much to the curious reader. But to truly experience the rich history, myths, symbols and stories that lie within the many temple complexes of India, you need to be in situ. You need to know the local language and go with a local person. For those of us who cannot do that, books such as Where the Gods Dwell offer a great introduction to what we have in India — and for that matter, what is lost in English translation.  Westland, Rs. 499. Shoba Narayanis aBengaluru-based journalist and the author of Food and Faith: A Pilgrim’s Journey Through India (2020)    Indira Viswanathan Peterson’s essay is full of rich detail about the temple of Thanjavur. It calls forth the layered history that includes Chola kings, Shaivite saints and Europeans. Manu Pillai does the same for the temple of Thiruvananthapuram, describing the intertwined lives of the titular god, his king, Martanda Varma and a Pulaya woman. I wish I had visited and temples after reading Meera Iyer’s essay about its architecture, including the “balcony seats” that were used for napping. Basav Biradar’s essay on raises significant questions– about local resistance and communities– that make history interesting. Shrenik Rao’s piece on the uses the learned king, Rudra (Vidya Vibhushana — one whose adornment is education), to describe the rigid caste orvarnasystem of the age. Siddhartha Sarma’s piece about melds together the tantric Srividya cult that is rooted in the Shakti peethas with broader questions that delve into the notion of goddess or Devi worship. Neelesh Kulkarni mixes personal history — learned from his grandfather — with the stories surrounding of Pandharpur, showing how the gods may be specific to a site but their leanings (preferring humility over hubris) are universal to Hinduism. Vikrant Pande includes the voices of guides and priests in his piece on , showing the multiplicity of narratives that include sacred trees and mythical time. Haroon Khalid’s piece describes Shivratri at , a historic Hindu temple complex in Pakistan through the eyes of a guide, Shakeel, and a local activist, using this festival to describe place and politics. Amish Raj Mulmi’s piece takes readers back to the hoary history surrounding of Nepal, arguably one of the oldest gods of them all. As a Tamilian, I knew Sri Lanka’s fascination with the warrior, Lord Murugan. What I didn’t know was the layered history of the temple, described by Thulasi Muttulingam – how Muslim, Christian and Hindu shrines stand beside each other, demanding a piece of the tale. Siddhartha Gigoo’s essay describes in lyrical if scorching prose about the ruined temples that the Kashmiri Pandits used to pray at. Once sacred, now desecrated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-modern-guide-to-indian-shrines/article64947517.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:49 IST,||Raise your glass||Gin is still a hot trend globally, but Tequila and mezcal will soon catch up, according to bar consultants and celebrity promoters like The Rock. And that’s why we have a new 100% aged agave spirit in the country –Maya Pistola Agavepura.Since Tequila is a distilled spirit made from the blue Agave and produced only in Mexico, what is distilled from agave in India is simply termed as ‘agave spirit’. Desmond Nazareth, the man who launched DesmondJi and India’s own 100% agave and 51% agave spirits 12 years ago, has had a role to play with this second 100% aged agave spirit in the country. Recently launched, Pistola comes fromRakshay and Radhika Dhariwal, the siblingduo behind Passcode Hospitality and popular bars like Jamun, PCO and Ping’s. It appears the pandemic kept them busy creating a domestic product at a time when sourcing international premium liquor was a challenge. Nazareth helped the duo set up a distilling facility in Chittoor, from where the agave travels to Goa to be blended and bottled. The first variant to hit the markets is the Reposado, aged for five months on average, in virgin American White Oak and ex-Bourbon casks in Goa. Currently retailed in Goa only (soon Delhi and Mumbai). Meanwhile, for gin and coffee fans, a collab between NAO Spirits (Greater Than and Hapusa) and Sleepy Owl Coffee has resulted in the country’s first coffee-infused gin. Launched on Christmas, No Sleep, a limited release gin, is the result of infusing acold brew using 100% Arabicacoffeefrom Chikmagalur, Karnataka, in their gindistillate. They say thecoffee’s bold, fruity aromas rise to the surface with a splash of tonic water and an orange wedge. Also suitable for cocktails like the Negroni or the Espresso Martini.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/raise-your-glass/article64947504.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:48 IST,||Laugh, learn or both?||Done bingeing Netflix, Prime Video and the rest? How about a workshop by storyteller and theatre personalityVikram Sridhar? He will teach you how to build a strong, memorable character as you spin a tale, with ‘Antagonist and Stories: Building Strong Characters’. On Jan 22, 11 am via Zoom, for 16+. Rs. 570 on insider.in. Or if you prefer some laughs, chartered accountant/stand-up comic Arun Sriram’shour-long specialCtrl+ Zis about super powers. Via Zoom on Jan 29, 6 pm. Rs. 299 on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/laugh-learn-or-both/article64947508.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:49 IST,||Silk sensibility||Everafter,Ekaya Benaras’ latest RTW collection, boasts scarlet, cloud pinks, and vivid Turkish blues accentuated by goldzari. Stags and flamingos, peonies and delicate foliage appear as prints and woven patterns in these Indian styles. On ekaya.in, Rs. 30,000-Rs. 70,000. Also stock up on dresses and separates from Manan, now showcasing the Afra collection with eri silk metallic stripes. Together withVineet Rahul and Shivani BhargavaatCollage’s‘Kaleidoscope’. Till mid-Feb. @collage_chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/silk-sensibility/article64947506.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:48 IST,||Rum with benefits||Chef Prateek Bakhtiani’s chocolate brand,Ether, has macarons with Japanese springtime flavours this season. But don’t missEther’s collab with Diplomaticofor a limited edition box available in Goa, Delhi and Mumbai. TheReserva Exclusiva, a fine Venezuelan rum, is paired with the Ether Sierra. Rs. 2,999, details at 9833731902. Still in the gifting mood? Try the handpainted gift-wrapping paper fromProvenance Gift Boutique, Mumbai. Rs. 100 per roll @provenanceindia||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/rum-with-benefits/article64947511.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:48 IST,||Gucci’s new NFTs||‘Supergucci’, a limited series ofCryptoJanky NFTsand handmade ceramic sculptures byGucci and Superplastic, makers of limited-edition vinyl toys and digital collectibles, go on sale Feb 1. The 10 exclusive NFTs are each accompanied by a ceramic sculpture co-designed by Gucci and Superplastic. On superplastic.co and Gucci Vault. Meanwhile,Hermèsis suing NFT creator Mason Rothschild for his line of digital assets‘MetaBirkins’. About time brand trademarks also covered the digital realm?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/guccis-new-nfts/article64947507.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:48 IST,||Tiger watch||As we enter the Year of the Tiger, luxury brands are rolling out themed collections. One such is from Japanese brandOnitsuka Tigerthat collaborates with famous artists to create products with the tiger motif. Part 1 has what the late legendary Japanese illustratorYasushi Nirasawacreated for the brand, the OnitsukaTiger Man. Rs. 6,999-Rs. 11,999 on onitsukatiger.com. Elsewhere,Moleskinehas a ‘Tiger’ collab with Chinese calligrapher Lok Ng. Rs. 2,000-Rs. 6,500 on moleskine.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/tiger-watch/article64947509.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:48 IST,||Audio rewind||James Clear’s Atomic Habits leads the list ofAudible’s top10 audiobooks of 2021, whileRujuta Diwekar’s Secrets of Good Health is among the top accessed originals. Proof that self care and self improvement were among the top priorities, pandemic or not! Access the list on audible.in. In music,Drakewas the most streamed artist of 2021, in the US, with 8.6 billion on demand downloads. The numbers add up thanks to his full-length album,Certified Lover Boy, as Apple Music and Spotify will attest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/audio-rewind/article64947512.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:47 IST,||The days we were young||ArtistShiv Kumar Soni’sTreasure Trove of Childhood Memoriescomes at a time when nostalgia is at its peak. His polychromatic celebration of this period of innocence can be seen at Goa’s ‘living gallery’ hotel,The Project Cafe, till Jan 31. @theprojectcafegoa. Meanwhile, the third edition ofPrinsep’s‘The Nationalism Book Auction’opens at 10 am, Jan 25, and includes works printed pre- and post-Independence, such as Gandhi’s Young India (1922). Est Rs. 30,000-Rs. 1 lakh. On prinseps.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-days-we-were-young/article64947515.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:47 IST,||Instapic||Republic Day Parade 2022: While the spectator count has been curtailed due to Covid restrictions, the Defence Ministry promises AI tech and eco-friendly materials at the 10.30 am parade. Many ‘firsts’ are expected, including the ‘largest and grandest’ flypast ever. Meanwhile, the rejection of tableaux proposals from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and West Bengal has created a political storm. @i_rishie||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapic/article64947516.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:48 IST,||Talking point||A survey by the networking platform found that 82% of professionals in India are considering a job change this year. Reasons range from poor work-life balance to career ambitions. And the ‘great reshuffle’ is being led by freshers (94%) and Gen Z professionals (87%). According to their research, flexible working arrangements and better pay will be the game changer. Employers listening?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article64947510.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:51 IST,||Heading the villa way||An individual’s decisions are invariably influenced by their desires. While a few prefer living in high-rise condos surrounded by people, others prefer solitary times by dwelling in villas or independent home setups. While most apartments are constructed in a substantially similar model, an independent villa allows the homebuyer to customise their property according to their desire. The entire stretch, from the colour of the villa to the art pieces that will go in, will be an ideal reflection of the owner’s personality and style. With the skyrocketing land value and adequate living becoming more expensive day by day, homebuyers investing in villas is more than ever the right approach for tangible assets and comfort living. Here are some of the advantages of living in villas. Privacy and luxury A villa becomes a great option if one values solitude in the place they reside, as it enables unparalleled security and privacy for its habitants with its prime surveillance and maintenance. However, an individual can also enjoy a private lifestyle while still reaping the benefits of communal living, owing to a range of amenities and features provided by a gated villa community. That’s not all, in a hectic city atmosphere and an ever-grinding lifestyle, the thought of relaxation, restoration, and regeneration with custom-made luxurious stretch seems enticing. This is when the captivating landscapes of villas come into play, where the communities are spread out across a large region and have peaceful scenery, natural recreational areas, providing the habitant with a sense of tranquility. Hence, gated villa communities not only provide the habitant a luxury lifestyle with superlative privacy, but also improve their overall well-being. Ample space With conventional home buying transformed, villas have now become ideal option for homebuyers owing to their prices being equal to that of apartments, thereby making it a perfect alternative for investors and homebuyers who are looking for opulence at affordable prices. While a property is something that lasts a lifetime, the demands may alter right from the day users buy it. Owning a villa allows the homebuyer to remodel or modify the space to satisfy their requirements and desires. Therefore, villas provide ample flexibility to upgrade or modify the property according to the home buyers’ demands. That’s not all; investing in villas also enables the home buyer to make appropriate changes to the area as and when required to create an ideal space to reside. Tangible investment Independent villas are considered as a good investment option, as they generate tangible returns over a period of time. One of the biggest perks of investing in villas is that the value of the property will vary depending on the location and market value, thereby bolstering its asset value for the homebuyers and creating an excellent source of financial security. Therefore, investing in villas provides a sense of safety and offers an environment friendly, pollution-free, and serene community as these villas developed today are designed with magnificent greenery that adds to the elegance and grandeur of a property. For social distance Independent houses or villas, a popular choice among first-home purchasers, provide the necessary discretion to design homes to one’s preferences, as well as greater multi-purpose usable rooms. The work-from-home trend has resulted in widely diverging needs. Homebuyers are now prepared to relocate a bit further out from the city centre to acquire residences that meet their requirements. A villa property in the outskirts with good connectivity guarantees a cleaner, healthier lifestyle, as well as the necessary space to offer homes with private gardens. Villa living is undoubtedly the new way to go, as it meets a slew of consumer expectations while also providing several benefits. A huge independent home with maximum privacy and security, as well as the availability of open areas and basic utilities nearby, is a dream home that one aspires. The writer is Vice-President, Marketing, Casagrand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/heading-the-villa-way/article64947492.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:50 IST,||Watch out: Infrastructure growth ahead||As India draws closer to being a $5 trillion economy, the government’s strategic initiatives to encourage the infrastructure sector is providing a boost to collective growth of the Indian economy. Several countries are attempting to upgrade their real estate and infrastructure development to assist the allied industries in getting the necessary momentum to achieve economic growth in these difficult times. These industries play a pivotal role in enhancing the employment generation and uplifting of the small and medium businesses as well. However, delays in large-scale infrastructure projects due to multiple waves of COVID-19, coupled with a nationwide lockdown, have hindered the infrastructure projects. The protracted gestation period has pushed some infrastructure projects into a vulnerable zone that can only be overcome if corporations assess the risk and recalibrate the project and resources involved accordingly. The vulnerability of infrastructure projects to market volatility arises from the industry’s normal protracted gestation period. Infrastructure firms nowadays must have a very comprehensive mechanism for revalidating costs and schedules every quarter. Direct costs should be calculated using important indices such as commodities, labour, POL, and, of course, the Bill of Quantities. The indirect cost assessment is mostly a function of the schedule, which should ideally be evaluated on a weekly basis. Furthermore, the upward or downward impact of both of these levers, as well as the mitigating measures/ identified activities, should be recorded and tracked every quarter. They should then be brought up with other stakeholders such as clients, government agencies, supply chain partners, and so on to limit any long-term damage. It is also essential to have uniform progress on the ongoing projects to avoid delays, which can be achieved via technological advancements in the sector. Today, governments are partnering with private players to ensure a robust approach and seamless execution of some of the marquee infrastructure projects across the country. Latest techniques Infrastructure companies need to institutionalise pull planning/ equivalent tools to review, monitor, and push the progress of the projects. The underlying principle is to cascade and break down the overall project schedule embedded in primavera or equivalent to weekly targets in terms of quantities to be executed as well as corresponding revenues. Enablers are identified to facilitate these targets, along with people responsible for ensuring that the enablers are in place at the right time. For example, if a raft needs to be cast in a specific week, a dedicated team member must be assigned to ensure that the design/ drawings are available on time and similarly, there should also be other team members who would take responsibility for labour, equipment, and material. Each person responsible would then share updates on the progress of their enablers every week. The tool is crisp without missing the details, and performance and non-performance are recorded, which could be further shared with all the stakeholders. This should also be in sync with the right procurement strategy that compliments the project’s overall daily requirements. A robust strategy Procurement strategy is a very important aspect of the overall execution of infrastructure projects. For example, in Tata Projects if a project is worth more than Rs. 500 crore, the entire execution strategy document must be approved by the Managing Director to assure complete sponsorship. However, it is imperative that a large EPC Company engages with limited but committed vendor base. The priority of EPC companies should be to keep track of commodity pricing, consolidate procurement across several projects, and engage in pre-bid tie-ups for niche as well as high-end supplies and services. Inviting bids through reverse auctions has gone a long way toward ensuring transparency. Nevertheless, an end-to-end digital process from ‘Procure To Pay’ will further improve the visibility as all partners will have real-time status of their outstanding payments. After the pandemic, the business dynamics across sectors have been shifted to digital for the better, paving the way for a brighter digital future. The majority of infrastructure companies today are focused on digitising their processes for seamless communication and ensure complete transparency to strengthen relationships across stakeholders. Technological obsolescence Obsolescence in technology dates back to when it first became a part of people’s personal and professional lives. Technology is used across the whole project execution chain, including engineering, procurement, construction, and commissioning. Keeping up with technology changes from beginning to end is indeed a difficult task for leaders. As a result, a specialised task force of young people, consisting of functional experts and technology professionals, must be assigned to ensure that all-important and high-impact advances are informed across stakeholders. Also, as the world progresses digitally, there is a need to adapt to modern technology for seamless execution. For instance, geospatial mapping; Building Information Modelling, video monitoring; 3D modelling, and incorporating dimensions like time (4D) and cost (5D) into a 3D model help ensure timely project completion while avoiding cost overruns. Supply chain disruptions Supply chain uncertainties and disruptions are a huge issue and needs to be promptly handled. For example, during Brexit, British construction companies reported chain disruptions as demand for materials and logistics capacity outstripped supply. The average vendor performance deteriorated to record rates, and construction companies faced severe shortages of building materials, a lack of available transport capacity and long wait times for construction items from abroad due to port congestion. Planning strategy Hence, supply chain is a major issue for construction companies due to the vast variety and quantum of raw materials and supplies required. It requires proper planning and a crisis management plan to tackle sudden uncertainties. Aggregate planning strategy gives clear visibility on commodity demand. We strike a right balance between operational and procurement goals by virtue of active demand forecasting technique that includes need validation, optimising inventory level, collaborative planning, better capacity utilisation and resource allocation. We have developed various in-house tools to serve the purpose. Progress evaluation Due to the huge working capital requirement, there is a need for optimising costs and linking progress, especially related to supply chain to billable revenue. This needs to be incorporated as a cultural change — both at client’s end and by EPC companies. Hence, linking payments to supply chain integration is important. For example, a portion of payments need to be linked to supplies and not merely to project milestones. In conclusion, with the government making infrastructure a priority for overall economic development, India is bound to witness larger infrastructure growth. For instance, GatiShakti is a significant ‘productivity’ booster initiative for the infrastructure sector. This initiative will help overcome the multiplicity of approvals and delayed clearances which were big bottlenecks. Its multiplier effects will lead to faster project implementation and control costs. The initiative is as transformative for the infrastructure sector as liberalisation was in the 90s. Moreover, involving private companies in national infrastructure projects has the potential to help India’s infrastructure reach international standards, as the possibilities are infinite. However, success will depend on how balanced and fair the contracts are structured across the complete execution chain. The writer is Chief, Project Controls, Tata Projects Ltd.  Supply chain is a major issue for construction companies due to the vast variety and quantum of raw materials and supplies required||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/watch-out-infrastructure-growth-ahead/article38306282.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:51 IST,||So far and yet so near||The Indian infrastructure sector is the backbone of the economy. It contributes prominently to the nation’s growth via a high share in GDP and provides employment to thousands. The infrastructure sector also has a multiplier effect due to the number of industries that are linked to it. A sector that is so crucial for the overall development of the nation needs hand-holding by the government. Especially, in the aftermath of the pandemic. The Union government has been proactive announcing a slew of reforms over the last couple of years. Recently, the government has also introduced a few key measures that can potentially disrupt the way the contracts for public work are awarded. Public work award system According to a recent report by the Ministry of Statistics and programme Implementation, as many as 438 infrastructure projects, each worth Rs. 150 crore or more, have been hit by cost overruns totaling more than Rs. 4.3 lakh crore. Of the 1,670 projects monitored by the MOSPI, 563 projects were delayed, while 438 projects reported cost overruns. While it may be argued that the contractors are responsible for the time and cost overruns, it also indicated an urgent need to overhaul the processes involved with the awarding of public projects and their monitoring. The current practice of awarding the contract was heavily skewed towards the lowest bidder and did not exactly prioritise quality, timely execution and a detailed scrutiny of the bidding contractor. Among the other major impediments of the current system of awarding contracts were the delays in getting payments, litigation, disputes and the resulting arbitration. These were time-consuming processes and often resulted in cost and time overruns. The new guidelines help bring the Indian public procurement and contract awarding process on a par with international standards and help the decision-makers with a better gauge, while at the same time maintaining probity and fairness. The fact that the Niti Aayog, country’s leading policy think-tank, and the CVC felt the need to enhance public procurement and project management procedures demonstrates the significance of the issue. The new process will ensure the most competent players are awarded the contract rather than the lowest bidder. A balanced structure, in which risks and rewards are appropriately shared among stakeholders and timely completion of high-quality projects is a common aim, can serve as the foundation for effective project management. An incentive system that includes both monetary and non-monetary features (such as public recognition) and is linked to measurable outcome/ output characteristics can also be used to align the interests of stakeholders. Liquidity/ working capital Delays in receiving payments deplete the contractor’s cash flow and impede efficient execution of the project. The new norms mandate ad-hoc payments of at least 75% of the eligible running account bill due stage payment must be made within 10 working days after the bill’s submission. This 10-day period is for all processes to be completed, including prima facie inspection and certification by the engineer in charge (as declared by procuring entities). Within 28 working days of the contractor’s bill submission, the remaining payment must be made following the final checking of the bill. The new rule will help cut through the current obstinacy and muddle, as it will provide a significant boost to all infrastructure projects and government procurement. How ministries have demanded bank guarantees from contractors in order to release funds in the event that arbitral decisions against the government were overturned on appeal. In infrastructure projects, the entire objective is defeated when contractors are asked to make deposits ranging from 20% to 100% amount of bank guarantees. Payment of contract work To reduce delays, the government has enacted an interest payment clause, which means that any delay in payment by government bodies will result in interest payments. Public authorities may set a mechanism for interest payment if bills are delayed for more than 30 working days after the contractor submits the bill. The interest rate to be paid should be the same as the interest rate on the General Provident Fund. Responsibility shall be assigned to the appropriate officers in the event of unwarranted discretionary delays in payments, including failing to authorise/ make ad hoc payments. Project executing authority should have a system in place to track payment delays and identify unwarranted delays. The new guideline mandates that government entities pay the final bill within three months of the work being completed, ensuring that the contractor has the necessary liquidity to complete the underlying projects on time. Digitising processes All project executing authorities that are implementing works contracts worth more than Rs. 100 crore per year must have an online system in place to track the bills presented by contractors. Contractors will be able to track the status of their bills using this method. All contractor bills must be put into the system with the date of submission and the date of payment. Within one year of the date of the issuance of these instructions, such a system must be in place. By putting such a system in place, the government is hoping for transparency and redressal of issues on a real-time basis. State government too Currently, the new guidelines are only applicable to the Union government and its departments. Hopefully, the states will realise the benefits of rules and implement them at the regional level too. India’s states account for more than 60% of public tenders across the country. The incentive structure for all key stakeholders in public procurement should be designed in such a way that the system ensures that projects/ works are delivered on time, in a high-quality manner, and under budget. And these guidelines are the first step by the government to align the interest of all key stakeholders. The writer is CEO, Eqaro Guarantees.  The new rule will help cut through the current obstinacy and muddle, as it will provide a significant boost to all infrastructure projects and government procurement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/so-far-and-yet-so-near/article64947495.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:50 IST,||Locked house, owner missing||We are a small apartment colony consisting of 18 flats. The construction is 25 years old and we are planning to go for redevelopment. However, the whereabouts of one of the flat owners is not known for the past 10 years and the flat is kept locked up. The kin of the owner is also not traceable. How do we proceed with redeveloping the apartment complex? Sundaresan N. At present, it is not possible for the majority of the owners to compel anyone to sell or develop their holding. Therefore, consent of all flat owners is essential. If one of the owners is not traceable but the remaining owners are of the opinion that the building has to be redeveloped on account of its age, as a first step, the structural stability of the building has to be assessed. In the event of the building being declared unsafe for occupation, an application can be made to Corporation of Chennai for demolition on that ground. Once the land becomes vacant, a suit for partition by metes and bounds can be filed against the non co-operating/ non-traceable owner and further course of action would depend on the orders of Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/locked-house-owner-missing/article38306288.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:50 IST,||A home for everyone||Several banks and housing finance companies have announced house loan rate reductions this year. While the cut reflects the economy’s abundant liquidity and low interest rates (upto 6.65%), it also indicates a growing demand for new house loans, which neither bank nor Housing Finance Company (HFC) wants to lose out on. Borrowing becomes more accessible when interest rates fall, making large purchases on credit, such as home mortgages or credit card debt, more feasible. On the other hand, as interest rates rise, borrowing becomes more expensive, putting a damper on consumption. Higher rates, on the other hand, benefit savers who benefit from higher interest rates on deposit accounts. Making a comeback Following the initial wave of COVID-19, housing demand soared in the two quarters between October 2020 and March 2021. It was aided by factors like stamp duty reductions by various state governments, developer discounts, and low financing rates. Following the second wave of COVID, the pace slowed in the quarter ended June 2021, but has picked up again in recent months, thanks to broader economic opening, improved vaccination coverage, and more economic activity. Residential rental payments are similar to the EMIs that will be necessary to pay for their own homes, according to the salaried/ business class. As a result, more people are purchasing homes rather than renting them. People are also encouraged to buy homes because ready-to-move-in inventory is accessible in each asset class, allowing them to pick a property that meets their budget and needs. Despite the unpredictability of the general economic situation, the fear factor resulting from job losses or pay cuts is motivating people to invest in their own homes rather than renting property in order to find stability. Interest rates have been lowered as a result of rising ambitions of the millennial with attractive pay packages and digitisation. The RBI has taken a number of initiatives to protect the economy from the COVID-19 problem and to mitigate the repercussions of the economic slowdown. To keep the market afloat, repo and reverse repo rates have been cut to their lowest levels in history, and loan moratoriums was extended by three months. Builders’ and developers’ lucrative incentives, such as late EMI payment and construction-linked plans, are also encouraging individuals to take up home loans. Despite negative sentiments caused by the COVID -19 scenario, a reduction in stamp duty and easy instalments adapted to the needs of the consumer have helped the market recover. Many organisations are providing additional incentives to end-users, such as the option of a refund of the booking money, waivers of statutory fees, cash-back programmes, easy payment structure, and other freebies. While the availability of low cost home loans may not be the primary element driving the real estate market, it is certainly a component that home purchasers evaluate before making a purchase. The affordable housing market is already seeing increased demand, and the fact that home loan interest rates have bottomed out and are near a decade low, is boosting this need even more. Home purchasers in the affordable and mid-segment divisions are likely to speed up the process of becoming residents. The writer is Managing Director, Poddar Housing & Development Ltd.  Interest rates have been lowered as a result of rising ambitions of the millennial with attractive pay packages and digitisation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/a-home-for-everyone/article64947499.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:51 IST,||Going ginkgo||Eris Home has thoughtfully crafted a collection of functional, aesthetic and durable table linen in ethereal tones. Featuring motifs of cranes and ginkgo — symbols of happiness and longevity in East Asian culture, the collection features table runners, placemats and napkins in rich pastel shades of green and blue. Divided into three edits of Ginkgo, Everlasting Ginkgo and Dreamy Cranes, the collection creates a luxuriant aura with its premium fabrics and warm hues effortlessly transport you to blissful and serene surroundings of Japan and China on pleasant autumn evenings. The first edit of the collection Ginkgo features table linen in pastel hues of lavender, plum and sage. The fan-shaped ginkgo leaves, symbolising endurance and longevity are intricately embroidered. The second edit, Everlasting Gingko consists of table runners in an artful tessellating pattern accentuated with the finest embroidery of the fan-shaped leaves. The napkins are created with an intricate gold pattern of ginkgo leaf completing an entire collection for any table setting, formal or casual. The third edit of the collection Dreamy Cranes is inspired by a siege of wild cranes under a starry night sky. Popular in Japanese culture as the bird and harbinger of happiness and long life, this collection portrays a beautiful and resplendent scenery where a group of cranes are surrounded by trees. Founded in 2017, with the aim to introduce the world to the beauty of Ahimsa Silk, Eris Home believes in responsible luxury with sustainable practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/going-ginkgo/article64947496.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:51 IST,||Is affordable housing possible?||Residential property prices are projected to rise 10-15% as builders seek to counter rising costs, according to Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI), the apex body for private real estate in India with over 13,000+ member developers. Due to the festive spirit in FY22, residential real estate sales in major cities outperformed the sales in the same period in the pre-COVID years of FY20. Historically, as the price of fuel climbs consistently, prices of practically all materials and commodities rise as well. The prices of construction raw materials like steel and cement have been steadily rising since January 2020. Add to that construction delays caused by lockdowns and labour scarcity have resulted in increased labour costs, leading to a 10% to 15% increase in construction costs in the last 18 months. Agreeable terms Similar to the issues at hand, even the solution to this problem is multipronged. One way of addressing this issue could be to permit escalation of prices by allowing a clause in the buyer seller agreement. The Government may also consider either allowing Input Tax Credit for real estate projects and/ or rationalisation of GST on various construction raw materials from their current rates as this would help in reducing the prices of residential properties immediately. If these steps are not taken, then property prices across all segments will shoot-up. Homebuyers will have to invest more for their dream house and this would negate the savings arising out of all-time low housing prices. The last one year has seen the demand for ready-to-move-in (RTMI) units swell in almost all real estate segments, including luxury, affordable and mid segment housing. The share of RTMI homes in total housing sales in the primary market increased to 21% in the pandemic-hit 2020, up from 18% the previous year, as home buyers preferred completed apartments to avoid the risks associated with under-construction properties. Global shortage India’s affordable housing offers $0.62 trillion of funding opportunities for private funds in the backdrop of the government’s push for this segment. The affordable housing sector in India has witnessed private equity (PE) investments to the tune of $2,597 mn since 2011. The investment in affordable housing has been 17% of the total PE investment in the residential segment in India in the last 10 years (since 2011), mentioned the report. However, it is yet to become a major theme for the funds in the country with a very few private equity funds dedicated to funding affordable homes, says international property consultancy — Knight Frank, in its latest report. Affordable housing shortage exists across the globe and various policy level interventions are the key ways to resolve the issue. From Maharashtra standpoint, the nature of policy intervention is getting close to the degree of maturity of the economy to impact land development. Unavailability of affordable land is a big barrier. Once the regularity concerns such as restricted development regulations are eased, it is likely to progress. Affordable housing projects become unviable as there is a mismatch between land value and income affordability, therefore the asset class that is likely to give better return becomes priority, other than fulfilling the need gap. Waiving premiums Affordable housing in Maharashtra, specifically in Mumbai, to make it a reality, there should be an incentive given to the developer from the government, where cost of premiums are waived, also rebate in property tax needs to be given for land under construction. GST waiver should be given to the developer for incentivising the construction of more affordable houses in Mumbai, Maharashtra and MMR. As MMR contributes to 30% in real estate market all over India, this needs to be prioritised. It’s very important that prices of raw materials come down, so that developers create sustainable and affordable houses, which will also increase the sales rate and can be in the favour of both buyers and developers. If the prices of raw material comes down, developers will start developing affordable houses, which will increase the buying rate as more and more people will tend to invest in properties. It will also help in the growth of the real estate sector. The writer is Director, Ajmera group.  The last one year has seen the demand for ready-to-move-in (RTMI) units swell in almost all real estate segments, including luxury, affordable and mid segment housing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/is-affordable-housing-possible/article64947493.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:50 IST,||Seal your safety||Häfele’s Reveal Digital Lock is a fully-loaded face-recognition lock that comes with the highest standards of technology that reads over 170 points on the user’s face. This means that it is highly sensitive to even the flinch of a nerve on your face and will only allow access if you exactly emulate the expression that was pre-set as your access recognition. The lock carefully scrutinises every need you may have regarding your home security system. With five different access modes — Face Recognition, Finger Print, Key Pad, RFID and Mechanical Key — Häfele’s Reveal Digital Lock is the authority in home security and access planning, say company sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/seal-your-safety/article38306283.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:50 IST,||FIVE YEAR FOCUS||REALTY RATES Segment 2017 2022 (INR per sq.ft.) Luxury 10,000 10,000 apartments Premium 7,800 8,100 apartments Budget 6,500 NA apartments Strategic Consulting, JLL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/five-year-focus/article38306287.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 03:51 IST,||Watch out: Infrastructure growth ahead||As India draws closer to being a $5 trillion economy, the government’s strategic initiatives to encourage the infrastructure sector is providing a boost to collective growth of the Indian economy. Several countries are attempting to upgrade their real estate and infrastructure development to assist the allied industries in getting the necessary momentum to achieve economic growth in these difficult times. These industries play a pivotal role in enhancing the employment generation and uplifting of the small and medium businesses as well. However, delays in large-scale infrastructure projects due to multiple waves of COVID-19, coupled with a nationwide lockdown, have hindered the infrastructure projects. The protracted gestation period has pushed some infrastructure projects into a vulnerable zone that can only be overcome if corporations assess the risk and recalibrate the project and resources involved accordingly. The vulnerability of infrastructure projects to market volatility arises from the industry’s normal protracted gestation period. Infrastructure firms nowadays must have a very comprehensive mechanism for revalidating costs and schedules every quarter. Direct costs should be calculated using important indices such as commodities, labour, POL, and, of course, the Bill of Quantities. The indirect cost assessment is mostly a function of the schedule, which should ideally be evaluated on a weekly basis. Furthermore, the upward or downward impact of both of these levers, as well as the mitigating measures/ identified activities, should be recorded and tracked every quarter. They should then be brought up with other stakeholders such as clients, government agencies, supply chain partners, and so on to limit any long-term damage. It is also essential to have uniform progress on the ongoing projects to avoid delays, which can be achieved via technological advancements in the sector. Today, governments are partnering with private players to ensure a robust approach and seamless execution of some of the marquee infrastructure projects across the country. Latest techniques Infrastructure companies need to institutionalise pull planning/ equivalent tools to review, monitor, and push the progress of the projects. The underlying principle is to cascade and break down the overall project schedule embedded in primavera or equivalent to weekly targets in terms of quantities to be executed as well as corresponding revenues. Enablers are identified to facilitate these targets, along with people responsible for ensuring that the enablers are in place at the right time. For example, if a raft needs to be cast in a specific week, a dedicated team member must be assigned to ensure that the design/ drawings are available on time and similarly, there should also be other team members who would take responsibility for labour, equipment, and material. Each person responsible would then share updates on the progress of their enablers every week. The tool is crisp without missing the details, and performance and non-performance are recorded, which could be further shared with all the stakeholders. This should also be in sync with the right procurement strategy that compliments the project’s overall daily requirements. A robust strategy Procurement strategy is a very important aspect of the overall execution of infrastructure projects. For example, in Tata Projects if a project is worth more than Rs. 500 crore, the entire execution strategy document must be approved by the Managing Director to assure complete sponsorship. However, it is imperative that a large EPC Company engages with limited but committed vendor base. The priority of EPC companies should be to keep track of commodity pricing, consolidate procurement across several projects, and engage in pre-bid tie-ups for niche as well as high-end supplies and services. Inviting bids through reverse auctions has gone a long way toward ensuring transparency. Nevertheless, an end-to-end digital process from ‘Procure To Pay’ will further improve the visibility as all partners will have real-time status of their outstanding payments. After the pandemic, the business dynamics across sectors have been shifted to digital for the better, paving the way for a brighter digital future. The majority of infrastructure companies today are focused on digitising their processes for seamless communication and ensure complete transparency to strengthen relationships across stakeholders. Technological obsolescence Obsolescence in technology dates back to when it first became a part of people’s personal and professional lives. Technology is used across the whole project execution chain, including engineering, procurement, construction, and commissioning. Keeping up with technology changes from beginning to end is indeed a difficult task for leaders. As a result, a specialised task force of young people, consisting of functional experts and technology professionals, must be assigned to ensure that all-important and high-impact advances are informed across stakeholders. Also, as the world progresses digitally, there is a need to adapt to modern technology for seamless execution. For instance, geospatial mapping; Building Information Modelling, video monitoring; 3D modelling, and incorporating dimensions like time (4D) and cost (5D) into a 3D model help ensure timely project completion while avoiding cost overruns. Supply chain disruptions Supply chain uncertainties and disruptions are a huge issue and needs to be promptly handled. For example, during Brexit, British construction companies reported chain disruptions as demand for materials and logistics capacity outstripped supply. The average vendor performance deteriorated to record rates, and construction companies faced severe shortages of building materials, a lack of available transport capacity and long wait times for construction items from abroad due to port congestion. Planning strategy Hence, supply chain is a major issue for construction companies due to the vast variety and quantum of raw materials and supplies required. It requires proper planning and a crisis management plan to tackle sudden uncertainties. Aggregate planning strategy gives clear visibility on commodity demand. We strike a right balance between operational and procurement goals by virtue of active demand forecasting technique that includes need validation, optimising inventory level, collaborative planning, better capacity utilisation and resource allocation. We have developed various in-house tools to serve the purpose. Progress evaluation Due to the huge working capital requirement, there is a need for optimising costs and linking progress, especially related to supply chain to billable revenue. This needs to be incorporated as a cultural change — both at client’s end and by EPC companies. Hence, linking payments to supply chain integration is important. For example, a portion of payments need to be linked to supplies and not merely to project milestones. In conclusion, with the government making infrastructure a priority for overall economic development, India is bound to witness larger infrastructure growth. For instance, GatiShakti is a significant ‘productivity’ booster initiative for the infrastructure sector. This initiative will help overcome the multiplicity of approvals and delayed clearances which were big bottlenecks. Its multiplier effects will lead to faster project implementation and control costs. The initiative is as transformative for the infrastructure sector as liberalisation was in the 90s. Moreover, involving private companies in national infrastructure projects has the potential to help India’s infrastructure reach international standards, as the possibilities are infinite. However, success will depend on how balanced and fair the contracts are structured across the complete execution chain. The writer is Chief, Project Controls, Tata Projects Ltd.  Supply chain is a major issue for construction companies due to the vast variety and quantum of raw materials and supplies required||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/watch-out-infrastructure-growth-ahead/article38306299.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:23 IST,||Faith and tiny masterpieces||Sometimes, serendipitous encounters lead to sumptuous outcomes. This was the case when product designer Vikram Goyal found himself at dinner with Mapin Publishing’s Bipin Shah, the pasha of coffee- table book publishing. What began as a casual conversation in early 2020 turned into a lockdown project, culminating in a limited edition 192-page hardcover that is a collectible. Shringara of Shrinathji , written by noted artist and scholar Amit Ambalal and conceptualised by Goyal, displays 60 miniatures of Shrinathji, a manifestation of Lord Krishna, from the collection of Goyal’s grandfather, the late Gokal Lal Mehta.   Reproduced for the first time, the museum-worthy collection was passed down from their ancestor, Pradhan Rai Pannalal Mehta (1843-1919), the former prime minister of the erstwhile state of Mewar (now Udaipur), a champion of education, development and philanthropy. Pannalal attributed his fortunes to Shrinathji and built up a sizeable collection of ornate miniatures, now accessible through this visually-arresting volume. The miniatures document the shringara (dressing, ornamentation) of the lord through changing seasons and during festivals. Goyal’s mother, Vanmala Mehta, writes in her foreword: “For us, these paintings are more than just pieces of art: they are a bridge that connects us to each other and our ancestors, and to our devout faith in Shrinathji.”  Priests and paintings The artworks are from the Nathdwara school, so named after the deity in the Nathdwara temple in Rajasthan. As Ambalal writes in an expansive essay accompanying the illustrations, the miniatures shown in the book were undertaken under the patronage of Tilkayat Govardhanlal (1862-1934), one of the temple’s most significant head priests. It was during his period that such paintings achieved their greatest heights, in terms of quality and detailing.  Further, he attributes the Mehta family paintings to Sukhdev Kishandas Gaur, the mukhia (chief artist) of the temple. “Sukhdev was the first of the Nathdwara artists to adopt a photographic perspective to painting,” Ambalal writes. “The high quality of workmanship, such as the concern for immaculate detail, refined portraiture and colour tonalities in the artworks, these 60 paintings could be attributed with certainty to Sukhdev.” Indeed, looking at the works, many of which are enlarged in scale for ease of viewing, it is astonishing to see the photographic nature of the artistry.  Love in the details  Despite their age, Goyal points out how contemporary many of the backdrops, colour palettes and motifs found in the artwork are. Stripes, solid colour, including black backgrounds, and circular patterns continue to look as fresh today as they would have when they were first painted. “The book is an extension of my contemporary take on traditional arts,” explains the designer (and co-founder of wellness brand, Kama Ayurveda). His own designs, for example, include repousse panels inspired by traditional pichwai paintings.  The miniatures are a testimony to the artists’ talent. That painstaking attention to detail, and refinement of creation stems from excellence, and from a singular love of the deity. They were, after all, doing god’s work. From Mapin Publishing, the book (priced at Rs. 9,500) is available online on shringaraofshrinathji.com and amazon.co.in. or call 9987536039.    The paintings are rooted in the Pushtimarg culture (the sect founded by Vallabharchya, a leader of the Bhakti movement that arose in 16th century India). It de-emphasised devotion through an ascetic path, in favour of the joys found in daily life: , (food and drink) and (devotional songs).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/faith-and-tiny-masterpieces/article64947361.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:22 IST,||A modern guide to Indian shrines||The role of religion in its most fundamental aspect is to soothe. All faiths were invented (or should we say discovered, named or received) to allay the fears and nourish the hopes of us humans.  There is another important role that religion plays and that is as a keeper of the culture of a people. In this, it is intertwined with history and geography, culture and aesthetics, symbols and myth. The book, Where the Gods Dwell , broadly falls under this ambit. It is a series of 13 essays, some better than others, about the sacred history of shrines. My one-line descriptions of the essays definitely do not do the essays justice, but such is the nature of anthologies, and for that matter, hapless writers like me who would like to amplify the audience for such books.  My favourite essay is Trisha Gupta’s piece on Khajuraho, which describes the sexual sculptures in the temple complex, attempts to unravel their history and talks about current India’s discomfort with their frank sensuality. Yours could be one of the other essays, depending on your proclivity or geography. In that sense, there is something in this book for every stripe of reader. These essays offer an opening, and interested parties can choose a shrine that attracts them to delve deeper.  In Tamil Nadu, outside the Hindu temples that I used to visit as a child, shops typically sold a tiny booklet. You bought it for pittance: Rs. 25 or Rs. 50. Written in Tamil, it was simply titled Sthala Puranam . History of the sacred place. Occasionally, the priest or guide would perform this function, recounting the sacred history of the land upon which the temple stood. Usually, it involved a fantastic story of a god’s choice of a particular place.  Where the Gods Dwell offers a modern view of these old-fashioned sthala puranas . It also raises the idea of how a site’s history is — and should be — transmitted. Books in this genre offer a portable, expert’s perspective. They offer much to the curious reader. But to truly experience the rich history, myths, symbols and stories that lie within the many temple complexes of India, you need to be in situ. You need to know the local language and go with a local person. For those of us who cannot do that, books such as Where the Gods Dwell offer a great introduction to what we have in India — and for that matter, what is lost in English translation.  Where the Gods Dwell (Westland, Rs. 499). Shoba Narayanis aBengaluru-based journalist and the author of Food and Faith: A Pilgrim’s Journey Through India (2020).    Indira Viswanathan Peterson’s essay is full of rich detail about the temple of Thanjavur. It calls forth the layered history that includes Chola kings, Shaivite saints and Europeans. Manu Pillai does the same for the temple of Thiruvananthapuram, describing the intertwined lives of the titular god, his king, Martanda Varma and a Pulaya woman. I wish I had visited and temples after reading Meera Iyer’s essay about its architecture, including the “balcony seats” that were used for napping. Basav Biradar’s essay on raises significant questions– about local resistance and communities– that make history interesting. Shrenik Rao’s piece on the uses the learned king, Rudra (Vidya Vibhushana — one whose adornment is education), to describe the rigid caste orvarnasystem of the age. Siddhartha Sarma’s piece about melds together the tantric Srividya cult that is rooted in the Shakti peethas with broader questions that delve into the notion of goddess or Devi worship. Neelesh Kulkarni mixes personal history — learned from his grandfather — with the stories surrounding of Pandharpur, showing how the gods may be specific to a site but their leanings (preferring humility over hubris) are universal to Hinduism. Vikrant Pande includes the voices of guides and priests in his piece on , showing the multiplicity of narratives that include sacred trees and mythical time. Haroon Khalid’s piece describes Shivratri at , a historic Hindu temple complex in Pakistan through the eyes of a guide, Shakeel, and a local activist, using this festival to describe place and politics. Amish Raj Mulmi’s piece takes readers back to the hoary history surrounding of Nepal, arguably one of the oldest gods of them all. As a Tamilian, I knew Sri Lanka’s fascination with the warrior, Lord Murugan. What I didn’t know was the layered history of the temple, described by Thulasi Muttulingam – how Muslim, Christian and Hindu shrines stand beside each other, demanding a piece of the tale. Siddhartha Gigoo’s essay describes in lyrical if scorching prose about the ruined temples that the Kashmiri Pandits used to pray at. Once sacred, now desecrated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-modern-guide-to-indian-shrines/article64947365.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:15 IST,||Bihar heading for midterm polls: Chirag||Bihar is tipped for midterm polls as constituents of the ruling NDA are at each other’s throat, former ally Chirag Paswan claimed here on Friday. Mr. Paswan claimed that likelihood of early polls became evident when Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, “who does not venture out until faced with elections”, recently planned a State-wide tour. He was replying to queries from journalists about recent squabbles between Mr. Kumar’s JD(U) and the BJP, primarily over the manner in which liquor prohibition law is being implemented in the State. “Since the day Assembly polls results came out, I have been saying that this government is not going to last. The straw in the wind is now for all to see,” said Mr. Paswan who heads a splinter group of Lok Janshakti Party. War of words An ugly spat ensued after a JD(U) spokesman took potshots at State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal over his offer of help to family members of those who died in a hooch tragedy in West Champaran district last year. Mr. Jaiswal is also engaged in a war of words with Upendra Kushwaha, the JD(U)’s parliamentary board chief, over the alleged denigration of Emperor Asoka by a Sahitya Akademi winning playwright, who is perceived to be close to the saffron party. Mr. Paswan further pointed towards notes of discord struck by Mukesh Sahni, a Minister whose Vikassheel Insaan Party had joined NDA just ahead of the Assembly polls in 2020. His party’s MLA from Bochaha died recently and Mr. Sahni threatened to exit the alliance if the BJP or the JD(U) staked claim for the seat in by-election.  “All these things indicate man bhed (rift) as distinct from mat bhed (divergence of views). It is bad for any alliance,” said Mr. Paswan.  “My priority is to expand the footprints of my party. Future alliances will be thought about at the time of elections, not before that,” said the Jamui MP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bihar-heading-for-midterm-polls-chirag/article64947370.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:15 IST,||Best foot forward||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/best-foot-forward/article64947369.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:14 IST,||Am not a criminal, says student in ‘Bulli Bai’ case||Vishal Jha, 21, an engineering student from Bengaluru accused in the ‘Bulli Bai’ app case, moved the City Civil and Sessions Court on Friday, a day after the magistrate court rejected his bail. His bail application will be heard next week. The ‘Bulli Bai’ app was made to ‘auction’ Muslim women by doctoring their photographs. The Magistrate Court at Bandra on January 20 rejected Mr. Jha’s bail along with co-accused Shweta Singh, 19 and Mayank Rawat, 21 from Uttarakhand. Mr. Jha filed for bail on the ground that he comes from a respected family and has no criminal antecedent. The plea stated the only allegation is that he is a follower/subscriber of the app. In a detailed order, metropolitan magistrate Komalsing Rathod held: “The record shows the active involvement of the accused in propagating and disseminating information/data relating to women contained in the app. The allegations are serious and need thorough investigation.” The court said, “The app is not created by the accused but by other persons. The information obtained from those needs to be verified with the current accused. No doubt the accused persons are students of tender age and they have fundamental right to life and liberty.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/am-not-a-criminal-says-student-in-bulli-bai-case/article38306632.ece
22 January 2022||January 22 2022 05:14 IST,||Pujari in police custody||Anti Extortion Cell on Friday took custody of gangster Suresh Pujari in connection with a extortion case.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pujari-in-police-custody/article38306630.ece
