23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||Ban on large poll rallies, roadshows to continue||The Election Commission of India (EC) on Saturday decided to continue the ban on large rallies and roadshows till January 31 for the Assembly elections in February, but allowed outdoor meetings of up to 500 people for candidates of the first two phases of polling. The EC had placed a ban on all physical rallies and processions while announcing the Goa, Punjab, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand elections on January 8. The ban was extended till Saturday after a review on January 15, while indoor meetings of up to 300 people were allowed. Reviews COVID trends On Saturday, the EC once again reviewed the situation by holding meetings with the Union Health Ministry and the Chief Secretaries, Health Secretaries and Chief Electoral Officers of the States. The three-member commission held a comprehensive review of the status and projected trends for the COVID-19 pandemic in the five States, an EC statement said. The EC also reviewed the progress of the vaccination drives in the States. “The commission deliberated on relaxing restrictions for physical rallies in the wake of the prevailing situation. After taking into consideration inputs and ground reports from these officers, the commission also deliberated on requirements of the campaign period in phases where candidate list will be finalised on January 27, 2022 for Phase 1 and on January 31, 2022 for Phase 2,” the statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ban-on-large-poll-rallies-roadshows-to-continue/article64946702.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||Six killed in Mumbai high-rise fire||Six people were killed and 24 injured after a fire broke out on the 19th floor of a 20-storey building in the Tardeo area of south Mumbai on Saturday. Six of the injured are in a critical condition. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the fire was reported from the “Kamala building” (also known as Sachinam Heights) at 7.28 a.m. The fire brigade arrived around 7.42 a.m. and doused the blaze after a nearly six-hour operation. Thirteen fire engines and seven jumbo tankers were deployed. According to the residents, they heard a loud sound around 7 a.m. and black smoke emanated from the top floors. They rushed outside for safety, and the lights in the building went off. The explosion of an air-conditioner compressor could have led to the blaze. Some trapped in smoke There are six flats on each floor. While some residents rushed outside, others were trapped in the smoke. Many were sleeping when the explosion took place.  Maharashtra Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray visited the spot and said that prima facie , a short circuit appeared to have caused the fire. An investigation has been ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-killed-in-mumbai-high-rise-fire/article64946705.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:49 IST,||COVID-19 tests breach six crore mark||With the total number of COVID-19 tests in the State breaching the six crore mark, Karnataka is third in the country after Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra that have done the highest number of tests so far. Karnataka has tested 6,03,34,514 samples so far, including 4,88,73,290 RT-PCR tests and 1,14,61,224 Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT). While 1,41,96,065 samples were tested in 2020, 4,23,91,357 samples were tested in 2021 and so far 37,47,092 tests have been conducted in 2022. Although the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has now recommended that the State should go slow on testing, mainly because of the uncontrollable transmission of Omicron, the State has been conducting an average of two lakh tests daily since the last one week. With 2,19,699 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the total number of tests stood at 6,03,34,514 on Saturday (January 22). When the pandemic started in early 2020, the National Institute of Virology (NIV) units were used to conduct tests and all samples were sent to NIV centres in Pune. Subsequently, Karnataka gradually established labs across the State and now has about 268 testing facilities (99 government and 169 private) labs. From an average 80 tests a day in March, 2020, when the pandemic hit Karnataka, the State tested a total of over one crore samples till November 21, 2020. Subsequently, another one crore samples were tested in four months and on March 17, 2021 the total number of tests breached the two crore mark. By June 3, 2021 the total tests crossed three crore and four crore by August 10, 2021. On October 23, 2021 the total number of tests breached the five crore mark. Following this, it took almost three months for the State to add another crore tests. Over 37 lakh tests have been done this month alone. Over 81% of the total 6,03,34,514 tests conducted till date have been done using Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) method. RT-PCR is the gold standard test that has negligible chances of false negativity. The State’s current seven-day average Test Positivity Rate (TPR) is 19.74%. The current tests per million stands at 30,574. Pointing out that the State initially had only 10-12 government labs that had COVID testing facilities, Health Minister K. Sudhakar said this had now increased to 57. “With 108 NA Extractors, 139 RT-PCR machines, we have capacity to test 1,20,800 samples per day in government facilities alone,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-tests-breach-six-crore-mark/article64946870.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:02 IST,||Set aside 50% beds for COVID care, private hospitals told||The government has directed all private hospitals in the State to set aside 50% of their inpatient beds for COVID-19 care. They have also been asked to mandatorily report on a daily basis the key metrics – total hospitalisation, COVID and non-COVID caseload, ICU and ventilator occupancy – to the District Medical Officers concerned. The Health department, while reiterating this on Saturday, said that refusal to update and hand over this vital data daily would incite action under the Epidemic Control Act. Private hospitals had cooperated with the government in both phases of the pandemic and this should continue, Health Minister Veena George said. The decision on asking the private sector to ensure proper data update was taken at a meeting of the State Rapid Response Team here on Saturday morning. It was said at the meeting that at this phase of intense disease transmission, people should not delay taking the second dose or the precaution dose. This was necessary to ensure that people get the full protection of the vaccine. The second dose of Covishield should be taken 84 days after the first dose, while Covaxin second dose should be taken after 28 days of the first dose. The precaution dose should be taken nine months after the second dose. Vaccination has to be complete for getting the full protection of the vaccine against serious disease.  Private hospitals had cooperated with the government in both waves and this should continue. Veena George Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/set-aside-50-beds-for-covid-care-private-hospitals-told/article38312515.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:56 IST,||‘ Covishield booster shot for senior citizens who got vaccinated abroad: TAC||The State’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that senior citizens who have been fully vaccinated abroad and are keen on taking a precautionary/booster or third dose vaccination here in Karnataka should be administered Covishield vaccine. “Many senior citizens, who would have gone to visit their children in other countries, would have been jabbed with Moderna (two doses) or Pfizer (two doses) or Johnson and Johnson (single dose) in the USA, theU.K. or any other countries. Many such people are seeking advice for booster/precautionary dose vaccination in Bengaluru/Karnataka,” TAC sources said. “However, as the Centre has mandated that the precautionary dose vaccine should be the same as that of the first two doses, the TAC has recommended that such people can be administered Covishield vaccine,” sources pointed out. “The CoWIN portal, vaccines and the vaccination programme are under the Government of India. Without registration of two doses on the portal, there is no option to register for a precautionary dose. The TAC after deliberations has recommended that till the Centre’s guidelines are received, such senior citizens should receive Covishieldvaccine as their 1st dose with certificate, after registering as new beneficiary on the CoWIN portal,” sources said. “However, if the senior citizen/beneficiary plans to return to USA/U.K./other countries in the near future then they are advised to seek guidance from the health authority/ physician of that country,” sources said. Home isolation protocol The TAC has recommended home isolation for mild and asymptomatic international travellers, who test positive at the airport. However, the State Government is yet to take a call on this. Presently, the COVID-19 positive international passengers are being treated for seven days (reduced from initial 10 days) at the designated institutional isolation facilities, both in government and private hospitals. “It is now over a month and most of these passengers are found to be asymptomatic and occasionally very mildly symptomatic and do not need hospitalisation. As the third wave is now sweeping across the State, it is considered necessary to manage these persons prudently and differentlykeeping in mind the isolation options/ facilities, compliance to treatment, monitoring, discharge, quarantine and follow up,” stated the TAC’s report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covishield-booster-shot-for-senior-citizens-who-got-vaccinated-abroad-tac/article38312257.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||HC to hear petition against PRC tomorrow||The writ petition filed in the Andhra Pradesh High Court by the A.P. Gazetted Officers’ Joint Action Committee chairman K.V. Krishnaiah against government employees’ revised pay scales of 2022 notified through Government Order Ms. No. 1 on January 17 is listed for hearing by a Division Bench comprising Justices Ahsanuddin Amanullah and B.S. Bhanumathi on January 24. Mr. Krishnaiah stated in the petition that the Government Order No. 1 is contrary to the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014 and the Constitution of India. He sought a direction to the respondents (Chief Secretary, Principal Secretaries - Finance and Revenue, PRC Commissioner and Secretary of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs) to notify the pay scales only after taking their representations into consideration in order to ensure that their salaries are protected by continuing the payment of existing emoluments like HRA. Further, the petitioner argued that the revised pay scales were fixed with effect from July 1, 2018 and an absurd clause had been provided in the same notification, which says that pay fixations made contrary thereto, would be recovered. This is against the settled principles of administrative, employment and labour laws. The PRC recommendations and the findings of the Committee of Secretaries were neither analysed nor revealed to the employees, Mr. Krishnaiah stated. Leaders of the employees’ associations earlier announced their decision to go on strike from February 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-hc-to-hear-plea-against-pay-revision-tomorrow/article38311947.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:06 IST,||‘Don’t increase power tariff for MSME sector’||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has urged Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai not to hike power tariff in the State for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector. In a letter to Mr. Bommai on Saturday, a copy of which released to the media, president of KCCI Shashidar Pai Maroor said that Escoms are proposing to increase the tariff by Rs. 2 per unit.He said that the MSME sector in the country is the second largest employment generator after agriculture, and acts as a breeding ground for entrepreneurs and innovators with considerable support in strengthening the business ecosystem. The sector contributed 29 % to overall GDP. With the pandemic and lockdowns impacting their cash cycles, the MSMEs, which are the backbone of the country’s inclusive growth story, have felt a significant impact and faced severe disruptions. As an important part of the domestic and global value chains, the plight of MSMEs is of deep concern. The announcement of a countrywide lockdown dragged MSME owners, employers, and external stakeholders in unexpected times, where no one had an experience to handle this kind of situation. Extended lockdown had a negative impact on supply of finished goods, procurement of raw material and availability of employees to work in production and supply processes. Post lockdown period, the MSME sector is facing challenges related to debt repayments, wages/salaries, statutory dues, etc., he said. The KCCI said that it is not only the MSME units which faced challenges; even consumers are left with lower disposable income. Many enterprises laid off their workers because of inability to pay salaries, vacated their offices due to incurring expenses, and halted their production due to no demand. The MSME sector will completely collapse if the power tariff is hiked. “We request that Escoms should reduce their distribution losses and overheads instead of putting additional burden on the consumers,” he said. The impact of the hike will be particularly disastrous for the MSMEs as they struggle to revive operations from the pandemic and severe slowdown in the economy, the KCCI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-increase-power-tariff-for-msme-sector/article38312600.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:54 IST,||Farmer writes to KTR ‘seeking nod to end life’||A 25-year-old farmer’s letter petitioned to Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao and Nalgonda District Collector Prashant J Patil on Twitter, ‘seeking permission to end life’ as the subject, has grabbed attention and went viral on social media platforms. “But Minister KTR, the Collector and district officials, those from ruling party or even the leaders from Opposition did not respond,” Choppari Srinu of Kanagal says, forwarding his two-page letter dated January 19, on Saturday. A B. Tech graduate, Mr. Srinu, who earns his livelihood by farming, says he was evicted from his fields by officials and was told that the land belonged to the government. According to him, after selling his ancestral land in the same G. Yedavelli village after Srisailam Left Bank Canal works were initiated and lands were being acquired in 2010, the family purchased lands under survey number 354. Officials, however, now say the said land was already acquired, the aggrieved says. “If the land acquisition was completed, why did the Revenue department issue me patta, and in 2016 after Samagra Bhu Survey, why was I issued a digital passbook?” he points out in the letter. Mr. Srinu was recently married. His mother says officials have evicted them and the land is being utilised for setting up palle prakruti vanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmer-writes-to-k-t-rama-rao-seeking-nod-to-end-life/article38312503.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:22 IST,||In Gurugram, contractual workers grapple with livelihood issues||Room rents, school fees, prices of cooking gas, groceries and vegetables have increased substantially in the last two years. But the monthly income of Kiran, a contractual worker with an auto company in Khandsa village here, has dwindled since the COVID-induced lockdown in March 2020. To make both ends meet, she has stopped sending her 11-year-old son for private tuitions, and reduced the family’s monthly consumption of milk and vegetables.  “ Ab Babu ko doodh nahi deti. Pehle, hafte mein do baar paneer banta tha, ab to kabhi-kabhi sabzi bhi naseeb nahi hoti (I have stopped giving milk to my son. Earlier we ate cottage cheese twice a week, now we cannot afford even a vegetable dish some days),” rues Kiran, a migrant worker from Saharanpur, U.P.  Residing in Gurugram for the past five years, her wages have gone down while her workload has increased. “The supervisor doesn’t allow enough time to finish meals and for tea breaks. If we get delayed even by five minutes, half-a-day’s wages are deducted. The situation is bad and I don’t feel like going to work in the mornings, but there is no option,” says the 35-year-old. Daily wagers in the garment industry, Bimla and her husband have been without a job for two months. “We are turned away wherever we go seeking a job. Before the lockdown, it was never so difficult to find employment. We don’t have a ration card either and often we and our three children are forced to starve. I borrowed money from an uncle to pay this month’s rent,” says the Kanpur native. No overtime Contractual workers across the garments and automotive sector in Gurugram are struggling. Anita Yadav of Gurgaon Mahila Kamgaar Sangathan says the daily wagers — earning anything between Rs. 11,000 and Rs. 13,000 a month — have been hit badly since the first lockdown. The fall in production due to lack of demand means no overtime wages, which constituted 25-30% of the monthly income of the workers, and no increase in regular wages as well for the past two years. “Since the lockdown, we have got work for only routine eight-hour shifts,” says Jalaluddin, contract worker in a garment unit. Another migrant from Budaun, Gyan Mohammad, has stopped sending his children — aged 8, 10 and 13 — to school to cut down expenses. “The schools have been shut for two years and the children were not learning much online. The prepaid recharge rates too are up,” he says. Sunil Kumar from Bihar’s Ara says his company in Delhi’s Ghitorni hired a few workers in the last six months with increase in demand, but again laid off some during the current third wave. The provident fund of most of the workers hired over the past two years is not deducted, while many are not even being paid the mandatory minimum wages. ‘No help from govt.’ Deenanath, a migrant worker from Mirzapur in U.P., recalls his several hundred kilometres’ walk home during the March 2020 lockdown. “We were assured of help from the government and made to fill forms priced at Rs. 100 each, with the promise of a job. But it turned out be an eyewash,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-gurugram-contractual-workers-grapple-with-livelihood-issues/article64946890.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||State reports close to 13,000 new COVID-19 cases||The State reported 12,926 COVID infections and six deaths in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The daily death toll is on the rise in the State of late. In the past week, a total of 29 deaths were reported. The cumulative toll reached 14,538 and the tally increased to 21,66,194. The recovery rate came down to 95.95% with 20,78,513 recoveries including 3,913 recoveries in the past day. Test positivity rising The test positivity rate of the 43,763 samples tested in the past day was 29.54%. The daily test positivity rate was above 20% for the fourth consecutive day. The number of active cases increased to 73,143 from around 10,000 cases in the past 11 days. During the same period, about 15,000 patients recovered. Visakhapatnam reported three deaths in the past day while Nellore reported two and East Godavari reported one. Visakhapatnam reported 1,959 fresh cases. It was followed by Chittoor (1,566), Anantapur (1,379), Guntur (1,212), Prakasam (1,001), Kurnool (969), Nellore (875), Srikakulam (868), East Godavari (756), Kadapa (734), West Godavari (691), Vizianagaram (562) and Krishna (354).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-close-to-13000-new-covid-19-cases/article38311962.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:36 IST,||Online classes from Jan. 24 for high schools||The School Education department has decided to permit online or distance learning for Classes 8 to 10 from January 24. The Directorate of School Education also asked 50% of teachers and non-teaching staff to attend schools on a rotational basis from January 24. Earlier, the government extended holidays to all the educational institutions till January 30. Meanwhile, the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has extended the date of Intermediate exams fee to February 4 without late fee and till February 24 with a late fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/online-classes-from-jan-24-for-high-schools/article38312473.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||SP chief Akhilesh to contest from Karhal||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav will contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election from Karhal in the Yadav family bastion of Mainpuri. Party patron Mulayam Singh is the Lok Sabha member from Mainpuri. SP national general secretary Ramgopal Yadav, who is Mr. Akhilesh’s uncle, announced the candidature on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sp-chief-akhilesh-to-contest-from-karhal/article38311965.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||Work on time-bound targets, PM tells officials||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asked the District Magistrates (DMs) to work on time-bound targets for 100% saturation of government services and facilities, and urged every district to prepare a vision for the next two years to increase ease of living. Mr. Modi, who virtually interacted with the DMs and Chief Ministers of select States after reviewing the implementation of various government schemes, said the teamwork of the Centre, the States and the local administration had yielded good results in the aspirational districts. Mr. Modi said various Ministries of his government had identified 142 districts across 22 States that could not be classified as “backward” but have lagged in one or two parameters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/work-on-time-bound-targets-pm-tells-officials/article38311966.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||German Navy chief strikes a tough note on China||China is “giving money to dictators and killers” so long as they give rights over their country’s resources, said the Chief of German Navy, Vice-Admiral Kay-Achim Schönbach. At an interactive session at the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (MP-IDSA) on Friday, he also said that Ukraine “cannot” meet the requirements of joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and what Russian President Vladimir Putin really wanted was “high-level respect” and it ws “easy” to give him that as countries needed Russia against China.  On Saturday, Germany’s Bild newspaper reported that Vice Admiral Shonbach has been asked to explain his comments at the German Ministry of Defence in Berlin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/german-navy-chief-strikes-a-tough-note-on-china/article38311967.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:21 IST,||Showcasing culture||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/showcasing-culture/article64946893.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:10 IST,||Clubhouse case: six users identified, no arrests||The Delhi police on Saturday said they have identified six users of the viral audio chat room on Clubhouse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/clubhouse-case-six-users-identified-no-arrests/article38312370.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:10 IST,||Soren writes to PM on IAS cadre rules||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren wrote a letter to the Prime Minister on Saturday to oppose the proposed amendments to the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/soren-writes-to-pm-on-ias-cadre-rules/article38312371.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:22 IST,||Clubhouse case: six users identified, no arrests||The Delhi police on Saturday said they have identified six users of the viral audio chat room on Clubhouse, including a 17-year-old and two women. The police said the authenticity of the audio needs to be ascertained before making any arrests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/clubhouse-case-six-users-identified-no-arrests/article38311985.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:54 IST,||22HysurNearby||The daily load of COVID-19 cases in Telangana continues to be over 4,000 for the past three days. The State registered 4,393 infections on Saturday. Meanwhile, two more COVID patients have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/22hysurnearby/article64946847.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:06 IST,||Academy planning Yakshagana sammelana||Chairman of Karnataka Yakshagana Academy G.L. Hegde said on Saturday that the academy has plans to organise a Yakshagana sammelana on the lines of sahitya sammelana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/academy-planning-yakshagana-sammelana/article38312596.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:06 IST,||There’s a conspiracy to malign PM: Kota||Minister for Social and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary said here on Saturday that the CPI(M) in Kerala and the Congress have hatched a conspiracy to malign Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/theres-a-conspiracy-to-malign-pm-kota/article64946913.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:49 IST,||All-party meeting on water disputes in Feb.||The State Government has decided to convene an all-party meeting in February to discuss and decide on the future course of action to safeguard Karnataka’s interests in inter-State water sharing disputes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-party-meeting-on-water-disputes-in-feb/article38312256.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:11 IST,||Chakmas approach NHRC for help||People of two Arunachal Pradesh villages facing displacement by oil drilling projects are being denied compensation, the National Human Rights Commission has been told.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chakmas-approach-nhrc-for-help/article38311986.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:10 IST,||17 projects inaugurated, five more in the pipeline||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday inaugurated 17 completed projects and laid the foundation stone for five more being implemented by the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department at a cost of Rs. 671.15 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/17-projects-inaugurated-five-more-in-the-pipeline/article38312023.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:10 IST,||30,744 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in T.N.||Tamil Nadu recorded 30,744 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Chennai saw a decline in cases for the sixth consecutive day with 6,452 cases. Coimbatore reported 3,886 cases. Thirty-three persons died on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/30744-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-tn/article64946780.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:22 IST,||Punjab model not merely for sake of election: Sidhu||In the run-up to the Punjab Assembly election, State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday said his ‘Punjab model’ is not a mere election model but a well-researched tailor-made solution model, based on geographical, social and economic factors created for the people of Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-model-not-merely-for-sake-of-election-sidhu/article64946891.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:10 IST,||Punjab model not merely for sake of election: Sidhu||In the run-up to the Punjab Assembly election, State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday said his ‘Punjab model’ is not a mere election model but a well-researched tailor-made solution model created for the people of Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-model-not-merely-for-sake-of-election-sidhu/article64946990.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:55 IST,||Walkability: ‘There is a long way to go’||A walkability survey conducted in five sample wards in the city has shown pedestrian facilities are abysmally dismal. The survey evaluated footpaths in five wards on the parameters of accessibility, connectivity, safety, and comfort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/walkability-there-is-a-long-way-to-go/article64947024.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:49 IST,||‘No hurried decision on milk price, water tariff’||While government utility agencies have sought revision of water and electricity tariff and milk price, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the Government would not take a decision in a hurry and burden the common people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-hurried-decision-on-milk-price-water-tariff/article38312454.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:49 IST,||Focus on symptomatic persons, stresses TAC||Karnataka’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that the State go slow on testing. It also advised the State to stop random testing and focus only on symptomatic persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/focus-on-symptomatic-persons-stresses-tac/article64946869.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:10 IST,||Glitch hits registration for medical counselling||Overseas candidates who cleared NEET and are trying to register themselves for the undergraduate medical/dental seats counselling online under the NRI quota are facing technical glitches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/glitch-hits-registration-for-medical-counselling/article38312024.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:33 IST,||The patriarch, the successor and the party parivar||Around this time five years ago, when Akhilesh Yadav overcame an acrimonious family feud and seized the reins of the Samajwadi Party (SP) as well as its symbol, ‘cycle’, from his father Mulayam Singh, a flashy blue Lamborghini made heads turn in Lucknow. The luxury car served as a tool for the BJP to underscore the apparent disparity between the SP’s claims of espousing grassroots socialism and the lavish lifestyle of members of the ruling Yadav family.  Prateek Yadav, Mr. Akhilesh’s step-brother, owned the car, which had then become the subject of a 125-second video clip released by the BJP, themed, ‘ Paanch crore ki Lamborghini par sawaar Samajwaad’ (’Socialism on a Rs. 5 crore Lamborghini’). Not directly involved in politics, Mr. Prateek is a real estate entrepreneur and a body-building enthusiast, who runs a high-end gym in Lucknow, which was in 2015 inaugurated by Mr. Mulayam, himself a wrestler in his youth. On January 19, Mr. Prateek’s wife, Aparna Bisht Yadav, joined the BJP.  The Lamborghini episode was not the only time when Ms. Aparna and her husband put the SP in an awkward situation. Be it posing for a selfie with Prime Minister Narendra Modi or praising his policies and expressing views divergent to the SP’s ideological line, such as opposing caste-based reservation, Mr. Prateek and Ms. Aparna had made news in the past. So, when Ms. Aparna, a Kshatriya by birth, was inducted into the BJP, SP workers joined BJP workers in the celebration. “Na vote hai na jaat. (She has neither a mass base nor the caste base). It was wrong of her to use family pressure for an election ticket,” said an SP office-bearer from Etawah, the family bastion of the SP. The BJP, which successfully used the ‘parivarvad’ charge to put the SP on the backfoot, came to power in 2017 after overthrowing Mr. Akhilesh, who, despite having a majority government, was bruised by a long-drawn family battle involving himself, his father and uncle Shivpal Yadav. Strategic change Much has changed in the way the Yadav family has projected itself over the past five years, partly due to a strategic rearrangement and partly forced by circumstances (electoral defeats of the party as well as of individual family members). Amar Singh, Mulayam’s long-time acquaintance whom Mr. Akhilesh had accused of fuelling the tension within the Yadav family at the BJP’s behest, died in 2020. Ms. Aparna’s exit notwithstanding, the Yadav family today looks like a much more cohesive unit, with little drama or differences flowing into public space. With Mr. Akhilesh taking over as the new supremo of the party, other members of the family have taken a step back from the media glare and the party stage in Lucknow, even though they remain active in politics. On January 22, Pramod Gupta, the brother of Mulayam’s second wife Sadhna Gupta, Mr. Prateek’s mother, also joined the BJP, which is trying to re-ignite memories of the Yadav family battle to dent Mr. Akhilesh’s narrative. But in sharp contrast to 2016-17, Mr. Akhilesh could afford to make light of it. “The BJP should be happy about this. It accuses us ofparivarvad, at least they are finishing off ourparivarvad. For this, I thank them,” he recently said, with a chuckle. Ill-health and age have gradually reduced the 82-year-old patriarch Mr. Mulayam’s participation in politics. But on rare occasions, the former CM makes an appearance, leaving a mark. Recently, donning the red party cap, he produced a cheeky moment when he told party workers how much the BJP’s top brass were “troubled” by the headgear. Mr. Akhilesh was born to Mulayam and Malti Devi in 1973. She died in 2003. He is an engineer by qualification and studied in Mysore. He went to the Military School in Dholpur, something he flaunts even today to take on the BJP’s nationalism narrative. He is married to Dimple Yadav, daughter of a retired Army officer who hails from Uttarakhand and graduated in commerce from Lucknow University. The couple have two daughters and one son — Aditi and twins Tina and Arjun. In 2009, Ms. Dimple unsuccessfully contested the byelection to the Lok Sabha from Firozabad against actor-turned-politician Raj Babbar. She was elected unopposed in the 2012 bypoll after Mr. Akhilesh vacated the seat to take over as the youngest Chief Minister of U.P. In 2014, Ms. Dimple was one of the five SP candidates who won; all four were family members. Mr. Mulayam had contested from two seats. But in 2019, while Mr. Akhilesh won in Azamgarh, she lost her seat, Kannauj, an SP bastion. As Akhilesh was caught with the family feud, in 2017, the demure elderbahuof the Yadav clan, Ms. Dimple, stepped in to support her husband. She addressed rallies, worked on her oratory skills, tried to win over women voters and offered digital media and backroom support, something she still does. When the SP was in power, Ms. Dimple was also active in policy formation, especially in issues related to women’s health and nutrition. During the COVID-19 migrant crisis in May 2020, away from the media lens, she distributed food and medicine packets among migrant workers who were struggling to return to their native places, recall party workers, who fondly call her ‘Dimple Bhabi’. Mr. Akhilesh’s cousins Dharmendra and Akshay Yadavs are also active in politics. Mr. Dharmendra, the son of Mulayam’s younger brother Abhay Ram, who maintains a rural life in Saifai, their ancestral village, is a graduate from Allahabad University. The three-time MP who is known for raising issues related to ‘social justice’ and street activism, lost the 2019 election from Budaun. Mr. Dharmendra’s elder brother Anurag Yadav contested the 2017 Assembly election from Sarojini Nagar in Lucknow, but lost. Mr. Akshay is the son of Ramgopal Yadav, Mr. Mulayam’s cousin who is the party national general secretary and Rajya Sabha member. He lost the 2019 election from Firozabad. Though Mr. Ramgopal is not a mass leader, he is considered powerful in decision-making and party management in Delhi. He had backed Mr. Akhilesh during the feud with Shivpal Yadav and helped him gain control of the party. End of feud After a prolonged cold war between them, which threatened to derail the SP’s 2022 campaign, Mr. Akhilesh and uncle Shivpal have finally forged political unity. By bringing Mr. Shivpal on board amicably, Mr. Akhilesh has, for now, ensured peace and demonstrated a united Yadav face. With Mr. Akhilesh providing a platform for OBC and Dalit leaders who joined the SP, as well as his alliances with backward caste parties, he has managed to shift the attention from the family and its previously Yadav-heavy leadership, to pressing political issues, party members opine.  According to Rajendra Chaudhary, an SP spokesperson and old-time Mulayam loyalist, the BJP was trying to raise “non-issues” by targeting Mr. Akhilesh over his family. The family members as well as the people of U.P. look at him as a “capable leader” in whose hands the future of U.P. will be safe, he added. “He [Akhilesh] had already given the slogan, ‘Bado ka haath, Yuva ka saath’ (’Blessings of elders, support of the youth’). He respects all.” After working under the shadow of his father and uncles in 2012 and 2014, allying with Rahul Gandhi’s Congress in 2017 and tying up with Mayawati, who dominated the equation, in 2019, this time, Mr. Akhilesh is on his own. This assembly election is truly the first one in his career, where the Yadav scion has emerged as the undisputed commander of the clan and the leader of the ‘socialist’ party.   In Focus   After working under the shadow of his father and uncles in 2014, allying with the Congress in 2017 and tying up with Mayawati in 2019, this time, Akhilesh is on his own||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-patriarch-the-successor-and-the-party-parivar/article64947082.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||J&K leaders are leading youth astray, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday accused the J&K regional parties of leading the people, especially youth, astray with their provocative statements “at a time when the Union Territory was witnessing percolation of democracy, which is the solution to all problems, at the grassroots level”. In an oblique reference to the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Shah said the youth of Kashmir should start asking these leaders questions and “don’t fall prey to their motivated remarks made for political ambitions”. “The three families, which ruled J&K, are unnerved by the fact that their grip has loosened on J&K with the implementation of the Panchayati Raj Act, which gave representation to people’s aspirations through over 30,000 elected representatives,” said Mr. Shah while launching the first-ever District Good Governance Index (DGGI) in J&K. He said there were leaders who expressed their extreme views, saying there will be no improvement in law and order in J&K till Article 370 was restored and the situation had deteriorated after August, 5, 2019. “Official figures on the ground show the real situation. J&K has seen a decrease in terrorists’ activities by 40% and the deaths have also come down by 57%,” the Union Minister said. Peace and governance Mr. Shah said peace in J&K has no relation with the changes made (in 2019) but is directly dependent on good governance. Reiterating that elections will be held only after the completion of the delimitation process and the statehood will be restored once peace establishes in J&K, Mr. Shah asked the youth to “walk on the path of development set by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and work towards achieving a golden period for J&K”. He said his government has already set up AIIMS, NIFT, IIT and IIMC and provided additional medical seats in J&K. He said the increase in the UT’s Budget from Rs. 21,000 crore to Rs. 90,000 crore is the highest jump for any State. “It shows the commitment and vision of the PM for J&K.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-leaders-are-leading-youth-astray-says-shah/article64946697.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,||512 new fatalities recorded across India||The country recorded 3,30,836 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, a 23.6% increase from a week ago. The total number of infections has reached 3.89 crore, and the active cases have crossed the 21.1 lakh mark. The figures are based on the State bulletins released until 10 p.m. on Saturday. However, Ladakh, Tripura, Jharkhand and Lakshadweep had not yet released data for the day. Maharashtra recorded 46,393 infections on Saturday, followed by Kerala (45,136) and Karnataka (42,470). On Saturday, 512 deaths were recorded in India, considerably higher than the average levels recorded in the last week. The total number of recorded fatalities has reached 4,88,923 Kerala reported the most deaths with 132 fatalities (62 were from a backlog), followed by Maharashtra (48). Delhi recorded 45 deaths. On Friday, 19.6 lakh tests were conducted (the results for which were made available on Saturday). The test positivity rate (the number of cases detected per 100 tests) was 16.8%. As of Saturday, 91.2% of the eligible population has been vaccinated with at least one dose, while 67% have received both doses. In the 15-17 age cohort, 56% of the population have received their first dose. Altogether, 92,86,86,390 first doses, 68,23,24,226 second doses, and 76,57,932 booster doses have been administered across India. Gujarat continues to report above 20,000 cases and over a dozen deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic. On Saturday, it reported 23,150 new Covid-19 infections and 15 deaths, increasing the active cases to 129875 out of which 244 patients are on ventilator support. Out of 15 deaths, 5 deaths occurred in Ahmedabad, which is also reporting nearly one third of the total cases and deaths since the beginning of the third wave. In Assam, 5,580 new cases were detected on Saturday out of 45,900 people tested. The positivity rate is 12.16%, up from 12.13% on January 21. Kamrup (Metro) district mostly comprising Guwahati recorded the highest caseload of 1,172. 13 new deaths were also recorded. Total deaths attributed to COVID-19 in the State since January 1, 2022 stands at 124. The State’s recovery rate is 91.99%, down from 92.31% on January 21. Telangana logged 4393 new SARS-CoV2 cases by 5.30 p.m. on Saturday, according to the medical bulletin issued by the Department of Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/512-new-fatalities-recorded-across-india/article64946674.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||West U.P. is warming up for a tight fight||As the process of filing nominations for the first phase of the Uttar Pradesh election comes to a close, the battle for western Uttar Pradesh has begun. Riding on the perceived Jat-Muslim unity after the farmers’ agitation and the Bahujan Samaj Party’s “indifference”, the Samajwadi Party-Rashtriya Lok Dal alliance is hoping to seize control of the region, where the BJP won a whopping 53 out of the 58 seats in 2017. On average, Jats and Muslims constitute between 30% and 50% of the electorate in these seats. The SP has left 33 seats for the RLD in the first round, out of which on five seats, SP candidates are contesting on the hand pump symbol. While the alliance has picked 10 Jat candidates, the BJP has opted for 12. Eleven Muslim candidates are also in the fray under the SP-RLD alliance. However, after the ticket distribution, the fissures among Jats and Muslims that helped the BJP win after the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 came out in the open. The ruckus created by Jats, after a Muslim candidate from the SP was asked to contest from Siwalkhas (in the Baghpat Lok Sabha constituency) on the RLD symbol, has come as a roadblock for the alliance. It has emerged that while Muslims are supporting the Jat candidates, Jats are not too keen on returning the favour, particularly in seats where the BJP has also fielded a Jat candidate. RLD chief Chaudhary Jayant Singh tried to take off the religious connotation from the Jat-Muslim brotherhood and presented it as social cohesion. Responding to a tweet, he said Chaudhary Charan Singh (his grandfather and former Prime Minister) did not do the politics of Hindus and Muslims, but stood for the cause of farmers and workers. Mr. Singh’s wife had to make an impassioned appeal to party workers not to make it a Hindu-Muslim election. Caste identity No doubt, it is a laudable ideological pitch, but observers felt it was bereft of political reality in the Meerut zone, where Jats are seeking greater representation from a party that it has always looked up to. Party insiders said while Chaudhary Charan Singh did talk of farmer-worker unity, he did invoke the MAJGAR [Muslim, Ahir (Yadav), Jat, Gurjar, Rajput] formula for political consolidation as well. “Today, the RLD is effectively left with only the MAJ part and it needs to be protected and reimagined,” said a senior Jat leader, requesting anonymity. The ripples in the alliance gave the BJP, whose candidates are facing anti-incumbency and farmers’ anger, an opportunity to polarise the election, with Union Minister Sanjeev Baliyan, the Jat face of the BJP, describing the lack of Jat representation as a betrayal of the community’s trust and pride. The party tried to shift focus from its Khatauli MLA being chased by farmers by tweeting an edited video from the party’s official handle where Mr. Jayant Singh could be heard saying that he had not taken up a contract for Jats and late RLD supremo Ajit Singh describing the SP as a “goonda party”. The voice-over says that Mr. Singh had put a question mark over the ability of Jats by giving Ahmed Hameed ticket from Baghpat. Local BJP sources said the party was trying to bring into its fold a section of Jats that felt Mr. Singh didn’t assert his caste identity enough.  Party spokesperson Sunil Rohata, one of the two RLD contenders for the Siwalkhas seat, admitted that the “drama was unwarranted” and that the divide had been bridged. “We should appreciate that Jayant ji has tried to give representation to all the communities, including Gurjars (three), Dalits (eight), Thakurs (two) and Brahmins (three).” It is not that the alliance didn’t see it coming. In a bid to prevent polarisation, it has not given a single ticket to a Muslim in Muzaffarnagar, despite a significant Muslim presence in each of the six Assembly constituencies in the district.  It tried to compensate it in Meerut (three), Baghpat, Shamli (two), Baghpat (two), and Bulandshahr (two), but party sources said Jats wanted their candidates even in seats where Muslims are more than a lakh and the Jat presence is only around 40,000-50,000. Old-timers said Jats in rural areas were still living in the pre-EVM era when their candidates used to “stamp” their way to victory even in seats where their numerical strength was poor. They haven’t come to terms to the BJP era when poll managers take into account even the strength of sub-castes at every booth.  Sanjeev Chaudhary, a farmer leader of Desh Khap in Baraut, said “ Jat lena jaanta hai, dena nahin (Jats like to command support not offer it). Jats will not vote for the Muslim candidate, particularly, in seats where the Samajwadi Party has put up its candidate.”  However, Sokhendra Chaudhary of Battisa khap that held sway over 32 villages in Shamli felt differently. “The Muslim candidates put up by the RLD in Baghpat and Shamli are only culturally Muslim. They are one amongst us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-up-is-warming-up-for-a-tight-fight/article64946685.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:33 IST,||Game for a big bet||In the late 1970s, four programmers David Crane, Larry Kaplan, Alan Miller and Bob Whitehead bid goodbye to Atari, a pioneer in home video consoles, disappointed that they weren’t getting paid enough despite being responsible for bringing in a lot of money for the company. They started a new venture, which they initially called Computer Arts but whose name was changed pretty soon to Activision. The latest avatar of this company, Activision Blizzard, is what Microsoft agreed to buy last week in an all-cash deal for nearly $69 billion.  This is not just the biggest deal in the gaming industry but also the biggest acquisition by Microsoft till date, being more than one-and-half times what it paid to buy professional network LinkedIn in 2016. The Microsoft announcement came just days after Take-Two Interactive, the publisher of Grand Theft Auto , announced that it would acquire Zynga, the name behind ‘FarmVille,’ for $12.7 billion.  The journey from Computer Arts to Activision Blizzard over the decades has involved the acquisition of many studios and, more importantly in 2008, the merger with Vivendi Games that gave the company its current name. Over these years, the company has come to own some of the most prominent titles in the gaming realm, from ‘Pitfall!’ in its initial years to ‘Call of Duty’, and from ‘World of Warcraft’ to ‘Candy Crush’. It has nearly 400 million monthly active players, with ‘Call of Duty’ itself accounting for about a fourth of it. The deal has come at a time when Activision was struggling with the weight of allegations of sexual harassment at the workplace. Its business had, however, grown to over $8 billion in revenues during the first year of the pandemic. Under pressure  “The deal comes at a time of weakness for Activision,” said a Reuters story, which noted that its shares have fallen more than a third since hitting a record high last year. The Wall Street Journal had reported that Activision’s CEO Bobby Kotick knew about the allegations but didn’t tell the board. There was pressure on the company. And that’s when Microsoft rushed in.  For a tech behemoth that is almost always identified with product categories such as Windows and its Azure cloud computing offerings, it needs to be emphasised that the company is also a major player in gaming. Its gaming division clocked revenues of over $15 billion last year, mostly flowing from its Xbox business and gaming subscription service. Speaking with his colleague and CEO of Microsoft Gaming Phil Spencer, Chairman and CEO Satya Nadella said last year: “Gaming has been key to Microsoft from our earliest days. Our oldest currently supported franchise is in fact our game Microsoft Flight Simulator, which we released three years before the first version of Windows.” Just a year-and-a-half ago, it bought ZeniMax Media, which owns franchises such as The Elder Scrolls and Fallout, for $7.5 billion. And prior to that, it snapped up ‘Minecraft’-maker Mojang Studios. The acquisition of Activision Blizzard, which is expected to take over a year to complete, will put Microsoft at No. 3 behind Tencent and Sony in the video gaming market. Mr. Nadella, in a conference call after the deal, said: “Gaming is the largest and fastest-growing category in entertainment. Today, 3 billion consumers around the world play games, and we expect this number will reach 4.5 billion by 2030.” The deal gives Microsoft a lot of content, a bigger mobile play, as also a much more clout in its console wars with Sony. At the same time, this also lends itself to the evolution of the gaming experience, as Microsoft likes to put it, from being device-centric to being player-centric. Building metaverses, virtual reality spaces, for gaming communities could be another goal. Research projects a bullish phase for gaming coming up, with advanced network connectivity and 5G being the likely drivers. The global gaming industry, valued at $173.7 billion in 2021, is likely to grow to $314 billion by 2027, according to market research firm Mordor Intelligence. How Activision, under its new owners, deals with the allegations that has haunted it since last year, and whether Microsoft can get past any regulatory concerns will be questions that are key to this mega deal’s future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/game-for-a-big-bet/article64947081.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:33 IST,||For the rich and powerful||The rich and the famous gather each year at the Swiss resort of Davos for the World Economic Forum to discuss major challenges facing the world. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s briefly disrupted address at the WEF this year gained attention in India, the event itself has not been without its fair share of controversies in the past. Critics call the annual meeting a popular networking event for the rich and the powerful held under the pretence of saving the world. The organisers of the WEF, however, have argued strongly that the forum is open to a far wider range of people who would not meet each other if not for the annual event. The WEF, which was founded in 1971 by German economist Klaus Schwab, claims to work to “improve the state of the world”. The first meeting of the WEF was held as a management forum that brought together European businessmen to discuss how to compete against U.S. businesses. Over the years, the event has been thrown open to personalities from other fields of life as well, perhaps in a bid to increase its overall appeal. It is now attended by politicians from both developing and developed countries, CEOs of large corporations, and members of civil society working on a variety of development issues. Diplomats, journalists, movie stars and other kinds of celebrities are also part of the event each year. This year, for instance, the event was attended by heads of state from India and China, billionaires such as Bill Gates and Sunil Bharti Mittal, and technocrats including Janet Yellen and Christine Lagarde. Entry fee Participants must pay an expensive entry fee, which varies based on benefits, unless they are invited to the event by the organisers. Last year, the WEF earned 241 million Swiss Francs (about $260 million) in membership and partnership fees. Why would over 3,000 people pay to attend an event like Davos? Is it all really with the aim to “improve the state of the world”? Critics of the WEF argue that businessmen in particular pay hefty fees to attend the event because it gives them access to top political leaders they may not be able to meet as easily otherwise. Businessmen use the WEF as a platform to discuss and finalise business deals behind closed doors. Whether such deals benefit the wider economy or simply benefit a few billionaires with privileged access to decision-makers is another relevant issue raised by critics. Attending the event also adds to the image of the attendees as members of high society. Given these benefits, the high entry fee may not seem that exorbitant to the guests. It should be noted that the WEF itself is funded by over a 1,000 large corporations each with an annual turnover of at least $5 billion. Others who attend the event, such as politicians and members of civil society, may enjoy the attention and influence that it offers them. Climate activist Greta Thunberg’s speeches at the WEF, for instance, have made headlines across the world. The WEF’s sympathisers say the annual meeting is an opportunity for leaders who can influence global affairs to exchange views and launch important initiatives. They point to the supposed role the forum played in persuading South African leader Nelson Mandela in 1992 to embrace markets and globalisation, for instance. The WEF has also tried to shed its elitist image by pointing to the wide range of guests, other than billionaires, who have attended the event in recent years. Each year, the Davos meeting is driven by a set agenda based on global trends and challenges that face the world. Whether the WEF really cares about these agendas or not, they certainly help project the image of the WEF as being a forum to discuss global challenges that affect people across the world. Issues such as climate change and inequality have been on the WEF’s agenda recently. This year, a group of millionaires signed an open letter stating that they were taxed too little by governments despite the significant growth of their wealth during the pandemic. Critics, however, view these pledges as useless lip service by the elite that does not really change realities on the ground. Other critics, meanwhile, have argued that the elite businessmen and technocrats who gather at Davos are a threat to global freedom as they wish to exclusively shape policy that would affect billions of people across the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/for-the-rich-and-powerful/article64947083.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Disability activists flag concerns in new accessibility norms||A month after the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) released revised accessibility guidelines, disability rights activists have raised concerns over the changes, including in handrail heights, from the 2016 version, as well as sought clarity from the government on which version would be applicable for auditing public buildings. Anjlee Agarwal, the executive director of Smarthyam, which has worked with NITI Aayog and various government departments on accessibility issues, said the 2021 guidelines had made changes in dimensions and heights, leading to confusion. Ms. Agarwal, who had worked on the 2016 guidelines, wrote to the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry on January 20 asking for “synergy” between the standards mentioned in the 2016 document and the 2021 one. “If the 2021 harmonised guidelines’ standards are followed, then 2016 harmonised guidelines’ standards will become obsolete. Under the Accessible India Campaign, these standards are used in accessibility audits and retrofitting of buildings from 2016 till now; it will also become obsolete,” Ms. Agarwal wrote in a letter to Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities Secretary Anjali Bhawra. Handrail height Ms. Agarwal, who is a wheelchair user, pointed out that the handrail height on ramps had been changed from 760 mm for people of a short body profile and 900 mm for adults to 600-750 mm and 900-1,000 mm, respectively. She questioned why the heights were changed and on what basis, as the 2016 guidelines had been based on Indian anthropometrics and ergonomics. “Upper level handrail on ramp is 900-1,000 mm, while on steps it is 900-1,100 mm. Is everyone 6 feet tall?” she asked. She pointed out that the knee recess of wheelchair user, which was used for giving dimensions of tables, workstations, washbasins and so on, had been changed from a minimum of 650-680 mm to 600 mm and 675 mm. “For an average Indian adult, the lap height is 680 mm. Wheelchair users use a cushion, hence the lap height further goes up. If knee recess is kept at 600 mm, then a wheelchair user will never to able to access any counter/workstation,” she said. Ms. Bhawra could not be reached for comment. Vaishnavi Jayakumar, a member of the collective Disability Rights Alliance, had filed a petition in the Madras High Court in September 2021 seeking greater public consultation on the draft guidelines. While disposing of the petition in November 2021, the court had said such drafts should be circulated in all official languages in the country. ‘Not specific enough’  Speaking to The Hindu from Chennai, Ms. Jayakumar said: “The guidelines are not comprehensive enough. Bus, railway coach, airplane, etc., are barely covered. Despite the name, it’s still mostly built environment. We need an overarching universal design and accessibility code. It is also not specific enough.”  For instance, Ms. Jayakumar said the guidelines said “non-slip” floors should be used, but did not adequately define what that meant. She said government projects had continued to use polished granite for aesthetic reasons, instead of the more slip-resistant unpolished granite. The guidelines say “marble/granite” have “good” slip resistance when dry and unpolished, while it is “very poor” when wet and polished. Rama Chari, the director of the Diversity and Equal Opportunity Centre, said the 2021 harmonised guidelines had a “lot more figures and photos, which is good”. But, she added, there were “no explanations for the changes made”. “In some places, the standards have been diluted and in some places it has become more stringent. There is discrepancy between the text and diagrams. When would these become applicable?” she asked. She added that the revised guidelines come at a time that establishments are gearing up to meet the June 2022 deadline for accessibility, as per provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disability-activists-flag-concerns-in-new-accessibility-norms/article64946676.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Antrix-Devas may not be last such high-profile row||The Antrix-Devas saga may be the most high-profile case of a technology deal gone sour in India, but little has changed in India to incentivise high-technology deals involving private and public companies and prevent similar occurrences in the future. The Supreme Court upheld a decision by the National Company Law Tribunal to disband Devas Multimedia, though this is not necessarily the end to the dispute. International courts have given verdicts favouring the private consortium seeking compensation from Antrix for cancelling a 2005 deal to lease satellite spectrum to the company to offer multimedia services. The deal was cancelled in 2011 by Antrix, a public company and marketing arm of the Indian Space Research Organisation, on grounds of “national security”. Clarity lacking Though there have been several space missions and the government has announced steps to have greater collaboration with the private sector, experts say nothing rules out the reoccurrence of a similar fracas. “There isn’t clarity yet on whether satellite spectrum will be viewed differently — and globally it is viewed differently — from terrestrial spectrum, and different arms of the government can still interpret these differently. Though usage of certain bands of spectrum have been liberalised, a high-technology company still faces considerable uncertainty if it has to deal with a public sector entity,” said Narayan Prasad, co-founder, Satsearch, a Netherlands company that deals in space-technology products.  Ashok Gubbi Venkateshmurthy, partner, Factum Law, Bengaluru, who was involved in an effort to draft new legislation for an updated law governing space applications in India, said that barely any inputs to prevent future conflicts he submitted were accepted. “This is certainly not the last we’ve seen of the litigation as it remains to be seen how the Supreme Court order will be interpreted internationally, given that India’s bilateral treaties are also at stake,” he told The Hindu .  Unlike in the e-commerce sector that saw international investments worth billions into Indian start-ups, the challenges are heightened when a private company moved into a space that has traditionally been occupied by the public sector. “Sectors such as telecom, defence, aerospace and satellite technology, where public sector companies, are loath to cede space, are where these issues are most likely to crop up and, to my mind, nothing has changed fundamentally. Only an evolution in institutional culture over years can result in visible change,” Mr. Prasad added. These challenges though are not unique to India’s space or high-technology sectors. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research in 2009 brought in place reform that allowed its scientists to launch private companies and and have a financial stake, much like professors in several leading research universities in the United States and Europe. Few, however, have actually gone on to do so because some have been harassed for their initiative. ‘Conflict of interest’ Rajesh Gokhale, now Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, an immunologist and known for throwing new light on aspects of tuberculosis, was former Director at the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB). Mr. Gokhale won the Infosys Life Sciences award, 2013, and was among the few scientists at the CSIR who founded a start-up biotech company, following a change in policy in CSIR rules permitting scientists to take stake in start-ups. This, however, took a turn for the worse from 2016 with a departmental inquiry on alleged ‘conflict of interest’ in his position as a director of a CSIR lab and a scientist with a founder-stake in a company. This prompted enquiries by the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC), and though several expert committees cleared him, it stalled his career progression. It was only in December 2020 that the matter was finally laid to rest after a Delhi High Court order formally underlined his innocence.  A scientist in a prominent publicly funded lab told The Hindu on condition of anonymity that for all the emphasis on start-ups and entrepreneurship, “politics” continued to influence science and technology development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/antrix-devas-may-not-be-last-such-high-profile-row/article64946679.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Prohibition leads to heady political dramas in Gujarat||Isudan Gadhvi, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader in Gujarat, was in for a shock when a forensic report found traces of alcohol in his blood, after he was arrested by the State police for protesting at the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) headquarters in Gandhinagar on December 20. Two BJP women members said in their complaint to the police that Mr. Gadhvi and others had showed up drunk — a crime in Gujarat. On January 2, the Gujarat police slapped additional Sections — 66(1)(b) and 85 (1) under the Gujarat Prohibition Act — against Mr. Gadhvi after it received a forensic report that his blood sample had 0.0545 w/v (weight per volume) alcohol concentration. The permissible limit is 0.05 w/v. Mr. Gadhvi says he has been a teetotaler all his life, and was framed — bringing to the fore a new question of policing political protests. The use of the sedition law and UAPA against political opponents of governments remains hugely controversial in India. “I am dismayed at the forensic report. I have filed an application with the police station to preserve the blood sample, I want to get it checked from an independent agency. The police, at the behest of the ruling party, is trying to tarnish my image and foist false cases against me because I joined AAP,” he said.  He said that he could secure bail after getting legal help from party colleagues from Delhi. “They secured bail for me….the legal team told me my case was unprecedented and they had never heard anyone being booked for such an offence. I was told that sometimes when one consumes medicine or bajra (maize), then also the blood content could show erroneous alcohol results,” Mr. Gadhvi told The Hindu by phone.  Mr. Gadhvi said his consent was taken before drawing the blood sample, but the police can force people to give their blood samples or DNA specimen as per law. According to R.K, Vij, former special Director-General of Police, Chhattisgarh, the police have such powers under Sections 53 and 54 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Mr. Gadhvi’s counsel Pranav Thakkar said they had demanded a copy of the forensic report and asked the police to preserve the blood sample slides. “The protest happened in front of over 500 people, it is hard to digest that they landed there in a drunken state. The police acted under political pressure it seems.” Gandhinagar Superintendent of Police Mayur Chavda did not respond to calls or messages if police has taken a decision to preserve Mr. Gadhvi’s blood sample. In Gujarat, any officer empowered by the State government “may enter at any time by day or by night, any place including homes of people if he or she has reason to believe that any intoxicant is kept or concealed in the premises”. The Act also empowers the officers to arrest without warrant any person whom he has reason to believe to be guilty of an offence under the 1949 Act. Similar powers allow the police and officials in Bihar also to search private homes, vehicles and premises at will. In September 2016, the police searched the house of Abhijit Bhattacharya, General :Post Office chief postmaster in Patna, after getting an anonymous call that liquor was being served there. The matter was escalated and with the intervention of the Union Communications Ministry, a high-level probe was ordered since nothing was recovered from his house. A middleman was later arrested by the police for giving false information. The accused wanted to settle scores with the chief postmaster and he intended to plant a liquor bottle in his balcony but the police reached the house before he could do so. On January 11, Chief Justice of India N.V Ramana said that courts in Bihar were choked with liquor bail matters. Flooded wth pleas The Gujarat High Court is seized with at least seven petitions challenging the prohibition law on the ground of privacy and others questions, such discrimination. The law allows a class of people to consume alcohol. “It is a blatant discriminatory legislation, it allows the rich to enjoy and creates a certain class of people who have access to liquor. It is like a penal State, permits are available to NRIs and licenses are given after assessing tax returns. The State gives non-citizens more rights,” said one of the petitioners on the condition of anonymity. On August 23, 2021, the Gujarat High Court while admitting the petitions said in an order that the Supreme Court for the first time in the Puttuswamy case of 2017 recognised “Right to Privacy” of the citizen as a fundamental right and the “petitioners have assailed some of the provisions of the 1949 Act on the ground that they violate the Right to Privacy.” “The same has never been tested before in context of personal food preferences weaved within the right to privacy,” the order said. Now, with the police invoking the law against a political activist, the police may have just found a new disturbing use for the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prohibition-leads-to-heady-political-dramas-in-gujarat/article64946691.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,||Farmer suicides still haunt Vidarbha||Maharashtra recorded 2,489 farmer suicides from January 1 to November 30, 2021, and 2,547 farmer suicides in 2020, with over 50% deaths coming from the State’s Vidarbha region during both years. According to the information obtained by activist Jitendra Ghadge, based on an application under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, the State recorded 2,547 farmer suicides in the year 2020. Out of this, 1,206 deaths were eligible for aid as per the norms of the State government. When compared, the Aurangabad division, which covers the entire Marathwada area of the State, has seen an increase in the number of farmer suicides to 804 in 2021 from 773 in 2020. Nagpur division, which covers the eastern part of Vidarbha, witnessed an increase in the number of suicides to 309 in 2021 from 269 in 2020. Amaravati division, which covers the western Vidarbha region, has recorded the highest number of farmer suicides in both years. In 2020, a total of 1,128 deaths were registered here and in 2021 the number till November was 1,056. The Konkan division has recorded zero deaths during both years. In Pune and Nasik divisions, which cover western and north Maharashtra regions respectively, the recorded deaths in the year 2020 are 26 and 351 while in 2021 are 13 and 307. As per the information obtained under RTI, kin of an average of 50% dead farmers were found eligible for Rs. 1 lakh compensation from the State government. According to Mr. Ghadge, “Ignoring the mental health aspect of the farmers and just giving loan waivers to all will never address the problem. It’s important to filter out distressed farmers so that help is channelised to ones who need it the most.” Help and counselling is available at Sanjivini Society for Mental Health - 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. – 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmer-suicides-still-haunt-vidarbha/article64946673.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||J&K eyeing Dubai groups for funds||The Lieutenant-Governor’s administration in Jammu & Kashmir is pushing hard to convince Dubai-based investors to explore investment possibilities in the Union Territory, even as JSW Steel Ltd. and Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd. became the first major corporations to buy land for their projects after the reading down of Article 370 in 2019. The possession of 70 kanals of land (8.75 acres) has already been handed over to JSW Steel Ltd. in Pulwama’s Lassipora industrial area to set up a Rs. 150-crore steel plant, officials in the J&K Industries and Commerce Department said. Sources said around half of the land will be used for landscaping. The project is to cater to the local demand only, and is likely to emerge as the top player in the sector. A team from Apollo Hospitals, which is setting up a 250-bed super speciality hospital in the Jammu region, has identified a few “feasible locations” in and around Jammu district for its project. The L-G administration has already earmarked 100 kanals (12.5 acres) at Jammu’s Miran Sahib for a medi-city, which will accommodate the country’s top health sector corporates to invest here. In Kashmir, a few outside health sector companies have shown interest in the medi-city coming up on 368 kanals (46 acres) in Sempora of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district “but no proposal has been finalised yet”. Around 14 local groups have also shown equal interest to invest in the medi-city. IT, horticulture Meanwhile, around 2,512 applicants from J&K have also shown readiness to invest in around 17 varied sectors in the Union Territory to boost investment capital, mainly in the information technology and horticulture sectors. The L-G-led administration is also banking on big ticket groups from Dubai to meet its investment target of around Rs. 44,000-plus crore. Representatives of the Dubai ports giant DP World, which is considering an inland port in J&K to ship products made in the Union Territory to outside markets, is visiting a 250-acre site earmarked for the inland port facility in the Jammu region. According to the J&K administration’s figures, an investment of approximately Rs. 3,000 crore from industrial giants like Emaar, Lulu, MATU Investments, Al Maya Group, GL Employment Brokerage LLC, Century Financial, Noon e-commerce, etc. has been agreed upon during the recently-held Dubai Expo 2022. Besides, one letter of intent was also signed with Magna Waves Private Limited along with the Emaar Group and Lulu International, which is interested in coming up with a mall and an inland port in Kashmir. Officials said investment of Rs. 18,300 crore is likely to come in the real estate sector, “as Dubai-based companies see a potential in the sector”. The UAE’s pioneering financial services company, Century Financial, is likely to invest $100 million in J&K on three hotels, and one commercial-cum-residential complex. The company is owned by Bal Krishen, originally from J&K’s Doda district. The J&K administration has heavily liberalised its industrial and land policy by amending rules to make the UT an “investors paradise”, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-eyeing-dubai-groups-for-funds/article38311888.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||National master plan portal to be ready by end of March||The Gati Shakti programme announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year envisages a digital platform for a national master plan of infrastructure projects in the country which will be ready by March 31, 2022, according to a senior government official.  “All infrastructure projects will be mapped on the national master plan [portal]. 75% of data from Central Ministries on their infrastructure projects have already been uploaded. We are now training State governments to share their data. We are hopeful that the national master plan [portal] will be ready by March-end,” Amrit Lal Meena, Special Secretary, Department for Promotion of Investment and Internal Trade told The Hindu .  Centre-State linkage Prime Minister Modi announced the Gati Shakti national master plan (NMP) on October 13, 2021, for setting up a centralised portal, and “institutionalising” planning, designing and execution among 17 different Ministries in the Centre as well as States. It will include projects worth Rs. 100 lakh crore. The programme also aims to cut down logistical costs and improve supply chains. “The national master plan will show us geographical features such as forests, water bodies, mines, religious and archaeological sites and help us plan alignment of infrastructure projects so that we can circumvent these. Earlier, projects would be planned from within the confines of offices,” Mr. Meena said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/national-master-plan-portal-to-be-ready-by-end-of-march/article38311911.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Two TRF militants killed in Shopian encounter||Two militants affiliated to the Resistance Front (TRF) were killed during an anti-militancy operation of the security forces in Shopian of south Kashmir on Saturday. The police said Sameer Ahmad Shah from Shopian’s Dhangam and Rayees Ahmad Mir from Pulwama’s Takiya Wahgam were cornered during a search operation, based on a specific input generated by the police, in Kilbal village of Shopian. “As the joint search party proceeded towards them, the hiding terrorists fired indiscriminately. The search party retaliated effectively leading to an encounter,” the police said. The police said both the slain militants were part of a group involved in several terror crime cases, including attacks on security forces and civilian atrocities. “Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition were recovered from the site of the encounter. All the recovered materials have been taken into case records for further investigation,” the police said. Terror associate held In a separate operation, the police along with the Army and the CRPF arrested a terrorist associate of the Jaish-e-Muhammad in Awantipora. The police identified him as Umer Farooq Bhat. “ Preliminary investigation revealed that the arrested terror associate was involved in providing shelter, logistic support, transportation of arms and ammunition and assisting the terrorists to shift their locations,” it said. The police said he was also passing on sensitive information regarding the movement of police and security forces to the terrorists of the JeM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-trf-militants-killed-in-shopian-encounter/article38311887.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Defeat those working for one particular caste or community, says Shah||The BJP government has brought an end to the politics of appeasement in Uttar Pradesh, said Union Home Minister Amit Shah as he kicked off the party’s campaign for the upcoming Assembly election in the State from Kairana on Saturday. “Those responsible for the exodus of families from Kairana have been forced to migrate from the State,” he told reporters after the door-to-door campaign with BJP candidate Mriginka Singh. Ms. Singh is the daughter of Hukum Singh, former BJP MP from Kairana, whose report on alleged exodus of Hindu families in 2016 had put the nondescript town on the national map. “We have to defeat those who work for one particular caste or community,” Mr. Shah said. A large number of party workers turned up for the first political programme of the BJP since the Election Commission of India announced the date of election in the State. The Opposition parties have charged the district administration with discrimination in applying COVID-19 guidelines. In Bulandhahr, Chief Minister Yogi Aditynath said when the BJP government came to power in 2017, the first decision it took was to shut down illegal slaughterhouses, form an “anti-Romeo” squad for the safety of daughters, and waive loans of farmers. “When the Samajwadi Party came to power, it tried to drop the terror charges against those who attacked the Ram Janmabhoomi complex in Ayodhya,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/defeat-those-working-for-one-particular-caste-or-community-says-shah/article38311899.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Clubhouse case: six users identified, no arrests||The Delhi Police on Saturday said they have identified six users of the viral audio chat room on Clubhouse, including a 17-year-old and two women. All six have been questioned but no arrests have been made, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell Cyber Unit) K.P.S. Malhotra said the six users have been identified as Anchal Anand (user name- koko0107), Naumaan Jabbar (username – versace_on_me), Harsh Pal (username – coochielove), Rahul Kapoor (Bismillah), and Roma Makkar (username – Roma). The police said those identified have not been arrested because the authenticity of the audio needed to be ascertained before proceeding with arrests. “We have to rule out any voice modulation, as the same may affect the trial of the case. The only evidence in the present case is the first source, who had video recorded the audio conversation. That is the only evidence of the vulgar remarks, as Clubhouse does not record the audio conversations in the chat rooms,” a senior police officer said, adding that before making any arrest in the case, the authenticity of the video and the voice matching of the alleged persons is to be ascertained. Police said that Anchal is a resident of Kerala and has admitted to using the name Anchal on Clubhouse. During the chat room discussion other members had passed derogatory and vulgar comments regarding women, but “Anchal had only passed general remarks”, the officer said. Naumaan, police said, is a resident of Jodhpur and had created an account on Clubhouse on July 25 last year by in the name of @mr_casanova. He was using this account since but the one appearing on the viral audio is an account he created about two months ago, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clubhouse-case-six-users-identified-no-arrests/article38311886.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Baghel takes dig at ECI||Chhattishargh Chief Minister Bhupesh Bhagel on Saturday took a dig at the Election Commission of India over Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s door-to-door campaign in Kairana. Mr. Baghel tweeted a video showing that Mr. Shah’s campaign had more people than the mandated five persons. In a sarcastic tweet, Mr. Baghel said, “The Election Commission should make him a brand ambassador of door to door campaign and use his video for DEMO purposes”. “Otherwise, questions on the impartiality of @ECISVEEP will continue to be raised.” On January 17, an FIR was filed against Mr. Baghel and others for violating the norms of door-to-door campaigning with five people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/baghel-takes-dig-at-eci/article38311901.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Mahatma’s favourite hymn out of Beating Retreat list||The traditional Christian hymn Abide with me , believed to have been a favourite of Mahatma Gandhi, has been dropped from the list of tunes for this year’s Beating Retreat ceremony. The tune had been played at the annual ceremony every year since 1950.  Abide with me is played by the ‘Massed Bands’ at the end of the ceremony, and this year, there are three tunes without it instead of the four tunes played last year, including the hymn.   The three tunes to be played by massed bands this year are Kadam kadam badhaye ja , Drummers call, and Ae mere watan ke logon . In contrast, the four tunes last year were Bharat ke jawan (new composition), Kadam kadam badhaye ja , Drummers call , and Abide with me .   In 2020 too, the tune was initially dropped from the list but was subsequently restored in the final list after protests from a cross-section of the public on social media. In addition, the national song Vande Mataram was played for the first time in 2020.  Beating Retreat is a centuries-old military tradition going back to the days when troops disengaged from battle at sunset. As soon as the buglers sounded the ‘retreat’, troops ceased fighting and withdrew from the battlefield. Beating Retreat is performed every year on the evening of January 29 at Vijay Chowk in the national capital, and marks the end of the Republic Day celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mahatmas-favourite-hymn-out-of-beating-retreat-list/article64946698.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Congress releases first list for Uttarakhand polls||The Congress late on Saturday night announced its first list of candidates for the upcoming Uttarakhand Assembly election. While former Chief Minister Harish Rawat hasn’t been fielded yet in the first list of 53 candidates, Leader of the Opposition in the outgoing Assembly, Pritam Singh, has been named from his present constituency of Chakrata. Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) head Ganesh Godiyal has been named from the Srinagar constituency. The list has also named Surender Singh Negi from the Kotdwar constituency, a seat held by Harak Singh Rawat, the expelled Bharatiya Janata Party Minister who rejoined the Congress on Friday along with his daughter-in-law Anukriti Gusain. Though there is no official word, there is speculation that Ms. Gusain may be fielded from Landsdowne. The seat doesn’t figure in the list. Another former Minister, Yashpal Arya, who had quit BJP to join Congress, has been fielded from the Bajpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-releases-first-list-for-uttarakhand-polls/article38312244.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||German Navy chief strikes a tough note||“The [Admiral’s] statement in no way correspond to the position of the [German government] in terms of content and choice of words. Vice Adm Schönbach is given the opportunity to make a statement to the Inspector General,” Bild reported that the Ministry of Defence official had said.   The German Embassy in Delhi declined to comment, pointing instead to German Ambassador Walter J. Lindner’s piece in The Hindu on Saturday as Germany’s official position.  Asked for a response, particularly to the Admiral’s comments on China, the Ministry of External Affairs also declined to comment. Describing China as a growing “hegemonic power” which is using its money and power to put pressure on the international order, Vice Adm Schönbach said China has behaved as an enemy to some and has a “hidden agenda” in dealings with countries. Giving an example of Chinese attempts to steal technology, the German Navy Chief spoke of Kuka robotics, a German company which was taken over by a “private” Chinese company and the “whole technology was gone” and “China is not paying back”. In the context of this and other developments, he recalled German politicians’ view of China and said they believe that, “China is not that nice a country we probably thought of.” In this regard, he stated, “I am well aware when Germany even gives technology to Pakistan, it goes one by one through Pakistan in direction of India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/german-official-strikes-a-tough-note-on-china/article38311894.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||SP chief Akhilesh Yadav to contest from Karhal||While Akhilesh Yadav has been a Member of Parliament from Kannauj and Azamgarh, and also elected to the State Legislative Council, this would be his first Assembly election. He won the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Azamgarh in Purvanchal. Party stronghold Senior party leader Sobaran Singh Yadav won the last three elections from the Karhal seat. In 2002, he contested as a BJP candidate and defeated the SP by a narrow margin. From 1986 to 2002, Ram Babu Yadav held the seat on symbols of various socialist parties — the Lok Dal, the Janata Dal, the Janata Party (Secular) and the SP. The Karhal seat was one of the 47 the SP won in 2017 when the BJP overthrew it to come to power in the State along with its two allies, securing 325 out of the 403 seats in the Assembly. In 2017, the SP got 1.04 lakh votes in the seat, while the BJP stood second with around 35,000. “He [Akhilesh] will reach the Vidhan Sabha with record votes,” Mr. Ramgopal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-to-contest-from-karhal/article38311895.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Mayawati banking on Muslim candidates||In western Uttar Pradesh, where it performed poorly in the 2017 Assembly election, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is once again banking on Muslim candidates. Of the 109 candidates declared by the BSP for the first two phases of the election in the region, 40 are Muslim, making it 36.7% of the candidates declared. While Muslims are roughly one-fifth of the State’s population, in the western part of the State, they are much higher, often touching and going beyond 35%-40% in some districts. That the BSP is fielding a considerable number of Muslim candidates may cau- se concerns for the SP-RLD alliance, which was hoping to consolidate the Muslim voters in the region along with the agrarian communities, primarily Jats and Gurjars, to make the most of the farmers’ protest. In the first phase of election for 58 seats, covering parts of the sugarcane belt and districts adjoining the National Capital Region, the BSP has fielded 17 Muslims. This includes three Muslims out of the total six candidates in the communally sensitive Muzaffarnagar district, which witnessed communal violence in 2013 when the SP was in power. In its second list of 51 candidates for the second phase, mostly covering the districts in the Rohilkhand region and Saharanpur district, the BSP has fielded 23 Muslims. The BSP failed to win a single seat in this region in 2017. In Saharanpur, which has a considerable population of Muslims and the BSP’s core Jatav (Dalit) voters, party chief Mayawati has banked on three Muslims, including Congress turncoat Noman Masood who had lost the Gangoh seat on Congress ticket in the last election. In Bijnor, the BSP has fielded Muslims on five out of seven seats. In Moradabad, where the SP is traditionally strong, the BSP has fielded Muslims on five out of six seats. In Sambhal, out of four candidates, three are Muslim, while in Rampur two out of five are Muslim.  Asked if the BSP was fielding so many Muslims out of desperation, spokesperson Faizan Khan said the party believed in giving representation to each community as per its share in population. “ Jiski kitni sankhya bhari, uski utni hissedari (Representation as per population),” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mayawati-banking-on-muslim-candidates/article38311900.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Ban on large poll rallies, roadshows to continue||For phase one, which will see 58 Assembly constituencies of U.P. go to the polls on February 10, the EC allowed physical meetings in designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 people or 50% of the capacity of the venue or the limit set by the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), whichever is lower, from January 28 to February 8. For phase two, where 55 constituencies of U.P., all 40 seats of Goa and all 70 seats of Uttarakhand will go to polls on February 14, the EC allowed physical meetings from February 1 to February 12. The EC enhanced the limit of door-to-door campaigning from five persons to 10, excluding security personnel. “Commission has also allowed video vans for publicity with usual COVID restrictions at designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 viewers or 50% of the capacity or the limit set by SDMA, whichever number is lesser, in the poll-going States, subject to public convenience and no hindrance to smooth flow of traffic,” the EC said. All other guidelines with regard to COVID-19 would continue to apply, the EC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ban-on-large-poll-rallies-roadshows-to-continue/article38311893.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Six killed, 24 injured in Mumbai high-rise fire||Speaking to presspersons, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said that a detailed investigation into the tragedy will be conducted, and Mr. Thackeray and Mumbai city’s Guardian Minister Aslam Sheikh, would monitor the probe. Mumbai Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has formed a committee that will submit a report in 15 days on the reasons behind the fire, and whether there were any unapproved changes in building design. Mr. Thackeray said the State government would give Rs. 5 lakh compensation to the families of those who lost their lives in the fire. The Prime Minister’s Office, too, expressed grief and announced Rs. 2 lakh as compensation to the kin of the deceased, and Rs. 50,000 to each person injured in the accident. Mr. Thackeray, while speaking to reporters, said the civic body plans to extend training to citizens in high-rise buildings on the techniques of fire-fighting in case of an emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-killed-24-injured-in-mumbai-high-rise-fire/article38311892.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Work on time-bound targets, PM tells officials||The Chief Ministers of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Karnataka participated in the interaction among others. “This is a new challenge for all the governments — the government of India, the State government, the district administration and the government machinery. Now we have to complete this challenge together.” In his closing remarks, the Prime Minister dwelt upon the successes of the aspirational districts programme — aimed at quickly and effectively transforming 112 most under-developed districts — and lauded the officials and the State governments. “Today, aspirational districts are eliminating the barriers to the progress of the country. With the efforts of all of you, they are becoming accelerators of growth instead of impediments,” he said. Mr. Modi said these districts had proven that the elimination of silos in the implementation of policies ensures optimum utilisation of resources and talked about a “top to bottom as well as bottom to top governance flow”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/work-on-time-bound-targets-pm-tells-officials/article38311896.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:22 IST,||‘Extinguishing flame an insult to martyrdom’||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said the Union Government’s move to extinguish the eternal flame of the Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate amounted to an insult to the martyrdom of the country’s brave soldiers. The rationale behind the act was beyond everyone’s comprehension, Mr. Gehlot said. “If two different flames were kept burning in the honour of martyrs, what was the problem for the Narendra Modi government?” Mr. Gehlot asked, taking exception to the merger of the Amar Jawan Jyoti with the immortal flame at the National War Memorial. Mr. Gehlot said while the Modi government was attempting to change history by indulging in such “misdeeds”, it should understand that a golden history was made only by doing great deeds. “Amar Jawan Jyoti, paying homage to the martyrs for 50 years, was lit in memory of the soldiers who broke Pakistan in two. Closing it and giving it the name of merger is an attempt to dilute the purity of that light,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/extinguishing-flame-an-insult-to-martyrdom/article38312373.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:11 IST,||Chakmas approach NHRC for help||People of two Arunachal Pradesh villages facing displacement by oil drilling projects are being denied compensation, the National Human Rights Commission has been told. In a complaint to the apex rights body on Saturday, the New Delhi-based Chakma Development Council of India (CDFI) said Oil India Ltd. has resorted to coercion to deny compensation to the inhabitants of two villages in Changlang district. The oil major has undertaken drilling work in the Mudokka Nallah and Sompoi-II villages dominated by the Chakma and the Deori communities respectively. “Both are recognised villages according to the gazette notification issued by the Arunachal Pradesh government, and the communities are owners and occupants of the lands. But the local authorities and the OIL have been using third parties to coerce the poor affected families to accept a [nominal] package without any formal process under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013,” the CDFI said in a statement. The foundation cited a Supreme Court verdict in a case where the Arunachal Pradesh government was specifically directed not to evict the Chakmas from their homes. “If any attempt is made by the Ministry of Petroleum and Gas, the OIL and the State government to evict the Chakmas... in clear violation of the Supreme Court direction, it becomes the responsibility of the NHRC to initiate contempt proceedings,” said Suhas Chakma from the foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chakmas-approach-nhrc-for-help/article38311908.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||No surprises in Congress Manipur list||There were no surprises in the first list of 40 candidates the Congress released on Saturday for the Assembly election in Manipur. The election to the 60 Assembly seats will be held in two phases — on February 27 and March 3. The party had won 28 seats in the 2017 poll, but its number in the House dropped to 13, days before Mandate 2022 was announced. The party retained the MLAs that remained and the loyalists who lost the last election. Former Chief Minister and Congress Legislature Party leader Okram Ibobi Singh will contest from his pet Thoubal constituency. Among the other senior leaders, former State party president Gaikhangam will contest from Nungba, party leader Gaikhangam will contest from the Nungba (ST) constituency and T.N. Haokip from Saikot. Former BJP spokesperson Okram Joy has been fielded from Langthabal, while Soraisham Manaoton, who was the Trinamool Congress candidate last time, will contest from Naoriya Pakhanglakpa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-surprises-in-congress-manipur-list/article38312245.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Soren writes to PM on IAS cadre rules||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to oppose the proposed amendments to the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954 giving overriding powers to the Union government to depute IAS, IPS, and Indian Forest Service (IFoS) officers to the Centre. Mr. Soren said the “Centre should introspect and find out the reasons for the perceptible decline, over a couple of years, in the number of officers opting to go on Central deputation.” He said the amendments were likely to affect the objectivity, performance and efficiency of the officers and they would not be able to give candid opinion in matters which entail taking sides in sensitive matters of Centre-State disputes. “Undoubtedly this move is likely to further strain the already stressed Centre-State relations. It has immense potential to be misused for harassment of officers and vendetta politics against the State government,” he said. Growing pushback In the past 10 days, Chief Ministers Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), Bhupesh Baghel (Chattisgarh) and Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) have sent letters to Mr. Modi opposing the amendments. Mr. Soren suggested that the Centre may consider creating a permanent core cadre of such officers for themselves and not solely depend on borrowed players.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/soren-writes-to-pm-on-ias-cadre-rules/article38312246.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:11 IST,||Opposition tries to corner Punjab CM||Opposition parties in Punjab have upped the ante against Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in connection with the illegal sand mining in the State. The Enforcement Directorate recently search- ed the premises of his nephew and others in the case. Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Saturday alleged that the racket was flourishingas it was being patronised by the Chief Minister. At a press conference, he released purported audio recordings of what he termed as a conversation between the Chief Minister’s close aide and his son surrounding an “illegal sand mining operation”. Former Chief Minister and head of Punjab Lok Congress Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.) said Mr. Channi’s denial of involvement in illegal sand mining was a complete lie. “The one and only mistake I made during my entire tenure was that I did not take any action then, out of my sense of loyalty to the Congress, since I did not get a go-ahead from Sonia [Gandhi],” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-tries-to-corner-punjab-cm/article38311903.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Loyalty pledge for Cong. Goa candidates||The Congress on Saturday asked all its Goa candidates to take a pledge that they would remain faithful to the people and the party after the Assembly election. The candidates took the loyalty pledge at a temple, church and dargah. The move comes after 15 of the 17 MLAs who won the 2017 Assembly election on Congress ticket quit the party and defected to the BJP. “Congress candidates from across Goa visit Mahalaxmi Temple, Bambolim Cross & Hamza Shah Darga and took a pledge of loyalty towards the people of Goa and the party,” the official handle of Goa Congress tweeted with the hashtag #PledgeOfLoyalty. Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram, a senior poll observer for the State, was present at the Mahalaxmi temple. ‘It is very important’ “It is a very important thing. We are going to a temple, church and dargah to take an oath that we will not quit the party after elections,” Michael Lobo, a former Ports Minister who quit the Bharatiya Janata Party and is now the Congress candidate from the Calangute seat, told reporters. The Congress, which has tied up with the Goa Forward Party, has so far named 34 candidates for the election, which is scheduled to be held on February 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-goa-candidates-take-loyalty-pledge/article38311902.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Avian takeover||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/avian-takeover/article64946678.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:21 IST,||Where is the normalcy, ask parties||J&K’s regional parties reacted sharply to Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s remarks made about Kashmir in his address during the release of the District Good Governance Index report on the Union Territory (UT). Referring to Mr. Shah’s remarks that statehood will be restored only when normalcy is achieved in J&K, Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Lone said, “Who will define normalcy. And in a federal structure, can we really use normalcy as an excuse to assume power.”  He said “people of India who are mute bystanders, inshallah (god willing) you too will one day taste statelessness and helplessness.  Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said after quite literally terrorising people of J&K into silence to create a false normalcy narrative, the Government of India’s admission that situation still isn’t normal is self-contradictory. “Also proves that silence shouldn’t be misconstrued as normalcy,” she said. CPI(M) leader, M.Y. Tarigami said that one of the chief fundamentals of good governance was participation and representation, a right which continues to be denied to J&K.“Releasing such indexes is intended to help the government optics wise However, the ground reality of dilapidated roads, erratic power supply, inaccessibility of portable water combined with huge unemployment and the social unrest is reflecting a contrasting picture,” he said. National Conference spokesman Imran Nabi Dar said the ground situation belies all the claims of administration.“Window dressing of the J&K administration is to hide its failures. Much touted 84,000 jobs for youth, infrastructure augmentation, incentivising entrepreneurship, a comprehensive package for our tourism, horticulture, and handicraft sectors continue to remain a far-fetched dream,” he added. He said the bureaucratic rule has obstructed the development prospectus in the entire region. “Bureaucrats not being subjected to any kind of accountability, seem to care little about the issues concerning people in general,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/where-is-the-normalcy-ask-parties/article64946692.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation teams to impound stray cattle from tomorrow||Starting Monday, special teams of the Greater Chennai Corporation will patrol the roads where accidents were caused frequently by stray cattle. Arterial roads, bus routes and congested streets in areas such as Villivakkam, Anna Nagar, Triplicane and Koyambedu have been identified for the first phase of the patrolling by the vehicles of the special teams that will round up stray cattle. Following a meeting on Saturday, senior officials of the Corporation directed veterinary staff to impound stray cattle and ensure humane treatment to them. “Most of the complaints about stray cattle have been reported in Royapuram, Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar, Teynampet and Kodambakkam zones. Vehicles will patrol roads from 8 a.m. to catch stray cattle,” said an official of the Corporation. According to estimates of the civic body, the 15 zones of the city have 20,000 head of cattle. Many of the animals have been found straying on the road, causing fatal accidents. Motorists have complained about stray cattle on roads such as Kamarajar Salai, Walajah Road, Barathi Salai, Triplicane High Road and Kaliammankoil Street in Koyambedu.Highway stretches such as Poonamallee High Road in Aminjikarai, Koyambedu and Maduravoyal have reported a large number of stray cattle during rush hour, disrupting traffic. The Corporation’s veterinary officials, who participated in the meeting, stressed on the need for exploring the option of banning cattle in specific areas of the city where frequent accidents have been reported. Senior officials rejected the idea. Instead, the patrol of roads to impound cattle will be improved during rush hour, with support from the police. Officials stressed on the need for replacingold vehicles for impounding cattle, expanding the fleet of vehicles and increasing manpower. The conservancy inspectors and sanitary inspectors are likely to support the cattle raids. The owner of the animal which has been impounded will have to pay Rs. 1,550 for three days. The animals that are not claimed by owners would be handed over to the Blue Cross, officials said. A total of 65 cattle catchers and 15 vehicles will be part of the teams that patrol the roads. Raids were conducted at 1,320 locations last year to impound cattle. The civic body has appealed to motorists to call helpline 1913 to complaint about stray cattle on the roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-teams-to-impound-stray-cattle-from-tomorrow/article64947014.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||14.29 lakh vaccinated during mega drive||Tamil Nadu administered a total of 14,29,736 COVID-19 vaccination doses as part of the 19th mega vaccination drive organised across the State on Saturday. Majority of those who got inoculated on Saturday were taking their second dose of the vaccine. According to the Health and Family Welfare Department, 10,27,810 second doses of vaccine, 3,68,797 first doses of vaccine and 33,129 booster doses were administered during the drive. Addressing the media after inspecting the drive on the IIT-Madras campus on Saturday, Health and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian appealed to all those who have not taken both the doses of the vaccine to come forward and take them in the coming days. He highlighted that while 89.6% of the eligible population have taken their first dose of vaccine, only 66.8% have taken their second dose so far. He said that of the 5.56 lakh people who were eligible for the booster dose, only 1.84 lakh had taken them until Friday. Among those in the age group of 15 to 18, a total of 25,66,535 have received their first dose of vaccine so far, which is 76.7% of the total persons in the age group, he said. He said that though the cases in Tamil Nadu were increasing, the numbers were relatively lesser than States like Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra. He said that the case fatality rate remained low in Tamil Nadu. Pointing out that those who were dying due to COVID-19 were predominantly those who were unvaccinated, he urged everyone to get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1429-lakh-vaccinated-during-mega-drive/article38312331.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||In a first, reaserchers detect anti-cancer activity in seagrass||Researchers have found scientific evidence of a strong anti-cancer activity in the ethyl acetate fraction of Halodule uninervis , a species of seagrass found in the coastal region of Mandapam close to Rameswaram.  The study, claimed to be the first of its kind, was aimed at evaluating the in-vitro anti-cancer activity of ethyl acetate fraction of this seagrass against various human cancer cell lines, including malignant melanoma, lung, cervix, carcinoma and colorectal cancers.  The findings, which confirmed the anti-cancer activity in the chemically processed Halodule uninervis , which is abundantly available in the Gulf of Mannar, was published in the latest issue of International Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Drug Research . The study was done by a team of researchers, comprising Perumal Parthasarathy and Arthanari Umamaheswari of the Department of Biology and Plant Biotechnology, Presidency College, and Ravichandran Banupriya and Sanniyasi Elumalai of the Department of Biotechnology, University of Madras.  According to Mr. Elumalai, cancer was the second largest cause of death globally. Going by World Health Organization (WHO) estimates, the deaths due to cancer were higher in developed countries than in developing countries. In 2050, the number of new cases is estimated to increase by 24 million and the number of cancer-related deaths by 17 million worldwide. While the options available for treatment included surgery, radiation therapy, immunotherapy and chemotherapy, these methods had severe side-effects. As much as 60% of the drugs used for cancer treatment were derived from natural products. Mr. Elumalai said marine natural products, including seagrass, micro and macro-algae, sponges and corals, played a major role in the discovery of novel biologically active compounds. “Seagrass is one of the groups of marine angiosperms that often lives entirely submerged and is capable of completing its life cycle in a coastal environment. In traditional medicine, seagrass has frequently been used for a variety of therapeutic purposes such as wound-healing, fever, stomach aches, muscle pains and skin diseases. They have also been used in biomedical applications such as anti-cancer, anti-diabetic, anti-inflammatory, anti-fungal, anti-bacterial and anti-viral activities,” he said. Halodule uninervis could generate phytoconstituents, including phenols, flavonoids, tannins, steroids and alkaloids, which are reported to possess promising biological applications, including anti-bacterial and anti-diabetic activities.   Mr. Elumalai said the particular species of seagrass, collected from Mandapam coastal region, was authenticated by the Botanical Survey of India’s Southern Regional Centre, Coimbatore. The seagrass was washed with running water and then by distilled water. It was shade-dried and powdered in a grinder. The powder was then fractionated with ethyl acetate by gentle mixing on a shaker for 72 hours. The ethyl acetate fraction of Halodule uninervis was put through qualitative phytochemical screening, quantitative phytochemical analysis and in-vitro anti-cancer activity, besides other chemical processes.  “Our present study found that the seagrass contains a wide variety of secondary metabolites that hold a strong anti-cancer activity against the A549 cell line. Further, purification of the specific active phytoconstituents and preclinical studies need to be conducted for the discovery of anti-cancer drugs... to treat lung cancer and reduced side effects,” he said. The next step would be to study the impact on animals, followed by clinical trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-a-first-team-of-researchers-detects-anti-cancer-activity-in-seagrass/article64946917.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sholinganallur, Karapakkam get UGD lines||Two more merged areas have been covered with underground drainage (UGD) network. The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) has nearly completed the work at Sholinganallur and Karapakkam. Work is in progress to provide house service connections in these areas falling under Divisions 197 and 198, Area 15. Officials of the CMWSSB said of the length of 103.6 km, sewer lines have been laid for nearly 102.22 km so far. Designed for a period till 2044 and with a population of 1.24 lakh then, the sewer scheme aimed at providing about 8,100 house service connections. “We have estimated sewage generation to be 8.44 million litres a day in 2029 and this will increase to 14.92 mld in 2044. Infrastructure, including five sewage pumping stations, have been created to suit the growing population,” an official said. The sewage generated would be linked to the 18-mld capacity sewage treatment plant at Sholinganallur. While the pipeline running a distance of 74.10 km is ready for effecting house service connections, work is being carried out for commissioning the remaining length of sewer pipeline on a trial basis. The CMWSSB has provided nearly 103 sewer connections so far in these areas. It may be recalled that the Rs. 137.90-crore project was inaugurated in October 2019 to provide a comprehensive network in the fast developing areas and also reduce pollution in the waterways. Meanwhile, residents of Sholinganallur want the Board to provide sewer connections as per tax assessment records available from town panchayat and village panchayat period too before the areas were merged with the Chennai city. Satish Galley, a resident, said assessment orders from Greater Chennai Corporation was one of the requisites for getting a sewer connection. While GCC assessment orders provided after the areas were merged in 2011 could be submitted, it was difficult for residents to submit orders for assessments made before October 2011. “CMWSSB must give connections as per tax assessment records given during town and village panchayat period. It is difficult to get a new assessment order from GCC for many residents. This is an obstacle to get connections,” he said. Officials said the Board would scrutinise suggestions on assessment order. There are plans to improve existing sewer lines along both sides of Rajiv Gandhi Salai at a cost of Rs. 3.53 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sholinganallur-karapakkam-get-ugd-lines/article64947006.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ahobila Math sabha president passes away||N.V. Vasudevachariar, president of the Sri Ahobila Math Samskrita Vidya Abhivardini Sabha, which runs the Sri Ahobila Math Oriental Higher Secondary School, died in the city on Friday night. He was 89 and is survived by three daughters. His association with the Sabha and the school spans four decades. Mr Vasudevachariar was the correspondent till 2014 following which he became the president. Mr. Vasudevachariar was a former member of the Central Sanskrit Board and a former member of the Senate of the University of Madras. “He was keenly committed to shaping the minds of students and stood for their holistic development. He had a special interest in Sanskrit and encouraged students to learn it as well. He was also keen about students knowing more about the Vedas,” said C. Satish Kumar, Secretary and Correspondent of the sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ahobila-math-sabha-president-passes-away/article38312332.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases across State cross the 30,000-mark||Tamil Nadu recorded 30,744 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The last time cases crossed 30,000 was during the peak of the second wave, when 36,184 were reported on May 21, 2021. The State also reported 23,372 recoveries and 33 deaths on Saturday. The total number of cases reported so far in Tamil Nadu stood at 31,03,410. While 28,71,525 persons have recovered, 37,178 have died. Chennai continued to witness a decline in the cases for the sixth consecutive day. Most of the other districts reported an increase. Chennai reported 6,452 cases, followed by Coimbatore, which reported 3,886 cases, and Chengalpattu, which recorded 2,377 fresh infections. Eight districts reported more than 1,000 cases on Saturday compared to six districts on Friday. Kanniyakumari (1,266), Salem (1,080), Tiruvallur (1,069), Erode (1,066) and Tiruppur (1,014) were among the districts that logged more than 1,000 cases. Sharp increase Thirty of the 38 districts reported an increase in cases compared to the day before. Among the districts that showed a sharp increase were Kallakurichi, Tenkasi, Namakkal, Thanjavur, Theni and Krishnagiri. Chennai, Madurai and Virudhunagar recorded a sharp decline. Eighteen districts reported deaths on Saturday. Chennai accounted for 12 of the 33 deaths reported in the State. Thoothukudi, Kancheepuram, Tiruchi, and Chengalpattu reported two deaths each. Another 13 districts reported one death each. According to the bulletin released by the Health and Family Welfare department, 21 deaths happened in private hospitals while the remaining 11 took place in government institutions. Only one of the deceased had no co-morbidities. All the other 32 persons had co-morbidities, the bulletin said. Twenty-seven of the deceased were above 60 years of age while the remaining seven were aged below 60. Among the deceased, 25 were men and eight were women. The person who had no co-morbidities was a 42-year-old woman from Vellore district, who tested positive on Tuesday. She was admitted to a private hospital in Vellore, where she died the following day. The State tested a total of 1,47,054 persons in the 24-hour period ending Saturday. The test positivity rate continued to rise and stood at 20.8%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-across-state-cross-the-30000-mark/article64946765.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Prepaid auto and taxi services allowed from railway stations||The police said prepaid autoricksaws would be operated from Central and Egmore railway stations for passengers who arrive here uring the lockdown on Sunday. Drivers’ unions have been instructed not to fleece passengers. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal and Additional Commissioner (Traffic) Kapil C. Saratkar held a meeting with representatives of unions and discussed steps to be taken to avoid inconvenience to passengers during lockdown. The State government has announced total lockdown from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. every day and on Sundays to control the spread of COVID-19. There are reports that over 10% of passengers, especially those taking flights and trains, have been facing difficulties in getting taxis and autorickshaws and were fleeced. As the trains were fully operated to Central and Egmore Railway Stations, the passengers were put to hardship. The police officers said prepaid auto service, which was hitherto not allowed during the lockdown, would be allowed on Sunday. Similarly, the railway officials have permitted 10 autorickshaws for prepaid service from Egmore. The drivers’ unions have been clearly told that stringent action would be taken if any complaint of fleecing the passengers was received. In the meeting, the drivers reported that the police seized their vehicles when they were returning after dropping passengers. “Hence the drivers have been advised to have a soft copy of the passenger’s ticket on their mobile phones and to show it during checking,” said a release. A similar meeting was held with officials and drivers of Ola and Uber and instructions given, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prepaid-auto-and-taxi-services-allowed-from-railway-stations/article64947012.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Meenambakkam Metro station to get more parking space||For hundreds of commuters shuttling between southern parts of the city and Meenambakkam, it’s always a jostle to find parking space at the Metro Rail station. The Meenambakkam Metro station has limited parking area that is inadequate to meet the demands of commuters from Tambaram, Pallavaram, Chromepet, Anakaputhur and other neighbouring areas. To cope with the demand, the Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) has decided to expand the parking lot by building an additional floor. “Till a few months ago, this station could house nearly 500 two-wheelers. Then to temporarily make additional space, we began allowing bikes to be parked in the service road and that helped in accommodating another 200 vehicles. The design is ready for building this floor. We will call a tender soon and the work should start in four months. This will provide space for another 450 vehicles,” an official said. Meenambakkam Metro station handles nearly 3,000 passengers every day and the station receives around Rs. 9,000 a day as revenue from the parking. The revenue is likely to go up by at least another 50% after the expansion. But sources said the focus should be on providing last mile connectivity for passengers, instead of expecting them to pay for parking and the ticket fare too. “Not every passenger will have a two-wheeler or someone to drop them. After so many years, at least now, there should be a plan to bring in share autos or mini buses to all stations. That’s what passengers need more than parking spaces, if we have to shift them to using public transport,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meenambakkam-metro-station-to-get-more-parking-space/article64947013.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||The hands behind Keeladi excavations documented||The archaeological excavations at Keeladi in Sivaganga district have highlighted how urbanised the Vaigai valley was as early as the 6th Century B.C. Now, an artist has documented the lives and work of the men and women involved in the excavation. V. Saranraj’s photographs have been displayed, under the title, ‘Keeladi,’ as part of the Chennai Photo Biennale (CPB) Edition-III at the Roja Muthiah Research Library at Taramani. They showcase the role of these workers in the excavation and the steps involved in the process before artefacts were presented. From measuring the site to digging, probing, accessing historical objects, carefully collecting and cleaning them and the tools that were used, the photographs have documented it all. “When the objects discovered were kept for public view during the fifth phase of the excavations in 2019, I was one of the several people who visited the site, curious about our ancient past. I was also interested in knowing more about these workers who brought to light these objects,” he said. In the meantime, Mr. Saranraj was invited by the CPB to submit a proposal. “Since I was interested in Keeladi, I made the proposal about it and the CPB gave a grant to document it.” He rented a house in the Keeladi village panchayat for about a year. During his stay there, he realised how these workers, earning daily and weekly wages, were proud of their work. Over 200 workers, of different communities at Keeladi, were involved in excavations. His works are on display till February 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hands-behind-keeladi-excavations-documented/article64946921.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Devotees will not be allowed at Vadapalani temple kumbabhishekam||In view of the COIVD- 19 restrictions, devotees will not be allowed to participate in thekumbabhishekamof theVadapalaniAndavartemple in the city on Sunday, “Thekumbabhishekamsof 50 temples under the purview of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department would be performed on Sunday. However, members of the public would not be allowedto attend the proceedings physically,” said Minister P.K.Sekarbabuon Saturday. Speaking to presspersons after inspecting theVadapalanitemple, he said that devotees can watch the proceedings on the temple’s YouTube channel.  The main kudamuzhukku would be performed rom 10.30a.m. to 11a.m.   Silver vel presented  Devotees can visit the temple from Monday to Thursday, he added.  The Minister accepted a Vel made of silver at a cost of Rs. 21 lakh, two lamps at a cost of Rs. 5 lakh and aprabhaiat a cost of Rs. 5lakhpresented by donorsto the temple.  The pujas can be watched live on https://www.youtube.com /channel/UCntBdqxaQ9v9Qr7saUmXq0g.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-will-not-be-allowed-at-vadapalani-temple-kumbabhishekam/article38312306.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Semmozhi Tamil Awards presented to 10 scholars||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin urged Tamil researchers to ensure that their work is not just ‘intellectual’ but is also ‘emotional’, at the Kalaignar M. Karunanidhi Semmozhi Tamil Awards function held in Chennai on Saturday. The awards are presented by the Kalignar M. Karunanidhi Tamil Aivu Arakkatalai, which was set up by the former Chief Minister after the Central Institute of Classical Tamil was set up in 2008. Mr. Stalin said Tamil language cannot be confined to just those who speak the language. “It is an identity of a culture, of the land and nature. I visited the place with Minister Thangam Thennarasu, and I can say that it is functioning very well. I thank those who have worked to create the institution on behalf of the Tamil Nadu Government,” he said. Mr. Stalin said Medavakkam-Sholinganallur Link Road, which houses the new campus, will be called ‘Semmozhi Salai’ and added that the Semmozhi Tamil Chair would be created in five universities in South East Asia. The awards were presented to those who excelled in archaeology, study of stone inscriptions, coins, literature, fictional literature, research in literature, translation and fine arts. Former Vice-Chancellor of Madras University Professor Pon. Kothandaraman (2011), Professor E. Sundamoorthy in 2012 (Former vice-chancellor, Tamil University), Professor Pa. Marudhanayagam in 2013 (former director, Puducherry institute of Linguistics and Culture and former registrar, Pondicherry University), Professor Ku. Mohanarasu in 2014 (Former professor and president, Tirukkural Research Centre, Madras University), Professor Maraimalai Ilakkuvanar in 2015 (former Tamil professor), Ka. Rajan in 2016 (former professor, history, Pondicherry University), Kavignar Erode Tamilanban (former Tamil professor, New College, Chennai) in 2018 and Ku. Sivamani (former president, Karandhai Pulavar college, Thanjavur and Thiruvalluvar College, Tirunelveli) received the Rs. 10 lakh cash prize and an award. Two winners — Dr. V. S. Rajam (senior lecturer, Department of South Asia Regional Studies, University of Pennsylvania, U.S.A.) in 2010 and Professor Ulrich Nicholas, professor and Head of the Institute of Indology and Tamil Studies, Cologne University, Germany – will receive the awards at a later time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/semmozhi-tamil-awards-presented-to-10-scholars/article38312320.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Oxygen Auto’ woman is back with a free ambulance||Thirty-seven-year-old R. Seetha Devi, who helped over 800 people last year with her ‘Oxygen Auto’, is now busy taking COVID-19 patients in her free ambulance. In 2021, after waiting for hours outside a government hospital and finally getting admission for her mother, she lost her to COVID-19. Spurred by her personal loss, Ms. Devi started an auto fitted with oxygen cylinders and helped hundreds of patients. Now, she is back in action plying a free ambulance taking patients to and from government hospitals. “This was the van in which I brought my mother to the hospital; after she passed, we didn’t know what to do with the van and decided to convert it into an ambulance. We have so far transported close to 120 patients, from those affected by HIV to the ones needing dialysis. We have paramedic staff in the ambulance as well. This is primarily for people who cannot afford personal transport,” she says. Last year, while taking patients in and out, one thing struck her. Women and girls waiting for days together outside wards for sanitary napkins. “I decided to create a napkin bank; so, in most of the government hospitals, I send 300 sanitary napkins which will be replenished as soon as I get a call. These will be placed near the reception,” she adds. Awareness campaign Now, these ‘Oxygen’ autos are pressed into service to create awareness about the need to get vaccinated at the earliest; these vehicles ply in and around Mathur, Madhavaram and Kodungaiyur. “This apart, I am planning to have two more bikes which will go around 15 zones of the city urging residents to get vaccinated,” she adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-auto-woman-is-back-with-a-free-ambulance/article64947004.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccination linked with fewer deaths||Fresh data of deaths between October 2021 and January 16, 2022, indicate that just over 80% occurred in individuals who were not vaccinated at all or had only a single dose. Of this, the percentage of completely unvaccinated individuals is 68.1 among a total of 1,411 deaths in that period. The greatest impact of no vaccination has been in the over 50 years age group with co-morbidities, as it was in data from August to October 2021. Nearly 811 deaths of the total belong to this age group. The next group most affected is the under 50 years age cohort, again with co-morbidities — with a count of 80 deaths. These two categories account for over 63% of the total deaths. Whereas, people of both age groups (over 50 - 40 and under 50 - 30) who did not have any co-morbidities have suffered deaths too, but significantly lower. The trend repeats itself among patients who got only a single dose, with those over 50 years and with co-morbidities recording the maximum deaths at 135. It was at 25 among those under 50 years with co morbidities, while with no co-morbidities in both age groups recorded 6 deaths each in the cohort that had taken only one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. “This period October - January actually coincides with the period when the number of deaths was rather low. However, irrespective of the number of deaths, the clear message is that vaccination helps — especially in those with co-morbidities,” said Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. He adds that a number of these deaths would likely be caused as a result of the co-morbidity, but as a result of novel coronavirus infection being counted as COVID deaths, as that is the convention. The earlier data that came from public and private institutions in Tamil Nadu recorded in August, September and October 2021, set the deaths among the unvaccinated and those with a single dose, closer to 90%. But the general trends were pretty similar though granular age data was not available then, as is now. Masking in public areas plus getting the vaccine shots that a person is eligible for (including booster for some groups) continue to be the most important interventions to both prevent infections, and deaths and hospitalisations, Dr. Radhakrishnan stresses. A slackening in taking the booster or precaution dose (frontline and healthcare workers and senior citizens with co-morbidities) has been noticed and is worrying, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unvaccinated-make-up-80-of-deaths/article64946766.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur administration to hire five interns||The Tiruvallur district administration has invitedinterestedgraduates and postgraduates to participate in a three-month internshipduring which they will be able to take part in bringing about long-term changes to the government policies. Thechosencandidates, born afterJanuary 1,1990, will be able to work with the district administration to understand and help resolve bottlenecks in policy implementation. Five applicants would be chosen from among those who write and send in an essayin either Tamil or Englishand they would be paid a stipend. A stipend of Rs. 10,000 would be paid toeach person for three months, which could be extended by another three months. “We got many requests from youth on social media wantingto help withsomething, which is how this whole idea was born. We will choose five persons based on the essay they send us. The essay should deal with a particular economic / social / public healthissue and should provide a solution,” said Alby JohnVarghese, Tiruvallur Collector. Those who are selected will be based in Tiruvallur. They will be allowed to study problemsin departments like agriculture, social sectorto come up with solutions, which they cansee being implemented. “The UPSC or TNPSC aspirants, who want to learn can do so.We are looking for people who have a working knowledge of Tamil and English and have basic presentation and writing skills,”Mr. Varghese said. Those interested can send in their essayand a short biodata to eithertvlrinternship@gmail.comoruploaded onhttps://forms.gle/WtPnBLaXmHM9w8AF9. The last date for submitting essays is January 31. For details, call 7402606106.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvallur-administration-to-hire-five-interns/article38312340.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. will definitelyexecute Hogenakkalwater project’||Water Resources Minister Durai Muruganon Saturday asserted that Tamil Nadu had the right toexecute, legally and on humanitariangrounds, thesecond phase of theHogenakkalcombined drinking water project. Assuring the people that the project would be “definitely implemented,” Mr Durai Murugan,inastatement, referred to observations of his Karnataka counterpartGovindKarjol against Tamil Nadu’s project. The Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal, in its final order of February 2017, allocated 2.2 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) to Tamil Nadu for consumptive use. Consequently,the Statehad been permittedto draw about 11 tmc ft. This had been made, after the Tribunal had apportionedwater among States [and Union Territory of Puducherry] of the Cauvery basinon the basis of irrigated areasserved. After providing water for various beneficial uses to all parties to thedispute, the Tribunal hadfixed 25.71 tmc ft as Tamil Nadu’s share out of the balance quantum of water. This was, in turn, worked outon the basis of the 2011 Census,after considering the requirements of the permitted irrigated schemes. TheSupreme Court,in its judgment in February 2018, confirmed it, Mr Durai Murugan said. He added that under the National and Tamil Nadu Water Policies, domesticrequirements had been given the first priority. The Clause XVIII of the Tribunal’s final orderhad also permitted the use of water for such essential requirements. Regardless of thediversion ofwater from any reservoirfor the purposes of domesticor waterdistributionby local bodiesorindustry, theutilisationof water would be accounted foronly under the head of the State concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-will-definitelyexecute-hogenakkalwater-project/article38312369.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lorry carrying LPG cylinders topples||Vehicular traffic on Chennai-Tiruchi national highways was disrupted after a tanker lorry carrying LPG cylinders toppled on G.S.T. Road near Chengalpattu on Saturday. The driver of the lorry, which was going to a southern district from Gummidipoondi, lost control of the vehicle while negotiating a curve. The lorry crashed into a median and toppled. The police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel removed cylinders from the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-carrying-lpg-cylinders-topples/article38312296.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates 900 apartment units||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inaugurated 900 housing apartment units in Kazhanivasal in Sivanganga district, built at a cost of Rs. 130.24 crore by Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board, via video-conferencing in Chennai on Saturday. The units will be allotted to families living in thatched-roof houses near waterbodies in Karaikudi, which are susceptible to flooding. The apartment units have been built on 11 acres of land. The scheme has been funded by Asian Development Bank. According to a release, each apartment unit will have one bedroom, kitchen and bathroom facility on an area of 411 square feet. It will also feature basic facilities like drinking water and electricity supply. The scheme also involved building roads, pathways around the apartment buildings, rainwater harvesting structures, a park, street lights and boundary walls. Ration shops, community halls, anganwadis, health centres, a library, parking space, open markets, gyms, retail shops and bus stops would be created in the vicinity, Minister of Rural Development K.R. Periyakaruppan, Minister for Rural Industries T.M. Anbarasan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-900-apartment-units/article38312418.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||MTC extends time to buy monthly pass||The MTC has extended the deadline to purchase monthly pass (Rs. 1000) and monthly discounted pass till January 24. Corporation’s Managing Director Anbu Abraham said on Saturday that the decision had been taken after the State government announced total lockdown on January 9 and 16. The passes can be purchased at the respective counters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mtc-extends-time-to-buy-monthly-pass/article38312335.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||All animals at Vandalur zoo test negative||After nearly 70 of its workers tested positive for COVID-19 on January 13, the Arignar Anna Zoological Park said on Saturday that all samples collected from animals have tested negative for the virus. The authorities temporarily closed down the zoo from January 17 as a precautionary and emergency measure to prevent the spread of COVID-19 to animals. With the 70 workers kept in isolation, there was a shortage of staff. Samples were collected from 21 fields, including 11 lions, four leopards and six tigers and sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal. The results for all the samples showed negative for SARS CoV-2, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-animals-at-vandalur-zoo-test-negative/article64946916.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Musicians, orator honoured||Mridangam exponent Tiruvarur Bakthavathsalam, spiritual orator Sudha Seshayyan and Nadhaswaram artistes Kasi and Babu were awarded the Sastra Satsangh’s Sangita Vachaspati Award. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh, according to a press release. These nominations were received in December 2021 and musician Vijay Siva formally announced the awards. “Accepting the awards, all the three award-winners expressed their satisfaction on being presented with the award on the 175th aradhana day of Saint Tyagaraja,” the release said. Album released  Sastra Satsangh released an album Grace of Rays , a musical Aditya Hridayam with renowned artistes.  This album will be available at the Sastra Satsangh YouTube channel and its website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/musicians-spiritual-orator-honoured/article38312337.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for selling ganja||A 30-year-old man from Odisha was arrested by the police for selling ganja to youth, including IT staff and college students, on Rajiv Gandhi Salai. Following an information, Tambaram Police Commissioner M. Ravi constituted a special team, which intercepted the accused, clad in a food delivery executive uniform, near a popular eatery. On searching his baggage, the police found 1.2 kg of ganja in parcels. The police seized the contraband and his vehicle. The accused was identified as Prakash Kumar Senapati, 30, from Odisha. He was wearing the uniform of a delivery executive to evade arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-selling-ganja/article38312345.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK expels two functionaries||The AIADMK has expelled two middle-level functionaries from Tiruppur and Perambalur districts for anti-party activities. On Saturday, the party took action against P. Selvi, deputy secretary of the Tiruppur district women’s wing., according to a party release. On Thursday, the Poolambadi town panchayat unit’s secretary in Perambalur district, A.Vinod, was removed from the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-expels-two-functionaries/article38312364.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for stealing display screens||A 38-year-old man who frequently stole cellphone display screens from a shop was arrested on Saturday in Chintadripet police station limits. According to police, Ramaram, 27, runs a shop on Athipattan Street, near Ritchie Street. Sayad Abbas, 38, who has a mobile phone service shop in Taramani, visited Ramaram’s shop on Friday and left after buying a display. Only after he left, Ramaram realisedmany displays kept in the shop had been stolen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-stealing-display-screens/article38312336.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||ESI Hospital gets oxygen generating plant||The Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, has got a new pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generating plant and 200 more beds for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji inaugurated the facilities in the presence of Coimbatore District Collector G.S. Sameeran, hospital’s Dean M. Raveendran and other officials. Mr. Balaji said that 1,388 COVID-19 patients from the district were under treatment in various hospitals as of Saturday. The 200 additional beds were added at ESI Hospital as a precautionary measure. A release issued by the district administration said that 28 beds with oxygen support were set up using funds received based on an order from Madras High Court. The district and hospital administration set up the additional beds in a 72-hour period, it said. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin during discussions with officials instructed them to ensure quality treatment for patients. The PSA oxygen plant with a generation capacity of 1,000 litre per minute was installed at the hospital with the assistance of the Rotary Club of Coimbatore Texcity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/esi-hospital-gets-oxygen-generating-plant/article64946998.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Trichy Road flyover to be opened in two months||The Highways Department is hopeful of completing the flyovers on Trichy Road and Koundampalayam by the end of March.Official sources said painting works will be completed for Trichy Road flyover by the end of February. A few houses located on Sungam-Ukkadam road need to be evicted for construction of a down ramp. The residents of those houses are expected to move to new dwelling units allocated to them shortly and the works will be expedited after that. On the Koundampalayam flyover, the sources said the service road should be re-laid for about one km on either side. However, works for a flyover at GN Mills need to be expedited. The flyovers at GN Mills and Periyanaikenpalayam are likely to be completed by June. The government has given administrative sanction for flyovers at Saibaba Temple junction, Saravanampatti, Thudiyalur, and Singanallur. The administrative sanction for these projects is expected by the end of this month, the officials added. Regarding Avinashi Road flyover, the sources said 80 % of the foundation works are over and deck works have commenced. But, land acquisition for the ramp works is yet to take off. It is still in the initial stage. If land acquisition is on a faster pace, works can start simultaneously for the ramps, the sources said. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the Ukkadam flyover work is also getting delayed for several reasons. When a road or flyover project slows down, the public will look at it as a problem because of the Highways Department. But, it can be due to several reasons. All departments concerned should work together and ensure that the public are not put to hardships, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trichy-road-flyover-to-be-opened-in-two-months/article64946994.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Leopard captured in Coimbatore released near Top Slip||A leopard that holed up in a warehouse at B.K. Pudur in Coimbatore on January 17 fell into a trap set up by the Forest Department around midnight on Friday. The leopard was released in a forest area near Top Slip of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve after Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj issued an order for its translocation under Sections 11 and 48A of the Wildlife Protection Act. Mr. Niraj said samples were collected from the animal for DNA analysis and for other health tests before the release.  A video captured by a night vision camera fixed by the department on the cage showed the leopard, aged around five, carefully stepping into the cage and getting trapped after five days of waiting. The Department had placed cages at the front and back doors of the warehouse on the busy Coimbatore-Palakkad Road soon after a man noticed the animal getting into the building on January 17.  The Department initially placed meat and water inside the two cages to lure the animal. On the second day, live dogs were kept behind the cages to attract the animal. Officials also fixed six night-vision cameras on the cages and at other places around the building to observe the animal in distress. Visuals from the surveillance cameras showed the carnivore staying away from the cages. On January 20, the department cordoned off the area and reduced the number of staff on the warehouse premises to create a natural ambience and avoid human presence. The leopard tried to step into one of the cages in the early hours of January 21 but withdrew. On January 22 at 12 a.m., the animal went into the cage placed at the front door of the building. Exercising patience S. Ramasubramanian, Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, said the team involved in the task patiently waited for the animal to take the bait without using a tranquilliser dart. The Department suspects that the leopard that got trapped in the warehouse was the one roaming in residential areas, including B.K. Pudur and Sugunapuram, around 4 km away from the boundaries of the Madukkarai forest range of the Coimbatore Forest Division. Though the carnivore had not attacked humans, it preyed on many dogs in the locality. District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar, assistant conservator of forests C. Dinesh Kumar, forest veterinarians A. Sukumar from Coimbatore Forest Division and Rajesh Kumar from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve and forest range officers P. Santhiya, K. Jayachandran and Arun Kumar were camping at the place to capture the leopard. Mr. Ramasubramanian thanked the police, the Fire and Rescue Services and residents of B.K. Pudur for their assistance in trapping the animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-captured-in-coimbatore-released-near-top-slip/article64946763.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. committed to supplying drinking water once in two days’||The State government was committed to supplying drinking water once in two days to people in Coimbatore, Minister for Electricity V. Senthilbalaji said here on Saturday after inspecting the combined drinking water supply scheme that the Chief Minister had inaugurated through video conferencing. A release from the district administration said the scheme with River Aliyar as water source would take care of the drinking water needs of the people in Pollachi North, Pollachi South and Kinathukadavu Panchayat Unions. The river water would flow to 212 rural habitations in the three unions, he said and added that the Government had implemented the scheme at Rs. 69.31 crore. The scheme drew water from the well near River Aliyar that was already being used for the scheme used to supply water to Pollachi and Gudimangalam. The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board that implemented the scheme would take the water to a treatment plant and from there to 14 pumping stations, of which five were new. The Board pumped water from the 14 stations to 212 overhead tanks, of which 51 were new, to distribute the water, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-committed-to-supplying-drinking-water-once-in-two-days/article38312358.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||DVAC books former town panchayat chairman, wife in wealth case||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) here on Friday booked the former chairman of No.4 Veerapandi town panchayat K.V.N. Jayaraman (47) and his wife for allegedly amassing wealth disproportionate to their known sources of income. The First Information Report registered against Jayaraman and his wife J. Keerthi (36) said that they were in possession of pecuniary resources and properties to the tune of Rs. 1.45 crore disproportionate to their known sources of income. The FIR said that Jayaraman hailed from a middle class family and Keerthi is a homemaker. He runs Sree Ram Engineering Works at P.N. Palayam in partnership with his elder brother J. Dheenathayalan. Jayaraman had been elected as the chairman of No.4 Veerapandi town panchayat for three consecutive terms from 2001 to 2016. Most of the acquisitive activities had taken place during the last term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-books-former-town-panchayat-chairman-wife-in-wealth-case/article38312367.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Civic body permits private firm to lay road||Coimbatore Corporation has permitted a private company to lay a new road and allowed non-government organisation and residents’ welfare association to run waste processing plants.  The road that the private company would develop was perhaps the first such attempt by the civic body, said officials and pointed out that the Corporation allowed the company’s proposal under the Namakku Name scheme.  Sowparnika Projects and Infrastructure would develop the 1.48km mud track that runs adjacent to the railway track from near G.N. Mills to Nallampalayam Road at Rs. 57 lakh. The Corporation had given the go-ahead to the company while asking it to build the road as per the Indian Road Congress guideline, under its engineers’ supervision and not place advertisement boards or take any steps related thereto without its permission. The Corporation permitting the company to develop the road would give road users an alternative to Mettupalayam Road, where at present flyover construction was under way. Residents from localities near G.N. Mills, Thudiyalur and their neighbourhood could use the road to reach Nallampalayam and from there to Rathinapuri, Ganapathy and other places and vice versa, the officials said. In another instance where the Corporation allowed private participation is in the acceptance of the Residents’ Awareness Association of Coimbatore’s and Alagana Kovai’s proposal to run three micro compost centres near the Ondipudur sewage treatment plant in Ward 61. In its application, the two organisations had said Bosch, under its CSR fund, was to donate a machine for waste processing and that it wanted to run an MCC without causing hindrance to people in the neighbourhood and in compliance with the Corporation rules. It also came forward to bear the operation cost. Based on the proposal, the Corporation had given three MCCs to the organisations to run those for a year, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-permits-private-firm-to-lay-road/article64947000.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 3,886 new cases, one death||A total of 3,886 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Coimbatore district on Saturday, which was higher than Friday’s caseload by 233 cases. The Health Department reported one new death and the toll increased to 2,543. As many as 1,528 persons recovered on Saturday and the district had 20,701 active cases. As per Friday’s data, the total positivity rate of Coimbatore district was 25.4%. After over seven months, the daily caseload of Tiruppur district crossed the 1,000-mark on Saturday as 1,014 new cases were reported. The district had 5,330 active cases and 581 persons recovered. The Health Department reported one new death and the toll went up to 1,035. The positivity rate of the district was 24.9% The Nilgiris district reported 301 new cases. The death toll of the district increased to 223 as the Health Department reported one new death. The district had 1,838 active cases and 249 patients recovered on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-3886-new-cases-one-death/article64946999.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rlys. to open reservation counter at Valparai Post Office||A passenger reservation counter will be opened at the Valparai Post Office. The Southern Railway in a reply to Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram said that hiring of BSNL channel connectivity to the facility is under process. In a reply to another demand to include the Minatchipuram – Pollachi – Kinathukadavu railway section to Madurai Division from Palakkad Division, the Southern Railway said that the jurisdictions of railway divisions are based on operational convenience and not on the basis of State boundaries. Virtual meeting held The virtual meeting of MPs of the Parliamentary constituencies that fall within Palakkad Railway Division with General Manager of Southern Railway was held recently. On infrastructure facilities at Pollachi Junction, the Southern Railway said that there is no requirement for a pit line as it is available in Coimbatore Junction and is also being planned for Palakkad Junction. Works for repairing and restoring the direct water pipeline from River Aliyar to Pollachi Junction will be proposed in the upcoming works programme of the Indian Railways and upon its sanction, the work will be taken up as per availability of funds, the reply read. Mr. Shanmugasundaram’s request to reintroduce train services, which were not re-operated after the completion of broad gauge conversion works in the Podanur – Pollachi – Dindigul section, has been noted, the Southern Railway said in the replygiven to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rlys-to-open-reservation-counter-at-valparai-post-office/article38312368.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation administers 22,409 vaccine doses in city||Coimbatore Corporation on Saturday administered 22,409 vaccine doses at the special mega vaccination camp held across the city. Covishield The data from the civic showed that it had administered 16,834 doses of Covishield, including 1,441 booster doses, 5,098 doses of Covaxin, including 158 booster doses, and also vaccinated 477 persons in the 15-18 years of age category in the 212 special camp it had organised in the 19th mega vaccination camp. Prior to the start of the camp, the Corporation had vaccinated 94% of the city’s population with the first dose leaving only 1.08 lakh persons without even the first dose vaccine. Cinemas, malls It had urged managers of cinemas, malls and places where public gathered in large numbers to ensure that they let in only people who were vaccinated. It further said that data had shown that persons who had succumbed to the Omicron virus variant were those who had not had even their first dose, the Corporation said in a release and urged people to take the issue seriously as the COVID-19 infection spread was fast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-administers-22409-vaccine-doses-in-city/article38312348.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three policemen placed under suspension||Three traffic police personnel were placed under suspension on Thursday for conducting vehicle check at Ramanathapuram without wearing uniform and allegedly collecting cash from motorists. The action was taken against sub-inspector Devaraj, and head constables Ananthakrishnan and Jeganathan. The incident came to the attention of Police Commissioner Pradip Kumar and an inquiry was conducted. The police personnel were found to have committed the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-policemen-placed-under-suspension/article38312359.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dharmapuri Collector reviews preparedness for pulse polio drive||An intensive mass polio immunisation camp is proposed to be conducted across the district on January 27. In its wake, Collector S. Dhivyadarshini presided over a district-level coordination committee meeting to ascertain the preparedness to conduct the mass scale immunisation drive in the midst of the pandemic, at the Collectorate on Saturday. The administration has geared up to cover 1,47,595 children under five years of age in the mass immunisation camp. According to the administration, the mass camp for polio eradication last year iwitnessed coverage of 1,53,919 lakh children under five years of age. 984 vaccination centres Given the scale of coverage, a total of 984 vaccination centres are prepared across the district. This includes 964 immunisation camps in rural areas, and 20 camps in municipalities. The camps will be spread across all public places including bus stations, places of worship, railway stations, all primary health centres, government hospitals, taluk hospitals among others. Over 4,080 government staff drawn from across various line departments including public health, school education, integrated child health services, rural development agency, and volunteers from women’s self-help groups and Rotary Club are proposed to be engaged in the immunisation programme. 18 mobile vans In addition, to expand coverage of migrant population, nomadic communities, and homeless, the administration is setting up 18 mobile vans for administration of polio drops. Over 58 vehicles are engaged across the district for distribution of drops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dharmapuri-collector-reviews-preparedness-for-pulse-polio-drive/article38312443.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police crack burglary case||In a major catch, Dindigul police have arrested two burglars and recovered 116 sovereigns of gold jewellery burgled from a house on East car street in the town on November 15. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Dindigul) Rupesh Kumar Meena told reporters here on Friday night that the police team had worked very hard with a miniscule clue they got through a CCTV footage. The team, led by Dindigul Town North Inspector P. Ulaganthan, sifted CCTV footage of over 300 cameras in and around the place of crime. However, the police could get only a vague footage showing the face of the accused and continued with it. Finally, they arrested two persons - Zakir Hussain of Puliyangudi and Nawaz Khan of Suthamalli. The special team also recovered jewellery weighing 116 sovereigns from them. The police said that the accused had targeted the house of Kannan, a financier.When the family members were fast asleep, the accused gained entry into the house through the first floor and decamped with the jewellery kept in the almirah. The DIG and Dindigul Superintendent of Police V. R. Srinivasan appreciated the special team, including Sub Inspector of Police Magesh and Special Sub Inspector Veerapandi. The police said that the accused had bought two housing plots in Suthamalli and Erwadi through the proceeds of selling the stolen jewellery.The properties had been attached.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-crack-burglary-case-with-arrest-of-two-accused/article64946774.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||More farmers take up rosemary cultivation in Talavadi hills||With rosemary herb cultivation yielding substantial income, more farmers are involved in raising the crop in Talavadi hills in the district. Farming is the major activity in the hill area that is located 120 km from Erode, along the border with Karnataka. Traditionally, cabbage, onion, beans, tomato, beetroot, cauliflower, chowchow, tapioca, ivy gourd and other gourd varieties are widely cultivated. Since the hill is located at an altitude of 823 metres above the sea level favouring these crops, marigold and rosemary herb are also cultivated in a minimum area in all these years. P. Alagesan, Senior Scientist and Head, ICAR-KVK, MYRADA, Gobichettipalayam and his team have been conducting trials on rosemary, stevia, geranium, citronella and eucalyptus in the hill area since 2007. Trials found Rosemary (Rosemarinus officinalis) to be more suitable and economically beneficial to the farmers. The oil extracted from the herb is used as a component in pharmaceutical and cosmetic products while it has a good export market in European countries. In the last eight years, area under cultivation increased from 50 acre to about 300 acre and is seen as an alternative crop. Since wild animals keep themselves away from the crop, farmers prefer cultivating rosemary, said Mr. Alagesan. He said that the average yield per acre is 10 tonnes of fresh leaf, while dry leaf is two tonnes per year. The market price of two tonnes of dry leaf is Rs. 3 lakh, he said. Rosemary is perennial in nature, highly remunerative and can withstand drought conditions and hence more farmers prefer the herb, the scientist added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-farmers-take-up-rosemary-cultivation-in-talavadi-hills/article64946969.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Markets witness usual crowd ahead of lockdown||Vegetable markets across the district on Saturday witnessed usual crowd ahead of the total lockdown on Sunday. The State government has announced lockdown from 10 p.m. Saturday to 5 a.m. Monday, as a measure to contain the spread of COVID-19. There was usual crowd at the Nethaji vegetable market and uzhavar sandhai on Saturday. Traders said that business was normal. Prices of vegetables have fallen by 40% to 50% when compared to the prices that prevailed during the first week of January. Traders said that only on January 7, the crowd was high as people purchased in bulk fearing extension of lockdown. Meanwhile, around 1,100 police personnel have been deployed across the district to ensure compliance with the total lockdown. Only essential services will be allowed during the lockdown. Hotels and restaurants can only offer takeaway services. Vehicle checks will be intensified, and people are asked to move out of their homes only for medical emergencies and for train and bus travel with valid tickets. Police have warned motorists not to venture out without valid reasons, as they said that cases would be registered against rule violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/markets-witness-usual-crowd-ahead-of-lockdown/article64946970.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Insure crops under PMFBY, farmers told||The district administration has asked the farmers in the district to insure crops under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme) so that they can get relief for crop loss due to natural calamities, pest attack or disease outbreak in the current rabi season. Collector H. Krishnanunni, in a press release, said that crops such as paddy, maize, groundnut, sesame, sugar cane, are eligible for insurance in the current rabi season 2021-22. Premium for different crops per acre include, Paddy – Rs. 528, maize – Rs. 462, groundnut – Rs. 466, sugar cane – Rs. 2,875 and sesame – Rs. 206. He said that premium for maize and groundnut should be paid within January 31, for sesame by February 15, paddy by March 15 and for sugarcane by August 31. Farmers can approach the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Societies or nationalised banks for paying the premium. Necessary land documents including chitta, adangal, seed sowing certification, photocopy of front past of bank pass book and Aadhaar card should be submitted for registration, he added. Mr. Krishnanunni said that to avoid last minute rush and to prevent applications from being left out, farmers should register at the earliest and pay the premium accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insure-crops-under-pmfby-farmers-told/article38312444.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two Nigerian nationals held in Perundurai||The police on Saturday arrested two Nigerian nationals who were staying in Perundurai without valid visa. The police, who were on the lookout for an accused near Perundurai bus stand, noticed two Nigerians standing there. When the police held inquiries about their travel documents, one tried to escape. The police caught the man, identified as Grant Victor Ikenna (23).He was holding a valid passport, but did not possess a valid Indian visa. Inquiries revealed that he came to India in 2015 and was caught while trying to smuggle ganja to Quatar. The other man was identified as Chukwudi Chinweze (38). Both had applied for visas with the Indian Embassy and were awaiting reply. A case was registered under Section 14 and 3 (2) (c) Foreigners Act, 1946 and Section 3 (3) Indian Passport Act was registered and both were arrested. They were produced before a court and sent to Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-nigerian-nationals-held-in-perundurai/article38312452.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports 1,080 new COVID-19 cases||Salem district on Saturday reported 1,080 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the overall tally to 1,10,649. While 726 persons were discharged, 5,170 persons were under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 1,734. Erode reported 1,066 new cases, taking the tally to 1,16,082. While 491 persons were discharged, 5,509 persons were under treatment. Namakkal reported 704 cases, and the overall tally rose to 58,914. While 376 persons were discharged, the district has 2,775 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-reports-1080-new-covid-19-cases/article38312450.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||3 die as lorry falls on its side||The driver and two passengers of a concrete mixer lorry died after the vehicle fell on its side at Nanjappa Goundan Pudur in Sathyamangalam here on Saturday. The lorry, driven by Karuppasamy, was on its way to supply concrete for the construction of a drainage channel in the area. Workers Muthappan and Saravanan were also in the lorry. While moving in a narrow road near Sathyamangalam – Negamam junction, the lorry fell on its side. In the impact, all three were caught under the lorry and killed on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-die-as-lorry-falls-on-its-side/article38312451.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rayakottai gets drinking water scheme||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inaugurated the Combined Drinking Water Scheme for Rayakottai and its surrounding villages through video conferencing on Saturday. The Rs. 8.46-crore water project is slated to cater to over 28 villages. Speaking on the occasion, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy said 85% of the scheme was funded by National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development and 15% under the Minimum Needs Programme. The scheme is supported by 46.86 km long pipelines and the water is sourced from two open wells set up along the banks of Thenpennai river, near Ulagam panchayat. The water source is set to have a capacity of 40 lakh litres. Water is then distributed to newly-constructed tanks in four panchayats of Billari Agraharam, Kopparai, Medu Agraharam and Rayakottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rayakottai-gets-drinking-water-scheme/article38312449.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Panchaloha bust as tribute to Gen. Rawat||A panchaloha bust of the country's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Bipin Rawat, who died in a helicopter crash in Coonoor on December 8, is taking shape in Kumbakonam as a tribute by ex-servicemen from Cuddalore district.   A three-foot-high clay model of the statue made by a team of five sthapathis — traditional sculptors trained in the art of metal and stone work used in temples — was unveiled to the media by Shine Indian Soldiers Social Welfare Foundation, which is executing the tribute along with the support of ex-servicemen in Cuddalore district.   “We felt that a panchaloha bust would be the best way to honour the memory of General Rawat and his service to our nation. There are many statues of political leaders in our country. This will be among the rare ones for someone from the armed forces. It will be an inspiration for young people too,” S. Babu of the Cuddalore-based foundation told The Hindu. The statue, which was expected to be delivered in early February and costs an estimated Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 7 lakh, would be first taken to Thillai Natarajar Temple in Chidambaram for a prayer ceremony. “If we are given permission, we plan to take a road trip from Cuddalore to Delhi, stopping in eight States along the way. We hope to hand over the statue to Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the end of the journey,” he said. “General Rawat’s bust will be displayed in an open-top vehicle for the duration of the trip,” he added. The clay bust was sculpted using photographs as reference, said A. Ramkumar, whose company Ramasamy Sthapathi Sirpasalai in Kumbakonam was involved in the project. “I accepted the offer immediately because it is a matter of great pride to be associated with such a great personality as General Rawat. This is a two-month process; we will use the clay model to create Plaster of Paris figure, and then add the finer details of the general’s uniform and medals in wax, following which we will cast the statue in the five-metal alloy.” The final product was expected to weigh around 150 kg.  Mr. Ramkumar, who is a third-generation sthapathi , trained under his father (and national award winner) R. Arunajadeswara from the age of 19 years. His grandfather, Ramasamy, won a national award for his craft in 1951.   “It has been difficult to carry our work during lockdown because of the steep rise in prices of raw materials. Copper, for example, has gone up from Rs. 550 per kilo two months ago to Rs. 850 per kilo today. The panchaloha alloy contains 85% copper. Tin, zinc and nominal quantities of gold and silver are added according to the traditional method,” Mr. Ramkumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchaloha-bust-as-tribute-to-gen-rawat/article64946797.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||High Court asks girl’s parents to receive body for last rites||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, which on Saturday heard a petition for a CB-CID probe into the death by suicide of a school girl who was staying at a Christian missionary hostel in Thanjavur, asked her parents to receive the body immediately for the last rites to be performed without any further delay. Justice G.R. Swaminathan took note of the fact that the post-mortem was conducted by the forensic doctors attached to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. He said nothing emerged to doubt its credibility; hence, there was no need for a fresh autopsy. The court directed the Thanjavur Collector to arrange for the body to be taken to her native place and the police not to interfere at the last rites. The parents agreed to receive the body. The Principal District Judge, Thanjavur, was directed to nominate a Judicial Magistrate for recording the statement of the parents under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The statement shall be recorded on January 23 and a copy thereof submitted to the High Court in a sealed cover on January 24, the judge said. He restrained the police from harassing the person who had shot the video of the girl in which she claimed she was being coerced into converting to Christianity. The police should focus on the circumstances that led to the suicide, he said. The hearing was adjourned till January 24. In the petition, the parents alleged that she was forced to do domestic chores at the hostel and asked to convert to Christianity. It was said the girl’s parents and a person, who shot the video, were being “pressured by the police”. The court had asked the police to conduct themselves appropriately so as not to give rise to such allegations.  ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 ).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-asks-girls-parents-to-receive-body-for-last-rites/article38312325.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli school correspondent moves High Court seeking quashing of FIR||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought response from the State in a petition filed by the Correspondent of Schaffter Higher Secondary School, Tirunelveli, seeking to quash the FIR against him. In December last year, three students of the government-aided school were crushed to death when a wall inside the school premises collapsed. Four other school students were injured in the incident. A case was booked against the Correspondent, the Headmistress and the Contractor. In his petition, the school Correspondent K. Selvakumar said he was names the first accused. He had been appointed school Correspondent only three months prior to the incident. The petitioner denied the allegations levelled against him. He said that at the time of the incident, Tirunelveli witnessed heavy rainfall. The school had a valid stability certificate and received a no objection certificate from the Fire and Rescue Services Department, he said. Justice G.R. Swaminathan adjourned the hearing by a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelveli-school-correspondent-moves-high-court-seeking-quashing-of-fir/article38312593.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Residents protest against fishing in tank||The residents of Avaniapuram on Saturday staged a demonstration near the Ayyavaithan tank demanding action against the influential people who continued to fish in the tank/kanmai despite the expiry of the lease period. The local residents, most of them farmers, said that appropriate steps should be taken by the authorities to protect the tank. The people said that they were dependent on agriculture and the tank was an important source. A resident S. Sivanandi said that some influential people had obtained a fishery lease for a particular period. Following a round of litigation at the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, they were permitted to continue till November last year. But, despite the lapse of the said lease period, they have been continuing to carry out the fishing activities in the tank. They let out the water stored in the tank in order to fish. They also indulge in polluting the waterbody, the residents complained. Such permissions for fishery lease should not be granted by the authority when people were dependent on the water for agriculture, said another resident G. Magesh. He said the influential people do not let the water be stored at the tank at its full capacity. This was because it would be easier for them to fish. The residents said that they have made representations in this regard to the authorities. But, no action was taken in this regard, they said. Therefore, they decided to stage a demonstration seeking action, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-protest-against-fishing-in-tank/article64946920.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||District police ask commercial buildings to fit CCTV cameras||Madurai district police have warned commercial buildings with action, including recommendation for cancellation of licences, if they fail to fix closed-circuit television cameras. In a statement, Superintendent of Police V Baskaran said that Tamil Nadu government had issued a Government Order that made fixing of CCTV cameras mandatory in commercial buildings and in crowded places within corporation and municipal areas. He appealed to the owners of commercial buildings to comply with the Government Order. The police will also issue pamphlets to all the shops and commercial establishments in this regard. The cameras should be fixed in such a position that they would capture the images of all those who visit the shops and commercial establishments. The move will help in monitoring activities of antisocial elements, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commercial-buildings-told-to-fix-cctv-cameras/article38312437.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Robbery case: HC grants bail to two||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has granted bail to two brothers, a retired army man and a suspended head constable, accused of masterminding a robbery at the house of a retired Block Development Officer in Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar district. In October last year, the retired army man Sampath Kumar and his Head Constable brother Elankumaran, along with five other persons, robbed the house of 80-year-old retired Block Development Officer Ganesan of Rs. 4 lakh and five sovereigns of gold ornaments. Justice R. Tharani granted bail to the two accused. The judge took note of the fact that the stolen cash and jewellery had been recovered and a major portion of the investigation in the case had been completed. They were granted bail with conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-grants-bail-to-two-in-robbery-case/article38312441.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Digitisation of over 10,000 rare books on||Digitisation of over 10,000 rare books, documents and palm leaf scripts of century-old Daniel Poor Memorial Library of the American College began here on Friday. The work, under Tamil Nadu Digital Library project of the State government, will be done by experts led by Madurai District Library and Information Officer Yasodha by the next two months. Principal M. Davamani Christober said that after having digitised the rare books in Anna Centenary Library, Madurai Kamaraj University library and Senthamil College in Madurai, the work on books and palm scripts of American College library has been taken up. “Daniel Poor Memorial Library was set up after an American missionary in 1915.It has got over 1.55 lakh books,” the Principal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digitisation-of-over-10000-rare-books-on/article38312427.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Missing boy found murdered near Manavalakurichi||In a shocking incident, a probe into a boy missing case revealed that the four-year-old, Johan Riji of Kadiyapattanam near here, was murdered by a woman who had hid the body inside an almirah. The police said that based on the complaint of the boy’s mother, Silija (28), Manavalakurichi police on Friday registered a case of boy missing.His father John Richard works abroad. The mother had thought that Johan who went out to play on Friday afternoon could have strayed into the sea that is close to her house in Fatima Street. Relatives made a frantic search for the boy throughout Friday night. However, when the police began the probe, the needle of suspicion pointed at her neighbour Fatima (35) after her children told the police that their mother had gone out for pledging jewels. Immediately, the police went in search of her and found that Fatima was in possession of a gold chain and a bracelet, along with a silver hip chain, belonging to the missing boy. During interrogation, it was found that Fatima had tried to rob the boy of the valuables on Friday.However, when the boy resisted and raised an alarm, the woman had strangulated him to death. She had kept the body inside the almirah among the clothes with the plan of dumping the body in the sea after night fall.However, since the villagers had assembled in large numbers on the seashore, the woman could not take it stealthily to the sea. The police have picked up Fatima and her husband Sarobin, for interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-boy-found-murdered-near-manavalakurichi/article38312440.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin speaks to teen treated under the 48-hour scheme||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday night spoke to a 13-year-old boy over phone and enquired about his health. The teen, S. Varsanth, had been successfully operated upon to remove blood clots between the inside of the skull and the outer covering of the brain under the emergency healthcare scheme — Innuyir Kaapom-Nammai Kaakkum 48 — that was launched recently.  Mr. Stalin enquired about his health, the details of the accident and advised him to stay confident. He also asked the boy to take his medicines regularly. The boy was returning home with his father Subramani and mother on a two-wheeler on January 13 when their vehicle collided with another two-wheeler. Mr. Varsanth suffered a head injury and was admitted to a private hospital, where a CT scan revealed bleeding between the skull and the brain, called epidural hematoma. Doctors advised the parents to go for surgery immediately. After the surgery, he recovered and was discharged from the hospital. The surgery was performed under the new scheme where the patient can receive treatment free of charge for the first 48 hours in a private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-speaks-to-teen-treated-under-the-48-hour-scheme/article64946761.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates water scheme for Namakkal||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin through video conferencing on Saturday inaugurated the Rs. 185.24 crore Water Supply Improvement Scheme (WSIS) for 24,983 households in Namakkal municipality. The scheme was executed under the Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Programme (TNSUDP) of the World Bank and implemented by Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD Board) that ensures supply of 135 Litres Per Capita per Day (LPCD) to cover a population of 1.59 lakh in all the 39 wards. Raw water was pumped from River Cauvery at Jedarpalayam anicut in Mohanur and transmitted through a 700 mm diameter pipeline for 10.44 km to reach the 17.66 million litres per day (MLD) treatment plant at Kabilakkurichi. The treated water is again transmitted to the clean water tank in Thummankurichi, which is located 25.52 km away. From there, water is pumped and carried through the feeder main to the master sump on the municipal complex and distributed to the households through the distribution system for which pipelines were laid for 325.69 km.Nine overhead tanks were constructed under the scheme. Officials said that distribution of protected drinking water to all the households will begin soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-water-scheme-for-namakkal/article38312453.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Coaching centres to be set up in new complex’||The government is planning to establish coaching centres for students and job seekers in the ground floor of the newly inaugurated Perunthalaivar Kamarajar Manimandapam. After the virtual inauguration of the Manimandapam on East Coast Road near Karuvadikuppam by Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this month, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy and Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan inspected the building on Friday evening. The Manimandapam, spread over around three acre, was built at a cost of Rs. 23.60 crore. The complex has a built-up area of around 1,565 square metre on the ground floor and 775 square metre on the first. According to Mr. Lakshminarayanan, the government wanted an optimum utilisation of the complex. The plan was to shift the Centralised Admission Committee office and establish training centre for professional courses, including the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance test (NEET), on the ground floor. The floor could be used to set up job-oriented training centres for tests, including civil services examinations, banking recruitment and other exams conducted by the UPSC, Mr. Lakshminarayanan said. “We are also exploring options on the best ways to use the open air theatre on the first floor. Maybe we could throw up the theatre facility in the late evening hours to tourists,” he added. Senior officials of the Public Works Department were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coaching-centres-to-be-set-up-in-new-complex/article64946875.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 2,446 fresh COVID-19 infections||The Union Territory on Saturday registered three COVID-19 deaths and 2,446 fresh cases from 5,221 tests at a test positivity rate of 46. 85%. Two persons, aged 69 and 73 with co-morbidities, died at the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and a 60-year-old woman succumbed to the virus, while undergoing treatment at the Government Hospital, Karaikal. With the latest fatalities, the overall toll has touched 1,901 in the Union Territory, data released by the Health Department said. Of these fresh cases, Puducherry logged 1,870, followed by Karaikal which recorded 470, Yanam 83 and Mahe 23. As on Saturday, there were 15,068 infected persons. Of the overall number of cases, 146 are hospitalised and the remaining are under home isolation. The recovery rate stood at 88.71 %. Vaccination for teenagers in the age group of 15-18 has picked up pace in the last few days. So far, 39,681 teenagers received the first dose. Even after the closure of schools, students are flocking Primary Health Centres to get vaccinated, said a health official. The Health Department aims at vaccinating around 83,000 teenagers, he added.  Of the overall number of cases, 146 are hospitalised and the remaining are under home isolation. The recovery rate stood at 88.71 %||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-2446-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38312676.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK exploring legal options to oppose power privatisation||The DMK will oppose the Centre’s decision to privatise power distribution in the Union Territory, Opposition leader R. Siva has said.  “The concerns expressed by the employees on privatisation are genuine. It is not the question of us joining or supporting the indefinite strike called by the employees on February 1, rather it is the question of us opposing a wrong policy of the Union government to privatise a profit-making entity. On Saturday, we are meeting the legal wing of our party at Chennai to explore various options to oppose the move,” Mr. Siva told The Hindu. The Centre has not given any convincing explanation on the need for privatisation. Benefits unexplained Even revenue wise or from a distribution perspective, the Electricity Department does not face any major hurdles. The government has not been able to explain to members of the public the benefits of privatising the entity, he said. “Let the Centre issue a white paper on the benefits that people and the employees will enjoy from the privatisation move. Can the government give an assurance that the power bill will not increase exponentially? The industries are facing great difficulty even now due to high tariff,” he said. The government must explain to the employees the advantages they could enjoy if the entity was handed over to corporates, he added. ‘Take a stand’ The Union Territory administration should take a stand on whether to handover infrastructure worth thousands of crores built over the years by the department to a private entity. The department owns around 285 acre of land. Should the government throw away the assets built using public money, he asked. “The Centre wants to use the Union Territory as an experiment for its larger privatisation plan. The party will oppose the move in all possible manner,” he said.  Can the government give an assurance that the power bill will not increase exponentially? The industries are facing great difficulty even now due to high tariff R. Siva Opposition leader, Puducherry Assembly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-exploring-legal-options-to-oppose-power-privatisation-in-ut/article64946754.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||58th meeting of Auroville Governing Board held||The 58th meeting of the Auroville Governing Board of the Auroville Foundation was held recently. Jayanti Ravi, secretary of the foundation, presented the previous year’s audit report and activities taken up . She also updated the board on the activities planned as part of the 150th birth anniversary celebrations of Sri Aurobindo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/58th-meeting-of-auroville-governing-board-held/article38312670.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:20 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cycling expeditions taken to heritage sites in two districts||Ahead of Republic Day celebration, Cycling Yogis took cycling expeditions to the heritage sites in various districts. This year, their Sethunadu tour was in Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga districts where they visited various historic places. The programme was organised under the aegis of Department of Tourism and Rotary Club of Ramnad. The first day tour was flagged off by District Tourism Officer Venkatachalam, and by Ramavanni, Rotary Club Charter president, on the second day in the presence of Rotary president Senthil, secretary Athma Pradeep and J. Ramesh Babu. A total of 30 cyclists from Chennai, Vellore, Erode, Tirunelveli and Indian Coast Guard-Mandapam, including seven women, took part in the expedition as part of Celebrations of Fruits of Freedom to commemorate the platinum jubilee of Independence of the country. The team visited Nattarasankottai, Sivaganga palace, Rameswaram, Dhanushkodi and House of Kalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cycling-expeditions-taken-to-heritage-sites-in-two-districts/article64946978.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tandoor ovens attract people from big cities||A. Revathi, a potter, slowly rotates the clay wheel under the watchful eyes of her father-in-law on the veranda of their house in Avaloor, a farming village near Walajah in Ranipet district, on the Bengaluru Highway (NH:48). She takes a handful of soft wet clay from a mound, dumped near her, and places them on to the rotating wheel. While she is at it, she hears a correction from her father-in-law, who has a hoarse voice, on increasing the speed of the mud wheel. An hour later, her husband replaces her at the wheel. The ritual goes on for the next six days in making a coal or wood-fueled tandoor oven (one piece) for homemakers from cities like Chennai, Bengaluru, Coimbatore and other big towns. Ms. Revathi, a mother of two, was ten years old when she first soaked her tender hands into a clay pit after school hours to learn the nuances of pottery-making from her father. She never turned back since then as she, along with her family, have made hundreds of pottery items, especially tandoor ovens and dram pots for more than three decades. “My home was my school for learning the art of pottery. The COVID-19 pandemic dipped only our income by half but not our passion to make tandoor ovens,” says the 41-year-old Ms. Revathi. Six potter families in Avaloor, one of the 54 villages in Nemili panchayat union in Ranipet, still make tandoor ovens. Around 30% of the residents in the village are potters and the rest of them depend on farming, mainly paddy cultivation for their livelihood. Majority of the potters in the Avaloor village make all kinds of items, including household utensils, flower pots, hundis, and festival objects like earthen lamps. This is an age-old tradition of the village. Village elders say making small pottery items are less time consuming and can have buyers throughout the year as they are also less costlier. However, potters who specialise in tandoor ovens have to spend more time in making and often depend on buyers from large cities and big towns. Tandoor ovens can be used to make rotis, naans, pizzas, paneer tikka, kebabs and barbecues, among other haute cuisine. “It’s true that tandoor ovens are costlier. We focus on a specific segment of buyers, especially urban settlers. We also make other pottery items to supplement our income,” says 75-year-old D. Dharma Udaiyar. With river sand and soft clay from nearby lakes, potters make a batch of seven tandoor ovens, once in six days. Each oven varies in its width size, ranging from 2, 2.5 and 3 feet. The cost of the oven depends on its width. On an average, each oven costs between Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 2,000. Prior to the pandemic, potters sold around 200 tandoor ovens every month, mainly to Chennai, Coimbatore and Bengaluru, after which sales dipped to half. Easing of lockdown restrictions by the State have lifted the hopes of these potters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/homemakers-from-big-cities-flock-to-walajah-for-tandoor-ovens/article64946752.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||AC 3-tier coach added to trains||The following trains operated between Mysuru and Mayiladuthurai, Mysuru and Tuticorin and Yesvantpur – Kochuveli will be permanently augmented by one AC 3-tier coach each. A release said that Train No.16232 Mysuru – Mayiladuthurai Daily Express Train and Train No.16236 Mysuru – Tuticorin Daily Express Train will have the additional coach from January 22, while Train No.16231 Mayiladuthurai – Mysuru, Train No.16235 Tuticorin – Mysuru and Train No.12257 Yesvantpur – Kochuveli Tri-Weekly Garib Rath Express Train will have the additional coach from January 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ac-3-tier-coach-added-to-trains/article38312362.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man beaten to death||A 36-year-old man was beaten to death when he was sleeping in front of his under construction house near here on Thursday night. Police said A.Chinna Esakki of East Ilanji near Tenkasi, a casual labourer, was constructing his house on Kaliamman Street in the village. When he was sleeping on Thursday night, unidentified persons beat him to death. When the villagers found Chinna Esakki, who was facing a few criminal cases, murdered on Friday morning, they alerted Courtallam police, who sent the body to Tenkasi Government Hospital for a post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-beaten-to-death/article38312421.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Smart card camps for transgenders on Monday in Tenkasi||Special camps for providing smart family cards for transgenders will be held at all taluk offices in Tenkasi district on Monday. Transgenders who have not got their smart family cards can participate in the special camps and submit their applications, said Tenkasi Collector S. Gopala Sundara Raj in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-card-camps-for-transgenders-on-monday-in-tenkasi/article38312718.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP demands CBI probe into girl’s death||Senior BJP leader and former MLA H.Raja on Saturday demanded that investigation into the death of a school girl from Ariyalur, who was an inmate of a hostel in Thanjavur district, be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation. Talking to reporters here after leading a demonstration organised by the BJP seeking justice for the school girl, who ended her life, Mr. Raja said the manner in which the local police was investigating the case was not satisfactory. Attempts to lure people into religious conversion with offers of free education could not be allowed anymore, he maintained. Meanwhile, the CPI(M) convened a meeting of like-minded parties and outfits here on Saturday afternoon to discuss the course of action to be adopted in connection with the death of the schoolgirl. After the deliberation, representatives of Communist Party of India, Congress, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, Manitha Neya Makkal Katchi, Indian Union Muslim League, Makkal Adhikaram and Dravidar Kazhagam decided to make a plea to the State government seeking a fair probe into the death of the schoolgirl and disbursement of Rs. 50 lakh as solatium to the girl’s family. They also decided to stage a demonstration here on January 25 near the railway junction to condemn the BJP and other Hindu outfits for their attempts to further their intentions to bring back the anti-conversion law and to disturb the ‘social fabric’ of Tamil Nadu by approaching the death of the schoolgirl with religious overtones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-demands-cbi-probe-into-girls-death/article64946791.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thyagaraja Aradhana conducted at Thiruvaiyaru||A musical tribute was paid to saint-composer Thyagaraja at Thiruvaiyaru near here on Saturday, which happened to be the bahula panchami day on which the composer attained mukti.  The aradhana celebrations, conducted by Sri Thyagabrahma Mahotsava Sabha, Thiruvaiyaru, for over several decades, was curtailed to a one-day event this year in view of restrictions imposed by the State government because of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Only 100 participants As the Tamil Nadu government had restricted the number of participants in such events to 100, the Sabha office-bearers ensured that the condition was met without fail.  The procession, which commenced with the unjavirthi bhajan at the house of the famed musician located on the Thirumanjana Veedhi, continued till Sri Thyagarajar Athishtanam, the place where the mortal remains of the saint-composer were interred, on the banks of Cauvery.   The anointment of Sri Thyagarajar’s statue at the Athishtanam by the disciples of the saint- composer began around 8.30 a.m., with the recitation of the Carnatic music kritis by the nadhaswaram and thavil artistes.   Around 9 a.m. Carnatic vocalists rendered the famous pancharatna kritis — the jagadanandakaraka, dudukugala, sadhinchene, kanakanaruchira and endaro mahanubhavulu.  The maha arathi was performed coinciding with the rendering of endaro mahanubhavulu . Young and upcoming Carnatic vocalists rendered the pancharatna kritis along with a few leading artistes.   Earlier, a brief musical tribute to the nadhabrahmam was paid by the flutists, who had also played the supporting role to the vocal artistes in the recitation of pancharatna kritis. The celebrations came to an end with s ri anjaneyar usthavam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thyagaraja-aradhana-held/article64946786.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Concrete block of bridge falls into Kollidam during construction||A concrete block of an under construction high-level bridge across the Kollidam near Anicut on Chennai-Kumbakonam Road slipped and fell into the river on Friday. According to sources, the construction work across the Coleroon was taken up at a cost of around Rs. 100 crore as part of the Thanjavur-Vikravandi four-lane project. A total of 20 pairs of pillars were laid side by side on the river bed to connect Thathuvacheri hamlet on the southern bank of the Coleroon with Thennavanallur village on the northern bank. Concrete blocks, each 50 metres in length and 12 feet in width, were being placed on the pillars to create the carriageway of the 1.20-km-long bridge. While one such block was being placed to connect the 16thwith the 17thpillar of a stretch on Friday evening, the wire used to lift the concrete block using a crane snapped and the block fell into the river. On hearing about the mishap, National Highway Authority officials visited the site on Saturday and inspected the damage caused by the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concrete-block-of-bridge-falls-into-kollidam-during-construction/article64946794.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Crop loss: AIADMK demands immediate relief for farmers||AIADMK cadre on Saturday staged protests in the Cauvery delta districts demanding immediate disbursement of relief to farmers whose crops were affected during the northeast monsoon last year. Party deputy coordinator R. Vaithilingam led the demonstration at Orathanadu in Thanjavur. Former Ministers R. Kamaraj and O.S .Manian led the protests in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts. In Thanjavur district, demonstrations were staged at nine taluk headquarters of Thanjavur, Orathanadu, Thiruvaiyar, Budalur, Kumbakonam, Papansam, Thiruvidaimaruthur, Pattukottai and Peravurani. Demonstrations were staged at Tiruvarur, Nannilam, Kudavasal, Valangaiman, Needamangalam, Mannargudi, Thiruthuraipoondi and Koothanallur in Tiruvarur district. A large number of AIADMK cadre participated in a demonstration led by District Secretary Pounraj at Mayiladuthurai. Similar demonstrations were held at Sirkazhi, Tharangambadi and Kuthalam in the district. The party cadre staged the demonstrations at Lalgudi and Musiri in Tiruchi district. While P. Kumar, district secretary (Tiruchi rural south) of the AIADMK presided over the demonstration held in front of the taluk office in Lalgudi, M. Paranjothi, district secretary (Tiruchi rural north) led the protest held at Musiri. They raised slogans against the DMK government for failing to extend compensation to the farmers. Mr. Kumar said more than 20% of the standing paddy crop raised in delta region of the district were affected due to inundation. It had badly hit the farmers. The State government should have duly compensated them, but had not done so. It showed its indifference towards them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crop-loss-aiadmk-demands-immediate-relief-for-farmers/article64946796.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mega vaccination camps held at 378 places in Theni district||The 19th mega COVID-19 vaccination camp was conducted at 378 places across Theni district on Saturday. Collector K. V. Muralidharan inspected the camps held at Government Primary School in Chinnamanur, and Government High School and Buddhi Vinayagar Middle School in Cumbum. He took stock of the number of people who came for vaccination, the number of people who had their fist dose, the second dose, and the vaccine stock. As many as 13.58 lakh doses - 7.77 lakh first dose and 5.78 lakh second dose - had been administered in the district as on Friday. Among the 15-18 year-old group, 47,396 children had been administered the first dose so far. At the Saturday camp, 92,650 doses - 73,000 Covishield and 19,650 Covaxin - were administered. Inspection The Collector also inspected the weekly shandy at Theni-Allinagaram to check whether COVID-19 SOPs on wearing of masks and keeping social distancing were followed. Municipal Commissioners P. Balamurugan (Cumbum), Shyamala (Chinnamanur) and other officials accompanied the Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-vaccination-camps-held-at-378-places-in-theni-district/article64946979.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Projects worth Rs. 57.10-cr. launched||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday inaugurated development works worth Rs. 57.10 crore, taken up under Smart Cities Mission and Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project, in Thoothukudi district through video conference mode. Under the Smart Cities Mission, for the benefit of students and general public, a Traffic Park, Science Park, Anthropology Park and a planetarium have been established on an area measuring 9,135 square metres at a cost of Rs. .9.76 crore on Tamil Salai (Palayamkottai Road) in ward 42. The idea behind setting up the traffic park was to create an awareness of traffic rules and regulations among the public through explanations of signage, traffic sign boards, signals, LED delineators. The complex also houses an amphitheatre.The air-conditioned planetarium is equipped with 5.1 DTS sound system. At the Anthropology Park, visitors can get to know the customs, traditions, occupation and attire of the 12 major tribes who lived in India. There are sculptures depicting the five Sangam landscapes - ‘kurinji’ (mountains), ‘mullai’ (forests), ‘marudham’ (crop), ‘neithal’ (sea) and palai (desert). The other projects commissioned on Saturday include a sewage treatment plant set up at a cost of Rs. 35.84 crore at Tharuvaikulam in Thoothukudi Corporation. After using 25% of the treated water for the corporation, the rest can be sold for industrial use and agricultural purpose, thereby generating revenue for the civic body. Under Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project, rejuvenation work was taken up at SV Tank on an estimate of Rs. 11.50 crore so as to store rainwater. The tank bund has been strengthened using the desilted soil with a view to making it a six-metre-wide pathway for walkers. It has been planned to create small islands in the lake where trees will be grown to make it a bird sanctuary. Minister for Fisheries, Anitha R. Radhakrishnan, Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan, Collector K. Senthil Raj, Corporation Commissioner T Charusree and MLAs Shanmugaiah (Ottapidaram) and G.V. Markandeyan (Vilathikulam) participated in the function held at Muthu Hall of the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/projects-worth-rs-5710-cr-launched/article64946775.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dredging work begins in fishing harbour||Even as dredging of seabed at Thoothukudi fishing harbour would be taken up after 15 years, Tamil Nadu Government has allocated Rs. 1 crore to study the expansion of the harbour. Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi, who inaugurated the work of dredging of the seabed at a cost of Rs. 5 crore, in the presence of Ministers Anitha R. Radhakrishnan (Fisheries) and P. Geethajeevan (Social Welfare) and district Collector, K. Senthilraj, said the dredging work will benefit 9,000 fishermen families of the city. The DMK government has been fulfilling all its poll promises and attending to the grievances of people, she added. Minister for Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare, Anitha R. Radhakrishnan, said that the Chief Minister has allotted Rs. 1 crore for studying the expansion work of the harbour. Minister for Social Welfare, P. Geethajeevan, said that the fishermen were finding it difficult to take their catch from the boats that return to the harbour last. Due to lack of adequate space for all the 250 boats, they are berthed one after another in a chain and the catch has to be transferred from one boat to another to take them to the landing, she said. The wharf of the harbour, commissioned in 1973, could handle berthing of only 120 fishing boats while 250 boats were using the harbour. “The officials will listen to the needs of the fishermen association leaders before taking up the expansion work,” he said.As of now, the average depth of water in the harbour was only 2 metres and that would be deepened upto 5 metres, said Assistant Director (Fisheries), T. Vijayaraghavan. The dredging work is expected to be completed by May before the ban period for fishing begins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dredging-work-commences-in-fishing-harbour/article64946773.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stakeholders to have a say in bus terminus project||Collector S. Sivarasu on Saturday said the suggestions and demands of stakeholders would be incorporated in the Detailed Project Report of the new integrated bus terminus proposed to be established at Panchapur in the city.  Speaking to The Hindu after chairing the first round of the stakeholders meeting, which was attended by private bus operators, lorry owners, Regional Transport authorities, officials of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation, Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board and Public Works Department, Mr. Sivarasu said the State government was committed to designing the bus terminus in such a way to avoid any shortcoming. Hence, he had conducted a meeting with the stakeholders.  More meetings The views of transport and lorry operators and officials of State transport corporations had been heard. Since they were going to use the bus terminus and lorry terminal, their views were elicited on the bus bays, space required for easy transportation of vehicles and facilities required for crew members and others. The Collector said two more stakeholders meeting would be held. Stakeholders were asked to submit their expectations and requirements in writing within 15 days. They would be shared with the consultant, who had been appointed to prepare the DPR. Omnibus operators had sought 100 bays and lorry operators 500 bays for parking their vehicles at the lorry terminal. Similarly, private bus operators demanded provision to park 175 buses. Their demands would be incorporated into the DPR. Similarly, the views of TNSTC, Tangedco, TWAD and others would also be taken into consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stakeholders-to-have-a-say-in-bus-terminus-project/article38312405.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Eateries in city give COVID-19 dos and don’ts the go-by||Blatant violation of COVID-19 restrictions can be seen at restaurants in Tiruchi. According to a notification issued by the State government in January in the wake of spread in new cases, particularly the Omicron variant of COVID-19, restaurants were allowed to function with 50% of their seating capacity. They were also asked to strictly adhere to personal distancing and sanitisation norms. Most restaurants in the city made changes in the seaingt arrangements so as to limit the number of customers. The tables that had four chairs were regornised with two. But they adhered to the restrictions only for a few days. But it is alleged that most restaurants, eateries and bakeries in the city, particularly in Central Bus Stand and Chathiram Bus Stand areas, blatantly violate the protocol. The seating arrangements show that they have returned to their original system and are functioning to full occupancy. Most customers do not seem to mind. They eat by sitting in close quarters, thereby exposing themselves to infection. Almost all customers, who come for dining, do not bother to wear masks. It raises genuine fear of causing infection to others if any asymptomatic and symptomatic patient sneezes. “There is no dip in the number of customers even though fresh cases are rising. If we enforce 50% seat capacity restrictions, customers have to stand in queue, which poses the danger of causing infection,” says a manager of a hotel opposite to Central Bus Stand. Customers point out that except a few restaurants most of them do not provide sanitisers. Moreover, the restaurant owners show little interest in maintaining the toilets well. “The condition of toilets at most restaurants around the Central Bus Stand is appalling. It suggests that they are cleaned once in a while. It is not the best way to maintain the washrooms particularly when the airborne infections are rising at an alarming rate,” says K. Janarthanan, a civic activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eateries-in-city-give-covid-19-dos-and-donts-the-go-by/article64946800.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||IIIT-Tiruchi utilises lockdown to complete construction work||The COVID-19 restrictions necessitating prolonged virtual interface for teaching-learning has, in a way, facilitated the Indian Institute of Information Technology-Tiruchi (IIITT), to expedite infrastructure work taken up under the first phase. Though online classes are going on for students of all four years, the institution has readied the administrative block, hostel and mess buildings for utilisation any time once the offline classes start. For the last two years, the construction activities were carried out in a hassle-free manner since the Central Public Works Department undertaking the task had gone in for prefabricated construction. One among 21 IIITs started under non-profit public-private partnership model by Ministry of Human Resource Development, the institution of national importance is fully funded by the union government, the State government and industry partners in the ratio of 50:35:15. The industry partners constitute Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), Cognizant Technology Solutions (CTS), Infosys, Ramco Systems, ELCOT, and Navitas (TAKE Solutions). The Infosys is in the process of constructing a hostel for girls with an accommodation capacity of 200. Moving into the permanent campus, according to the faculty members, was imperative for starting more programmes or initiating incubation activities. Currently, the institution offers two UG programmes of four-year duration: B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering, and Electronics and Communication Engineering; and two PG progammes of two-year duration: M.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering, and VSLI Systems, besides Ph.D. programmes. The IIIT-Tiruchi, a senior faculty member said, is in a position to earmark space in the Academic Block to accommodate industry partners for incubation. So far, the institution had constraints in expanding its student strength as it was operating on temporary campuses. From last June, the institution started operating from the permanent campus at Sethurappatti, after shifting out from the temporary campus within the premises of Oxford Engineering College campus, Tiruchi, where it functioned for nearly a year. Since 2016 the institution functioned on the premises of National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi before moving to the temporary campus. Under the second phase, the IIIT-Tiruchi plans to construct a multi-purpose hall. A proposal has been submitted to the State government, institution sources said.  IIITT plans to build a multi-purpose hall and a proposal has been submitted to the government Officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iiit-tiruchi-utilises-lockdown-to-complete-construction-work/article38312420.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates sewer schemes for two town panchayats||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday inaugurated, through video conference from Chennai, underground sewer systems for Manachanallur and S.Kannanur Town Panchayats in the district. The underground sewerage schemes (UGSS) were sanctioned at an estimated cost of Rs. 30.11 crore for Manachanallur and Rs. 19.45 crore for S.Kannanur Town Panchayat. Manachanallur and S.Kannanur The sewerage scheme for Manachanallur town panchayat, with 18 wards, has been designed for the base year population of 29,800, intermediate population of 36,200 in 2033 and ultimate population of 42,600 in 2048. The quantum of sewage expected to be generated for present, intermediate and ultimate stages will be 3.42 million litres a day (MLD), 4.16 MLD and 4.91 MLD, respectively. Under the scheme, sewage from 3,745 households will be collected through sewer lines running for a length of about 30.57 km with 1,186 manholes. The sewage will be pumped through four lift stations to the main pumping station located at compost yard in Samayapuram Road. From there, the sewage will be pumped to the treatment plant located at Sridevimangalam in Manachanallur Town Panchayat. The UGSS for S.Kannanur, with 15 wards, has been designed to handle 1.97 MLD of sewage currently, 2.25 MLD in the intermediate stage and 2.64 MLD in the ultimate stage. Sewage from 2,274 households will be collected through 14.39 km of sewer lines with 572 manholes. The sewage will be pumped through three lift stations to the main pumping station located near Town Panchayat office. Sewage generated from the town will also be pumped to the treatment plant at Sridevimangalam in Manachanallur Town Panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-sewer-schemes-for-two-town-panchayats/article38312415.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Team from CUTN to visit Salt Satyagraha Memorial at Vedaranyam on January 25||A team of teaching and non-teaching staff from Central University of Tamil Nadu, Tiruvarur, has planned a visit to the Salt Satyagraha Memorial Campus at Vedaranyam, on January 25. Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan will lead the 25-member team to the memorial as part of Azadi Ki Amrit Mahotsav (75 glorious years of Independence) under Unnat Bharat Abhiyan programme.  After paying floral tribute to the statue of freedom fighters, the Vice-Chancellor will dedicate 100 watts of solar street light to Kasthuriba Gandhi Kanya Gurukulam. “We will visit the small prison used to incarcerate satyagrahis during 1930,” Mr. Krishnan said.  After paying floral tribuutes to the Salt Satyagraha Memorial and the Memorial of freedom fighter Sardar Vedaratnam Pillai, the CUTN delgation will return to the campus. The visit will serve the purpose of reinforcing the sense of patroitism alongside making the presence of the institution felt among the community in the region. The heritage centre proposed on the CUTN campus will feature the history of the Salt Satyagraha at Vedaranyam, besides the historical and archaeological facets of ancient temples in Tiruvarur and surroundings, , Mr. Krishnan said.. The visit is being coordinated by P.S. Velmurugan, Associate Professor, Department of Economics, a descendent of a freedom fighter.  Managing Trustee of Kasthurba Gandhi Kanya Gurukulam Appakutti Vedaratnam, who is the grandson of Sardar Vedaratnam, says he intends to present a valuable book published in Belgium by authors there after their padayatra from Tiruchi to Vedaranyam. The book contains chapters written in English and Flemish.   “I have also authored a chapter titled In Search of Gandhi’s Daughters . The book weighing about a kg is meant for the library of CUTN,” Mr. Appakutti Vedaratnam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/team-from-cutn-to-visit-salt-satyagraha-memorial-at-vedaranyam-on-january-25/article38312411.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Underestimation of indigenous products’ draws unions’ ire||The reported move by the union government to privatise production of Army uniforms has caused resentment among employees of the two defence production units in the district - Ordnance Factory Tiruchi (OFT) and High Energy Projectile Factory. Against the backdrop of the unveiling of the new Digital Army Uniform last week, employee unions affiliated to All India Defence Employees Union, Bharathiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh and other Federations have expressed solidarity with their counterparts in Ordnance Clothing Factory, Avadi, who have conveyed their regret to the Defence Ministry for not engaging OCF for manufacture of battlefield uniform with the intent to "favour private corporates." Employee unions of OFT had already flagged similar concerns over the decision of the Ministry to leave out the unit for execution of the project for manufacture of AK-203 assault rifles, with Russian collaboration. At its national-level Executive Committee meeting here last month, BPMS general secretary Mukesh Singh questioned the rationale behind the Defence Ministry's rejection of Tiruchi Assault Rifle (TAR) manufactured with local Research and Development efforts, despite the rifle fulfilling quality parameters. The workforce in OFT has been thinning over the years; inclusion of the unit for manufacture of AK-203 rifles will be in the fitness of things, A. Arul Xavier, general secretary of the BPMS Tiruchi unit said. "Underestimation of indigenous products is unjustified," he said. AIDEF and BPMS have made a joint representation to the Defence Minister, questioning the violation of commitments to Federations with regard to service and welfare of the 41 Ordnance Factory employees on deemed deputation with the seven corporations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/underestimation-of-indigenous-products-draws-unions-ire/article38312419.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||29 injured at jallikattu; six of them sent to hospital||Twenty-nine people were injured at a jallikattu held at Pallapatti in Manikandam block on Saturday. Six of them were referred to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for treatment. Seven hundred bulls were released into the arena during the event in which 400 tamers participated. Six were severely wounded and required immediate medical attention, while 23 were given first aid by the medical team at the venue. Of the six injured persons referred to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, one person was said to be in a critical condition. A team of 350 police personnel were stationed at the venue to ensure that COVID-19 safety norms were being adhered to. While organisers checked the participants and owners for COVID-19 vaccine certificates and negative RT-PCR results, it was difficult to contain the crowd. The programme that began at 8.30 a.m. went on till 2 p.m. Bulls and their owners travelled to Pallapatti from nearly 10 districts. A special veterinary team was also on standby to ensure the safety of the bulls. Gifts to tamers, owners The participants and bull owners were presented with gifts from the organisers and sponsors. Gold coins were given to the participant who was adjudged the best bull tamer. Prizes for bull owners were also given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/29-injured-at-jallikattu-six-of-them-sent-to-hospital/article38312401.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||3,000 new cases in delta region||The central districts reported 3,000 fresh cases on Saturday. Six patients, two from Tiruchi and one each from Karur, Perambalur, Pudukottai and Thanjavur died, according to a bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Thanjavur registered the highest number of fresh cases, with 840 patients reporting positive in the district. The district had reported such high numbers in May last during the second wave. In Tiruchi, 705 patients reported positive. Tiruvarur reported 342 new positive cases and Pudukottai district 244. Nagapattinam registered 218 fresh cases, Karur 207 and Mayiladuthurai 168. Ariyalur district registered 163 COVID-19 cases, while neighbouring Perambalur reported 113, the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3000-new-cases-in-delta-region/article64946801.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Trade body plans to tap TANSIM seed fund||The Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association is looking at ways to foster entrepreneurship in the region with the backing of Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation Mission (TANSIM). TIDITSSIA conducts programmes with EDII-TN to identify prospective entrepreneurs under NEEDS (New Entrepreneur Cum Enterprise Development Scheme), and Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Programme. It also conducts training prorammes under Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme by roping in institutions such as Khadi and Village Industries Commission to foster entrepreneurship in rural parts. The utility of the seed fund earmarked under TANSIM will be tapped for initiating innovative start-ups, TIDITSSIA secretary S. Gopalakrishnan said. Ten start-ups received seed grant of Rs. 10 lakh each in the first edition of Startup Seed Grant Fund (TANSEED) 2021 organised during January-February as ‘Grand Challenge’ by TANSIM with the support of Headstart Network Foundation and Ecosystem Partners. The second edition of TANSEED for financial year 2021-22 envisaged supporting 20 startups with seed grant of Rs. 10 lakh each. Under the Innovation Voucher Programme undertaken by the Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute - Tamil Nadu (EDII-TN), final-year students could avail the utility of seed grant. Through Voucher A, seed grant up to Rs. 2 lakh is given for Proof of Concept to Prototype. Voucher B is meant for seed grant up to Rs. 5 lakh for market entry, research and scaling up. Aspiring entrepreneurs receive the grant through signing a tripartite agreement between EDII-TN, applicant and knowledge partners (preferably incubators).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-body-plans-to-tap-tansim-seed-fund/article38312414.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||14 goat thieves arrested||Tiruchi Range police have arrested 14 goat thieves and recovered 147 animals worth Rs. 7.35 lakh over the last two months. A press release from the office of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, here on Saturday said a total of 34 cases relating to the theft of goats was booked from November 23, 2021 to January 21, 2022. Of this, 14 cases were booked by Tiruchi Rural Police. Fourteen more cases were registered in Pudukottai, five in Perambalur and one in Karur district. As many as 147 stolen goats worth Rs. 7.35 lakh were recovered from the arrested persons. Eight vehicles that were used to transport the animals were also recovered. The goats would be handed over to their owners through the courts. The arrested were sent for remand. A special team was formed to monitor incidents of goat theft and take action against them, the release said. The police action comes in the wake of the recent murder of a Special Sub Inspector of Police of Navalpattu police station in Tiruchi district allegedly by goat thieves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-goat-thieves-arrested/article38312400.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Waterbodies filled with roosting migratory birds||The two-day water bird census that commenced on Friday triggered jubilation among volunteers, mostly school students, as they could see a few thousand domestic and migratory birds which have camped in waterbodies in and around Tirunelveli. The twelfth edition of Tamirabharani Water Bird Count (TWC), an annual exercise being jointly conducted by a few organisations in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts after the end of northeast monsoon every year, commenced on Friday. ATREE’s Agasthyamalai Community Conservation Centre (ACCC), Pearl City Nature Society, Thoothukudi, and Nellai Nature Club, Tirunelveli, have jointly organised TWC 2022 under the guidance of Forest Department this year too. 90 volunteers The 90 volunteers, who had been selected for the census, were divided into nine groups. While four groups were deployed in Tirunelveli district, three groups were visiting waterbodies in Thoothukudi district. The remaining two groups were sent to waterbodies in Tenkasi district. The first day of the count covered Venthankulam, Nainarkulam, Rajavallipuram Tank, Palamadai Tank, Kalkurichi Tank, Kuppaikurichi Tank, Gangaikondan Tank and Parakkiramapandian Tank, all situated in and around Tirunelveli after District Forest Officer Murugan flagged off the annual event. Hundreds of ducks The deepened Venthankulam near the new bus stand, which was overflowing for three weeks since November 29 last, now houses common coot with their chicks besides hundreds of ducks. The nearly threatened species of blacktailed godwits have camped at Nainarkulam in Tirunelveli Town. Black-headed ibis could be seen nesting in the acacia trees near Rajavallipuram Tank. The highlight was the spotting of Eurasian wigeon, Northern shoveler, garganey, little tern, barn swallow and common sand piper, all migratory birds from Northern Europe that have camped at Kuppaikurichi irrigation tank. In all the irrigation tanks, common coot could be seen swimming with their chicks, M. Mathivanan, coordinator of the census, said. “The children could see more than 20 species of water birds on day one,” Mr. Mathivanan added.  The children could see more than 20 species of water birds on day one M. Mathivanan Census coordinator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waterbodies-filled-with-migratory-birds/article64946768.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 126.35 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 244.21 cusecs and a discharge of 904.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 115.60 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 45 cusecs and a discharge of 380 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38312719.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||298 persons benefited under Innuyir Kaapom scheme||A total of 298 beneficiaries injured in road accidents were covered under the Innuyir Kaapoom – Nammai Kaakkum 48 emergency care scheme within a month of its launch in Tiruppur district, according to the district administration.  According to a press release, the beneficiaries were covered between December 18, 2021 and January 20 this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/298-persons-benefited-under-innuyir-kaapom-scheme/article38312349.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four get seven years imprisonment||The District Additional and Sessions Court, Tiruppur, on Friday sentenced four men, who abducted a five-year-old boy for ransom in 2016, to seven years of imprisonment. The four accused T. Devaraj (28), P. Prabhu (28), O. Eswaran (28) and P. Prabhaharan (31) abducted the boy, who was the son of a doctor, near his school on July 28, 2016 to demand ransom from his parents. Judge V. Anuradha also imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 for each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-get-seven-years-imprisonment/article38312357.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Harvesters arrive from Karnataka||The owners of harvester machines in Koppal district in Karnataka have despatched their machines to Tiruvarur district for renting them through their ‘agents’ to farmers in different parts of the district for harvesting the standing samba and thaladi crops.  A total of 95 harvesters, transported through rail from Gangavati railway station in Koppal district, arrived in Tiruvarur on Friday night. Hitherto, the harvesting machines were sourced by the `agents’ from Salem, Athur and Namakal districts in Tamil Nadu and from Andhra Pradesh, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/harvesters-arrive-from-karnataka/article38312406.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bull races suspended in Vellore as people flout SOPs||With a daily increase in the total number of COVID-19 infections and violation of the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in bull races, Collector, P. Kumaravel Pandian, on Saturday, suspended bull races in the district until further notification. According to a press release, the Collector said it was found that COVID-19 SOPs have been violated in the villages, where bull races were conducted since Pongal. Safety norms, including wearing of face masks, maintaining physical distance and avoiding crowd, have not been adhered to despite repeated pleas by the district administration. At present, 15 bull races have been held in the district since January 15. Resumption of bull races in the district will be based on the recommendation of revenue officials. Three victims Saturday’s direction by the district administration has come after the death of a 13-year-old school girl, who succumbed to injuries at the Government Medical College Hospital in Adukkamparai near Vellore on Friday. She was hit by a charging bull in a race held at Panamadangi village near Latheri in Katpadi, a week ago. She was the third such victim since last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bull-races-suspended-in-vellore-as-people-flout-sops/article64946755.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:14 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 197 fresh COVID cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 55,396 with 197 fresh cases reported on January 22. With a total of 52,281 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 1,963. The district’s overall toll is 1152. In Ranipet district, 484 fresh infections were reported and the overall tally of cases stood at 48,513. Tirupattur reported 434 fresh cases on Saturday, taking the number of cases recorded to date to 32,367. In Tiruvannamalai district, 592 fresh cases were reported. The total number of cases in the district increased to 60,365, of which 56,680 have been discharged. The number of active cases stood at 3,008.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-197-fresh-covid-cases/article38312724.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Glitch hinders registration for medical counselling||Overseas candidates who cleared NEET and are trying to register themselves for the undergraduate medical/dental seats counselling online under the NRI quota are facing technical glitches. K.Y. Issam Zidane, one of the candidates, who did his schooling in Qatar and cleared NEET, said he did not receive the one-time password (OTP) on his mobile phone to complete the registration process. “Our mobile phones have 8-digit numbers in Qatar. I used the number to apply for NEET, which has been ported for the counselling process,” he said. It was during the porting that the 8-digit number was automatically changed to a 10-digit number, the mobile number format used in India. When Mr. Zidane first attempted to register, he got the OTP on his mobile phone for creating the user id and password. But, subsequent attempts to get the OTP for filling up the online application have failed. While the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) portal has the option of sending the OTP through the candidate’s e-mail, it was currently not working, said Mr. Zidane. He has flagged the issue to the MCC multiple times over the past three days. “However, the only reply we get is that the technical team is working on it,” he added. His grandfather, K.S. Kader Mohideen, a retired BSNL employee, said the issue would be resolved if the e-mail option was available. The deadline for registration is January 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/glitch-hinders-registration-for-medical-counselling/article38312330.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||A vote for robust civic governance||With the Supreme Court’s deadline of January 27 set to expire in a few days, Tamil Nadu will witness elections to the urban local bodies (ULBs) shortly. There are enough indications to this effect, going by the preparations of political parties and the authorities. The principal parties — the DMK and the AIADMK — are said to have zeroed in on their likely candidates. The ruling party may go with the same alliance that won the Assembly election in April last, while the AIADMK is, in all likelihood, to retain the BJP as its partner. Some allies of the principal players have begun shortlisting their nominees. “In some districts, we have completed this work,” says A. Gopanna, senior vice-president, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee. The BJP has put former Union Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan in charge of the election work, according to M. Chakravarthy, vice-president of the party. Despite drawing a blank in the Assembly election, the Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), founded by actor Kamal Haasan, has released two lists of 98 candidates. The others are gearing up for the elections. On Wednesday, the State Election Commission held discussions with parties to ascertain their views on holding the polls. In the last few months, it conducted training programmes for district officers on a host of matters, including COVID-19 safety protocols. Last week, the State Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department and the Greater Chennai Corporation notified the reservation for the posts of heads of ULBs and wards. Deadline fixed Subject to any last-minute dramatic development, it is only a matter of days before the SEC announces the elections. Civic polls are being held in the State after 10 years. In October 2016, the elections were scheduled but were postponed in the wake of the Madras High Court’s direction. Subsequently, a host of developments, political and administrative, contributed to the delay. In September last, the Supreme Court took exception to the SEC’s plea for extending the deadline by seven months (till April 2022) and fixed a four-month deadline. Without committing itself in the Assembly election manifesto to holding civic polls, the DMK had assured the electorate that it would go ahead with the plan of having elected bodies. True to its word, the government has paved the way for the polls. At the same time, it has not deviated from the AIADMK government’s decision on indirect elections to the posts of Mayors and chairpersons of municipalities and town panchayats. This does not seem to have gone down well with a section of activists. P. Viswanathan, convener of all residents’ welfare associations at Chitlapakkam and D.R. Sivasamy, president of the Confederation of Organisations for Integrated Urban Development, believe there will be greater accountability only if Mayors are directly elected. Mr. Viswanathan says that under direct election, candidates have to cover the entire area of local bodies, at least at the time of campaign. An academic, based in Tiruchi, says the style of campaigning will be more intense than under the indirect election. Critics of indirect election say the person who occupies the post of Mayor would not have to step out of his or her ward at the time of election. This may come in the way of the person’s understanding of issues of different parts of the city after assuming office. The system of indirect election would “reinforce party politics” at the local bodies, leaving no scope for non-party individuals to aspire for the post. Even the direct election has its minuses. While the head of a local body may belong to one party, a majority of councillors may be from another party. A similar situation was witnessed by R.S. Bharathi, now the DMK member of the Rajya Sabha, when he was elected chairperson of the Alandur municipality for the first time in February 1986 when AIADMK founder M.G. Ramachandran was the Chief Minister. “The strength of my party in the municipal council was lower than that of the AIADMK and Independents. In a House of 32 members, only 10 belonged to the DMK. I managed the situation with great difficulty,” recalls Mr. Bharathi, who became the head of the municipality for three more terms, including once through indirect mode in 2006. Besides, under the system of direct election, it is not that the party leadership will have no control over its Mayors, who can ill afford to ignore the diktat of bosses of their parties. In May 2014, immediately after the Lok Sabha election, the then Mayor of Coimbatore, S.M. Velusamy, was first removed by the AIADMK’s general secretary and Chief Minister Jayalalithaa from the party’s post of the Coimbatore urban district secretary. Hours later, he quit the post of Mayor, too, without giving any reason. One reason cited for this development then was that his performance did not benefit the party to the extent it should have, as the AIADMK, which bagged 37 seats with huge margins in many constituencies, could win Coimbatore by about 42,000 votes.  Though this will be the second time that the indirect election is being held after the 74th Constitutional Amendment on ULBs came into force in June 1993. the system was traditionally followed in Tamil Nadu. For instance, in Chennai, till November 1973, the Mayor held the post only for one year through a rotation of representatives from different segments of society. As for the intensity of campaign in the indirect system, S. Nandakumar, founder of Thannatchi, a civil society organisation specialising in the issues of local bodies, points out that this depends on the participation of the major political players. “The system per se has no role to play.” Even as the discussions are under way on the two systems, there are voices against holding elections in the middle of the raging COVID-19 pandemic. “I am a strong votary of elected local bodies. At the same time, the reality of the pandemic gathering its momentum cannot be glossed over,” Mr. Sivasamy observes.  No room for consultations Also, there are groups of people that do not want elected bodies at all. Rama Valan, a resident of Anna Nagar, had faced “several odd situations” when he built a house at Valasaravakkam. Needless to say, the situation was all creation of the elected representatives. But S. Kumararaja and K. Kathirmayon, activists based at Velachery in Chennai and Coimbatore respectively, do not dispute the problems that councillors may pose. However, in the arrangement in which corporations are managed through special officers for the last five years, there is not much room for consultations with people. Field officers are either risk-averse or indifferent to the needs of people. A keen observer of ULBs says accountability has become a major area of concern in the absence of elected local bodies. So long as elected representatives ran the Tiruppur municipal corporation, the local body did not falter in making payments to the New Tiruppur Area Development Corporation for getting water. But the situation turned worse as soon as the elected body ceased to exist. Councillors can play a positive role. There is a perception in the bureaucracy that the presence of councillors could have lessened its work load in times of floods or at the peak of the pandemic. Elections can make a qualitative difference to urban governance if honest candidates rooted in local issues win, says S. Pushpavanam, an activist. The activists say the government should give ULBs more space in governance. Take the case of Chennai, where the local body virtually has no say in the functioning of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Drainage Board or the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). When M.K. Stalin was the Mayor during 1996-2001, there was an institutional arrangement between the local body and the water board. A similar mechanism will have to be put in place not just in Chennai but also in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Madurai and Hosur, where CMDA-type bodies have been established. Given its rapid urbanisation and potential, the activists hope, Tamil Nadu can emerge as a model State where the local bodies blossom into ideal institutions of self-governance, if changes are made in policies and institutional mechanisms.  Under direct election, candidates have to cover the entire area of local bodies, at least at the time of campaign P. Viswanathan convener of all residents’ welfare associations, Chitlapakkam   Under direct election, candidates have to cover the entire area of local bodies, at least at the time of campaign P. Viswanathan convener of all residents’ welfare associations, Chitlapakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-vote-for-robust-civic-governance/article64946777.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||What’s in the name?||This question is of great importance to political parties, which build their base and sustain it essentially on the basis of easily relatable identity. Name and symbols are among the features of such identity. A perusal of the list of registered unrecognised parties, as notified by the State Election Commission (SEC) on January 7, reveals how names matter to the parties. Dravida or Dravidar, Anna, MGR and Amma are oft-mentioned names in the titles of these parties. Fifteen parties have kept the name Dravida or Dravidar. The names of some parties read like this: Anna Dravidar Kazhagam, Anna M.G.R. Jayalalitha Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Anna Puratchi Thalaivar Amma Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Bharathiya Dravida Makkal Katchi, Thanthai Periyar Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and Indhu Dravida Makkal Katchi. These registered unrecognised parties, numbering 296, get preference over Independents in allotment of free symbols. Besides, there are 11 recognised parties, including the DMK and the AIADMK.  ( Source: the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission, the State Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department and The Hindu Archives ).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whats-in-the-name/article38312319.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dress rehearsal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dress-rehearsal/article64946785.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||cinema arts events||Music Dance Drama NARADA GANA SABHA(Regd), Ph: 24993201 Today's drama "ATM" stands postponed in view of the spread of Covid pandemic. Inconvenience regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cinema-arts-events/article64947015.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: MLA ‘violates’ night curfew rules||In an apparent violation of the night curfew rules, Arvind Bellad, MLA, performed bhoomi puja for some development works in his constituency on Friday night. The event to launch work on the road development from Dharwad hotel to Mandar hotel was scheduled on Friday night at 8 p.m. But he arrived more than two hours late. The event was conducted well after 10 p.m. Neither Mr. Bellad nor his associates, who included local BJP leaders and some officers, did not wear masks. HDMC members Vijayanand Shetty, Suresh Bedre, Sukanraj Bafna, T.S. Patil, Mohan Ramdurg, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-mla-violates-night-curfew-rules/article38312462.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||KIMS gets hi-tech medical equipment worth over Rs. 38 lakh||ADM Agro has donated medical equipment worth over Rs. 38 lakh to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi. The equipment including anaesthesia workstation with monitor, neo -natal warmers, and probes, were transferred on Saturday. Deshpande Foundation facilitated the implementation of this project, including collaborating with ADM Agro and KIMS and procurement of the equipment . Gopalkrishna B., Commissioner, Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC), observed that KIMS is being equipped with world-class medical equipment. He hoped neo-natal warmers will help to curb the infant mortality rates in the district. Hemant Kumar Saraswat, Head, Technical Plant, ADM Agro, said, “The goal of ADM in supporting KIMS with high-end medical equipment is to ensure a COVID-free society and ADM Agro extend his sincere thanks to Deshpande Foundation for facilitating this entire process’’. Vivek Pawar, CEO, Deshpande Foundation said that advanced healthcare equipment would help KIMS to reduce the fatalities and ensure faster recovery among patients. “Patients from underprivileged sections will benefit from this,” he said. Narayan Hebsur, Head, Department of Surgery, KIMS, said KIMS served the entire north Karnataka’s population and has effectively handled a huge case load of COVID-19 patients. Shashank Reddy, Deputy Manager-Commercial, ADM Agro; Aneelakumar Terdal, Manager-HR, ADM Agro; P N Nayak, COO, Deshpande Skilling; Vijay Purohit, Sr. Director - Operations, Deshpande Foundation and other dignitaries from ADM Agro, DF and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kims-gets-hi-tech-medical-equipment-worth-over-rs-38-lakh/article38312461.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||Schools to reopen tomorrow in Dharwad||Except for some schools, whose buildings have been sealed owing to a high number of COVID-19 cases, all primary and high schools in Dharwad district will reopen on Monday. However, concerns remain among some parents. The State Government closed schools on January 12, following a rise in cases in some parts of the State. The schools were asked to stop offline classes and start online classes if they could. The Government has issued a modified order, asking authorities to take the school as a unit for counting COVID-19 cases. Nitesh Patil, Deputy Commissioner, had issued a separate order, closing schools if the number of cases were three or more. Such schools would close for three days, those having 5 to 20 cases would be closed for five days, and those with above 20 cases will be closed for a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-to-reopen-tomorrow-in-dharwad/article38312463.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||ACB arrests tahsildar on bribery charge||Anti-Corruption Bureau officers arrested Dasharath Nakul Jadhav, a tahsildar of the Endowment Department, and his relative Santosh Kadolkar, after they allegedly accepted bribes They had set a trap for the officer and his relative, following a complaint from Subhash Ghodke, a member of the managing committee of Yakalamma temple in Ramdurg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/acb-arrests-tahsildar-on-bribery-charge/article38312456.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Will not take a hurried decision on milk price, power, water tariff issue’||While government utility agencies have sought revision of water and electricity tariff and milk price amid the third wave of the pandemic, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said the Government would not take a decision in a hurry and burden the common people. “We will not take any decision in a hurry over the proposal for increasing the price of milk and raising the tariff of power and water,” Mr. Bommai replied to a question. He told reporters that the proposals would be examined in all aspects. Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom),Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB),and Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) have submitted proposals to hike prices of water, power, and milk, respectively, to the Government in the last few days. The KMF has been seeking an increase in the retail price of milk on the grounds that it has not been increased in the last two years.Bescom has sought to hike power tariff by Rs. 1.58 per unit. The Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission is expected to hold hearings in various parts of the State based on the petition and pronounce the final tariff order by April or May. The BWSSB too had been contemplating to increase water tariff, sources said. On the issue of curfew relaxation, Mr. Bommai said though the number of cases was high in the third wave of the pandemic, the severitywas less. Medication was available for treatment, the recovery rate too was high, he said and justified the lifting of weekend lockdown. “We have taken a decisionon lifting weekend lockdown with the intention to avoid inconvenience to the common man and the working class with the objective of ensuring that lives too are saved and life too goes on,” Mr. Bommai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-not-take-a-hurried-decision-on-milk-price-power-water-tariff-issue/article38312283.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||A start towards walkability, but long way to go: study||Bengaluru, known for its gardens and lakes, is infamous for its traffic and lack of pedestrian facilities. A walkability survey conducted in five sample wards across the city by Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy has shown pedestrian facilities are abysmally dismal. The survey evaluated footpaths in five wards on four board parameters - accessibility, connectivity, safety and comfort - and scored wards on 100. While Varthur, a large ward in the outer zone scored zero, Sanjaynagar, a prominent posh locality in North Bengaluru scored two. Banaswadi with a score of 26, Gottigere 17 and R. K. Temple 10, performed relatively better. The survey revealed familiar problems - uneven footpaths, dimly lit streets, encroachments and no barriers to prevent motorists from plying on them. The lack of continuity in pavements is also a safety hazard, especially for senior citizens. With two months to go for the closure of the financial year, citizens have little time to lobby hard and decide on where the Rs. 20 lakh allotted to each ward to improve walkability, be used. “Of the Rs. 60 lakh allotted to each ward committee, a first in the State, we have earmarked Rs. 20 lakh each for walkability and potholes. Citizens need to participate in ward committees, take localised decisions to prioritize which stretches they will concentrate and revamp,” said Tulasi Maddineni, Special Commissioner (Finance), BBMP, speaking at the Janaagraha event on review of ward committee spending. Srinivas Alavilli, Head, civic participation, Janaagraha, said many were still not even aware that Rs. 60 lakh is allotted to ward committees and they can as a community decide how to spend it and that needs to change. Of the five wards surveyed, many have begun using the allocated funds. For instance, in Gottigere ward, Poongothai, a resident said they made use of the walkability index designed by Janaagraha to identify footpaths that needed immediate attention. They created Google Forms to elicit feedback and suggestions from all residents, while drafting a plan for civic works. Lalita Mohan from R.K. Temple ward said they zeroed in on two factors to identify where footpath works needs to be taken up - proximity to neighborhood schools and connecting roads to the most used main roads. While many expressed allocation of Rs. 20 lakh for a ward was very small, they also acknowledged it was a starting point. “Wards like Varthur are large and Rs. 60 lakhs is inadequate when it comes to repair and maintenance of assets. We hope that BBMP will allocate more funds that can be utilized by citizens in our ward,” said Jagadish Reddy, of Varthur Rising.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-start-towards-walkability-but-long-way-to-go-study/article64947016.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Focus on symptomatic persons, stresses TAC||With the pandemic raging like wildfire across the country and the Indian Council of Medical research (ICMR) advising States on purposive testing for COVID-19, Karnataka’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that the State should go slow on testing. The committee has also advised the State to stop random testing and focus only on symptomatic persons. Although the TAC has advised that the daily number of tests should be around 1.5 lakh in the State (75,000 in Bengaluru and 75,000 in rest of Karnataka), over two lakh tests are being conducted daily from January 18 onwards. Sources in the TAC said increasing the daily tests at this stage when the transmission is very high is not right.  TAC chairman M.K. Sudarshan told The Hindu on Saturday that at this juncture of the pandemic, testing asymptomatic persons (except those at high risk based on age and comorbidities) and doing random testing is not purposive and helpful.  “By testing around 2.25 lakh samples per day, we are only labelling asymptomatic infections as cases, and inflating the number of cases. By increasing daily tests now we will only be dragging the wave and delaying the peak. We have also told the Chief Minister about the need to slow down testing during our recent meeting with him. This will be in line with the ICMR advisory,” he said. “Despite the surge, there is no demand for hospital beds, oxygen and ICU facilities. Now, the rate of hospitalisation is the yardstick for imposing restrictions and not the weekly test positivity rate. There is no need to test everyone and random testing of people should stop. This is because almost all will get infected but very few will develop complications similar to tuberculosis, which is also a respiratory infection. Although almost all will get the infection very few will develop the disease,” he said. Recently, the ICMR issued an advisory on ‘Purposive Testing Strategy for COVID-19’ that said contacts of COVID-19 patients do not need to be tested unless identified as high risk based on age and comorbidities. According to the advisory, asymptomatic patients undergoing surgical or non-surgical invasive procedures, including pregnant women in/near labour who are hospitalised for delivery, should not be tested unless warranted or symptoms develop. It said no emergency procedure, including surgeries, should be delayed due to lack of a test. Besides, inter-State travellers also need not be tested. Mixed reactions The advisory evoked mixed views from COVID-19 experts in the State. While some experts said the advisory is against the basic principle of containing the pandemic, some termed it as a practical piece of guideline, specific to the Omicron variant. This is in contrast to the testing strategy recommended during the second wave. In August last year, when restrictions were eased, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had made it clear that restrictions will have to be reimposed and school reopening will have to be put off in districts where the test positivity rate rises above 2%. Following this, district authorities were compelled to conduct more COVID tests to keep the TPR under 2%. Although a target of 1.5 lakh had been fixed, the number of daily tests had reduced in September, 2021 ranging between 79,000 and 1.6 lakh. On October 10, the TAC had recommended revision of testing targets keeping in mind the Test Positivity Rate (TPR), seven-day average of effective Reproduction Number (Rt No.) and ensuing fairs and festivals in October-November. Recommending a total daily target of 1.1 lakh till November, the TAC has suggested that 50,000 tests should be done daily in Bengaluru and 60,000 in the rest of Karnataka. Half of the 60,000 tests should be in border districts, the TAC recommended. Despite a decline in new cases, daily tests had remained around one lakh as per the revised testing targets till December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stop-random-testing-focus-on-symptomatic-persons-tac/article64946858.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Those under home isolation are not getting any Govt. support, says Congress||KPCC working president and senior leader Ramalinga Reddy on Saturday alleged that the State Government had not been extending any support or service to lakhs of people who are infected with COVID-19 and are under home isolation. More than 3.2 lakh people in the State, including 1.51 lakh people in Bengaluru city, were under home isolation following mild symptoms of COVID-19. The Government had provided neither health kits nor food kits for people under home isolation, he alleged. At a press conference here, Mr. Reddy demanded that the Government provide health kits and free food items for two months to ensure the early recovery of infected persons. Though the COVID-19 third wave started many days ago, the Government had not made any arrangements for providing relief to the infected people, particularly those in the unorganised sector, he alleged. Only 5% of the families that lost their members or relatives to COVID-19 had been given Rs. 50,000 compensation. Though more than three lakh people succumbed to the infection in the State, the Government followed ICMR guidelines and provided compensation only to 5% of the families who had lost their earning members, he said. Similarly, only 7% of the families in the unorganised sector received compensation for loss of business owing to lockdown in the last two years. A large number of autorickshaw drivers, street vendors, and construction workers had not been provided relief by the Government, Mr. Reddy alleged. The Centre had announced Rs. 20 lakh crore relief last year. “But I don’t know who benefited from such alarge package,” he said. ‘To scuttle padayatra’ The Congress leader pointed out that the Government relaxed weekend curfew when COVID-19 cases wererising in the State. The weekend lockdown was deliberately imposed to scuttle the padayatra of the Congress undertaken to pressure the State Government to take steps for implementing the Mekedatu project, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/those-under-home-isolation-are-not-getting-any-govt-support-says-congress/article64946854.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Sexual assault on minor student: Bail granted to lecturer by trial court cancelled||The High Court of Karnataka has ordered the arrest of a 39-year-old college lecturer accused of sexually assaulting a minor student, while terming as “perverse and capricious” the sessions court’s decision of granting bail to him without giving an opportunity of being heard to the complainant/victim as mandated in law. The High Court said the trial court ought to have given an opportunity of being heard to the victim/complainant as per Section 439-1A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which mandated issue of notice to complainant/victim when the victim is below 16 years of age. Even though the victim was above 16 years when the complaint was lodged with the police, the High Court said the victim was only 14 years and 10 months when the sexual assaults took place on her. Justice H.P. Sandesh passed the order while allowing a petition filed by the victim’s mother. The petitioner had questioned the order passed on August 10, 2021 by an additional district and sessions court at Puttur in Dakshina Kannada district granting bail to accused Gururaj, a native of Raichur district and working in a college in Sullia taluk. The High Court has also termed as “perverse and capricious” the reasons assigned by the trial court to grant bail. The trial court had said that it was a fit case to grant bail considering the health condition of the accused lecturer’s wife, who is arraigned as accused number two, the threat of losing employment to the accused-lecturer, his family background, and his minor daughter. ‘Blackmailed her’ The allegations made against the lecturer was that he, with the help of his wife, had taken nude photographs of the victim and subjected her to sexual acts by asking her to come to his house for project work. It was also alleged that he had blackmailed the girl to bring money for not disclosing her photos. The girl had stolen Rs. 10,000 from her house and had given it to the lecturer. The girl had disclosed these aspects to the parents in front of a medical practitioner when she was taken for medical examination due changes in her behaviour in July 2021. The High Court has also said that the trial court granted bail in a “hurried manner” on the second day after his arrest by unnecessarily relying on two letters, proof of which was required to be accessed later, produced by the accused-lecturer claiming that “the girl had written letters to him stating that her brother and brother-law had subjected her to sexual acts”. The High Court said that delay of two years in lodging the complaint cannot be ground to grant bail when there is a specific allegation of threat to life caused by the accused to the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sexual-assault-on-minor-student-bail-granted-to-lecturer-by-trial-court-cancelled/article64946855.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Mechanical engineer held for robbing bank at knifepoint to repay loan||The south-east division police cracked a bank robbery case and arrested a 28-year-old mechanical engineer who allegedly held bank staff at knifepoint and made away with 1.8 kg of gold jewellery and Rs. 3.7 lakh in cash. The incident took place on January 14 at the Madiwala branch of the State Bank of India. After scanning CCTV footage, a special team led by Sudhir M. Hegde (ACP, Madiwala sub-division) identified the accused, Dhiraj S., and tracked him down at Yelahanka within four days of the incident. “Dhiraj was arrested when he visited a friend to pay back a loan he had taken from him,” said a police officer. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South east) Srinath Mahadev Joshi said that the accused is a resident of Kamakshipalya and lived with his father and younger brother. “He is a mechanical engineer by profession and employed with a private company in Indiranagar,” he said. ‘Lost money online’ Investigations revealed that Dhiraj had invested lakhs of rupees in online trading, but incurred huge losses. He borrowed heavily and took loans from private banks and friends. “He even pawned gold jewellery belonging to his late mother. Under pressure to pay back the loans, he hatched a plan to rob a bank,” said the police. Investigations revealed that he read newspaper articles on bank robberies and looked at websites to conduct heists successfully. “He watched online videos in an attempt to pick up tips on how to get away with a bank robbery. He then reviewed banks looking for branches that appeared to have fewer security measures,” a senior police officer. After days of research, he decided to rob SBI’s Madiwala branch around the time of Makar Sankranti, and spent two days watching the bank. On January 14, around 6 p.m., with his face covered by a mask, he barged into the bank with a knife, and threatened the in-charge manager and staff. He forced them to fill his bag with cash and jewellery and fled. “He walked for three kilometres before boarding an autorickshaw to Banashankari bus stand. From there, he boarded a bus to Majestic, and then another bus to Chikkamagaluru. In this manner, he went to Tarikere, Tumakuru, and all the way to Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh, before returning to Bengaluru,” the police officer added. He did this in an attempt to dodge the police. On his return, he started repaying his loans and was able to buy back his mother’s jewellery from the gold company he had pawned them to. Meanwhile, the team led by Mr. Hegde, based on CCTV footage and a suspicious call from the nearest mobile tower to the bank, got a photo of Dhiraj unmasked. When they found out where he lived, they visited the house where they discovered more photos of Dhiraj that matched the one they had. “When we started gathering information on him, we learned of his loans. In fact, many of his friends said that he had only recently paid them back. The timing matched the bank robbery,” said the police.The police got a list of friends Dhiraj had to repay. Teams were sent to their houses, and one team was able to arrest him when he came to visit a friend in Yelahanka to repay him.The police recovered 1.8 kg of gold, a backpack, a knife and a mobile phone. Lapses in security The police during their investigation found lapses on part of the bank in terms of providing adequate security cover. “The bank should have a proper alarm system which can be activated so that the nearest police station or control room is alerted in the event of a robbery,” a police officer said. He added that staff members did not have any training given on how to handle such situations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mechanical-engineer-held-for-robbing-bank-at-knifepoint-to-repay-loan/article38312265.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for duping shopkeeper||The north-east division police on Saturday arrested a 28-year-old employee of a private firm for allegedly cheating a store owner by pretending to help him rent out a part of his shop to a well-known online retail giant. Three months ago, the accused, Pradeep V., a resident of Vidyaranyapura, approached the victim, Rudresh A.N., and introduced himself as an executive with the retail MNC. He offered to rent out a portion of Rudresh’s store in Thindlu as a godown for the firm’s goods that had to be delivered to customers. “Excited by the offer, Rudresh agreed and downloaded an app as well as submitted ID proof such as his PAN and Aadhaar cards. The accused took his details and while pretending to fill the KYC forms on Rudresh’s mobile phone availed of a Rs. 40,000 instant loan. He immediately transferred the money from Rudresh’s account to his,” said a police officer. The accused left the place informing Rudresh that he would return soon. Rudresh was not aware of the loan transactions for two months until January 20 when he started receiving notices to repay the loan. He approached the police for help. Based on his complaint, the cybercrime team tracked down Pradeep via the bike he had used to visit Rudhresh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-duping-shopkeeper/article38312288.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru Urban registers dip in fresh cases||After reporting nearly 30,000 COVID-19 cases for the last few days, Bengaluru Urban on Saturday recorded a sharp dip with 17,266 new cases. Overall, 42,470 new cases were reported in the State taking the total to 34,67,472. With 26 deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,563. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 35,140 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 30,98,432. The State has 3,30,447 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 19.33%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.06%. As many as 2,19,699 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,70,637 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 6,03,34,514.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-urban-registers-dip-in-fresh-cases/article64947019.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Take delegation to PM’||KPCC working president and seven-time MLA Ramalinga Reddy urged the State Government to lead an all-party delegation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to get all pending clearances for irrigation and drinking water projects in the State. Mr. Reddy told reporters that the BJP Government should put pressure on the Central Government to get environment and other clearances required for implementing the Mekedatu project which would enable the State to provide drinking water to more than two crore people in and around Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-delegation-to-pm/article38312290.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Another Special DC to adjudicate on revenue cases in Bengaluru Urban||The State Government has created a new Special Deputy Commissioner - 3 in Bengaluru Urban District, for quick disposal of pending revenue cases regarding land disputes. The district administration already has two Special DCs - posts created in 2014 and now another post has been created, to be filled by a Indian Administrative Service cadre. He, along with Special DC - 2, will be exclusively tasked with adjudicating revenue cases. Highest pendency At a recent review meeting of all Deputy Commissioners chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, it came to light that Bengaluru Urban district had the highest pendency of land-dispute cases. Mr. Bommai reportedly pulled up the district administration over this and directed the Revenue Department to create an additional Special DC post to ensure quick disposal of pending cases. Encroachments “Given the high value of government/public land in the district, quick disposal of revenue cases is necessary to effectively prevent encroachment of these land,” the Government Order, creating the new post, stated. For instance, recently, a land scam where fake documents were forged and civil suits filed for eviction orders to encroach lands armed with court orders, while leaving out the original owners of the land, was uncovered in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-special-dc-to-adjudicate-on-revenue-cases-in-bengaluru-urban/article38312260.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Deve Gowda hospitalised after testing positive||The former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda tested positive for COVID-19 late on Friday evening. Authorities of Manipal Hospitals on HAL Airport Road, where he has been admitted, said his condition is stable. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, who is Mr. Gowda’s son-in-law, said the senior leader had mild symptoms — nasal congestion, headache, and cough. “He has no fever and his other vital parameters are normal,” Dr. Manjunath said. “His wife, Chennamma Deve Gowda, has tested negative. But we will have to repeat the test after three days,” the doctor said. ‘Was visiting office’ Party sources said that though the leader was doing well, he had been hospitalised. “We did not want to take any chance at home that would also see a steady flow of visitors. Keeping visitors away is difficult,” a leader said. Though he had reduced his public interaction in the recent days, the octogenarian leader and Rajya Sabha member had been visiting the JD(S) office from where he might have contracted the infection, sources said. “Heis doing well and our prayers are for his speedy recovery,” said JD(S) spokesperson T.A. Sharavana. Various leaders, including Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, have wished Mr. Gowda a quick recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deve-gowda-hospitalised-after-testing-positive/article64946851.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||BDA officials, staff booked||Two BDA officials, who held the post of Deputy Secretaries, and other staff, have been booked by the Seshadripuram police for cheating and forgery. They allegedly helped at least four people register and procure sites in and around the city using forged documents between 2016 to 2018. The authority is also under investigation for the alleged rigging of its online auction of corner sites last year. Investigations by the Vigilance and Special Task Force Squad of the BDA revealed that staff had reportedly colluded with middlemen to rig the e-auctions and favour certain bidders. The new cases predate the e-auction site scam. Based on the findings of the preliminary probe, Srinivas V.T, inspector, Vigilance and Special Task Force Squad, on Friday, filed a complaint with the jurisdictional Seshadripuram police station on Friday seeking penal action. In his complaint, he stated that a senior BDA official, Anil Kumar, the former Deputy Secretary-III, and other staffers created fake documents for a site measuring 2,400 sq.ft at Chandra Layout 1st Stage. This was allegedly done in collusion with middlemen in April 2018. The site was registered in the name of one Selvarani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-officials-staff-booked/article38312261.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Recovery agent, five others held||The Byadarahalli police on Friday arrested six men who allegedly kidnapped a taxi driver and tortured him. According to the police, one of the accused, Srinivas, was in a relationship with the victim’s 23-year-old sister. “But she recently left him and returned to her parents’ house. In retaliation, Srinivas and his associates kidnapped her brother Venkatesh on Thursday and threatened to harm him if she did not return to him,” said a police officer. Along with his associates, Srinivas, who works as a recovery agent, tortured him and called his sister threatening to kill him if she did not return. On hearing her brother’s screams and fearing that he would be killed, the woman approached the police and filed a complaint. A team of police led by Inspector Ravikumar R.G., tracked down the gang to the outskirts of the city, and rescued the taxi driver Venkatesh (27). “The accused have been booked for kidnap, assault and criminal intimidation and remanded into judicial custody,” said Sanjeev Patil, DCP- West.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recovery-agent-five-others-held/article38312266.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown tomorrow||There will be no power supply on Monday between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. because of work related to conversion of overhead lines into UG/AB cable. The areas to be affectedare Balaji Layout,Vijayashree Layout, Doddabele Road,Layout, Andrahalli Main Road, Annapoorneshwari Layout, Hosahalli Road, Sir M.V. 1st, 3rd and 5th Blocks, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown-tomorrow/article38312259.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||With no road, body brought to village on coracle||An aged person, who was a native of Hole Kudige in Mudigere taluk, died on Friday night and his body was brought to his place on a coracle to cross river Bhadra that cuts the village’s link to the outer world. T.A. Subbaraya, 70, who was suffering from renal failure, died at a hospital in Chikkamagaluru. His family members carried his body to his village on Saturday for the final rites. The village is located amidst forest areas and coffee estates. For decades the Malekudiya families, a tribal community staying at Hole Kudige village, have been demanding a road to avoid crossing the river. Schoolchildren have to cross the river propelling coracle, risking their lives during the rainy season. And, whenever the residents suffer health issues, they find it difficult to reach to hospitals. The Hindu had reported about the problems of the residents in January 2018 and again in May 2019, when Subbaraya’s elder brother T.A. Rudraiah died without realising his dream of having a road to his village. “This is the ninth death in recent years we have been witnessing. Whenever someone falls sick or is hospitalised, we face this problem,” Suresh Kumar, a member of the family, told this correspondent on Saturday.  Four brothers had been living in the village for decades. Due to lack of road connectivity, a couple of them have moved to other places. Chandrashekhar, also a member of the family, said the villagers had been demanding a road that connects their village to Hirebailu-Kalasa Road. “If the district administration decides to resolve our problem, it is not a big issue. The owner of a private estate has refused to part with a portion of its land for the road. It is sorrowful that the Government has not been able to get the land required for the road in so many years,” he said. The residents have submitted appeals to elected representatives repeatedly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-no-road-body-brought-to-village-on-coracle/article64946862.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||‘CBI cannot do anything when evidence is lost’||What can the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) do when all evidence is lost over the years,” said Home Minister Araga Jnanendra in response to a question on former Minister Kimmane Ratnakar’s demand for such a probe into the death of a minor girl reported in Tirthahalli in 2014. In an interaction with the media in Shivamogga on Saturday, the Home Minister said the former Minister could have got the issue probed in a proper manner and identified the accused. “He did not allow the real culprits to be arrested. Then he did vote-bank politics on this issue. The CID conducted a probe and they filed a ‘B’ report in the case. Now the file is closed,” he said. The Minister said if Mr. Ratnakar was concerned about the incident, he would have got the regular police to conduct the probe. The police could not probe the incident due to political pressure. “After destroying all evidence over the years, he is seeking CBI probe into the issue now,” he said. Mr. Ratnakar, who was a Minister in the Siddaramaiah Cabinet in 2014, said that he would stage a hunger strike seeking a probe by the premier investigation agency into the death of the girl. He recalled that Mr. Jnanendra, who was in the Opposition when the incident occurred, had demanded a CBI probe and also assured that the matter would be handed to the agency once he came to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cbi-cannot-do-anything-when-evidence-is-lost/article38312464.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Hassan reports 2,411 new COVID-19 cases||Hassan reported 2,411 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, increasing the number of active cases above 10,000. One person died of the infection on the day. For the first time the number of daily fresh cases crossed 2,000 in recent months. Among the infected, 14 people are in ICUs. Of the fresh cases, 654 were reported in Hassan, 188 in Alur, 261 in Arkalgud, 173 in Arsikere, 279 in Belur, 320 in Channarayapatna, 281 in Holenarsipur, 248 in Sakleshpur and seven infected were from other districts. So far 1,391 people have died in the district due to the infection. Holiday for schools The district administration had declared a holiday for schools (up to class 9) in Hassan, Channarayapatna and Alur taluks due to increasing cases. The schools will resume on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hassan-reports-2411-new-covid-19-cases/article38312466.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Teacher arrested||N.R. Pura Police in Chikkamagaluru district, on Friday, arrested Prabhu Naik, a teacher of a government school, accused of sexually harassing several children in the school. He had been absconding since cases were booked against him in N.R. Pura. As many as 11 cases have been registered against the teacher accusing him of sexually harassing students. The first case was filed on January 15. Following that many children complained against him. The teacher, native of Kadur, had fled the place. The SP had constituted police teams to arrest him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teacher-arrested/article38312465.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Australia woos students with a slew of offers||Australia is beckoning Indian students, who presently form the second largest group among international students, with a slew of offers including visa fee waiver and removal of maximum eligible work hours, apart from increasing the post-study work visa to three years. After shutting down its borders to contain COVID spread for almost two years, the Australian government wants international students to return and it expects the numbers from India to rise. Those arriving in Australia before March 19 this year will get their visa fee of 630 Australian Dollars waived off, said Monica Kennedy, Senior Trade and Investment Commissioner of Austrade in Mumbai.  Speaking to The Hindu , she said visa fee would be refunded for all international students arriving on Australian shores before March 19, while those coming to pursue Masters programmes in the Metropolitan areas, the post-study work visa is being enhanced from the present two years to three years. In non-metropolitan cities, it ranges from three to four years. She said already there is a surge in international students reaching Australia and the number is likely to go further higher with the new measures announced by the Australian Prime Minister Scot Morrison. As of now, about 1.50 lakh international students posses an Australian visa.  Figures available with Department of Education, Skills and Employment International Student Data reveal that 1,08,292 students secured visas in 2019 and 1,48,684 in the year 2020 when the pandemic struck. Till October 2021, the figures say, 1,25,442 students got their visas. The number of Indian students is believed to be high as the country has been the second-largest among International students for several years. “As the year has just started, it would be too early to provide projections for 2022,” Ms. Monica said while exuding confidence that the new relaxations and offers will attract a lot of students. “An attractive option for Indian students is removing the cap of 20 hours of work per week for international students for the time being,” says Nishidhar Borra of Atlas Consultants. “The policy will be reviewed in April this year,” he said. Despite closing its borders in 2020 and a major part of 2021, the Australian universities ensured that the academics were not disrupted with the online classes held regularly. It also created a Digital Education Hub, a one-stop shop for international students giving information on skills to be equipped as they waited to enter Australia and also connecting them with institutions to upgrade their skills while waiting to enter Australia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/australia-woos-students-with-a-slew-of-offers/article64946857.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi Railway Division still on the cards, claims Jadhav||The issue of establishing a new Railway Division with its headquarters in Kalaburagi, which had first been taken when M. Mallikarjun Kharge was Union Railway Minister and later put on hold after the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) Government assumed power at the Centre, came again to the fore on Saturday when Umesh Jadhav, MP, claimed that efforts are on to get the Kalaburagi Railway Division implemented. In his interaction with industrialists and traders, organised by the Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (HKCCI), Dr. Jadhav said that he had been pursuing the demand ever since he was chosen as MP. “The UPA Government had just announced the Kalaburagi Railway Division and had not completed the necessary process. The proposal did not go to Railway Board for further process. Hence, there is a lot of procedures to be completed. Anyways, I am pursuing the demand and I hope that it would be realised,” Dr. Jadhav said. The HKCCI put forward five more demands concerning the development of the region: formation of new Bypass Ring Road around Kalaburagi city, upgrading Kalaburagi – Aland – Umerga – Usmanabad Road and Hyderabad – Gurmitkal – Yadgir – Vijayapura Road into national highways, restoration of stoppages for certain trains at Shahabad Railway Station, providing night landing facility at Kalaburagi Airport, and establishment of a mega textile park in Kalaburagi. Positively responding to the demands, Dr. Jadhav said that he had already working on some of them. “The Bypass Ring Road was sanctioned and later cancelled. However, the Union Government has reconsidered it recently. I have spoken to Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on the issue and both of them have positively responded. Of the three textile parks sanctioned to Karnataka, Kalaburagi’s name is on the top followed by Tumakuru, and Vijayapura. I will push it further for speedy implementation,” Dr Jadhav said, adding that he would discuss with General Manager of Central Railway in Mumbai. HKCCI president Prashant S. Manakar, secretary Sharanabasappa M. Pappa, and others were present in the interaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-railway-division-still-on-the-cards-claims-jadhav/article64946879.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||Cong. to protest against apathy towards KK||The Congress leaders from the Kalyana Karnataka region will meetto plan “sustained agitation” against the State government for it’s failure towards development of the region. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president Eshwar Khandre, addressing presspersons here on Saturday, accused the State Government of showing step-motherly attitude in implementing Article 371(J) of the Constitution to help develop the backward Kalyana Karnataka region. Criticising the Government of not forming a complete body of the KKRDB which comprises of eight MLAs , one MP, and five experts, Mr. Khandre said that the board has failed to utilise funds sanctioned by the State Government. Recently, the State Government deliberately violated the provisions for providing reservation in a recent job notification for recruitment to 542 Sub- Inspector post, he alleged. Last year, the Board has prepared an action plan for Rs. 1,131 crore , of which only Rs. 272 crore was spent. For the current year, the KKRDB has merely spent Rs. 240 crore of the total sanctioned Rs. 1,500 crore. As per the data,the board has completed only 39 works of the total 2,242 works taken up in the six districts of the region; and 1589 works are under progress, as of January 20. Though funds were allocated to the board, they remained largely unutilised under the BJP-led Government. The board has to spend the total sanctioned funds by the end of March to get the budgetary allocation of Rs. 3,000 crore, he reiterated. Mr. Khandre said that the Congress leaders will launch a series of agitations against the Government failure to address regional disparities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-to-protest-against-apathy-towards-kk/article38312458.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||There’s a conspiracy to malign PM: Kota||Reiterating the regard the Union and the State Governments have for social reformer Sree Narayana Guru, Minister for Social and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary said here on Saturday that the CPI(M) in Kerala and the Congress have hatched a conspiracy to malign Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP on the non-selection of a tableau of Narayana Guru proposed by Kerala Government for the Republic Day parade in Delhi. Talking to reporters following his visit to Kudroli Gokarnanatha Temple, established by Sree Narayana Guru, here, Mr. Poojary said there is a set procedure involved in selection of tableaux for the Republic Day parade and every year a few are selected. Non-selection of tableau has nothing to do with Prime Minister and the Central Government. The Prime Minister, Mr. Poojary said, is among several people across the country who hold Sree Narayana Guru in high esteem for the latter’s contribution towards empowerment of oppressed class and other marginalised sections of the society. Mr. Modi visited Shivagiri in Kerala in 2015 and affirmed the commitment of Central Government to principles of equality professed by the reformer. The Union Government and the Karnataka Government will support all activities related to ideals professed by Narayana Guru. The Kerala Government, he said, was not revealing the actual reason for non selection of its tableau and is speaking about the presence of Sree Nayarana Guru’s idol in the float in order to give a wrong picture to people. The Congress, which presently has no issue against the State Government, is using it to criticise the Central and the State Governments. “People have to understand the conspiracy to malign us,” he said. He will explain about the conspiracy to senior Congress leader B. Janardhan Poojary, who was instrumental in renovation of Gokarnanatha Temple, the Minister said. Refusing to react on the demand by former Congress MLC Ivan D’Souza for his resignation and that of Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar as they allegedly gave wrong picture about the tableau selection process, Mr. Poojary said Mr. D’Souza has to explain reasons for sudden cancellation of visit of the then Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for the inauguration of Dasara festival at the Kudroli temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/theres-a-conspiracy-to-malign-pm-kota/article64946908.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Siddaramaiah has no moral right to talk about Narayana Guru’||BJP leader and chairman of Karnataka State Electronics Development Corporation Ltd (KEONICS) Harikrishna Bantwal said here on Saturday that Congress leader Siddaramaiah has no moral right to speak on the Narayana Guru tableau issue as the former Chief Minister had “humiliated” the social reformer by not visiting the Gokarnanathaeswara Temple founded by Narayana Guru, in Mangaluru in 2016. Addressing presspersons here on Saturday Mr. Bantwal said that when Mr. Siddaramaiah was the Chief Minister he was to visit the temple at Kudroli in the city during Dasara celebrations on an invitation by senior Congres leader and promoter of the temple B. Janardhan Poojary. Though he was in the city, he made Mr. Poojary wait for four hours and left the city without visiting the temple. Mr. Siddaramaiah spent his time at the residence of then MLC and the Congress leader Ivan D’Souza without visiting the temple. Thus, Mr. Bantwal alleged, Mr. Siddaramaiah exhibited his “disrespect” to Narayana Guru. “If Mr. Siddaramaiah is so concerned about Narayana Guru why did he not visit the temple then?,” he questioned and said that the Congress leaders who are now raising the tableau issue stating that it is an insult to the social reformer kept mum without questioning Mr. Siddaramaiah for cancelling his visit. Mr. Bantwal claimed that the then Chief Minister’s media secretary Dinesh Ameen Mattu had likened the Kudroli temple to a tomb built for Narayana Guru. “Was it not a humiliation done to the social reformer. Why did the Congress leaders did not question this?” he asked. He said that none of the Congress leaders in Kerala are speaking on the tableau issue. But only in Karnakata, the Congress leaders are making it an issue as the Congress fears that it has lost its ground in the State. The Congress leaders in the State are indulging in vote-bank politics and are dragging the name of Narayana Guru thinking that it will help the party politically. But they will not succeed in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-has-no-moral-right-to-talk-about-narayana-guru/article64946904.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:07 IST,KARNATAKA||Poojary to take out procession on R-Day||Senior Congress leader and former Union Minister B. Janardhan Poojary has said that he will lead a procession from Kankanady Garodi to Kudroli Gokarnanatheswara Temple carrying a photo of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru on Republic Day. The procession will pass through Hampankatta to Kudroli, he said. In a video message and in a release Mr. Poojary said that the Union Government should not have denied permission for the tableau of Sree Narayana Guru proposed by the Kerala Government for the Republic Day parade in Delhi. All followers of Narayana Guru should condemn this, he said. Mr. Poojary said that different organisations in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi will take out a procession of Sree Narayana Guru’s tableaux in taluks on January 26. The Narayana Guru Sanghas can organise special pujas and spread the message of Sree Narayana Guru on that day. “The day should become an opportunity to prove the self esteem of Narayana Guru followers,” Mr. Poojary said, adding that it is not a protest against anybody but an event to press for the rights of the followers. Meanwhile, addressing presspersons here on Saturday, BJP leader and chairman of Karnataka State Electronics Development Corporation Ltd (KEONICS) Harikrishna Bantwal said that the BJP will support the procession provided if it is held in an apolitical manner. There should be no flag of the Congress in the procession. Instead the flag related to Sree Narayana Guru should be displayed. “Then we will support the event,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/poojary-to-take-out-procession-on-r-day/article64946909.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Academy planning Yakshagana sammelana||Chairman of Karnataka Yakshagana Academy G.L. Hegde said on Saturday that the academy has plans to organise a Yakshagana sammelana on the lines of sahitya sammelana. Speaking at a function organised by the academy to release three books published by it at Govindadasa College in Surathkal, Mr. Hegde said that the academy also wants to open a Yakshagana museum and publish an encyclopedia on Yakshagana. He said that Yakshagana performances preserved Kannada in its purest form. The artistes spoke extempore in Kannada without mixing English words. Thus the art form has been sustaining Kannada for long. Mr. Hegde said that Yakshagana and talamaddale helped to cultivate oratory and communicative skills. Students should develop this skill. A volume of Tulu Yakshagana Prasangas having seven Tulu ‘prasangas’ (performance texts) edited by Kadri Navneeth Shetty, Yakshagana Samvada Bhoomike written by Ramananda Banari, and Parthi Subba – Baduku Baraha edited by Mr. Hegde and Yogish Rao Chigurupade were released on the occasion by the Vice-Chancellor of Mangalore University P.S. Yadapadithaya. Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/academy-planning-yakshagana-sammelana/article64946905.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:07 IST,KARNATAKA||Three deaths, 1,558 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported three COVID-19 deaths and 795 new cases on Saturday. After 992 patients were discharged following treatment, the active cases were 5,700. The test positivity rate was at 8.82%. The new cases included those reported from four clusters in the district. Of them seven cases were reported from a nursing hostel in Mangaluru taluk, six were from a government school in Mangaluru taluk, eight were reported from a school in Bantwal taluk, and 14 were identified from a private hostel in Mangaluru taluk. Udupi reported 763 new cases. After 600 patients were discharged, the active cases in the district were 5,988. The test positivity rate was at 14.67%. Of the new cases, 704 patients were under home isolation, 33 were in COVID Care Centres, and the remaining were in hospitals. Of the new cases 497 were from Udupi taluk, 178 from Kundapur, 84 from Karkala, and four from other districts. There will be no vaccination camps in Udupi district on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-deaths-1558-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article38312601.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Youth Congress office-bearer assaulted||The Padubidri police arrested 45-year-old Vinay D’Souza for allegedly stabbing Reena Vinuta D’Souza, the general secretary of the Kaup Block Youth Congress, on Friday evening. According to the police, the accused allegedly attacked Ms.D’Souza, who is married to his cousin Remizial Prakash D’Souza, when the latter was on an evening stroll with her friends in Hejamady. The victim was treated at Mulki Community Health Centre and then shifted to a private hospital in Mangaluru. The victim is out of danger, the police said. The accused was booked for offences punishable under Sections 307, 504 and 506 of Indian Penal Code. He was produced before jurisdictional magistrate on Saturday, who remanded him in judicial custody for 15 days, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-congress-office-bearer-assaulted/article38312611.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:07 IST,KARNATAKA||Briefly Mangaluru||Department of Backward Classes Welfare has extended the last date for filing on line application for admission to its post-matric hostels meant for professional and postgraduate students till January 27. For details call 8050370006, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly-mangaluru/article38312602.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Schools in Mysuru city, taluk to reopen after week-long closure||A day after the government lifted weekend curfew, schools in Mysuru city and taluk will reopen from Monday for physical classes following an order from Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, who had ordered for closure of schools and suspension of physical classes for LKG to class 9 as a precautionary measure over COVID-19 spike. Though the daily cases continue to remain high, particularly in the city, the decision to reopen schools for physical classes was taken in consultation with the officials from the Departments of Health and Public Instruction. Accordingly, the Deputy Commissioner rescinded his earlier order and issued an order for recommencement of offline classes from January 22, taking all necessary precautions as directed by the Government. Instead of considering the entire city and the taluk for containment measures for combating the pandemic, it has now been decided to consider the particular primary and high school for containment steps in case of a report of cases in its place of shutting down the schools completely. The Deputy Commissioner had instructed schools to conduct online classes for the students, after he ordered for closure of schools from January 12. In his first order, the Deputy Commissioner had ordered for suspension of offline classes even for class 10. However, he revised his order and allowed physical classes in view of their forthcoming public examinations for which the physical classes were said to be necessary for their preparations. After a single-day highest cases of 1,900 and four-digit cases for a few days, the cases dropped to three-digits with 915 cases on Friday. But the number of deaths are rising with three fatalities due to COVID-19 reported on Friday. Notably, 1,544 were discharged, which is highest since many months, taking the active case tally to 8,976. As many as 188 cases and 23 cases are admitted in government and private hospitals respectively with nearly 90% of infected persons home isolated in the district, as on Friday. The infection is said to be mild and moderate considering the number of home isolated which is said to be manageable at home taking necessary medicines, the health officials said. About 9,708 swab samples were tested on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-in-mysuru-city-taluk-to-reopen-after-week-long-closure/article64946864.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Fund allocation: Congress MLAs allege discrimination by Govt.||Three Congress MLAs of Mysuru district on Saturday alleged discrimination by the BJP Government in the State over allocation of funds for development works. MLAs representing Hunsur, Varuna, and H.D. Kote — H.P. Manjunath, Yathindra Siddaramaiah, and Anil Chikkamadu, respectively, alleged that their constituencies have been overlooked by the BJP Government. Mr. Manjunath alleged that funds had been released for works on the basis of the contractor while other rules on allocation on the basis of the report submitted by Dr. D.M. Nanjundappa Committee had been ignored. During the recent allocation, several sanctioned works had been cancelled while a major chunk of the works had been released for Periyapatna Assembly constituency. Though the D.M. Nanjundappa Committee had classified H.D. Kote as most backward followed by Hunsur as more backward while Periyapatna, K.R. Nagar and Nanjangud taluks were regarded as backward, a lion’s share of Rs. 6.5 crore allocation has been made only for Public Works Department projects in Periyapatna, Mr. Manjunath alleged. Mysuru District Congress Committee president B.J. Vijaykumar and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson Lakshmana were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fund-allocation-congress-mlas-allege-discrimination-by-govt/article64946867.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||19 NCC cadets from Mysuru Group in New Delhi for R-Day camp||A total of 19 cadets, including 10 boys and 9 girls from Mysuru Group, are part of the Republic Day contingent from NCC Directorate of Karnataka and Goa. Every year, NCC cadets are selected from all the 17 Directorates in India to represent their respective States at the Republic Day camp in New Delhi. The cadets participate in various events and competitions like drill, cultural programmes, flag area, best cadet, etc. The number of cadets participating in the Republic Day camp has been reduced to half in view of the COVID-19 pandemic this year and last year. Presently, 54 cadets from NCC’s Karnataka and Goa Directorate have been selected and are now in Delhi, representing the State and training for the Republic Day parade and other competitions, said a statement from NCC Mysuru Group. Pointing out that 19 of the 54 cadets from the Directorate were from Mysuru Group, the statement said, “This is a great achievement for the group. It was possible due to the hard work by highly motivated cadets of Mysuru.” The cadets were trained at various camps, over two months, prior to their departure to New Delhi. “It is also a matter of great pride that 5 girl cadets of Mysuru have been selected for the Rajpath marching contingent,” the statement added. Colonel R.R. Menon, Group Commander, Mysuru Group, NCC, has congratulated the 19 cadets. The cadets include Rajath Singh R. (JSS Polytechnic, Mysuru), Anirudh K.R. (Yuvaraja College, Mysuru), Mithun R. (Sarada Vilas College, Mysuru), Suvarsh Gowda (Maharani’s Arts College, Mysuru), Pramila Kunawar (St. Joseph’s First Grade college, Mysuru), Tanmai H.V. (Maharaja’s College, Mysuru), Prajwal Urs, (Vidyavardhaka College, Mysuru), Suchitra L., Priya S. (both Sarada Vilas College, Mysuru), Siddaraju M.R. (Bharathi College, K.M. Doddi, Mandya), Pooja V. and Lekhana S. (PES College, Mandya), Chaitra S. and Prajwal M. (both JSS College of Science, Commerce and Arts, Mysuru), Deeksha K.M. (JSS College for Women, Mysuru), Darshan H.M., Pavan V., Charan Basavaraj (all D. Banumaiah’s College, Mysuru) and Roshini Mariam (Govt. CPC Polytechnic, Mysuru).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/19-ncc-cadets-from-mysuru-group-in-new-delhi-for-r-day-camp/article64946868.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru MLAs complain of protocol violation, threaten protest||Congress MLAs from rural Mysuru on Saturday alleged violation of protocol by the district administration during the inauguration of Jal Bhavan, housing the divisional office of Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWSDB) in Mysuru, and threatened to stage a black demonstration against Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar. MLAs H.P. Manjunath, Yathindra Siddaramaiah, and Anil Chikkamadu alleged that they did not receive an invitation to the Government function held on Friday in gross violation of the protocol laid down by the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms. Mr. Manjunath held Mr. Somashekar indirectly responsible for the lapse and sought immediate action against the officials responsible for the protocol violation. If no action is taken within a week, Congress will hold black flag demonstrations against the Minister when he visits Mysuru next, he said. Though Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham, who had tested positive for COVID-19, was on leave, the other officials of the district administration and KUWSDB officials should be held accountable for the lapse, he said. No invitation was extended to any MLA from rural parts of Mysuru district, including BJP MLA representing Nanjangud Assembly segment Harshavardhan, he said. Mr. Manjunath also alleged protocol lapse in the inauguration of a students’ hostel by the Backward Classes Welfare Department in Kuvempunagar here on Friday. He pointed out that the Jal Bhavan was among the series of development programmes in Mysuru city taken up during the tenure of former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. The present BJP Government was only inaugurating these projects, he said and regretted that the foundation stone bearing the former Chief Minister’s name was not to be found during the inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-mlas-complain-of-protocol-violation-threaten-protest/article38312625.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Hike in one-time grant for gallantry awardees welcomed||The State Government’s decision to enhance the one-time grant to gallantry awardees from Karnataka has been welcomed by the city-based Ve-Kare Ex-Servicemen Trust. The trust had sought an enhancement and made repeated representations in the past on the grounds that the State Government’s one-time cash component did not match similar grants announced in other States. As per the Government notification, the one-time cash component for Param Vir Chakra (PVC) has been hiked from Rs. 25 lakh to Rs. 1.5 crore and for Maha Vir Chakra (MVC) it has been enhanced from Rs. 12 lakh to Rs. 1 crore. The grant for Ashok Chakra recipients has been enhanced from Rs. 25 lakh to Rs. 1.5 crore while it has gone up from Rs. 12 lakh to Rs. 1 crore for Kirti Chakra. Veera Chakra will carry Rs. 50 lakh instead of Rs. 8 lakh while Sena Medal awardees and those who find their names in Mention in Dispatch will receive Rs. 15 lakh instead of Rs. 2 lakh awarded earlier, as per the Government notification. M.N. Subramani of Ve-Kare Ex-Servicemen Trust – an NGO which advocates the cause of retired soldiers and takes up their case - said the State Government’s move though welcome, was long overdue. The gallantry awards are given in recognition of exceptional bravery in the line of duty and hence it is rare and the cash component should not be nominal, he added. Mr. Subramani pointed out that Karnataka introduced the cash component in lieu of granting land for the gallantry awardees and hence the amount should be substantial to enable the soldier to buy a house or land. “The cash component was not adequate to buy property given the escalating market rates,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hike-in-one-time-grant-for-gallantry-awardees-welcomed/article38312624.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||4,601 cases in Mysuru||A day after the weekend curfew was lifted, Mysuru reported an alarming highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases with 4,601 testing positive on Saturday. This is the most shocking jump Mysuru witnessed in COVID-19 cases so far as the previous highest was around 3,500 cases which was reported in the second wave last year. The active case tally crossed 12,000-mark with Saturday’s record number of cases. The active cases stood at 12,526. One death was reported on Saturday taking the death toll to 2,451. The authorities tested 8,446 swabs on Saturday and the TPR breached the previous high with nearly half positive. The rate has disturbed the district administration and health authorities as Mysuru happens to be the second district after Bengaluru reporting highest cases, even in the first and second waves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4601-cases-in-mysuru/article38312467.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||Prime Minister interacts with Yadgir DC on ‘aspirational district’ initiative||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday interacted with Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir R. Ragapriya on the implementation of development works as per NITI Ayog’s directions. Yadgir has been chosen as an “aspirational district” among 112 districts in the country for a targeted programme. The programme aims to cover health and nutrition, education, agriculture, water resources, basic infrastructure, and skill development aspects. The Prime Minister reviewed the progress of the district through videoconference in the presence of the CEOof NITI Aayog and the Chief Ministers of the States and District Magistrates of the respective districts, Dr. Ragapriya said. She said a particular area of focus in the discussion was on officials and doctors who had fought against anaemia. “Under the State Government’s Matru Poorna Yojana, pregnant women were given cooked nutritious meals, which has caused a reduction in low birth weight babies. This apart, milk and eggs are being given to malnourished children five days a week, she added. Dr. Ragapriya said she also explained to the Prime Minister that model smart classrooms had been established in all the 122 high schools of Yadgir district by the provision of smartscreens with preloaded audio and visual syllabus content, which encourage interactive learning in classrooms, thus improving learning outcome.” Mr. Modi sought to know how the Aspirational District Programme (ADP) differs from the implementation of other regular government schemes, to which Dr. Ragapriya replied that the ADP had resulted in better interdepartmental coordination. It had resulted ina more focused approach and it involvedreview of various indicators minutely. Different departments were able to achieve better coordination and better delivery of services to the people. Also, best performing field-level workers have been appreciated at the district level which also has resulted in better implementation of various projects,” she informed Mr. Modi. ThePrime Minister said the district had performed well and appreciated the efforts put in for effective implementation of this project, Dr. Ragapriya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prime-minister-interacts-with-yadgir-dc-on-aspirational-district-initiative/article64946856.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:08 IST,KARNATAKA||Art and artists||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/art-and-artists/article64946907.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||A slice of Karnataka||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-slice-of-karnataka/article64946852.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:04 IST,KERALA||Alappuzha reports bird flu||A fresh bout of bird flu has been detected in Alappuzha district. Officials of the Animal Husbandry Department (AHD) said that rapid response teams had culled 6,920 ducks belonging to a farmer at Vellamkulangara in Veeyapuram grama panchayat. The culling was carried out on Friday after samples of dead ducks, which were sent to the National Institute of High-Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for analyses, tested positive for avian influenza. Officials said the farmer, identified as Shefeek of Thamarakulam, had brought around 10,000 ducks to Veeyapuram a few weeks ago despite a ban on movement of birds to and from the grama panchayat. The district administration had issued orders banning movement and sale of duck, chicken, quail and other domestic birds and the use of their egg and meat in a number of grama panchayats following bird flu outbreaks. ‘For compensation’ Officials said a case had been registered against the farmer under the Disaster Management Act. “The farmer deliberately moved the ducks from Thamarakulam to Veeyapuram with the intention of getting compensation. His birds contracted the infection after reaching Veeyapuram,” said an AHD official. A meeting chaired by District Collector A. Alexander has decided not to provide compensation to the farmer. Mr. Alexander directed the police and AHD to register a case and initiate action against him. Avian flu (H5N1) has so far been confirmed in eight grama panchayats in Alappuzha. The outbreak was first detected in ducks at Kunnumma South (ward 10) in Thakazhy grama panchayat on December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-reports-bird-flu/article38312539.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||Rubber farmers, experts air concern||Rubber growers and experts are wary of the Centre's move to repeal the Rubber Act, 1947, the law that has governed the crash crop for decades, and introduce a new law. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry has proposed the Rubber (Promotion and Development) Bill, 2022 to make a "world-class rubber industry" and expand the functions of the Rubber Board. Though the draft Bill retains several provisions of the Rubber Act, including the continuation of the board, farmers and experts say it is formulated to serve the industry and corporates and not the growers. "The existing Act acts as a link between the farmer and the Rubber Board. Once the Bill becomes law, the Rubber Board will lose its autonomy as the majority of the members will be nominees of the Union government. As a major rubber producing State, Kerala is represented well on the present board. This will change," says Pius Scaria Pottamkulam, a planter from Kanjirappally. In the reconstituted board, the majority of the maximum 30 members will be appointed by the Centre. "Most of them will be appointed through political nominations. The board will be reduced to a non-entity, only following and implementing directions of the government," Mr. Pottamkulam says. Definition of rubber Experts say the definition of rubber is mentioned in general and could be open for interpretation. "Natural rubber should have been specifically mentioned. Besides, the new law, if enacted, will see Kerala's representation on the board reduced. The governance of the board will be shifted from Kerala-centric to pan-India," says a retired Rubber Board official. Farmers’ suggestion According to the farmers, the Centre, instead of repealing the Rubber Act, should have amended it based on the National Rubber Policy. "The policy has several suggestions such as crop insurance among other things. But none has been considered while formulating the new Bill. The Bill is totally against the farmers," Mr. Pottamkulam adds. Provisions of Bill Among the provisions include one-time registration for persons selling or purchasing rubber instead of periodical renewal of licences. Like in the Rubber Act, the Bill entrusts the Centre the power to fix maximum and minimum prices. Any person who buys or sells rubber at a price above these could attract a jail term up to one year or a fine, or with both. Meanwhile, officials of the Rubber Board say "the new Bill proposes to remove archaic provisions in the Rubber Act. The structure of the board will not be changed. At the same time, the board will have more freedom on assisting growers and small-scale rubber industries," said an official. Meanwhile, political parties have urged the Union Ministry to extend the date for the public/stakeholders to submit comments on the Bill. The Ministry had given time till January 21 to submit suggestions.  The Rubber Board will lose its autonomy as the majority of the members will be nominees of the Union government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rubber-farmers-experts-air-concern/article64946928.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||2,168 new cases in Alappuzha||The district registered 2,168 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The Health Department has not released the test positivity rate for the day.Of the fresh cases, 2,087 people contracted the disease through local transmission. Health-care staff Forty-four health-care staff also tested positive for the disease. The source of infection of 37 people, including some of the health staff, remains unidentified.Meanwhile, 567 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 9,868.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2168-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article38312569.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:58 IST,KERALA||CPI(M) postpones Alappuzha district meet||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has postponed its Alappuzha district conference scheduled to be held from January 28 to 30 at Kanichukulangara. In a statement here on Saturday, CPI(M) district secretary R. Nazar said the decision had been taken in view of the raging COVID-19 pandemic in the district. Mr. Nazar said the new dates would be announced later after considering the pandemic situation. Party draws flak The CPI(M) has come in for criticism for organising district meetings amid a surge in COVID-19 cases in the State. The party was forced to truncate its Kasaragod district conference after the Kerala High Court had issued an interim order which restricted the maximum number of attendees at public gatherings to 50.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-postpones-alappuzha-district-meet/article38312579.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Acid attack victim dies||A young woman, who had been undergoing treatment after her husband splashed acid on her, succumbed to injuries on Saturday morning at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. The police identified the deceased as Nijitha, 32, of Iritty in Kannur district. It was on January 15 that Nijtha’s husband Sanalkumar had splashed acid on her and their daughter Alakananda in their rented house at Arattupara near Ambalavayal in the district. Alakananda is undergoing treatment in the hospital. The body of Sanalkumar was found on a railway track at Thalassery in Kannur district a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/acid-attack-victim-dies/article38312530.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||COVID curbs intensified at border points||The Wayanad district administration has strengthened measures on the Kerala-Karnataka and Kerala-Tamil Nadu borders to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the wake of the third wave of the pandemic. District Collector A. Geetha has asked travellers from other States to produce RTPCR negative test results, done 72 hours prior to arrival, or certificates of the second dose vaccination at the border checkposts to gain entry to the State. A team of three officials, consisting of a Revenue Department official and two police personnel, were deployed at each of the major border checkposts of Tholpetty, Muthanga, and Bavali on the Kerala-Karnataka border and Pattavayal checkpost on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border. Sectoral magistrates were also deployed at the checkposts. The inflow of travellers from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu has declined considerably and 99% of them produce either of the certificates at the checkposts, Ms. Geeta said. “The COVID situation in the district is manageable now as the bed occupancy of COVID patients in the district is below 30%,” Ms.Geetha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-curbs-intensified-at-border-points/article38312537.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:58 IST,KERALA||Carbon-neutral project in Agriculture dept. farms||The Agriculture department is gearing up to execute carbon-neutral project in its farms in the State. Inaugurating a new office building of the Principal Agricultural Officer on Saturday, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad said the Meenangadi grama panchayat had initiated various steps to make the local body the first carbon-neutral panchayat in the country. The carbon-neutral project being executed in the local body had high relevance at a time when global warming and climate change were posing serious threat to the very existence of human race, the Minister said. Many local bodies were replicating the project and it would be executed in all farms under the Agriculture department. As organic farming was the new mantra of the farming sector, the State had to give more prominence to the relevant agricultural practices, the Minister said. The government was planning to execute an e-office system in all agriculture offices in the State, Mr. Prasad said adding that paperless offices were the need of the hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/carbon-neutral-project-in-agriculture-dept-farms/article38312580.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:00 IST,KERALA||16 years on, tribal family still waging lone battle for patta||For the past 16 years, Yeshoda Narayanan and her family, living on a plot of land inside the Aralam farm in Kannur district, has been fighting a lonely battle for the land title (patta) for the piece of land that they had settled on. The pleas of the family, who belong to the Karimbala tribal community, have fallen on deaf ears all these years. In 2006, Ms. Narayanan, along with her ailing husband and three daughters, settled on plot number 513 of the Aralam farm during the tribal agitation. However, during the pattaya mela in 2013, they were issued a patta for plot number 566. Already allotted To their surprise, the land had been already allotted to another tribal family belonging to the Paniya community. “The issue was raised with the authorities and they asked the family to share the land with us. But they refused to part with the land for which they had received the patta,” she said. This was the beginning of the ordeal for the family. They knocked on every door and submitted petitions for issue of patta for another piece of land. Ms. Narayanan said that finally, on the request of the authorities to choose another plot, they requested patta for plot 507. But after years of delay, the authorities refused to issue the title, citing that the land had been earmarked for public purposes. “We petitioned the authorities to provide patta for the plot of land where we have been living for so long. It was found that a patta had been already issued to another tribal family for the plot. But they never turned up to claim the property,” she said. In 2018, a joint inspection was carried out by the Tribal Welfare Department and Revenue Department. The revenue officials wrote to the Tribal Welfare Department agreeing to change the patta in favour of the family, she claimed. The Tribal Welfare Department authorities, however, were yet to take any action, she alleged.  Her husband was unable to work due to illness and the three daughters had reached the marriageable age, she said. Recently, the family submitted another petition to District Collector S. Chandrasekar, who promised to address their grievance.  Sreeraman Koyyon, Adivasi Dalit Munneta Samithi State president, said that it was not the only case of tribal families which took part in the agitation and occupied land, not being given the patta. As result, they were unable to receive any of the benefits extended by the State and Central governments or build houses, despite the increasing elephant menace in the farm. When contacted, Scheduled Tribe Development project officer Jacqueline Shinny Fernandas said, “We are yet to get the petition submitted to the Collector”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-family-waging-lone-battle-for-patta/article64946924.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||For Valanthakad islanders, a bridge remains a distant dream||The pier caps staring skyward seem to mock the nearly 50 Scheduled Caste families of the ecologically sensitive Valanthakad island, as their decades-old demand for a bridge remains far from being fulfilled. Work on the 165-metre bridge, which would have given the islanders easy access to the neighbouring Maradu municipality, has been suspended. The construction work, estimated to cost Rs. 5.50 crore, was launched with much fanfare on November 1, 2019. The bridge was supposed to be commissioned within 18 months, a deadline that the executing agency, Kerala Electrical and Allied Engineering Company Limited (KEL), has failed to comply with. “To begin with, KEL is unfit for executing such a project. They had promised to resume the work within two months at a meeting held on December 3. But having noticed no progress whatsoever, I have moved the government to terminate their contract and re-tender the work at their risk and cost as they are the ones at fault,” said K. Babu, Thripunithura MLA. KEL authorities could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts. Maradu municipal chairman Antony Ashanparambil said pending dues to the sub contractor seemed to have halted the work. “Dues were reportedly around Rs. 1 crore when I had checked around five months back,” he said. Jagathampi Krishna, a resident of Valanthakad, had even written to the Prime Minister about the alleged apathy of successive governments. He said the bridge remained a mere promise during elections, only to be forgotten thereafter citing either dearth of funds or the limited population. “Shortly after I received a favourable response from the Prime Minister, then Left Democratic Front government spurred into action, bragging that it would complete the bridge without any aid from the Centre,” he said. In the 1990s, there was a proposal for a bund instead of a bridge, which was vehemently opposed by the residents. Hitting the protest path is not new to the residents, and they may be forced to resort to it, going by the slow pace of construction work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-valanthakad-islanders-a-bridge-remains-a-distant-dream/article64946944.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||S.N. Jn. extension to be commissioned by June||The trial run of trains in the Kochi metro’s 1.8-km Pettah-SN Junction corridor is set to begin in a month’s time, with 95% of the physical progress of civil works on the viaduct getting over. This phase 1-A extension of the metro is likely to be commissioned before June, provided everything goes well. Track works are in the final stage, while architectural finishing works are in progress for Vadakkekotta and SN Junction stations. The major finishing works that are in progress include roofing, system room partitions, flooring and painting. System works like electrical and mechanical, traction, signalling and telecommunication are progressing in full swing, metro sources said. Work on lifts and escalators has begun. The Petta-SN Junction viaduct includes stations of Vadakkekotta and SN Junction. The deadline to commission the stretch is March 2022. The land acquisition for metro’s phase 1-B extension works on the 1.2-km SN Junction-Thripunithura terminal station corridor is in its final stage, while Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) began taking possession of the acquired land from December-end. Eighty per cent of civil works is over in places where land was fully acquired and handed over to the contractor engaged in laying tracks. The entire land acquisition on the corridor is expected to be completed by month-end. The pre-cast works for girders and other structures of the viaduct was in progress at the pre-cast yard, the sources said. The estimated project cost of phase 1-A and 1-B extensions, including that of land acquisition and property development (at Vadakekotta and Thripunithura stations), has been pegged at Rs. 710.93 crore and Rs. 448.33 crore respectively. A two-lane bridge parallel to the narrow bridge at Pettah too was built as part of the extension. Delay deplored The Thripunithura Rajanagari Union of Residents’ Associations (TRURA) has registered its protest over the government’s delay in announcing a four-lane road beneath the SN Junction-Thripunithura station metro viaduct and its extension to the road that leads from Thripunithura town to the Hill Palace. The association had sent 1,000 cards earlier this month to KMRL, highlighting this demand. M. Swaraj, former MLA, inaugurated it. “We will approach the High Court against the delay, especially so since anything short of a four-lane road will be inadequate to cater for passengers converging at the metro’s terminal station,” said V.P. Prasad, TRURA chairman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sn-jn-extension-to-be-commissioned-by-june/article64946941.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Taxi aggregators may be roped in for Kochi metro feeder trips||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has reached out to taxi-aggregator platforms to operate feeder services from metro stations in order to provide the much-needed first- and last-mile connectivity to commuters from 22 stations in the Aluva-Pettah corridor. A couple of rounds of talks later, the firms have agreed to respond by the month-end after working out a tentative plan. Similar systems are there in many other metro networks in the country, where the aggregator platforms have kiosks at metro stations. The introduction in Kochi suffered delay due to the pandemic-induced stalemate and what could be opposition from operators of other modes of public commute, said official sources. Such ventures would reduce the demand for parking at metro stations and bring down traffic congestion in the city. Stakeholders are also considering the aggregation of bicycles, which could be rented out to commuters, it is learnt. This comes in the wake of the inability to make optimal use of bicycles that were procured using Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) funds. The metro agency is also working with an NGO to get a few thousand bicycles, which could be availed on rent by commuters. All this is being envisaged on the lines of Bengaluru and Hyderabad metro models. KMRL has already tied up with a firm to provide two-wheelers on rent from its M.G. Road station. The Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) too is learnt to be fine-tuning its Yatri app launched in 2021. The app would be relaunched in a month, said sources. The app enables taxi car services, with operators not needing to set apart a portion of their revenue as commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taxi-aggregators-may-be-roped-in-for-kochi-metro-feeder-trips/article38312556.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Spike in non-COVID cases likely, say Health officials||The district health wing has warned of a possible spike in non-COVID cases as many suffering from various ailments were found reluctant to visit hospitals for follow-up care in view of the worsening pandemic situation. With the primary focus of the health system turning back to COVID-19 cases following the massive surge in daily cases, the chances of an increase in non-COVID cases were high, according to the preliminary assessment by the authorities. A similar situation was evident at the peak of the second wave, they said. “People requiring weekly lab tests and hospital visits owing to various ailments like diabetes, hypertension, and lifestyle diseases would be hesitant to complete the process, fearing that they may get infected after visiting a lab or hospital facility. Such a situation may lead to an increase in non-COVID cases,” said Sajith John, District Programme Manager, National Health Mission. The reduced focus on treatment of leptospirosis and dengue fever, which were reported in various parts of the district prior to the third wave, may be another challenge for the health authorities in the coming days. People must seek the advice of doctors and avoid resorting to self-medication. They could also make use of the telemedicine facility to clear their health concerns, according to the district health wing. Expert advice Those infected with COVID-19 and having co-morbidities need to consult a doctor without delay and act as per the advice given by experts on hospitalisation and follow-up treatment. Those with kidney, liver and heart ailments have to be extra cautious and should not delay seeking treatment. Cancer patients should also be vigilant once they have tested positive for the disease. The district has not yet reported any death in the third wave, as per official estimates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spike-in-non-covid-cases-likely-say-health-officials/article38312555.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Delay in getting test results hits Maradu municipality work||The functioning of the Maradu municipality has come to a near standstill owing to the delay of nearly a week in receiving COVID-19 test results from the Regional Public Health Lab. The primary health centre (PHC) at Nettoor had sent 259 samples last week to the lab, out of which 59 were of the municipal staff, including the health standing committee chairperson. Following the delay, the chairperson opted for antigen test, was found positive, and has since emerged from quarantine. Quarantine “Ideally, those giving samples for testing are supposed to quarantine themselves till the results are out. But with the delay, people have to go for testing at private facilities, while some others choose to roam around. If the samples of the municipal staff who had gone into quarantine voluntarily turn out to be negative, then the municipality would have needlessly lost their service for over a week,” said Maradu municipal chairman Antony Ashanparambil, who had gone into quarantine five times in quick succession, the latest being when the health standing committee chairperson tested positive. The Nettoor PHC, on an average, collects 100 samples on Mondays and Thursdays. “We are being told that the delay is because 12 staff at the public health lab tested positive, and the facility is finding it difficult to cope with shortage of hands. Collecting more samples on Monday will only add to the backlog,” said a municipal health official. Mr. Ashanparambil, however, alleged that the delay was part of an attempt to either promote private testing facilities or to manipulate the test positivity rate to prevent backlash at a time when the ruling party was going ahead with its district meetings. The Maradu municipal office remains as good as closed with only minimal staff, while entry to the public remains banned. There are currently six active cases among the municipal staff, and the delayed test results will show whether that number will go up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/delay-in-getting-test-results-hits-maradu-municipality-work/article38312552.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Rare bamboo blooms fill Neriamangalam forest||Bambusa Bambos, a bamboo species that flowers once in a human lifetime, has flowered at Valara and Nagarampara forest stations in Neriamangalam Reserve Range in eastern Ernakulam. This species of bamboo takes 60 to 130 years to flower. The bamboo is spread over 100 sq.km. between Thalacode and Adimaly in a deciduous forest, which has a variety of flora and fauna that includes a large population of elephants and wild gaur. Deputy Range Forest Officer G.G. Santhosh says, “The flowering began in December; the blooms will last for three to four months, before they dry and die.” A similar flowering occurred in Wayanad last year. Kani, the head of the local tribe, says such an occurrence had taken place 60 years ago. Dr. Sreekumar V.B. Senior Scientist at the Kerala Forest Research Institute, explains that mass flowering of bamboo clumps happens, as seedlings have same age. “Each clump has almost 25 to 30 culms, which is the bamboo shoot. When the flowers dry, seeds are formed and fall to the ground. These have a short viability period and regerminate, if not removed. The seeds are nutritious and are also known as bamboo rice.” This has now acquired the status of a superfood and is retailed for between Rs. 600 and Rs. 1,000 per kg. The flowering bamboo has many repercussions. The seeds attract rodents and the dried bamboo results in loss of food for herbivores like the elephants and increases the risk of forest fires. According to the tribals in the area, the flowering is a sign of oncoming drought. “There is a huge increase in rodent population and of birds, but also a loss of food for the elephants,” says Mr. Santhosh. Collection of seeds As the flowering is in a protected area, only the local tribes are allowed to collect the seeds. According to Mr. Sreekumar, the collection requires a scientific method and is done by laying sheets or mats on the ground. The Vana Samrakshana Samithi (VSS), a body of locals, who live by the forest and assist the Forest department, develop bamboo nurseries from these seeds. “In Kerala, payasam is made with bamboo rice,” says Mr. Sreekumar, while Mr. Santhosh adds that bread made from bamboo rice flour is a new addition to its varied forms. “Once the flowering ends, the bamboo will die. It will take another decade and more to have a bamboo grove again,” says Mr. Santhosh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/neriamangalam-forest-awash-with-rare-bamboo-blooms/article64946938.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:04 IST,KERALA||Actor assault: additional witnesses examined||The Ernakulam Additional Special Sessions Court on Saturday examined two additional witnesses in the case relating to the sexual assault on a woman actor in February 2017. Actor Dileep is the eighth accused in the case. The additional witnesses, who had been arraigned as court witnesses at the last hearing held on January 20, were examined as prosecution witnesses. Two other additional witnesses did not appear as the summons could not be served. High Court nod The Kerala High Court had allowed the prosecution on January 17 to examine five additional witnesses in the case. The High Court had passed the verdict on the appeals filed by the prosecution challenging the orders of the Additional Special Sessions Court rejecting the prosecution’s applications seeking to recall some of the witnesses and summon additional witnesses for examination in the case. Of the 16 witnesses, nine were additional witnesses. The High Court had also allowed prosecution to re-examine three witnesses in the case. The prosecution had contended that some of the witnesses were required to be recalled to identify the accused persons in the case. Prime accused ‘Pulsar’ Suni, the prime accused in the case, and two other accused, including Manikandan and Salim, were presented before the court on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/actor-assault-additional-witnesses-examined/article38312538.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:00 IST,KERALA||58,500 packets of tobacco seized||The Angamaly police on Saturday arrested two persons with 58,500 packets of banned chewing tobacco being smuggled hidden in 78 sacks aboard a pickup van. The arrested were identified as Abdul Jabbar, 49, and Hussain Abdul, 56, of Marampilly. They were nabbed during a vehicle check conducted on the national highway following a tip-off received by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthick. The police said the accused had initially smuggled in the contraband from Bengaluru to Palakkad where it was shifted to the pickup van. They had allegedly bought it for Rs. 8 lakh and were expecting a windfall of Rs. 30 lakh by selling it here. They had mainly targeted the migrant workforce in Perumbavoor. The seizure was part of the 52 cases registered during a three-day special drive held by the rural police against drugs, banned tobacco products and illicit liquor. This included eight cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 14 under the Abkari Act and 30 cases under the Cigarettes or Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act. Raids are going on in all 34 police station limits in Ernakulam rural police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/58500-packets-of-tobacco-seized/article38312547.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Ernakulam logs 8,143 new infections||Ernakulam reported a total of 8,143 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Among the infected, 23 were health workers. The number of active cases in the district was 38,769, according to an official communication. V. Jayashree, District Medical Officer, said that those under home isolation should step up vigil in view of the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases. Among the existing COVID-19 cases, about 95.86% were in home isolation, she said. District Collector Jafar Malik said the officials concerned should ensure that COVID restrictions were implemented. The restrictions imposed on Sunday would have to be implemented as per the guidelines. Only essential services would be permitted, according to the authorities. Ullas Thomas, District Panchayat President, said that directions had been given to activate rapid response teams in all local bodies. A meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority held on Saturday decided to step up the vaccination coverage. About 97% of the target population had received the second dose. Ernakulam figures in the ‘A’ category as per the number of persons admitted in hospitals. Taluk hospitals will have special COVID wards from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-logs-8143-new-infections/article38312551.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||Chandrasekharan re-elected INTUC State president||R. Chandrasekharan was elected as State president of the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) for the fourth consecutive time here on Saturday. He was nominated as State president of the INTUC in 2007 followed by the elections held in 2012 and 2016. Mr. Chandrasekharan said the INTUC would organise agitations against the anti-worker policies and loss of jobs in various sectors. The trade union would also oppose the disinvestment of public sector units, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chandrasekharan-re-elected-intuc-state-president/article38312581.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Meet assesses road, bridge, building works||Officials and people's representatives should work in tandem to complete the minor and major construction works of the department in a time-bound manner, Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was speaking at a District Informative Coordination Committee (DICC) meeting chaired by District Collector Afzana Parveen here recently. While assessing the progress of road, bridge and building works across the district, the Minister directed to convene a meeting to resolve the delay in the extension work of the Asramam Link road. The officials concerned have been asked to update the MLAs concerned about the progress of the works in each constituency at regular intervals and nodal officers will be assigned for this. "The DICC, comprising people's representatives and officials, will be convened three times a year to review the progress of the projects. The 'Right of Way' online system will be implemented to avoid delays in the construction works involving other departments," said the Minister, who sought a report on important projects. Training At the meeting the Chief Engineer was directed to provide training to the officials on project implementation when needed. Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J. Chinchurani, some MLAs,and Public Works Secretary Anand Singh attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-assesses-road-bridge-building-works/article38312567.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:00 IST,KERALA||Kollam gearing up for better COVID control||Considering the spike in the number of COVID-19 patients in the district, the Health department has issued an alert warning to people with fever and respiratory illnesses asking them to stay extra vigilant. People with primary symptoms such as fever, cough, and sore throat should not go out in public or travel. Antigen test Even if the antigen test is negative, undergoing RT-PCR is necessary. At present, the district is in A category and 2,882 persons tested positive on Saturday, including 2,847 contact cases. The number of patients in hospital ICUs and the proportion of the severity will now be the criteria for determining the rate of spread. While the district administration will deploy more people for containment activities, private hospitals too will arrange the needed facilities. "The services of 20% of the house surgeons in two private hospitals and third-year students in private nursing schools will be used, and they will work as per the direction of the Health department. The District Medical Officer will be in charge of coordinating the team," said District Collector Afsana Parveen. Ms. Parveen directed private hospitals to ensure a fixed number of intensive care units (ICUs), oxygen beds, and other inpatient facilities, and increase the numbers if required. "Accurate number of patients, vacant beds, ICU beds, and ventilators should be recorded on the COVID-19 Jagratha portal. Failure to do so will be taken seriously. Nodal officers will be responsible for the updation," she said. Special team In addition, a special team will be functioning to monitor and communicate containment and preventive measures. "The next three weeks are expected to be crucial and support from private hospitals is essential. At the same time, information about oxygen availability is equally important and that information must also be recorded on the Jagratha portal. The cooperation of private hospitals is expected to be available 24 hours a day," she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-gearing-up-for-better-covid-control/article64946923.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:57 IST,KERALA||Online session on dairy society governance||The Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is hosting a Google Meet on ‘Dairy society governance and co-operative laws’. The event on Google Meet will be held from 11 a.m. on January 25. Interested persons can register their names for attending the meeting on 8075028868 till 10.30 a.m. on January 25. For more details about the event, interested persons could call 0476 2698550, 9947775978.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-session-on-dairy-society-governance/article38312568.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Check on to bust ganja carriers’ network||Based on fresh intelligence inputs, an inter-district flash checking drive is under way, covering the northern Kerala region under the leadership of a special squad of the Excise Department to crack the ganja smugglers’ network. The district-level squads and strike units are also part of the intensified inspection in the wake of noticing an increase in the number of young carriers. According to Excise Department officials, the entry of the State-level special squad has helped the district-level squads to effectively coordinate the surprise inspections covering a larger area without any geographical restrictions. They also point out that some of the inter-State routes frequented by the drug carriers for their secret operation are now under the close watch of this squad to act quickly. “The special squad functioning directly under the Excise Commissioner has the permission to coordinate even inter-State investigations related to drug trafficking. We will exchange the available information with the squad for a strong and combined operation,” said Deputy Excise Commissioner K. Jayapalan. Bigger operations He said that the entry of the special squad comprising members from different districts was found highly effective in planning bigger search operations. In one of such combined actions, the Excise squad managed to seize 36 kg of ganja from five persons. The inter-district squad detained the suspects from Kozhikode, Malappuram, and Wayanad districts. According to Excise Department sources, the seizure was made after closely tracking the movement of their vehicles by separate squads at various points and check-posts. The call data records of some of the frequent offenders and suspected carriers had also been analysed for zeroing in on the inter-State drug peddlers. Officials said the data would soon expose more persons suspected of having links with the wholesale suppliers of marijuana in various North Indian States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/check-on-to-bust-ganja-carriers-network/article38312526.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Illegal wetland filling goes unchecked||The special squads constituted in various panchayats in Kozhikode district to check illegal filling of wetlands and paddy fields have largely remained inactive. Conversion of such illegally filled areas into garden land is also rampant thanks to poor surveillance. Environmental organisations attribute the trend to official apathy coupled with the involvement of influential politicians. Complaints against suspected individuals and firms are being ignored, they said. Spot action “Many village and panchayat officials are not familiar with the Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land and Wetland (Amendment) Act. As a result, complaints are not taken up for spot action,” said a functionary of the Kerala Paristhithi Samrakshana Samiti. He added that an awareness programme had to be organised for land revenue officials to familiarise them with the rules. Complaints are also on the rise against wetland filling in the name of road development. Environmental activists pointed out that the ongoing construction of the Perambra Bypass was a classic instance where local residents were up in arms against large-scale filling of wetlands. An action committee member said there had been similar attempts near the Kottuli wetland too. “It was the local police who finally acted against the illegal act and booked a private landholder who attempted to fill nearly eight acres along the Kozhikode Bypass. Revenue officials arrived at the spot only after the earth removers and goods carriers were impounded,” he claimed. ‘No negligence’ Meanwhile, Revenue department sources said there was no negligence on the part of the squads in exposing illegal land filling. According to them, the frequency of inspections was reduced in some villages owing to staff shortage and workload.  The frequency of inspections was reduced in some villages owing to staff shortage and workload Revenue dept. sources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illegal-wetland-filling-goes-unchecked/article64946948.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Govt. not making serious efforts to tackle third wave||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has accused the government of not making a serious attempt to tackle the third wave of the pandemic. Addressing the media here on Saturday, he said the government was instructing everyone to stay at home, as government hospitals lacked facilities. The Health department laid off around 22,000 workers despite repeated reminders by the Opposition that it was not time to disband the COVID-19 Brigade, he said. Mr. Satheesan said that people suffering from other ailments were forced to rely on private hospitals if they were infected with COVID-19. Earlier, the poor could secure free treatment under the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP). Now, that too has been cancelled, he alleged. The Opposition Leader demanded that the Health Minister clarify as to what arrangements were in place to treat COVID-19 patients, as the facilities available during the first and second wave no longer existed now. Everything was hijacked by a panel of experts, Health Secretary, and the National Rural Health Mission Director, Mr. Satheesan alleged. He said that the CPI(M) held a rally in Thrissur on Saturday with the participation of hundreds of people, interpreting the Kerala High Court verdict as applicable only to Kasaragod district. The party was publicly violating the law, he said. The CPI(M)‘s Kasaragod district conference was suspended only because the court said so, he said, adding that party State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s view that the court order did not apply to Thrissur was tantamount to mocking even the legal system. ‘Directive violated’ Mr. Satheesan said that the police had filed a case against five persons, including members of the Opposition for taking part in a protest. But the CPI(M) held a conference in Thrissur in blatant violation of the government’s directive, which said that not more than 75 persons should attend indoor meetings, he added.  Earlier, the poor could secure free treatment under the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi. Now, that too has been cancelled’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-not-making-serious-efforts-to-tackle-third-wave/article64946952.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||Entrepreneurs elated over aid to Kinfra park||he Kerala State Small Industries Association (KSSIA) has expressed delight over the decision of the State government to accord administrative sanction for allotting Rs. 222.83 crore for the proposed industrial park under the Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (Kinfra) at Ramanattukara. For over two years, the KSSIA and various other organisations have been waiting for a favourable order from the government to address the fund shortage faced by the mega project. According to officials, a portion of the much awaited fund will have to be used for addressing the grievances of those who had handed over their land for the project. The project had been pending for over a decade mainly because of the protest on the part of some landowners who took the legal way seeking more compensation for the acquired property, they said. “Whatever be the percentage of the compensation amount to be distributed, we will now have enough funds to implement the project with this government order. The only concern is the timely release of the sanctioned amount to the Industries department,” said M. Abdurahiman, district president, KSSIA. According to him, about 50% of the already acquired 80 acres is likely to be available for setting up various small industrial ventures. The existing proposal suggests the use of the prime space for the promotion of information technology ventures. However, chances are likely to incorporate the demands of small industrial entrepreneurs. Many are gearing up to experiment with food-based industrial projects using the space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entrepreneurs-elated-over-aid-to-kinfra-park/article38312523.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:04 IST,KERALA||Teacher education centre official relieved of charge||K. Ramakrishnan, Additional Director, Calicut University Teacher Education Centres (CUTECs), has been relieved of his charges before the end of his tenure. Mr. Ramakrishnan was also working as Principal, CUTEC, Vadakara, Kozhikode. It is learnt that he has resigned from that post now. This happens at a time when the Calicut University authorities are trying to restore the recognition of the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) for its teacher education centres which had been cancelled some time ago. The university is supposed to wind up efforts for the restoration by January 29. According to sources, Mr. Ramakrishnan was engaged in the posts on contract basis for a year from August 4, 2021 to August 3, 2022. An order issued by T. Muraleedharan, Deputy Registrar, on January 19 said a “complaint was received against Mr. Ramakrishnan”, and “after examining the matter in detail, sanction has been accorded by the Vice Chancellor” to relieve Mr. Ramakrishnan from the post of Additional Director with immediate effect. V.K. Jibin, Assistant Professor, Department of Education, has been appointed as the new Additional Director, CUTECs, the order added.  Mr. Ramakrishnan told The Hindu on Saturday that he was unaware of the nature of the complaint against him and why he was removed from the post ahead of the tenure.  Sources in the university claimed that many teachers and principals in B.Ed centres were not qualified to be in those posts. There had been a proposal from Mr. Ramakrishnan to remove all of them and make appointments afresh. The sources indicated that this could have led to his untimely exit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teacher-education-centre-official-relieved-of-charges-ahead-of-tenure/article38312532.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||Bengaluru- Kannur Express may be extended to Kozhikode||A long-term proposal to extend the Bengaluru-Kannur Express to Kozhikode may finally reach fruition with the Southern Railway officials responding positively at a meeting of MPs in the Palakkad division. Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas, who chaired the meeting, informed Kozhikode MP M.K. Raghavan that the proposal was under the active consideration of the Railways before the presentation of the Union Budget on February 1. Previously, the South Western Railway had agreed to the extension plans of the express train. At the meeting, Mr. Raghavan blamed the Railway for delaying the proposal on the grounds of lack of platform at Kozhikode railway station despite the South Western Railway giving its consent and the availability of sufficient time to reach Kozhikode. Train number 16512 starts from Kannur at 4.50 p.m., reaches Mangaluru at 7.50 p.m., and reaches Bengaluru the next day at 6.50 a.m. Train number 16511 starts from Bengaluru at 9.30 p.m. and reaches Kannur at 10.55 a.m. the next day. The officials said the proposal would be considered after Mr. Raghavan suggested that the existing Mangaluru-Kozhikode Express Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) service be extended to Palakkad. That would solve the issue of lack of a platform in Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bengaluru-kannur-express-may-be-extended-to-kozhikode/article38312518.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||7,500 sachets of tobacco product seized; 1 held||The Medical College police on Saturday arrested a Puthiyara native with 7,500 sachets of ‘Hans’, a brand of scented chewing tobacco product. Thachurakkal Mujeeb, 43, was nabbed by a police team led by sub inspector V.V. Deepthi. The banned tobacco products packed in 10 sacks were found hidden under a cot in Mujeeb’ s house. He allegedly brought it by bus from Bengaluru. Police sources said the seized products had a market value of Rs. 4 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7500-sachets-of-tobacco-product-seized-1-held/article38312536.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||Solar power propels a protest in Malappuram||The high cost of petrol has forced a group of women staging an indefinite hunger strike in front of the Collectorate here to install solar panels for power. The Collectorate premises have witnessed hundreds of agitations before, but it is the first time that a group of women are staging a hunger strike by installing solar panels and batteries for power. Scores of lower primary school teacher applicants from the district are staging the relay hunger strike, demanding justice for Malappuram district in shortlisting of the candidates after a Public Service Commission examination held in November 2020. The protesters allege that the government has shortlisted only one-third of the number of candidates who ought to have been on the list for primary school teacher appointments. “Only 997 candidates have been shortlisted on the main list. As per the norms being applied elsewhere in the State, as many as 3,543 candidates should be there on the main list,” says Anu Priya and Divya Jithesh, chairperson and convener respectively of the applicants collective. They began the agitation on December 13 last year, and spent more than Rs. 60,000 for generator. “The high cost of petrol made us rethink about power generation. So we turned to solar power by installing panels and batteries,” they said. They spent nearly Rs. 1 lakh for the installation of solar panels and batteries as though in anticipation of a longer struggle. In for long haul They have two fans, three tubes, and a public address system in their agitation venue. The government response to the hunger strike has not been positive. So they bought a good public address system instead of hiring one. “What we want is a proper explanation from the authorities for following separate ‘norms’ for Malappuram. But none has given us a convincing answer,” says Ms. Divya and Ms. Anu. It is learnt that the government reduced the number of lower primary school teacher applicants on the main list for Malappuram because of the current financial crunch. However, none is ready to go on record. As many as 26 of the protesting women were hospitalised as they faced near exhaustion after three or four days of hunger strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solar-power-propels-a-protest-in-malappuram/article64946927.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Girl abducted from West Bengal rescued||The police here rescued a 16-year-old girl, who had been abducted from West Bengal, following the intervention of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). The police and the Childline authorities swung into action soon after they got the message from the NCPCR, and rescued the girl from a rented house at Vazhakkad on Saturday. The girl from South 24 Parganas, West Bengal, had been abducted by a man from the same State, and was found pregnant. She was shifted to a shelter home. The police slapped a case under the POCSO Act against the man, who had come to Kerala for work. The father of a three-year-old girl, the man had kept the minor girl as his “wife”. The West Bengal police had filed an FIR (131/21) at Dholahat police station on November 4, 2021, under IPC Sections 363 and 365 for kidnapping of the girl. The NCPCR intervened in the case following a complaint by Mission Mukti Foundation. Childline officials Anwar Karakkadan, Muhsin Pari and Salma Suhana, who helped the police trace the minor girl, said that it was not the first time that a girl was abducted a brought to Kerala under the guise of a family member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girl-abducted-from-west-bengal-rescued/article38312527.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||Pandemic rages in capital as 7,430 more test positive||The COVID-19 graph continued to grow in the district as 7,430 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. As a result, the active case pool grew to 57,533, even as 4,163 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. Among the fresh set of cases, 7,220 have been attributed to contact transmission, while the source of infection was unknown in the others. As many as 58 health-care workers were among those diagnosed with the disease. 14 more deaths The death toll in Thiruvananthapuram rose significantly with 14 more deaths being attributed to COVID-19 on Saturday. The deceased included a 101-year-old Pallichal native who died on Friday (January 21). A majority of those who succumbed to the disease were aged above 70 years, according to official statistics. 225 hospitalised A total of 255 people were hospitalised in various parts of the district, taking the total count of people undergoing isolation in hospitals to 1,732. As many as 96,102 other COVID-19-infected people are undergoing quarantine in their homes or in designated institutions. The district administration has earmarked a facility in a government-run hospital as COVID-19 second-line treatment centre (CSLTC) to treat and quarantine 40 people simultaneously. The maternity block at the Government Ayurveda College Hospital for Women and Children (AVCH), Poojappura, has been identified for the purpose. The District Disaster Management Authority has instructed the District Medical Officer and the hospital superintendent to depute adequate staff at the facility. The third wave has begun to affect the functioning of the Poojappura Central Prison with 245 people testing positive for the disease on the premises. These included 239 prisoners and nine prison officers. Those infected were identified after 961 people were subjected to COVID-19 testing during the last three days. While a few of those who suffered from serious comorbidities have been shifted to a hospital, the others have been lodged in separate blocks on the prison premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-rages-in-capital-as-7430-more-test-positive/article64946826.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||Data-driven welfare delivery soon||The first phase of the State government’s unified registry project, under which a centralised platform will be created to identify and select beneficiaries of various social welfare schemes, is set to be launched by April. The unified registry is aimed at optimisation of the beneficiary selection process and avoiding duplication. Since the government funds more than 400 social welfare schemes spread over various departments, there have been cases of overlap. According to Snehil Singh, Director, Kerala State IT Mission, the basic structure for the registry is ready to be rolled out in a couple of months.  “The idea behind the registry is data-driven policymaking. The required data will be provided by the department while the registry will be able to optimise it in terms of finances, resources and identification of resources. In the first phase, we will be holding the databases of social security pension disbursal and of the Civil Supplies Department. Through this system, we will be able to quickly identify people who are eligible for a particular benefit and whether they are drawing similar benefits from other departments. All kinds of duplication issues can be addressed in the first phase itself,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu .  The mission is in the process of purchasing an Aadhaar Data Vault for the project, to protect the information provided by the citizens to various departments. The Cabinet, which had cleared the project in September last year, had cleared an amount of Rs. 34.32 crore for the first phase. Present situation Mr. Singh said at present, the different databases of the departments exist in silos, with no interaction happening between each other. There would be no new data collection for the purpose. The existing databases from the departments would be consolidated in one place under the registry to gain better insights in beneficiary selection. “The government has an open data policy and hence the entire data will be available for all departments to use. Due to this, there will be low waste of efforts and better optimisation in terms of planning and service design also,” he said. Regarding concerns of exclusion whenever Aadhaar is used for welfare schemes, he said it would not be a “black and white system”, with the checks and balances at the departmental level ensuring that there would be no exclusion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/data-driven-welfare-delivery-soon/article64946930.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:58 IST,KERALA||Case spiral continues unabated||Kerala reported over 40,000 cases for the third consecutive day on Saturday, with 45,136 persons testing positive when 1,00,735 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool now has 2,47,227 patients, of whom 3% are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals such as COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres. The Health department’s data say that during January 15-21, the average active cases were 1,49,922, of which an average of around 0.7 % were admitted in oxygen beds and 0.5% in ICUs. New cases increased by 201% (1,39,966 cases), so did active cases during this period, in comparison to the previous week. Hospitalisations increased by 87% and ICU occupancy by 57%. Oxygen bed requirement rose by 91%. A good number of recoveries are being reported for the past three days and the number of recoveries reported was 21,324 on Saturday. Rise in hospitalisations Hospitalisations are rising daily in proportion to the increase in new cases. On Saturday, the number of patients who newly entered hospitals remained more or less steady at 1,124. Total number of patients admitted to hospitals went up from 7, 772 to 8,430. ICU and ventilator occupancy continues to rise steadily and with 27 more persons newly going into ICU care on Saturday, ICU occupancy now stands at 946. Ventilator occupancy went up from 210 to 232. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 51,739, with the State adding 132 deaths to the official list on Saturday. These include 70 deaths which occurred in the past few days and 62 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 55,97,648 cases. Most cases in Ernakulam Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of 8,143 new cases, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 7,430, Thrissur 5,120, Kozhikode 4,385, Kottayam 3,053, Kollam 2,882, Palakkad 2,607, Malappuram 2,431, Alappuzha 2,168, Pathanamthitta 2,012, Kannur 1,673, Idukki 1,637, Wayanad 972 ,and Kasaragod 623.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-spiral-continues-unabated/article64946935.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||Two-layer security in the city today||A tight security blanket has come into effect across the capital district on account of the State-wide curfew that kicked in on Saturday midnight. Urging the public to desist from leaving their homes for inessential purposes, District Collector Navjot Khosa called for limiting journeys to the nearest commercial outlets for procuring essential commodities. Exams as scheduled She said there would not be any change to scheduled examinations. Examinees will be permitted to travel upon production of their hall-tickets. According to Thiruvananthapuram City Police Commissioner G. Sparjan Kumar, the city will come under the two-layer security scheme that will involve vehicle checks and inspections in commercial outlets and other places frequented by the public. While city boundaries will be barricaded at 18 points for vehicle checks, the first and second security zones within the city limits will have 38 and 27 checking points respectively. In addition, each police station limits will have two jeep and bike patrol teams each that will operate under the directions of the respective station house officer. Additional deployment will also be made from the city traffic police wing. The District Police Chief said motorists would be subjected to thorough checks. People engaged in essential services will be allowed to travel upon production of their official identification documents. Keep travel documents Those headed for bus and railway stations and the airport will also be permitted to proceed along with the mandatory travel documents. Other sections that will also be permitted include patients and their bystanders, vaccine-seekers, examinees, sanitary workers, workshop staff and employees of industrial establishments that function round-the-clock, Mr. Kumar said. He said those who were found travelling for inessential purposes will be booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Act and their vehicles impounded. Besides hospitals, only medical stores and eateries will be permitted to function on Sunday. Restaurants and bakeries can operate from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. on takeaway and home delivery basis alone. E-commerce and courier services will be permitted to function from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Teams led by station house officers have been instructed to undertake regular inspections at such commercial outlets to ensure the COVID-19 norms are complied with.  City boundaries will be barricaded at 18 points for vehicle checks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-layer-security-in-the-city-today/article38312712.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||More phone lines in control rooms||More telephone lines have been arranged in the call centres at the district control rooms in view of the current COVID-19 situation . Public can contact the respective district control rooms to clarify doubts on COVID-19 treatment, quarantine, or isolation. The control rooms may be contacted for directions to help move a patient to hospital urgently. Apart from the control rooms, Health department’s helpline DISHA 104, 1056, 0471-2552056 / 2551056 may also be called for clarifications on COVID-19. DISHA numbers can be called to get doctors’ services online, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-phone-lines-in-control-rooms/article64946823.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||Question paper row continues to brew||The controversy over the SSLC and Plus Two question paper pattern continues to brew in the State. Teachers’ organisations question the rationale behind dividing the questions into those from within and outside the focus area and including compulsory questions in the part from outside the focus area. The announcement, just a couple of months before the year-end examinations, has significantly increased students’ apprehension, says the Aided Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association. The focus area – 60% of the total portions in a subject as compared to 40% last year – was announced in December, and students expected that the question paper pattern would be on the lines of last year’s. But the new pattern, with 70% of the questions from the focus area and the remaining 30% from outside, published a month later has upset all their calculations. Lack of options Teachers point out the lack of options in non-focus area single-mark questions in Part 1 of the various question paper patterns. Even in other parts, the choice of non-focus area questions is limited. It should have been equal, if not more, to those in the focus area, which the students, in any case, are more likely to be thorough with. Teachers say the General Education department’s decision is an ill-advised response to the missteps made last year. Last year, the number of questions provided was double the maximum score. For instance, if the maximum score was 60, questions for 120 marks were provided and evaluated. There were no parts and 80% of the questions were from the focus area. The remaining 20% questions were from the entire textbook, including the focus area. While some students, they say, attempted as many questions as they could and managed to secure 60 marks, those who attempted questions for 110 or 115 marks also ended up with 60 marks, the maximum. This year students are being made to pay for the mistakes made then. The authorities, they say, are unwilling to adapt or look at things from the students’ perspective. Not an easy year A higher secondary teacher says that with postponement of examinations last year till the end of elections and conduct of Plus One examinations after that, not much headway was made as far as the Plus Two portions are concerned till October this year. Even when physical classes resumed, students were attending school only half the days in a week. With shaky foundations in Plus One, it has not been an easy year for them. The argument that online classes began in June does not hold much water as many students do not have devices still, those who do have are unmotivated, and attendance during online classes of subject teachers has been far from satisfactory. Portions are nowhere near finished. With improvement examinations, their valuation, practical and model examinations in the months ahead, teachers say it is a race against time to complete the syllabus before the year-end examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/question-paper-row-continues-to-brew/article38312584.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:59 IST,KERALA||Man held on charge of online fraud||The Thiruvananthapuram City Cyber Crime police have arrested a 30-year-old man for alleged impersonation and for defrauding numerous jobseekers of large sums of money and valuables. The police identified the accused as Sanith M.S. Sathikumar, 30, of Madavoorpara. He used to allegedly place advertisements on online marketplace OLX for various posts such as tele caller, office assistant, and data entry operator to non-existent firms. 18 sovereigns lost The accused, who used to identify himself using various names including Sanith, Sarath, Manu, Nandu and Nithin, would later collect identification documents such as Aadhaar from women keen on the jobs. He also purportedly collected money from the jobseekers after convincing them the payment is required to confirm employment. In the case of those who claimed inability to pay, the accused allegedly collected gold ornaments. He was caught in connection with a complaint lodged by a city-based woman who claimed to have lost 18 sovereigns of gold. SIM cards According to City Cyber Crime Assistant Commissioner T. Syamlal, the accused also purchased numerous SIM cards using the identification documents collected from various victims. These cards would be used to get in touch with other victims to safeguard his identity. Sanith has been involved in several cases registered in Museum, Karamana, Cantonment, Medical College, Kattakada and Nedumangad police stations. He had gone into hiding after the Museum police had registered a rape case against him in 2019. The Nedumangad police had registered a case against the accused for jumping police custody while he was taken to the Nedumangad court for a hearing in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-online-fraud/article38312703.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:04 IST,KERALA||Govt. offices issued fire safety norms||The State government has issued a set of guidelines for preventing accidental fires breaking out in government buildings. Government offices have been directed to install fire protection devices and maintain digital copies of important documents. Copies should also be maintained in another office, the Home Department said in a January 18 order which lists 24 points for government offices to follow. Smoke detection and alarm systems with hooters should be installed in the record rooms and other rooms where important records are kept. Such locations should also be equipped with automatic fire detection sensors with hotlines to the nearest fire station. Record rooms where priceless documents are preserved, server rooms and UPS rooms should have CO2/FM200-based total flooding systems operating on smoke/heat sensors. Multi-storeyed buildings should be equipped with fire protection mechanisms as prescribed by the National Building Code. Fire, electricity audits Apart from these, the guidelines also list a number of practical measures that should be followed in offices to prevent fires. The buildings should have proper ventilation and fire and electricity audits should be carried out at prescribed intervals. Waste material should not be kept in the corridors, terraces, and staircases of the buildings. They should be disposed of at regular intervals. Old electrical equipment should be replaced and it should be ensured that the offices are equipped with Earth Leakage Circuit Breaker (ELCB)/Residual Case Circuit Breaker (RCCB). Training for staff The government has asked staff to switch off electrical appliances after use. Employees also should be provided basic training in fighting fires, according to the order. Roads leading to the offices should be kept free of hindrances for providing easy access to firefighters. The order requires important government offices to deploy security guards/night watchmen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guidelines-issued-for-preventing-fire-in-govt-offices/article38312520.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:59 IST,KERALA||Letters that speak of the joy of writing||During the lockdown, jockeys of 1.14 Sahithy Vani, an Internet radio run by children, were asked to try their hand at writing letters as a way to beat boredom and tap into their creativity. Encouraged, the student radio jockeys thought why not express themselves, not verbally as they are wont to do, but by putting pen to paper. Their creative juices flowing, 46 children within the State and outside wrote to one another in their own handwriting. The flow of thoughts in the letters had the makings of a book. Sahithy then decided to bring them out as a book ‘Sahithy Vanikkyacha Katthukal’ (Letters sent to Sahithy Vani). When Sahithy Vani founder Binny Sahithy brought the letters to actor Innocent’s attention, he said he would release the book as a present for the children on Handwriting Day celebrated on January 23. At the release, Mr. Binny Sahithi and Sahithy Vani director Naseer Nochad were present.  Sahithy Vani, an Internet radio, brings out a book of handwritten letters of its jockeys||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/letters-that-speak-of-the-joy-of-writing/article38312701.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:59 IST,KERALA||Attempt to murder: youth arrested||The Vizhinjam police have arrested a youth in connection with the alleged attempt to murder a petrol pump employee a month ago. The police identified the accused as Safarulla Khan, 31, of Vizhinjam harbour. He has been accused of attacking Ananthu of Ambranchivila on December 28. The trigger The incident occurred at a petrol pump near the Vizhinjam junction where the accused had gone to refill his motorcycle’s fuel tank, the police said. Ananthu had prevented Safarulla from using his mobile phone on the premises. Incensed, Safarulla returned after a few minutes armed with a machete. In the attack, Ananthu sustained injuries on his hand. Soon after the incident, the accused went into hiding in Thodupuzha along with another history-sheeter he had met while undergoing a jail term. He was nabbed in Thampanoor on Friday when he had returned to the city to collect money from another friend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attempt-to-murder-youth-arrested/article38312702.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||Aswasakiranam arrears: SHRC seeks probe||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed an investigation into a complaint that monthly financial assistance of Rs. 1,200 provided by the Kerala Social Security Mission (KSSM) to the mentally challenged has not been paid for 16 months. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic has directed the KSSM director to conduct the probe regarding arrears under Aswasakiranam and submit a report within four weeks. Settling arrears An amount of Rs. 85.63 crore is needed to settle the arrears, a complaint by human rights activist Ragam Rahim has said. As many as 95,152 beneficiaries are not getting the aid, the complaint to the SHRC says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aswasakiranam-arrears-shrc-seeks-probe/article38312519.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||Application deadline||The opportunity to apply for admissions to postgraduate medical courses in the State will conclude on Sunday, January 23, at 5 p.m. Details can be had from the web portal of the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (www.cee.kerala.gov.in).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/application-deadline/article38312705.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||Online classes on track: Sivankutty||Online classes in the State are progressing well, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. Mr. Sivankutty said all high school and higher secondary teachers had been provided training in G Suite online platform and given login IDs. Students from classes 8 to 10 and those in Plus Two too had been given login IDs, and their classes were under way. Since Plus One admission procedures had been completed, Plus One students too would be provided with login IDs this month, a statement said. As part of the first phase of Vidyakiranam, all Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste students in class 10 and 12 had been given 45,313 laptops. The 1.2 lakh laptops made available to schools earlier could also be given to students for use. From November 1, besides offline classes, digital classes were being telecast on KITE Victers channels as per a pre-announced timetable. The new timetable effective Friday had also been published. Academic support for these classes that was being provided through schools should now be given to students till Class 9 using digital modes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-classes-on-track-sivankutty/article38312544.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:58 IST,KERALA||Solid waste management project to be in active phase||The activities under the Kerala Solid Waste Management Project will be stepped up to find a lasting solution to waste management and sanitation issues in cities, said Minister for Local-Self Governments M.V. Govindan on Saturday. Under the project, urban local bodies will be equipped to use the available technology and human resources to tackle the issue of solid waste. The project consists of both centralised and decentralised waste management measures. Technical experts Mr. Govindan said the services of technical experts in solid waste management was assured at all levels as part of the project, which is being implemented with funding from the World Bank. The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank was also supporting the project. Out of the total outlay of Rs. 2,100 crore for the project, 50% would be directly made available to local bodies. As many as 93 urban local bodies had inked a pact with the Suchitwa Mission expressing their willingness to be part of the project. The local bodies would be provided support to prepare a waste management plan for the next five years. The project would be implemented with the least environmental or social impact. The Suchitwa Mission would oversee the construction and running of the centralised waste management centres and sanitary landfill sites. As part of this, waste banks and waste trade centres would be opened in all cities. Facilities would be set up to handle e-waste, building demolition waste, and biomedical waste. The legacy waste piled up in the cities would be removed using biomining. The Thumboormozhi aerobic bin model, which has been found to be successful in Alappuzha, would be expanded to more cities. The project was expected to run in full swing by March, said Mr. Govindan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solid-waste-management-project-to-be-in-active-phase/article38312578.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||KU private registrations||Kerala University (KU) has decided to permit private registrations to undergraduate courses this academic year. The move, which was decided by the Syndicate two days ago, will facilitate enrolment for those courses that were approved for admissions in the private mode last year. According to official sources, a notification inviting applications for private registrations will be issued within a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-private-registrations/article38312711.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||COVID curbs in Central Library||Restrictions have been enforced in the State Central Library in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases. The library will function from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. from Monday (January 24) onwards. New memberships will not be granted for the next two weeks. Entry will be permitted for only those members who have received two doses of COVID-19 vaccine. Members will not be allowed to crowd on the premises . Those entering the library must ensure physical distancing in front of the circulation and admission counters. Likewise, members will be required to comply with COVID-19 norms in the reference and news-reading rooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-curbs-in-central-library/article38312708.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:04 IST,KERALA||CPI(M) meeting terms K-Rail ‘silver lining’||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] district conference, which concluded here on Saturday, termed the Thiruvananthapuram-Kasaragod semi-high-speed rail (K-Rail) the ‘silver lining’ of Kerala development. A resolution passed at the conference said K-Rail would give wings for the development dreams of the State. Vested interests were trying to sabotage the project. The resolution demanded the implementation of the project. ‘Public opinion’ Earlier, while inaugurating the delegate session on Friday, Polit Bureau member M.A Baby said that even some supporters of the Left Democratic Front were are apprehensive about the project. Hence, the project would be implemented only after heeding the opinion of the public. “The LDF has fulfilled all its promises in the last five years. It will fulfill its promises for the next five years too. People, who are scared of its performance, are creating problems,” Mr. Baby alleged. Eco-friendly projects Another resolution passed on the occasion demanded the implementation of comprehensive eco-friendly projects in the district. The projects should be designed by exploring scope for development in fields including agriculture, tourism, health sector, culture, rehabilitation of the differently abled, small-scale industries, and irrigation. The district conference re-elected M.M. Varghese as Thrissur district secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-meeting-terms-k-rail-silver-lining/article64946807.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:04 IST,KERALA||SIB brings down net loss||The South Indian Bank (SIB) has announced the Q3 FY 22 results. During the quarter ended December 31, 2021, the bank reduced the net loss to Rs. 50.31 crore from the Rs. 91.62 crore during the corresponding period of the previous year and the net loss of Rs. 187.06 crore during the Q2 of FY 22. “During the nine-month period that ended on December 31, 2021, the bank could make a robust recovery and upgradation in NPA accounts amounting to Rs. 896 crore compared to Rs. 218 crore during the corresponding period of previous year. The Capital Adequacy Ratio of the bank stands at 15.68% as on December 31, 2021. During the quarter, the bank had signed MoUs with the CBDT and the CBIC to collect direct and indirect taxes on behalf of the government,” Murali Ramakrishnan, MD & CEO of the bank, said. Mr. Murali added that the bank had seen major shifts over last one year in key areas such as digital banking and data science capabilities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sib-brings-down-net-loss/article38312566.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:04 IST,KERALA||A ‘Thiruvathirakali’ staged in protest||Alleging that Thrissur Collector Haritha V. Kumar failed to take action against protocol violations at the CPI(M) conference, a few KSU workers organised a protest ‘Thriruvathirakali’ in front of the collectorate on Saturday. The KSU leaders alleged that more than 175 members attended the delegate meeting of the CPI(M) conference at the indoor stadium. ‘Clear violation’ It was a clear violation of Collector’s order, issued on Friday, which said that only 150 people can attend meetings in open places and 75, in a closed room, they said. “The conference was held in the closed indoor stadium with 20-odd air conditioners. If the Collector cant take action, she should go on leave like the Kasaragod Collector,“ said KSU district president Midhun Mohan. KSU state general secretary Sobha Subin inaugurated the protest Thiruvathirakali. The activists claimed that they had conducted the event by maintaining COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-thiruvathirakali-in-protest/article64946808.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:04 IST,KERALA||5,120 cases in Thrissur||Marking a steep increase in COVID-19 cases, 5,120 persons tested positive for the infection in Thrissur on Saturday. There are 62 clusters in the district, including eight that were reported on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5120-cases-in-thrissur/article38312713.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:00 IST,KERALA||The suspense lingers all through||Holding back the core, while leaving us enough strands to hold on to, is an art. But holding everything back in a script has its perils, especially when you don’t have enough to take the viewer by surprise later on. Bhoothakalam shows us how to get it right, in quite an understated, effortless fashion.If one starts watching the film without reading or hearing anything about it, the initial scenes gives one the sense of it being a drama on the strained relationship between Asha (Revathy) and her son Vinu (Shane Nigam), both of whom are struggling with mental health issues. Asha works at a school, which is the only source of income for the family, that also includes her bed-ridden mother. Vinu, a pharmacy graduate, is struggling to find a job. The tension and rift between him and his mother is further compounded by her reluctance to let him move out of the city in search of better opportunities.The situation further exacerbates their frayed mental states . It is this foundation on which filmmaker Rahul Sadasivan starts building the horror part of the movie, even as the unsuspecting audience is slowly pulled into some spine-chilling sequences. But where the script written by Sreekumar Shreyas along with the director succeeds in is in injecting a sense of skepticism into the audience about what is going on screen.  When we first see Vinu getting trapped inside a room, we assume it could be due to his mental state. Later, when a mental health counsellor (Saiju Kurup) visits their house, and their neighbour tells him “something is wrong with that house”, we tend to see it as a mere nod to usual horror movie tropes, rather than take that comment seriously. An effective script Even when things escalate later on, for some time we assume it could be one of those attempts to lead us the wrong way. The effectiveness of the script lies in managing to maintain this feeling in us almost till the end.The horror part is almost incidental to the narrative, which places mental health and the need for mutual understanding at its centre. In fact, Vinu’s problems are worsened by the inability of those around him to believe his claims, many of which seem far-fetched and often understood as a product of his unstable mind. Deft camera work  Revathy and Shane Nigam, both of whom have been missing from the screens for a while, carry the film all through. Shehnad Jalal’s unhurried camera work, especially inside the claustrophobia-inducing rooms, play a huge role in how we feel what we feel. Bhoothakalam is a textbook in how to scare the audience with minimal use of jump scares techniques. By the end, one is left wondering whether the film’s title is referring to the past or to the ghosts.  S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-suspense-lingers-all-through/article64946828.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:42 IST,KERALA||As life goes on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-life-goes-on/article64946955.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||No space for walkers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-space-for-walkers/article64946945.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All-party meeting on inter-State water disputes in Feb.: Bommai||The State Government has decided to convene an all-party meeting in the first week of February in Bengaluru to discuss and decide on the future course of action to safeguard Karnataka’s interests in inter-State water sharing disputes, especially in the light of the Tamil Nadu Government’s move to utilise excess water in the Cauvery basin and its opposition to the State’s balancing reservoir project at Mekedatu. The announcement was made by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday after he held elaborate consultations through a videoconference with members of the legal team representing the State in the Supreme Court, the Advocate-General, and senior officials of the Law andWater Resources departments. Mr. Bommai discussed pending cases in the Supreme Court and court/tribunal orders related to irrigation projects in the Krishna and the Cauvery basins and the Mahadayi project. To assess preparations Mr. Bommai said he would hold another round of videoconference with the State’s legal team and irrigation experts at the end of January to obtain information about preparations made by the team to fight the State’s cases in the Supreme Court. The all-party meeting involving floor leaders of political parties in both the Houses of the legislature would be convened in the first week of February to arrive at a consensus on steps to be taken to fight the State’s interests in water disputes. Senior advocates and senior Ministers would also participate in the meeting, the Chief Minister said. “We have faced several challenges in the past with regard to inter-State water disputes. We will fight both legally and politically to safeguard the State’s interests in water sharing,” Mr. Bommai said. The State Government had already filed a petition in the Supreme Court opposing Tamil Nadu’s proposed inter-linking project, which seeks to draw surplus water from the Cauvery basin. The Government would also oppose Tamil Nadu’s plan to take up the second phase of the Hogenakkal combined drinking water project, Mr. Bommai said. The Government would urge the Central Water Commission not to clear Tamil Nadu’s proposed water projects in the Cauvery basin, the Chief Minister said. A few days ago, Mr. Bommai had said irrigation projects in the State were bogged down by inter-State river water disputes and asked the Centre to “revisit the Interstate River Water Dispute Act since the law is creating more disputes than resolving them”. Execution of many of the State’s irrigation projects have been delayed due to inter-State river water disputes with Maharashtra, Goa, and Andhra Pradesh, the Chief Minister said and urged the Centre to revisit the Act. Advocate-General Prbhuling Navadgi, Mohan V. Katarki and Shyam Divan, senior advocates representing the State in the Supreme Court, Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, Minister for Major and Minor Irrigation Govind M. Karjol, Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar were among those who participated in the meeting on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-party-meeting-on-inter-state-water-disputes-in-feb-bommai/article64946654.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stalin inaugurates 17 projects||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inaugurated 17 completed projects and laid the foundation stone for five more being implemented by the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department at a cost of Rs. 671.15 crore on Saturday through video-conferencing. An official release said that the 17 completed projects have been implemented at a cost of Rs. 662.22 crore and the five new projects would cost Rs. 8.93 crore. With 48.45% of the total population in Tamil Nadu living in urban areas, there is a need to create infrastructure that would satisfy the economic needs and provide opportunities to all sections of the society in a sustainable manner. The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board has implemented combined drinking water scheme in Palladam (Tiruppur district) for 155 rural settlements, Thanthoni Union in Karur district for 274 rural settlements, Pollachi (South), Pollachi (North) and Kinathukadavu in Coimbatore district for 212 rural settlements. The combined drinking water scheme has also been implemented in 28 rural settlements in Rayakottai in Krishnagiri district. Storm Water Drain project was inaugurated for Manachanallur and S. Kannanur in Tiruchi district, Perunthurai and Vallam municipalities in Erode district and Thanjavur district. He also inaugurated a sewage water treatment plant in Thoothukudi Corporation built by the municipal administration. As a part of the Smart City plan, Thoothukudi Corporation also got a Transport Park and Science Park. The Chief Minister also inaugurated Water Supply Improvement Scheme in Namakkal Municipality. The five new projects inaugurated by Chief Minister Stalin are a library and knowledge centre on Tiruvallur Road at a cost of Rs. 2.5 crore, upgrading Urban Community Health Centre at a cost of Rs. 1.40 crore on Kamala Nehru Hospital Road in Dindigul Corporation. He also inaugurated a housing scheme for urban homeless persons in Nehru Nagar and a library and knowledge centre in Kamaraj colony in Hosur, Krishnagiri district at a cost of Rs. 1.03 crore and Rs. 2.5 crore respectively. Hosur is all set to get a modernised fuel-based crematorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-inaugurates-17-projects-lays-foundation-stone-for-five-more/article64946656.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Markets wear deserted look despite fall in vegetable prices||Vegetable prices have nosedived after the Sankranti festival at markets in Chittoor district owing to a sharp fall in demand. On Friday, 2.5 kg of onion was being sold for Rs. 100, while 6 kg of tomato was sold for Rs. 100.Prime varieties of vegetables such as brinjal, potato, beans, and ladies finger soldbetween Rs. 30-50 a kg. The greens, which sold at Rs. 25 a tuft, have come down to 3 tufts for Rs. 20. Despite this customer-friendly trend, a sharp decline in the number of customers is being reported from several vegetable markets and vendors across the district. On Friday, the tomato price at Madanapalle market, the largest in Asia, was Rs. 20 a kg for the first-grade variety, whichissoldfor Rs. 50 a kg in cities. The price tag remained at Rs. 120 a kg in December last year. The second-grade variety sold for Rs. 13 a kg at wholesale prices, whichstood atRs. 60 in the retail market till the second week of January. The total arrival of tomato stocks was 103 metric tonnes at the market, which showed no increase since December last. “There are twomain reasons for this scenario. Generally, the demand for tomatoes would be less in the months after the Sankranti festivities. Secondly, post the November rains, the tomato plantations suffered huge losses. The growers will start new patterns in February. The tomato business will see the graph stabilise from April onwards,” a tomato trader at Madanapalle said. The reason for the slash in vegetable prices is attributed to bumper yields of several high-demand varieties in the western mandals, particularly the Kuppam and Palamaner mandals. Agriculture officials said that the region had witnessed copious rains last year after a hiatus, which led to a recharge of the groundwater table. Lockdown impact “Importantly, the export of vegetables to the Koyambedu market has come down to a large extent in the weekends due to lockdowns in Tamil Nadu. With this, the surplus stocks are reaching the domestic market,” Ganesh, a vegetable trader, in Nagari, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/markets-wear-deserted-look-despite-fall-in-vegetable-prices/article64946758.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police resume COVID campaign in remote villages||After a gap of six months, the police on Friday resumed the COVID-19 awareness campaign in Bangarupalem mandal, covering about 42 villages, mostly located in remote and forest-fringe areas. Rise in daily tally The villages, which registered a single-digit daily COVID tally in early January, have now started to see double-digit count. The Bangarupalem police initiated the mobile campaign with auto-rikshaws, which would reach the not-so-easily accessible hamlets, village shandies, bus stops, temples, and the dhabas and hotels situated close to the Bengaluru national highway. Inspector Mallikarjun Reddy said that the week-long campaign, undertaken by the Rural Organisation for Poverty Eradication Services (ROPES) with the support of Canadian NGO Children Believe, would emphasise the need for people to stick to COVID-appropriate behaviour at all times. Strict vigil “Despite wide publicity on COVID etiquette, people from the rural areas continue to travel in buses and shared-autos without wearing facemasks and following physical distancing. Given the exponential rise of COVID cases, we want to implement strict norms to control the spread,” he said. ROPES Chairman K. Dhanasekharan and Programme Director P. Sree Latha said that the mobile campaign would cover the target population of 75,000 in the mandal, which remain vulnerable to the spread of infections due to its close proximity to the national highway. Distribution of material “As part of the sensitisation among people on the COVID norms, we will resume the distribution of facemasks, sanitisers, soaps, and immunity boosters in the forest-fringe areas,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-resume-covid-campaign-in-remote-villages/article64946731.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paddy procurement picks up pace in Guntur||With reports of paddy procurement slowing down in many parts of the district, the district administration has swung into action in a bid to restore confidence among farmers. Guntur district is one of the major rice producing regions of the State and paddy is being grown in over 10 lakh acres under Krishna Western Delta and under Nagarjunasagar ayacut. District Collector Vivek Yadav visited Uppalapadu village in Narasaraopet manmdal and Naragayapalem in Vinukonda and inspected the paddy procurement process in Rythu Bharosa Kendramulu. The Government of Andhra Pradesh has made it mandatory for paddy procurement to be done at Rythu Bharosa Kendras. The RBKs have been equipped with all facilities to procure paddy, including weighing scales. Vice Chairman and Managing Director of AP Civil Supplies Corporation Veerapandiyan said that 21.24 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was procured through 5,020 RBKs worth Rs. 4,166 crore, out of which Rs. 2,083 crore was credited directly into the accounts of the farmers, indicating that 50% of farmers have been credited with money. The government has fixed Rs. 1,960 per quintal for A-grade paddy. In Guntur district, paddy procurement has begun in 733 RBKs through 248 procurement agencies. So far, 54,194 MT of paddy has been procured and the amount is being credited within 21 days. “Paddy procurement is being done at a brisk pace and so far we have procured 54,194 MT of paddy from 8,791 farmers. We have also made changes in the paddy procurement portal allowing procurement of 40 bags per acre in view of increased paddy production. We have also opened a control room (9491392717) to redress any grievances in paddy procurement,” said Mr. Vivek Yadav. Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar stayed overnightat two RBKs at Chaintayapalem and Yajali in Karlapalem mandal near Bapatla. ``The farmers have to take the help of agricultural assistants at RBKs and upload the details of the cropin the procurement portal,” said Mr. Dinesh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paddy-procurement-picks-up-pace-in-guntur/article38311976.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||LS panel summons seven in Bandi Sanjay case||The Privileges Committee of Lok Sabha has summoned Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of PoliceM. Mahender Reddy and five other on a complaint by Karimnagar MP and BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar that he was roughed up by the police when he was arrested at his camp office in Karimnagar town on January 2 night. The MP wanted to stage a sit-in all night demanding scrapping of a government order on re-allotment and giving fresh postings to government staff in newly carved out districts of the State in pursuance of a Presidential Order on new zonal system on employment and education. Others who were issued notices by the panel included Principal Home Secretary Rajiv Gupta and Karimnagar Police Commissioner V. Satyanarayana who led the huge police force that gate crashed into Mr. Sanjay Kumar’s camp office using gas cutter and iron rods to break open the gate. The summons were also issued to Karimnagar Assistant Commissioner of Police Srinivas Rao, Jagtial Deputy Superintendent of Police Prakash and Inspector of Karimnagar police station Lakshmi Babu. Strong reaction The incident sparked off a strong reaction from BJP as it arranged meetings of senior leaders with Mr. Sanjay to highlight the abuse of power by the TRS government. BJP president J.P. Nadda, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and Chhattisgarh former Chief Minister Raman Singh called on Mr. Sanjay Kumar after the incident. Mr. Sanjay Kumar had explained his version of the episode to the 15-member Privileges Committee headed by Sunil Kumar Singh on Friday. He said this was the second time that the police behaved rudely with him.He also said the High Court had found fault with the manner of his arrest and remanding him to judicial custody. On court directions, he was released from jail in Karimnagar prematurely before the period of judicial remand expired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ls-panel-summons-seven-in-bandi-sanjay-case/article38311952.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ex-UBI manager forged letters’||The detective department of Hyderabad police arrested former Union Bank of India chief manager S.K. Mastanvali and 21 others for allegedly fabricating and forging Telugu Akademi’s cover letters for fraudulent use in fixed deposits. Rs. 65 cr. fraud The fraud to the tune of Rs. 65 crore, involving UBI’s branches at Karwan, Santosh Nagar and one branch of Canara Bank, took place between January and September last year. Police, while disclosing more details on Saturday, said that Mr. Mastanvali forged cover letters of Director of Accounts of Telugu Akademi, based on which fake FD certificates were created and handed over. The original FDs, which were kept in possession, were encashed and its value transferred to various accounts. Related case In a related case, Mr. Mastanvali, while working at the Karwan branch, had also forged two FDs worth Rs. 1.99 crore made in favour of Telangana State Warehousing Corporation. The original FDs were handed over to one Nanduri Venkata Raman, but the monies were not withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fd-fraud-case-ex-ubi-manager-forged-telugu-akademi-letters/article38312491.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TCS, Wipro, Infosys to join hands with JNTU-K||Three Indian giants in Information Technology – Tata Consultancy Service (TCS), Wipro, and Infosys – have in principle given their consent for collaborative research with Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU-Kakinada) in the fields of Artificial Intelligence, IoT and Data Science. At a high-level meeting convened by JNTU-Kakinada Vice-Chancellor Prof. G.V.R. Prasada Raju recently, TCS, Wipro and Infosys have given their nod for the collaboration with the JNTU-K in four areas – Industry-Sponsored Research, Industry-Institution Collaborative Research, Sponsorship for Ph.D. candidates and Internship for M.Tech students.  “The JNTU-K will go for collaborative research with each company. A joint patent will be claimed for the ‘outcome’ of the research in the fields of Artificial Intelligence, IoT, and Data Science. The research is to find solutions for emerging challenges with the support of the emerging technologies,” Prof. Prasada Raju told The Hindu .  In the Industry-Sponsored Research category, the TCS, Wipro, and Infosys have agreed to sponsor the research being done by the JNTU-K in the respective fields. Scholarship “The three IT giants have also agreed to offer financial aid for full-time Ph.D candidates. For M.Tech students, a one-year internship has been offered by the three companies,” added Prof. Prasada Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tcs-wipro-infosys-to-join-hands-with-jntu-k-for-research-in-ai-iot/article38312688.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala gets its first ever scientific bird atlas||The Kerala Bird Atlas (KBA), the first-of-its-kind State-level bird atlas in India, has created solid baseline data about the distribution and abundance of bird species across all major habitats, giving an impetus to futuristic studies. Conducted as a citizen science-driven exercise with the participation of over 1,000 volunteers of the birdwatching community, the KBA has been prepared based on systematic surveys held twice over 60 days a year during the wet (July to September) and dry (January to March) seasons between 2015 and 2020. The KBA accounts for nearly three lakh records of 361 species, including 94 very rare species, 103 rare species, 110 common species, 44 very common species, and 10 most abundant species. “The KBA offers authentic, consistent and comparable data through random sampling from the geographical terrain split into nearly 4,000 grids. We are in the process of bringing out papers on interesting trends based on a scientific analysis of solid data besides making futuristic predictions. It will be exciting to undertake a similar exercise between 2025 and 2030, giving an insight into the changes in the decade since the first KBA,” says P.O. Nameer, one of the State-level coordinators of the KBA. Asia’s largest It is arguably Asia’s largest bird atlas in terms of geographical extent, sampling effort and species coverage derived from the aggregation of 25,000 checklists. It was found that the species count was higher during the dry season than in the wet season while species richness and evenness were higher in the northern and central districts than in the southern districts. Most of the endemics were concentrated in the Western Ghats while the threatened species were mostly along the coast. The KBA is considered to be a valuable resource for testing various ecological hypotheses and suggesting science-backed conservation measures. Volunteers were divided into survey teams of two to five members. They were deployed across all 14 districts armed with technological tools such as Locus Free, an Android GPS application, and eBird platform for seamless conduct of the survey and documentation. On top of the chart Among the species, White-cheeked barbet and House crow with 13,855 records and 12,380 occurrence records topped the chart compared to 20 other species, which had just single occurrence records. The survey, however, ignored the short duration passage of migrant species such as Eurasian cuckoo, Amur falcon, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-gets-its-first-ever-scientific-bird-atlas/article64946649.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala HC asks Dileep, others to appear for interrogation||The Kerala High Court on Saturday directed actor Dileep and four others, including his kin, to report before the investigation officer for interrogation on January 23, 24 and 25 from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. in a case relating to hatching a conspiracy to finish off the investigation officers in the actor sexual assault case. Justice Gopinath P., however, restrained the police from arresting them till January 27. The court passed the interim order on the anticipatory bail plea filed by the petitioners. Bid to interfere The court directed the actor and others to cooperate with the investigation. Any attempt to interfere with the probe would be viewed seriously and lead to the cancellation of the interim order of protection against the arrest, it said. The court directed the police to place a report regarding the interrogation and any other material evidence collected before the court in a sealed cover on January 27. Besides Dileep, his younger brother P. Sivakumar and brother-in-law T.N. Suraj have moved the court seeking the same relief. The court observed that certain material, handed over to it in a sealed cover by the prosecutor during the hearing on the bail petitions, suggested that an in-depth investigation was required in the case. The court asked counsel for Dileep and others to tell their clients that the court was very serious and “that any violation of conditions will be dealt with seriously”. “Don’t attempt anything unnecessarily and don’t even think about it,” the court said. The court observed that the information received so far by the prosecution may not indicate the commission of offences as alleged. However, the allegations were very serious. Opposing the bail pleas, T.A. Shaji, Director General of Prosecution, submitted that the Crime Branch had collected material that supported the allegation that Dileep and others had hatched a conspiracy to do away with the police officers. A thorough investigation and the custodial interrogation of the petitioners would enable the prosecution to get sufficient evidence. If the petitioners were granted bail, it would defeat the very purpose of the investigation. Influence the witnesses The accused were making every possible effort to influence the witnesses and change the course of investigation in the assault case. A host of prosecution witnesses had turned hostile allegedly due to the actor's influence. When the accused was protected by anticipatory bail, it would be very difficult to conduct an investigation and prove its case against the accused, he contended. Counsel for the petitioners contended that even if the allegations were taken into consideration, they did not make out any ingredients of any of the offences for criminal conspiracy. Therefore, the prosecution could not insist on custody of the petitioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-hc-asks-dileep-others-to-appear-for-interrogation/article64946650.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Passengers on Lakshadweep ships halved for social distancing||All passenger ships under Lakshadweep Administration that operate from Lakshadweep isles to Kochi and between the isles would operate with 50% of their passenger capacity, to ensure social distancing, the administration has said in a release. In addition, people travelling from one island to another must get an RT-PCR negative certificate from the Department of Health Services there. They can travel only with the prior approval of the incident commander of the island concerned, provided they are not primary contacts of any COVID-19 positive person. The Department of Port, Shipping and Aviation will issue travel tickets only to people whose names are recommended by the District Disaster Management Authority or incident commanders. This apart, the full medical quota tickets will be released in all the vessels. Classes suspended The physical classes up to Standard IX in madrassas, in Islamic nurseries, LKG, UKG and tuition centres in the isles have been suspended with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/passengers-on-lakshadweep-ships-halved-for-social-distancing/article38311953.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Writer Basheer museum yet to be functional||Writer Vaikom Muhammad Basheer’s 114th birth anniversary passed by this January 21 without much enthusiasm. A museum and a lexicon proposed in his name at the University of Calicut appear to have a similar fate though the authorities claim that they are very much on their agenda. According to P. Rasheed Ahammed, Syndicate member, the plan for the museum was mooted six years ago. A project report was prepared by writer M.T. Vasudevan Nair, literary critic M.M. Basheer, and architect R.K. Ramesh. A building was constructed, and the plan was to exhibit Basheer’s manuscripts, articles used by him, and the first published copies of his books there. The lexicon project was undertaken by N. Gopinathan Nair and Mr. Basheer. The draft of the 6,000-page lexicon was submitted to the university five years ago. An Academic Chair named after the writer used to function from the building. However, no follow-up measures seem to have been taken up of late, Mr. Ahammed alleged, though lakhs of rupees had been spent for the projects from the university fund. They had government support as well. Mr. Ahammed also alleged that the building housing the Basheer Chair, which used to hold events featuring eminent writers, is now a den of miscreants. Denying the allegations, Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj said funds had been arranged from the MP’s development fund for setting up a library at the Basheer Chair. The plan is to simultaneously ready the museum and the library. The Chair used to hold academic events and public programmes till the pandemic struck. P.P. Raveendran, Visiting Professor, Basheer Chair, said a webinar lecture series involving scholars from languages other than Malayalam, translation of Basheer’s literary works, and a research fellowship were in the pipeline. The lexicon prepared on Basheer’s works was in the reference library section of the Department of Malayalam. There is a proposal to publish it soon, he added. Mr. Jayaraj said articles related to Basheer had been kept at the Chair building. Students and others will be allowed to visit the place once the work on the museum is over, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/writer-basheer-museum-yet-to-be-functional/article64946655.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP slams govt. for its ‘anti-Hindu’ stand||Speakers at the ‘Praja Nirasana Sabha’ organised by the BJP here on Saturday criticised the YSRCP government in the State for “being blind to the attacks on the Hindus and temples” and for “foisting false cases against the party cadres.” BJP national secretary Sunil Deodhar alleged that the YSRCP government was “creating a communal divide in the State, and adopting a partisan attitude towards the Hindus.” “The BJP is akin to fire, and if you (the Chief Minister) foist false cases against the party cadres and adopt anti-Hindu policies, you will perish,” Mr. Deodhar said. Alleging that “fanatics” had entered Andhra Pradesh to disturb communal harmony, he demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy immediately withdraw the false cases against the BJP cadres. Questioning the “silence” of the TDP on the Atmakur and Srisailam incidents. he said both the regional parties encouraged “family, caste and community politics.” BJP national general secretary Arun Singh cautioned Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy to desist from “harassing” the BJP cadres. He said the 17-crore BJP cadres in the country would firmly stand by the activists who faced attrition by the YSRCP government. Likening the YSRCP regime to the previou Mulayam Singh’s government in Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Arun Singh said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy would meet a similar fate. Dig at Sucharitha BJP State president Somu Veerraju said that the government had not yet arrested the culprits in the Atmakur violence case. He also faulted Home Minister M. Sucharitha for giving an audience to the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) leaders, “who are behind the Atmakur violece.” “The YSRCP government is out to arrest the BJP cadres for their social media posts, but is not taking action against its own cadres for their objectionable posts,” he alleged. Demanding action against Gudur inspector Sridhar for allegedly assaulting the party cadres, Mr. Veerraju said, “The YSRCP leadership should decide whether it supports patriots or traitors.” ‘Sack Minister’ “The casino episode in Gudivada is an onslaught on Hinduism. The government should immediately sack the Minister concerned,” Mr. Veerraju said. He said the BJP would be in the forefront to support the demands of the government employees on the PRC. “If we strive hard for the next 30 months, the BJP will come into power in the State,” he said. Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao alleged that the YSRCP government was adopting anti-Hindu policies and supporting anti-social elements, which posed a danger to the social amity in the future. BJP vice-president Adinarayana Reddy said the time had come to unseat the YSRCP from power. Senior BJP leaders Vishnuvardhan Reddy and T.V. Venkatesh spoke at the meeting, which was attended by the party cadres from 175 constituencies in the virtual mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-comes-down-on-govt-for-its-anti-hindu-stand/article64946722.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Counting tigers amid threat of COVID-19||Nearly 300 field staff and officials of the Forest Department fanned out across Bandipur on Saturday to commence the quadrennial tiger count whose result is expected to reinforce the national park’s reputation as one of the best sanctuaries for the big cats in the country. This is the fifth in the series that began in 2006 but unlike in the past the exercise is being held in the shadow of the pandemic as a result of which the NGOs and volunteers are not part of the tiger count. It is strictly a departmental affair and comprises field staff and members of the special tiger force, all whom were extensively trained by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) in the adjoining Mudumalai in Tamil Nadu last year. ‘’But adequate care has been taken to ensure health and safety of the staff and all those participating in the tiger count exercise have been fully vaccinated and even tested,” according to senior Forest Department officials who are part of the All-India Tiger and Mega Herbivore Estimation. Apart from the tiger census and COVID-19, this is fire season and in the absence of a full-time Director, V. Karikalan, Deputy Conservator of Forests (Mysuru), is holding charge and monitoring the activities. He said a core team had been constituted to oversee the enumeration exercise in all the 112 beats of the Bandipur Tiger Reserve. It would be involved in data collation, tabulation and uploading the same on real time basis using a dedicated app called MSTRIPES — Monitoring System for Tigers Intensive Protection and Ecological Status. The 112 beats across Bandipur has been divided into three blocks of 37 beats each and for each beat there are three persons engaged, including a gunman. Each team has to walk along the line transects covering 5 km daily in their assigned beat looking for the presence of carnivore signs, including pug mark, scat, scratches on bark etc., besides physical sighting of the animal. An intensive camera trap exercise, lasting nearly a month, was already completed last year and the data will be collated with the current exercise. While the exercise in the first block which began on Saturday will conclude on January 27, the second block exercise will be held from Janaury 28 to February 2 and the enumeration in the third block will be from February 3 to 8, according to Mr. Karikalan. He said Bandipur, like most other tiger reserves, had its own census conducted annually and hence the staff were well versed with the protocols of the quadrennial exercise. Post February 8, the census will be held in territorial forests and will cover Arabhithittu, Melkote, and forests bordering protected areas in H.D. Kote and Saragur taluks. A dedicated team is already in place for fire watching and 450 additional fire watchers have been deployed across 70 camps across Bandipur to ensure that the fire watching activity is not hampered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/counting-tigers-amid-threat-of-covid-19/article64946652.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Read NCERT books for Civils exam’||Senior faculty member in Political Science and International Relations at Sri Harini IAS Academy, Sanjay Kumar Thakur, has advised the parents to allow children the freedom to choose their career paths.  Speaking at a seminar on ‘Careers in UPSC (Civil Services) and APPSC,’ organised by The Hindu in association with the academy in Narsaraopet on Saturday, Mr. Thakur said that it is a welcoming trend that more Civil services aspirants are coming from smaller towns.  Stating that a vast amount of information is available online, Mr. Thakur said that students need not go to bigger cities for coaching, but can prepare well in their towns with proper support from faculty and parents. Faculty member in Ecology and Environmental Studies at the academy, Amith Singh said:  “The basics of preparation are same. The fundamentals in all subjects can be learnt from NCERT books, one should read a curated newspaper like The Hindu and go through the earlier question papers.”  He also advised the aspirants to read the editorials regularly. Above all, the students must have consistency, hard work, self motivation in addition to a proper study plan. LIC India programmer A.V. Ramesh Babu lauded the efforts of the Director of the academy, Kancharla Narendra in setting up an IAS coaching academy in Narsaraopet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/read-ncert-books-for-civils-exam-experts/article64946730.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA provides accidental insurance for 1,475 village volunteers||Rajanagaram MLA Jakkampudi Raja on Saturday provided three-year accidental insurance coverage for the 1,475 Grama Volunteers serving in his constituency in East Godavari district. The initiative has been launched under the aegis of the Jakkampudi Rammohan Rao Foundation. Rammohan Rao was Mr. Raja’s father. Collector Ch. Hari Kiran, Rajamahendravaram Sub-Collector Ms. Ilakkiya, and Mr. Raja gave away the insurance policy papers to the volunteers in Rajanagaram town. Mr. Raja has taken up the initiative following the recent death of a volunteer, Kodela Leela Rani, in a road accident in the Rajanagaram area. Mr. Hari Kiran said the Assembly segment registered 90% implementation of various State government schemes on a par with the Pulivendula segment in Kadapa district. The constituency is leading from the front in the completion of Secretariats, Rythu Bharosa Kendras and YSR Clinics in the district, he said. YSR Clinic inaugurated Later, Mr. Hari Kiran, Mr. Raja, and other officials inaugurated a YSR Clinic and Secretariat building at Kotha Tungapadu Panchayat in the constituency. Mr. Raja and district officials handed over a CM Relief Fund cheque for Rs. 3 lakh each to the families of three persons who recently died after falling in an open well at Dosakayalapalli village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-provides-accidental-insurance-for-1475-village-volunteers/article64946873.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI extends support to employees’ stir||CPI district secretary Sanapala Narasimhulu on Saturday alleged that the State government was trying to create a gap between people and employees by highlighting that the employees were agitating over the PRC issue in spite of getting huge salaries. In a press release, he said the party would extend support and participate in the protests planned by the government employees, Mr. Narasimhulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-extends-support-to-employees-stir/article38312681.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||AIYF seeks job calendar for benefit of youth||The All India Youth Federation (AIYF) State president Paruchuri Rajendra Babu on Saturday asked the State government to issue a job calendar and withdraw its order enhancing retirement age. At a roundtable conference here, he said that the enhancement of retirement age up to 62 years would lead to denial of jobs to many youngsters. “The government’s decision is detrimental to the interests of youngsters whose life turned miserable due to the lack of employment opportunities in the State. The AIYF will fight over the issue by organising protests and roundtable conferences,” he said. AIYF leaders Yugandhar, Hareesh Kumar, Ravi, Radhakrishna and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aiyf-seeks-job-calendar-for-benefit-of-youth/article38312679.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala’s wait for a war memorial continues||The goal of having a war memorial in the State capital for soldiers who fought in the post-Independence era wars and military operations is yet to become a reality, despite land being earmarked two years ago. Originally conceived in the 1990s, the project had languished on the backburner for years. Land-related objections later forced the Sainik Welfare Department, Kerala, to abandon a plan to construct the memorial near the Shanghumughom beach. Although 1.5 acres of government ‘poramboke’ land at Akkulam was identified in 2020 as the alternative site, work on the memorial is yet to begin. Design yet to get nod  A design for the memorial submitted by the Sainik Welfare Department to the State government is also awaiting clearance, sources said.A senior official of the department told The Hindu that work on developing the land was in progress at Akkulam. The chosen location is close to the tourist village and the headquarters of the Southern Air Command. He attributed the delay to the outbreak of COVID-19 and problems in determining the precise boundaries of the land. The latter problem has been sorted out. ‘‘We have completed the construction of the perimeter fence. Soil tests are under way now,’‘ the official said.The way things stand, department officials expect to have the foundation stone for the project laid only by the next financial year, at the earliest.  Objections The file on this project dates back to the 1990s when the Union government asked States to set up memorials. The Kerala government issued the initial order transferring 1.15 acres at Shanghumughom on June 28, 1999, to the Sainik Welfare Department. However, this plan had to be dropped as the site was being used as a playground and the local community raised objections. Akkulam was identified as a suitable location by a War Memorial Committee which was appointed by the State government in 2018. The existing war memorial in the capital city, a pillar which stands in a small enclosure opposite the College of Fine Arts, commemorates the soldiers who fought in World War I.  Aim is to commemorate soldiers who fought in wars and military operations post Independence||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralas-wait-for-a-war-memorial-continues/article38311942.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. clamps down on life and trade today||The State government has imposed a stringent lockdown on Sunday. For weeks, the administration has weighed whether to regulate life and trade to bridle the accelerated spread of the suspected Omicron-propelled COVID-19 surge. The drastic attempt to restrict the tempo of daily life to rein in the exponential rise in infections has, arguably, ushered in a sense of deja vu in citizens habituated to two straight years of lengthy lockdowns. Lockdown on Jan. 30 The administration has stopped short of terming the restraints on "inessential activity" as a shutdown. The clampdown on normal life would recur again on January 30. The scamper for RT-PCR test, the increasing number of hospitalisations and the largely uncertain nature of the COVID-19 "third wave" have prodded the government to allow only indispensable services on January 23 and 30. Shuttered bars The government has closed bars to keep weekend revellers indoors. However, it has allowed the sale of toddy since coconut palm tapping is conventionally reckoned a traditional sector such as agriculture and coir. Restaurants and bakeries should not allow in-person dining. Nevertheless, the government has permitted takeaways and home delivery of food. No establishment should remain open after 9 p.m. Tourists could check into hotels and resorts if they have booked their stay in advance. There is no restriction on courier and door-to-door delivery services. Fish, meat, milk, vegetable, fruit and provision stores, medical shops, laboratories, clinics and diagnostic services could remain open from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Newspaper distribution and news operations would continue unimpeded. The government has strictly restricted inessential travel. Citizens venturing out should furnish an affidavit detailing the purpose of their journey. People could travel unchallenged to vaccination centres and hospitals. Long-distance train and bus services would continue uninterrupted. However, Railways have cancelled at least a score of daily shuttle services. The government has also scaled down outpatient operations at public-funded hospitals. Workshops could attend to emergency vehicle breakdowns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-clamps-down-on-life-and-trade-today/article64946651.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Moral education will help curtail violence against women’||How far can violence against women go and is there a legal recourse readily available for women in distress? Filip Strandberg Hassellind, a researcher in International criminal law at the University of Gothenburg, Sweden, finds a ray of light emerging at the end of the tunnel in the form of growing awareness. Mr. Hassellind recently came to Tirupati to study instances of violence against women, especially in rural India. Accompanied by Sri Venkateswara University College of Arts principal B.V. Muralidhar and sociology professor Stanley Jayakumar, he interacted with social activists, inmates of a women’s home, academics, public representatives and police officials to get diverse perspectives on the issue.  In a freewheeling chat with The Hindu , he explains the darker side of the term ‘gendercide’, coined to indicate gender-based selective genocide, and the need for women to raise their voice against violence of all forms and at all places, viz., home, workplace or the community at large. “Women are discriminated against from the womb to the tomb. Selective genocide may have stopped with the ban on gender diagnosis of foetus or the ‘Beti Bachao’ programme, but a lot more has to be achieved,” he says.  Media’s role He calls upon the media to bring to light such instances of violence so that it is talked about with the stakeholders, debated by the society, redressed by the government and finally, a future course of action evolved by policymakers to thwart similar instances in future. Mr. Hassellind finds a pressing need to impart moral education to children to make them respect the gender difference. Violence against women basically stems from men’s insensitivity and the general tendency to attack. “An adolescent boy who teases, mocks at, harasses and physically assaults a girl may resort to the same to his spouse, daughter and even mother in future,” he cautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/moral-education-will-help-curtail-violence-against-women/article64946734.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:13 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Public hearing on power tariff from tomorrow||The A.P. Southern Power Distribution Company Limited proposes to conduct a public hearing on January 24, 25 and 27 via a video-conference to invite objections from the public on the power tariff proposals submitted by it to the A.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission. Superintending Engineer (Tirupati) D.V. Chalapathi said people will have to register their names and objections at commn-secy@aperc.in and then participate in the hearing either at his office in Tirupati, or at the Executive Engineer’s offices in Chittoor, Puttur, Piler or Madanapalle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/public-hearing-on-power-tariff-from-tomorrow/article38311968.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two-day SAAP tennis league begins at IGMC Stadium||The Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP) is conducting a tennis league for the first time to recognise talent and strengthen the sport in the State, according to its managing director and vice-chairman N. Prabhakar Reddy. Speaking at the inauguration of the two-day SAAP Tennis League Republic Day Cup organised at IGMC Stadium on Saturday, Dr. Reddy said that zonal-level tournaments were organised and over 400 players competed. He said such tournaments were organised for the first time in State. Players who excel in the State-level tournament would be offered training by national level coaches with all facilities, he said. He said SAAP aims to put A.P. in the top 10 list of the country in tennis. Over 250 players from across the State were competing in the tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-day-saap-tennis-league-begins-at-igmc-stadium/article64946729.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||LIC working women urged to oppose privatisation||Andhra Pradesh State secretary of All India Democratic Women Association (AIDWA) Rama Devi on Saturday urged LIC working women to take an active part in the movement against IPO proposal and protect the organisation as a public sector entity. She was addressing the divisional-level convention of LIC Working Women Coordination Committee (WWCC), Machilipatnam division, held in Vijayawada. The conference was attended by LIC women employees from Krishna and Guntur districts, and leaders of the Insurance Corporation Employees’ Union (ICEU). Ms. Rama Devi applauded the activities taken up by the Machilipatnam division of the ICEU and called for the need to further strengthen the organisation. Vijayawada Mayor Rayana Bhagyalakshmi said women should excel in all walks of life. She said the agenda of women empowerment was top in the priority list of the YSRCP government. ICEU’s Nellore division president S. Jagadeeswari urged the employees of the organisation to make the proposed two-day nation-wide strike from February 23 in protest against the Central government’s privatisation policy a grand success. The members resolved to fight for their demands, including 33% reservation for women in legislatures, security for women in the workplace, and effective steps to prevent attacks on them. ICEU leaders J. Sudhakar, G. Kishore Kumar, Ch. Kaladhar, T. Chandrapaul, L. Rajasekhar, NMK Prasad and J. Madhu, among others, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lic-working-women-urged-to-oppose-privatisation/article38312729.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM takes part in virtual meet with PM on backward dists.||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy participated in a video-conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the development of backward districts on Saturday. The Chief Ministers of various States, Lieutenant Governors, Union Ministers, Chief Secretaries, and District Collectors took part in the deliberations. NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant gave a presentation on the topic, and the District Collectors apprised the Prime Minister and other top officials of the Central government about the progress of various schemes in their respective districts. Chief secretary Sameer Sharma; Special Chief Secretaries Poonam Malalondaiah (Agriculture) and B. Rajasekhar (School Education); Principal Secretaries A.K. Singhal (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) and G. Jayalakshmi (IT and Electronics); Secretary (Environment and Forests) Vijay Kumar; and I&PR Commissioner T. Vijay Kumar Reddy participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-takes-part-in-virtual-meet-with-pm-on-backward-dists/article64946721.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. pensioners in Hyderabad allege arbitrary fixation of pay scales||The Association for A.P. Pensioners Settled at Hyderabad has criticised the Andhra Pradesh government for fixing the salaries and perks of the employees and pensions in an “arbitrary manner,” and expressed concern that the benefits will reduce as a result of the PRC recommendations. In a press release on Saturday, association general secretary T.M.B. Butchi Raju said the pensioners were taken aback by the government’s attitude, and they would support the Government Employees’ PRC Sadhana Committee, which resolved to go on strike from February 7, in order to achieve the employees’ legitimate demands. The association would discuss the issues at its meeting in Hyderabad on January 26 and announce its course of action. ‘Settle issue amicably’ Meanwhile, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna demanded that the government settle the issue amicably by making necessary changes to the PRC recommendations. He stated in a release that the employees were upset with the government’s decision to cut salaries by following its own calculations. Unfortunately, the fitment was fixed at 23% and various benefits too had been reduced, he observed. The issuance of G.O.s amidst stiff opposition by the employees was highly deplorable, Mr. Ramakrishna said. “The employees have resolved to go on strike as a last resort. The government should at least now adopt a pragmatic approach to the dispute, lest it should bring the State administration to a grinding halt,” the CPI leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-pensioners-in-hyderabad-allege-arbitrary-fixation-of-pay-scales/article38312652.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:13 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book throwing light on Bahmani dynasty coins released||Former Deputy Speaker of Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly Mandali Buddha Prasad on Saturday released a book, Coinage of Bahmani Dynasty , written by a Guntur-based numismatist J.V.S.V. Prasad at a programme organised by the Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati.  Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Buddha Prasad said coins reflected history ofa region, and pointed out that Mr. Prasad had collected all the coins issued by the 10 Bahmani rulers, who ruled between 1347 and 1527 AD from Gulbarga and Bijapur. Pleach India Foundation CEO E. Sivanagireddy said the collection of Mr. Prasad comprised almost all the coins of the Bahmani dynasty in different denominations in gold, copper and silver. Historian Movva Srinivasa Reddy, who reviewed the book, said the variety of the coins had contributed to growth of the Deccan economy. Students of Andhra Loyola College, PB Siddhartha College and history-lovers were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-throwing-light-on-bahmani-dynasty-coins-released/article38311970.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Physics fest in Loyola College from tomorrow||The Andhra Loyola Physics Association (ALPHA) will organise “Resonance 2022”, a national-level academic fest on “Optoelectronic Devices and Applications - Future Perspective” on January 24 and 25. The event is being organised in collaboration with the Indian Association of Physics Teachers (IAPT). Representatives of the college management released a poster of the fest on Saturday. Competitions will be held in oral presentation (PPT), exhibition of models, quiz (general, audio and visual rounds), poster presentation, essay writing, treasure hunt, Spell B, collage making and one-minute games. “The objective is to encourage students to grasp the emerging trends in physics in a fun way,” said dean of Sciences T. Srikumar and head of the department Srinivasa Sastry. Degree college students can register using the Google form. Interestedcan contact the ALPHA coordinator P. Mounika on 7416447939.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/physics-fest-in-loyola-college-from-tomorrow/article38312730.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Casino issue: TDP seeks action against Kodali||A delegation of the TDP on Saturday lodged a complaint with Eluru Range Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police K.V. Mohan Rao against the alleged casino-style gambling organised in Gudivada during the Sankranti celebrations. The team, comprising K. Ravindra, B. Umamaheswara Rao, V. Ramaiah, and A. Rajendra Prasad, went to the DIG office and demanded that action be taken against Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao (Nani), in whose convention hall the activity had allegedly been held. Plea to Collector Meanwhile, TDP leaders submitted a representation to Krishna District Collector, seeking his permission to visit Gudivada to “bring out the facts” on the alleged casino being run by Mr. Kodali Venkateswara Rao there. The leaders alleged that during their recent visit to the town, their cars were “attacked by YSRCP goons.” They also alleged that a section of the police officers were hand-in-glove with the YSRCP leaders. Informing the Collector that a complaint had been lodged with the Krishna district Superintendent of Police on January 17, they said activities such as gambling and obscene dance on the occasion of Sankranti brought disrepute to Telugu culture. Alleging that the organisers had collected huge amounts towards entry fee, they urged the Collector to probe the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/casino-issue-tdp-seeks-action-against-kodali/article38312664.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:14 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||“Develop technologies to fulfil needs of society”||“We are witnessing a new era of reflection, thanks to the pandemic and this has expedited efforts to develop technologies to fulfill the needs of the society, saidS. Balachandran, Executive Chairman and CEO, Buimerc Corporation Ltd., Dubai, UAE. Addressing the inaugural session of a three-day international conference on “Advances in Mechanical Engineering and Material Science” organised in virtual mode by VIT-AP University, Mr. Balachandran emphasised the role of mechanical, civil and electrical engineering in building block of current technologies development. Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Binghamton University, State University of New York, USA, said the students should utilise the conference to develop technologies based on the challenges faced by the society. Founder and Chancellor, VIT, G. Viswanathan spoke about the contribution of VIT group of institution to the field of research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/develop-technologies-to-fulfil-needs-of-society/article38311982.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Spandana’ put off due to COVID-19 surge||Krishna Collector J. Niwas on Saturday said in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases, the Spandana programme scheduled to be held on January 24 (Monday) was being put off. In a statement, Mr. Niwas said no petitions would be accepted at the Machilipatnam Collectorate, the various divisions in the district and village and ward secretariats. West Godavari The West Godavari district administration also cancelled the programme from January 24. Public can send their grievances through Spandana web portal: https://spandana.ap.gov.in. Complaints can be sent using the Aadhaar Card numbers, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spandana-put-off-due-to-covid-19-surge/article38312733.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mekapati tests positive for COVID-19||Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy has contracted coronavirus. “I have tested positive for COVID-19. Mild symptoms exist. I have isolated myself at home. Those who have come in contact with me in the last few days, kindly get yourself tested & stay safe,” the Minister said in a message on the Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mekapati-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article38312665.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGUKT counselling postponed to Feb. 6||A total of 2,916 students have registered themselves for the final phase of counselling for admission to the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT). In a statement on Saturday, university Chancellor K.C. Reddy said, of the total, 2,812 were newly registered students. Earlier, 47 had registered for the Srikakulam campus, 53 for Ongole campus, three for Nuzvid, and one for R.K. Valley campus. Mr. Reddy said, considering the COVID-19 situation, it was decided to postpone the counselling date to February 6. The counselling would be held on the Nuzvid campus, he added. ‘Intimation soon’ He said the shortlisted candidates would soon be informed to attend the counselling as per the merit, category and vacancies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rgukt-counselling-postponed-to-feb-6/article38312666.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||I&PR officials inspect R-Day tableaux works||Information and Public Relations Commissioner P. Vijaya Kumar Reddy said that arrangements for display of the State government's schemes through Republic Day tableaux are being made. Mr. Reddy inspected the tableaux preparation works at IGMC Stadium along with other officials concerned. He said the tableaux would feature 16 schemes and developments achieved by the State, including the first-of-its-kind Rythu Bharosa Kendralu, Nadu-Nedu in education and healthcare sector and fisheries development. I&PR joint directror Kiran Kumar, Deputy Director Bhaskar Narayana, District PRO S.V. Mohan and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ipr-officials-inspect-r-day-tableaux-works/article38312728.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘How can a cash-strapped State build airports?’||Senior TDP Leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu on Saturday ridiculed Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s ‘one district - one airport’ idea, saying it was yet another ‘Tughlaq’ decision after his first on setting up three capitals. “The Chief Minister has already pushed the State into a debt trap. Where will the money for the airports now come from?” he questioned. Medical colleges The Chief Minister had announced the setting up of 16 medical colleges at a cost of Rs. 7,800 crore. He had virtually laid the foundation stone for 14 of them. “But where are the colleges, what is their progress and status?” he questioned. “Salaries are not being paid in time. Those who have retired from service about six months ago have not yet received their retirement benefits. In this backdrop, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officers to prepare proposals for airports in each district,” Mr. Patrudu said. ‘Contractors’ bills pending’ The State had no money to take forward the lifeline projects such as Polavaram and Sujala Sravanthi, he said. “The government has no funds to build a tribal university, but is going ahead to build airports,” he ridiculed. “The government has no money to pay the contractors who had supplied nutritious diet to the COVID Care Centres during the second wave and supplied mid-day meal to the schools. The R&B and TIDCO contractors to have not been paid their money. And now it proposes to build airports,” he said. Paddy and sugarcane farmers were yet to get their dues and the next of kin of those who had succumbed to COVID-19 had not received any compensation so far, the TDP leader said. ‘Money extortion’ Mr. Ayanna Patrudu accused the YSRCP government of trying to extort money from the poor by increasing house tax, imposing garbage collection tax, and implementing the One Time Settlement scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/how-can-a-cash-strapped-state-build-airports/article64946723.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||40 teachers, 17 students test positive for COVID in district||As many as 40 teachers and 17 students from various government schools in the district have tested positive in the Visakhapatnam district, since the schools have reopened after Sankranti holidays. A number of teachers from the rural and urban schools have been testing positive for the past couple of days. In some areas in Anakapalle (Rural), S. Rayavaram, Kotlavuratla and a few other areas, many teachers have tested positive. In this regard, some school managements are sending students back to home and announcing holiday for a day. Earlier, the Health Department used to conduct COVID-19 tests in schools. They were stopped now, it was learnt. Some parents say that they are forced to send their children to the schools with no option of online classes left. Several parents are worried about children using public transport. They say that they have been informing children not to take off their masks in the classes and maintain physical distancing. “What should we do when the syllabus is being completed in the schools quickly?. The officials did not even provide the option of online classes either. Earlier, my son used to go in auto-rickshaw, but due to increase in cases, we are dropping him personally,” said G. Prasad, a private employee from Kancharapalem. Child Rights Protection Forum (CRPF) president Gondu Sitaram, who has been inspecting schools for the past couple of days, said that he has spoken to several children and collected their opinions. He said that children are also worried and they complain that some of their classmates have been suffering from cold and cough, but still attending the classes. “Definitely long-term online classes should not be encouraged. But at a time when the cases are increasing rapidly, the government must consider to close schools and conduct online classes at least till the end of the month,” he added. District Educational Officer L. Chandrakala said that many students, parents and staff may have travelled to some other places during Sankranti holidays and after returning, only a few are showing symptoms and testing COVID-19 positive. She said that there is no resistance from parents at all to send their children the schools as safe environment is created. “Ever since the schools were opened after Sankranti, the overall attendance percentage is about 70 in the district. After cases rise, we are sanitising the schools for some period, isolating contacts and conducting further tests. There was no situation of shutting down schools completely,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/40-teachers-17-students-test-positive-for-covid-in-district/article38312678.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 casts shadow on three major events in Feb.||The rapid rise in COVID-19 cases has cast a shadow on three major events that are scheduled to take placein February. To begin with, there is the much-awaited T20 cricket match between India and the West Indies, to be played at Dr. Y.S Rajasekhara Reddy ACA-VDCA Stadium on February 18. Next up isthe Presidential Fleet Review of the Indian Navy on February 21 and ‘Milan’ —anotherexercise bytheNavy which is scheduled to commence from February 25. Though neither the BCCI nor the officials from Eastern Naval Commandhave commented on any likely impact that the pandemic might have on the events, it is learnt that preparations are on in full swing.  Speaking to The Hindu , Visakhapatnam District Cricket Association secretaryK. Parthasarathi said, “We have not received any instructions from the BCCI. Asof today,the match is on and we are preparing the ground and the pitch.”  “Normally, we have three options— either drop the fixture and cancel the tour or play the match in an empty stadium without the crowds, the way the recent tour to South Africa was played, or regulate the crowd to a percentage as desired by the BCCI,” said a senior member of the Andhra Cricket Association. Based on instructions from the BCCI, the ACA has suspended all domestic fixtures including the Ranji Trophy and local league schedules till further announcement. “As for adhering to the bio-bubble protocols, we are fully trained and all systems arein place. There should not be any problem for the players and the officials. But the decision on holding the match or allowing crowds is left to the BCCI,” Mr. Parthasarathi said. The same appears to be the case with the programmes of the Indian Navy. Preparations are on and the decision will be taken as the days go by and based on the situation at that time. Milan, in whicharound 45 friendly foreign navies are said to be participating, was supposed to be held in March 2020.It was postponed for two years due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. This is also a much-awaited event and it is tipped to be on the lines of the IFR (International Fleet Review), which the city had already witnessed in 2016. Positive signs As per a senior official from the Eastern Naval Command, the preparations for both PFR and Milanare on and so far, no directions have come from the Union Government or Ministry of Defence. As per an estimate by the medical fraternity, though the spread of the third wave is rapid, it is likely totaper down by the first week of February. This is a positive sign and since both PFR and Milan are events worth witnessing, the organisers are keeping their fingers crossed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-casts-shadow-on-three-major-events-in-feb/article64946720.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Effectiveness of imposing night curfew questioned||Based on a directive from the State government, district authorities imposed a night curfew from Wednesday (January 18), with the aim of curbing the raging third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and to break the chain of the virus spread. The curfew is being imposed from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. and will be in force till January 31. However, the effectiveness of the exercise is being questioned by many, including by experts in the medical fraternity. “What is the use of imposing a curfew when the roads and public places are already deserted by 10 p.m.Only ahandful of people visit Beach Road after 10 p.m., and neither are the malls open for shopping. The public parks are closed anyway and temples do not open during the night. So except for being a strategy for deterrence, it has no practical usefulness,” said a couple of senior doctors from King George Hospital. It would have beenbetterhad the government taken the initiative to close down the beaches by 6 p.m. and restricted the entry into public places, including Beach Road, by the same time. The experts from the health sector are also of the opinion that cinema halls and other formsof entertainment that are conducted within the four walls and under an air-conditioned ambience should also be closed for a few more days. “Being in airy premises is one way to stay safe in the present scenario. Closedenvirons can act as a catalyst for the spread of the virus,”said a senior doctor from GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. Visakhapatnam or any other city in Andhra Pradeshdoes not boast of a vibrant night life, which can be a source of the spread. Instead of night curfew, strong enforcement at public places, regulating the entry at public places to curb large gatherings and shifting to online mode of education for schools, at least till the end of January, could have been a much more effective strategy, said members of Praja Aarogya Vedika, who have already written a letter to the Chief Minister on this issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/effectiveness-of-imposing-night-curfew-questioned/article38312737.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Signature campaign launched against sale of VSP||The Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee (VUPPC) launched a signature campaign to garner support for the ongoing agitations against the 100% strategic sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, here on Saturday.  Speaking to The Hindu , one of the chairmen of VUPPC and CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao said that one crore signatures will be collected from people from various walks of life in support for the agitation and against the Union Government’s decision.  The employees, various trade unions and leaders of various political parties have come under the umbrella of VUPPC and the committee has been spearheading the campaign over the last 340 days. “We will take the signature campaign to all districts across the States and will approach people at shops, milk booths, colleges, parks and every sphere of day-to-day activities to garner support,” said Mr. Narasinga Rao. As part of the campaign, on Saturday the council members of GVMC, from across parties and floor leaders joined the campaign by signing on the document. The campaign was led by Mayor Golagani Hari Venkata Kumari and two Deputy Mayors J. Sridhar and K. Satheesh.  Speaking to The Hindu , GVMC corporator and leader of CPI (M) Gangarao said, “When it comes to VSP, we are all united in the council and we shall take it forward to Parliament, till the Union Government revokes its decision on privatisation.”  He said that the VSP was not like any other PSU steel plant. Around 32 people had died in police firing and plant has developed on its own with very little coming from the Central Governments. So far over the last five decades, the various Union Governments, had only given around Rs. 4,980 crore, but at the same time VSP has given back to the government to the tune of Rs. 45,000 crore in the form of taxes and dividends, he said. The asset value of the plant is over Rs. 3 lakh crore and in the last nine months, it has achieved a turnover of about Rs. 19,000 crore and has earned a profit of around Rs. 1,080 crore. In such a scenario how can the Union Government hand over the plant to a private player on a platter, Mr. Gangarao questioned. “We will not budge till the Union Government goes back on its decision and also allots iron ore captive mines to the plant,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/signature-campaign-launched-against-sale-of-vsp/article38312739.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records three deaths and 1,959 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 1,959 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,75,853. The district recorded the highest single-day tally yet again followed by Chittoor (1,566) in the last 24 hours, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released on Saturday. The district has recorded 12,566 new infections in the last eight days. The death toll also rose to 1,126, after three more deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. As many as 14 persons died due to COVID-19 in the last five days. During the last 24 hours, as many as 684 persons undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered. The total number of recoveries have increased to 1,60,435. Active cases have increased to 14,292. Review meet District Collector A Mallikarjuna conducted a review meet with the officials on COVID-19 here on Saturday and discussed on testing, COVID-19 care centres’ maintenance, helpdesks, oxygen management, reports committee, home quarantine and isolation, availability of medicines, gloves, PPE kits, ambulance, 104 call centre and other related things. He instructed the District Coordinator of Health Services (DCHS) Lakshmana Rao to inspect PHCs, CHCs and check COVID-19 services. Prices boards He also asked the officials to ensure there is no shortage of oxygen in the hospitals. He also asked them to ensure there are display boards of prices of COVID-19 testing at the private labs. The Collector also asked the nodal officers to provide good food to the COVID patients. GVMC Commissioner G. Lakshmisha, Joint Collector P. Arun Babu and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-district-records-three-deaths-and-1959-new-covid-19-cases/article64946662.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction of IIPE campus will begin soon, says Director||Work on a permanent campus for theIndian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE) isset to begin, after years of delays and legal tangles. IIPE was instituted by an Act ofParliament in 2016 in Visakhapatnam, as part of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act of 2014. The then State Government had allotted202 acres of land to IIPE, which was declaredan Institute of National Importance. The land for the campus was allotted in Vangalli villageof Sabbavaram mandal in 2016-17, but till date, evena boundary wall has not been raised as the land allotment soon got mired in legal disputes. However, things seem to be falling in place now. Speaking on the land issue, IIPE director Prof. V.S.R.K. Prasad said that the State government had sanctioned around 212 acres, but due to some issues with farmers and locals, the entire land was yet to come underthe institute’scontrol. “Very recently, with the intervention of the State Government, District Collector and local officials and BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, we were able to bring160 acres under our control. The remaining will be sorted out soon. Since we have control over most part of the land, we will take up the construction shortly,” Mr. Prasad said.  “Ofthe remaining 42 acres, 21 belong to the farmers who have been objecting and negotiations are almost complete. For the remaining 21 acres, there is some legal dispute which is being sorted out by the district administration and the Revenue Department,” he informed The Hindu .  He said that the boundary wallwould be built by the APIIC and the campus construction would be taken care of by the CPWD.The campus is being designed by renowned architect Hafeez Contractor, he said. Research begins President, Board of Governors, IIPE, Prof. P.K. Banik, said that 30,000 sq ft of additional space has been taken from AU to start the research work and 15 researchers have already enrolled for theinstitute’s Ph.D programme. He said that the research focus would be on green energy, artificial intelligence, data analytics, big data and new energy. “We will also be starting our PG programme soon,” he said. Regardingplacements, Dr. Prasad said that placement for the first batch was not as desired, as it was hampered by the pandemic, but in the second batch48 students had got placed and in the present batch50 have already been selected. We expect 100% placements this year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-of-iipe-campus-will-begin-soon-says-director/article38312692.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nakkapalle rape case: ASP visits crime scene||A day after the alleged rape of an 11-year-old girl was reported under the Nakkapalle police station limits, Additional Superintendent of Police, Narsipatnam, D. Manikanta, visited the crime scene in the Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. It is learnt that the ASP has examined the crime scene, collected evidences and statements were also recorded. Sources also said that the accused G. Nagesh (22) was taken into custody and was being questioned. Complaint lodged The girl was allegedly raped by the accused when she had gone to collect firewood on Thursday evening. The incident came to light after the girl along with her parents lodged a complaint on Friday morning. The girl was sent to King George Hospital (KGH) for medical tests. Meanwhile Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Mahila Wing president V. Anitha met the girl who was at KGH on Saturday and interacted with her, besides promising possible help. Later speaking to the media, she alleged that ever since the YSR Congress Party formed the government, attacks and atrocities against women, especially minor girls, have increased in the State. She said that despite raising a voice against such incidents, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Home Minister and Women Commission chairperson have never considered such issues seriously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nakkapalle-rape-case-asp-visits-crime-scene/article38312685.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies after van hits bike||A 37-year-old motorist died while another person received severe injuries after reportedly being hit by a van at Araku Valley in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. The victim was identified as K. Rama Raju, a resident of Housing Colony, Araku Valley. According to the Araku police, the accident occurred when Ramaraju and his friend G. Seshagiri Rao were heading to their house from Araku Valley main road. While taking a U-turn near Petrol Bunk Junction, a speeding van reportedly hit them. The duo were shifted to hospital immediately, where Rama Raju died while undergoing treatment. Seshagiri Rao received injuries on his head and other parts of the body, police said. Based on the complaint from the kin of Rama Raju, the police have registered a case and arrested the van driver G Gombabu (49), a resident of S.Kota in Vizianagaram district, for allegedly driving the vehicle in a rash and negligent manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-after-van-hits-bike/article38312684.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two flights diverted due to heavy fog at Vizag airport||At least two early morning flights were diverted or flown back to their originating destination, as they were not able to land due to poor visibility because of heavy fog at the Visakhapatnam airport on Saturday. Airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao said an IndiGo flight from Hyderabad to Visakhapatnam, which was to fly again to Tirupati, was diverted and flown back to Hyderabad. An Air India flight from Delhi to Visakhapatnam to Port Blair was diverted to Bhubaneswar. He said the conditions improved by 10 a.m. and the the operations resumed smoothly thereafter. Due to heavy fog, we had to hold a couple of flights at the originating destinations. We had given the clearance after the visibility conditions improved at around 10 a.m. Thereafter, all flights landed and took off, said Mr. Srikanth, manager of IndiGo. Second instance This was for the second time this winter that the morning schedule was interrupted due to heavy fog. The last was on December 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-flights-diverted-due-to-heavy-fog-at-vizag-airport/article38312541.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quiz contest organised||As part of the 46th anniversary of the Indian Coast Guard, an Inter-school quiz competition (online) was organised at Coast Guard District Headquarters No. 6 here on Saturday. Around 60 students from various schools, including Kendriya Vidayalaya, Naval Children School, AVK School, St. Joseph Secondary School and Saraswathi Vidya Vihar, participated. The students were quizzed on avariety of subjects ranging from general knowledge, current affairs, science and technology . Sixteen teams from eight schools competed for the top three slots. Navy Children School, Nausenabhag, was adjudged as the overall winner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quiz-contest-organised/article38312738.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrangements being made for APERC public hearing||Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) Chairman Justice C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy instructed the CMDs of the Discoms to abide by the COVID-19 rules at a public hearing to be held at the EPDCL corporate office in Visakhapatnam on January 24, 25 and 27 by the APERC on the power tariff proposals. The officials organised a mock public hearing on Friday. They were also asked to make alternative arrangements to avoid any technical issues during the virtual referendum programme with customers. Objectors were requested to approach their nearest Electricity Circle Office/Division Offices for participating in the video conference. Arrangements are made to livestream the event for the public, the officials said, providing the link https://www.elivetelecast.com/apercpublichearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrangements-being-made-for-aperc-public-hearing/article38312680.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speed up OTS registrations, Collector tells officials||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has instructed the officials to speed up One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme registrations. He said that the officials must create awareness on the advantages of the scheme among people. He took part in a video conference with MPDOs, Tahsildars and Sub-Registrar’s here on Saturday. He said that RDOs should review about registrations from time to time and may seek the help of Joint Collector (Housing) in case of any issue. He appreciated several mandal officers, where the progress was good. Project Director (Housing) Srinivasa Rao, Project Director (DRDA) Visweswara Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speed-up-ots-registrations-collector-tells-officials/article38312736.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to stop ‘illegal mining’ near Bhogapuram||Vizianagaram District Congress Committee president Saragada Ramesh Kumar urged the State government to stop ‘illegal mining’ activity in Cherukupalli village of Bhogapuram mandal in the district, alleging that a few persons under the guise of retired army personnel were involved in the ‘unlawful’ activity. Continuous blastings In a press release, he said that the locals were unable to sleep with the continuous blastings and movement of vehicles in the vicinity. He said that the court had also directed the officials to ban such activities in residential localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-stop-illegal-mining-near-bhogapuram/article38312686.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:17 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man’s body exhumed in suspicious death case||Police exhumed the body of trader, Syed Aslam (42), who died suspiciously, under Two Town police limits here. They conducted a post-mortem at the graveyard. Complaint lodged The victim had two wives. He was found dead in the house of his first wife Naseema at Mahantipeta on January 15. His second wife Karimunnissa lodged a complaint with the police alleging that blood marks were found on the body, following which the police registered a case under Section 174 CrPc and exhumed the body. The victim used to supply some herbal products to shops in the city. Karimunnissa alleged that Naseema’s family was trying to portray the murder as natural death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mans-body-exhumed-in-suspicious-death-case/article38312727.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:17 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-action/article64946738.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC to hear plea against 11th PRC tomorrow||The PRC recommendations and the findings of the Committee of Secretaries were neither analysed nor revealed to the employees, Mr. Krishnaiah stated. Strike notice Leaders of the employees’ associations have earlier announced their decision to go on strike from February 7 and to serve a notice to the Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma in a couple of days with the demand that the government should first cancel the impugned G.O. if it wanted to avert a showdown over the 11th Pay Revision Commission (PRC) recommendations. They maintained that the pay fixation will have an overall effect of reducing salaries instead of effecting an upward revision. The Cabinet passed a resolution in its meeting on January 21 to proceed with the implementation of the said G.Os despite opposition from the employees. It, however, offered to negotiate with the employees, about which the latter raised doubts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-to-hear-plea-against-11th-prc-tomorrow/article38312645.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports close to 13,000 cases again||The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (3,00,743), Chittoor (2,64,951), Guntur (1,86,996), West Godavari (1,82,748), Visakhapatnam (1,75,333), Anantapur (1,65,123), Nellore (1,53,298), Prakasam (1,43,648), Srikakulam (1,29,063), Kurnool (1,28,967), Krishna (1,24,480), Kadapa (1,20,207) and Vizianagaram (87,742).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-close-to-13000-cases-again/article38312644.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patient wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/patient-wait/article64946725.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Misty moments||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/misty-moments/article64946672.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students to attend NASA symposium||A group of children from Ravindra Bharathi School, Sujatha Nagar campus, will be attending the international symposium being organised by the NASA at Arlington, USA, from May 27 to 29. The students will participate in the NASA Space Settlement contest. Chairman of the school M.S. Mani congratulated the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-to-attend-nasa-symposium/article38312687.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||Work reviewed||A high-level team comprising Special Chief Secretary (Irrigation) Rajat Kumar, Secretary in Telangana Chief Minister’s Office Smita Sabharwal and Engineer-in-Chief Muralidhar inspected the concrete works on the barrage of the Sitamma Sagar multi-purpose project (SSMPP) across the Godavari at Ammagaripalli in Aswapuram mandal on Saturday. The barrage is designed to store 36.57 tmcft water for the Sita Rama Lift Irrigation Project (SRLIP) to irrigate 6.74 lakh acres in Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Khammam and Mahabubabad districts, sources said. At a meeting held later, the senior officials from Hyderabad reviewed the progress of land acquisition process and status of works related to barrage and other main components of the project including two guide bunds. The district officials told the team that 2640 acres of land had already been acquired and Rs.112.77 crore compensation disbursed to land losers in Aswapuram, Charla and Dummugudem mandals so far. They said the remaining 740 acres will be handed over to the Irrigation department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/work-reviewed/article38312502.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:39 IST,TELANGANA||Current COVID medical expenses lower than in second wave||The COVID medical expenses being incurred by people in the current wave of COVID-19 are lesser than the money spent in the second wave. The mild form of the current wave is sparing people from digging into their hard earned savings, avoiding debts. In the previous wave, anxiety to save loved ones have forced people to spend money on CT scans, blood tests (D-Dimer, CRP), for oxygen concentrator or cylinder refill. These were the initial expenses in the treatment. Some medical resources were in high demand in the State and elsewhere in the second wave and short in supply. Greedy people banked on it and sold the resources in black market. Besides Remdesivir, medicines used in treatment of Mucormycosis such as Amphotericin-B were sold at five to ten times the MRP. Recalling the times raises eye brows, pops eyes out, even now. People are spared of these expenses till this point of time of the current surge. Since the need to get hospitalised too is low, the exorbitant bills at corporate hospitals are avoided. The private health facilities denying insurance policies for COVID treatment, demanding cash payment, advance payments, in the second wave emptied savings or made people take debts. People requested the government to regulate the charges. Though some action was taken, the hospitals continue to charge high prices. Prominent general physicians from Hyderabad have said that majority of the people with COVID now are having mild symptoms, recovering in five to seven days. Only a few patients are in need of ICU admissions or oxygen support. Some of the latter have neglected consulting doctors or taking appropriate medications for the initial days of developing symptoms. President of Telangana Chemists and Druggists Association , CH Janardhan Rao said that antibiotics such as Azithromycin, Doxycycline, and are in demand now. “Monoclonal antibodies cocktail, Remdesivir, too is sought but the demand is not too high. There is no shortage of the two medicines or the antibiotics,” said Mr Janardhan. Drug Inspector C Vivekananda Reddy said that they have been monitoring the availability of various medicines used in treatment of COVID. “There is no shortage of any of the medicines this time. And the demand too is low,” said Mr Vivekananda. Volunteers involved in providing COVID relief said that the demand for oxygen is low, so the prices for refilling a cylinder are normal. A COVID volunteer, Abhishek Murarka, said that he did not receive requests for any medicines after the second wave has subsided.  There is no shortage of medicines this time. The demand too is low Vivekananda, Drug Inspector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/current-covid-medical-expenses-lower-than-in-second-wave/article64946961.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||Harish Rao monitors fever survey||Finance and Health Minister Harish Rao asked people to get vaccinated and wear masks without fail. “Poshavva are you vaccinated? Did you take both the doses?” asked Mr. Harish Rao while participating in the fever survey in Siddipet district headquarters on Saturday. The Minister made sure that all those who took their first dose, were administered the second dose, and those who were eligible for the booster dose, get it. He said that vaccine was the only protection from COVID and everyone has to take it. He urged people not to be scared of taking an injection. He also gave masks to a few women who were not wearing it and asked them to wear it without fail. “Fever survey is being done in view of the rising number of COVID cases in the State. People need not come to hospitals as the medical staff will go to every house to conduct tests. We have visited about 12.68 lakh houses on Friday alone. Around 45,000 people are suffering from fever and other symptoms,” said Mr. Harish Rao while speaking to the media after participating in the programme on Saturday. He said individual home isolation medical kits were extended to people with COVID symptoms. He added that the Health staff have been regularly monitoring their condition and steps were being taken to get them admitted to hospital if such a situation arises. The Minister also said that people were free to call Health officials for any assistance in view of the prevailing conditions and asked them not to go for self medication. Stating that some people have not taken their second dose, he said that those who crossed 60 years should take booster dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-rao-monitors-fever-survey/article64946843.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:39 IST,TELANGANA||Demand for tests drops||The requirement for CT scans of chest or other tests has come down in the current COVID-19 surge as respiratory distress is experienced by only a few patients. The scanning at private health facilities costs Rs. 3,500- Rs. 6,000. The demand for D-Dimer, C-Reactive Protein, and other tests too is low. Senior consultant physician Dr K Shivaraju said that the need for scanning is less as majority of the people with COVID-19 do not have respiratory distress as lungs are not involved. Pulmonologist Dr M Rajeev Naik said that the CT-scan of chest was prescribed when a COVID patient had respiratory distress along with oxygen saturation levels below 90. “The CT scan is needed to know if COVID infection is in lungs, and if the organ is damaged which leads to respiratory distress and cough. Now, it is prescribed to only a few patients with co-morbidities this time. Majority of the people are not experiencing respiratory distress,” said Dr Rajeev. Besides, the test was used when the COVID tests were inconclusive. If a person tested negative in Rapid Antigen Test and RT-PCR, but has symptoms, the scanning is performed to know if the infection is in lungs. Dr Rajeev said that this also helps to know the treatment protocol. “Currently, the infection is limited to upper respiratory tract in most of the cases. CT scan should not be performed when not required as people would be exposed unnecessary radiation,” said Dr Shivaraju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/demand-for-tests-drops/article64946959.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:39 IST,TELANGANA||Study spotlights water struggle on city outskirts||Buying store-bought mineral water bottles, installing Reverse-Osmosis filters at homes and using piped water for non-consumption uses are some of the coping mechanisms that residents in peri-urban areas of Hyderabad are using to keep themselves safe. This has been found in a new study titled ‘Digging Deeper: Deep Wells, Bore-Wells and Water Tankers in Peri-Urban Hyderabad’. The paper explores inequity in the supply of water for domestic use in areas on the periphery of the city that are rapidly urbanising.  Using ethnographic fieldwork in Nanakramguda and Madhapur areas in the western part of Hyderabad, the authors interviewed residents both local and migrants; and economically well-off and low-income communities to reach the conclusion. “This has brought about inequality in access to water for agriculture and other domestic uses in Hyderabad’s peri-urban areas. Villagers are losing out on water access to the more powerful and well-off middle-class population residing in the urban core and to the powerful economic actors involved in peri-urban expansion,” say Nathaniel Dylan Lim and Diganta Das in their paper as they see an exacerbation of water-related issues. “The ‘water-money nexus’ enables inhabitants from middle-upper social classes to attain water security by successfully negotiating their water access amid Hyderabad’s water crises, thus creating greater water security for themselves,” the paper says as it posits high-rises with their 24-hour water supply and zinc-sheet tenements with intermittent water supply. The paper explores how the explosive growth of Hyderabad has impacted the surrounding areas where land that was used for agriculture, or pasture land and forests has been encroached and urbanised at a rapid pace. They link the growth to water inequality impacting water stress and insecurity for villages in the surrounding areas. The water inequality with public infrastructure not keeping pace with the demand is creating a cycle leading to incessant exploitation of groundwater affecting the quality of water well as the regenerative capacity of groundwater aquifers. The study also found that the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board has not been able to keep pace with the demand in water supply leading to creation of small-time operators minting money. “Despite the municipality’s intervention to ensure adequate water supply to these urban spaces, some inhabitants who live within these spaces still do not benefit from these facilities. Several water-related issues are still prevalent even within the urban built-up area of Cyberabad dist,” says the paper. (Full paper can be accessed on: https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-79035-6_5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/study-spotlights-water-struggle-on-city-outskirts/article38312486.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||CPI(M) sets the tone for third State meet||Calls for pitched battles against the Central government policies and the BJP’s rule have set the mood for the third Telangana state conference of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) which is being held at Turkayamjal, Ranga Reddy district from January 22 to 25. Party’s national general secretary Sitaram Yechury, making inaugural speech in an online public meeting on Saturday, spelled out the agenda for the conference when he said strengthening of people’s movements was the only way to counter the multi-pronged attack on the constitutional structures of the country. Drawing on the recent example of the farmers’ movement which resulted in withdrawal of the three Agricultural laws, Mr.Yechury said the struggle has shown the way for the country. Central government is striking at the very foundations of the Constitution, by destroying economic self-sufficiency, social justice, federal structure, and secular values, besides weakening independent systems such as parliament, judiciary, and Election Commission. Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate are being used as political agents to fulfil the ruling party’s agenda, while electoral democracy is being hit like never before.’ ‘Neoliberal agenda’ Lashing out at the Centre for pushing forth the neoliberal agenda through its monetisation drive, Mr. Yechury said first time after Independence, loot of public wealth is being carried out at such massive scale. Benefits of such loot are diverted to capitalists close to Modi, who would share part of it back as political funding. Such policies are leading to exponential growth of economic disparities, with 55 per cent of the country’s wealth concentrated in the hands of 112 billionaires. Unilateral laws promulgated in agriculture, cooperative, education and other sectors with no consultation with the state governments showed the Centre’s utter disregard for federal spirit enshrined in the Constitution, he said. He assured that CPI(M) will strive to strengthen people’s movements in the country towards throwing BJP government out of power. Strategies will be devised in each state, based on the region specific conditions, he said. CPI(M) polit bureau member Brinda Karat said the party’s willingness to join forces against the BJP should not be construed as support for the anti-people policies of the state government, and saluted TSRTC workers and ASHA workers for fighting for their rights. Terming the Centre’s monetisastion drive as ‘Maha Sale’, she said the powers can be brought down to their knees if communists successfully unite all democratic forces. Senior leader and polit bureau member B.V.Raghavulu said the time has come for Telangana people to fight against BJP’s policies, and with apathy of Congress and weak-willed opposition of TRS government, it has now become the CPI(M) and other communist parties’ responsibility to take up the fight. The state conference will discuss all these issues and also improvement of literacy and health indicators in the state, he said. CPI(M) State Secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram sounded an alert that the BJP is growing like poison in the Telangana, and cannot be ignored any more. Taking advantage of the large number of Muslims in the State, the party is trying to stoke communal tensions, and it cannot be defeated only through electoral strategies and alliances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpim-sets-the-tone-for-third-state-meet/article64946840.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||100 gm cocaine deal led to Nigerian peddler’s arrest||An assignment to peddle 100 grams of cocaine in the city led to the arrest of a ‘most-wanted’ Nigerian drug peddler, Chukwu Ogbonna David alias Tony, along with his network of distributors and customers.  Verified sources told The Hindu that the transactions originated in the first week of January. Two aides of the kingpin from Mumbai, Imran Babu Shaik and Noor Mohammed Khan, were first arrested from outside a mall at Punjagutta, where they had been waiting to deliver a package.  When interrogated, they spilled the beans, and police came to know of the registered number of Tony’s Toyota in Mumbai, from where Hyderabad police had picked him up and brought here. When Tony was grilled, he gave details of the cocaine deal in the last fortnight, and that exposed nearly two dozen people, including the city’s industrialists, businessmen and contractors. 10 accused still at large Punjagutta police produced 10 of the total accused before a court, in addition to Shaik and Khan, who were remanded earlier. At least 10 other accused are still at large, police said. Tony came to Mumbai in 2013 for a better livelihood and through his community there, he ventured into the export of wigs and garments. With the help of another Nigerian called ‘Star Boy’, Tony started smuggling drugs in Mumbai, Goa and other cities. He was booked for violations under The Foreigners Act and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. All the arrested so far have also been booked under various provisions of the Act and remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cocaine-deal-led-to-nigerian-peddlers-arrest/article38312275.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||Four held, 215 gm gold recovered||LB Nagar police, along with Central Crime Station and IT cell officials, on Saturday nabbed a gang of four persons and seized 215 grams of gold ornaments that were stolen from Santoshimata temple last month. The four accused, identified as P. Chinna Satyanandam, Gandam Sammaiah, Jangala Prasad from Guntur and Daravath Naveen from Nalgonda, were involved in 10 thefts in Nalgonda, Guntur, West Godavari and Vijayawada, AP. Of the 10 thefts, four were committed at temples, and one at a bank in Chebrolu, Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said. The offenders stole cars and motorcycles, changed their registered number plates and carried out recces around temples, police said. The four had a history of offences and reportedly got along and formed a team while they were lodged at Gurazala sub-jail. 3 held for burglaries In another case, Medipally police in the commissionerate nabbed three persons for committing house burglaries and cattle thefts. Md. Imam, Badavath Gandhi and Paritala Nagaraju, drivers hailing from Mahabubabad who lived at Uppal, used to do a recce of locked houses during the day and broke in late at night. A total of 80 grams of gold ornaments, 700 grams silver and Rs. 20,000 were recovered from them. The trio had committed 12 offences in the Uppal-Ghatkesar-Medipally-Keesara police limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-held-215-gm-gold-ornaments-recovered/article64946845.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||No chance of early poll: Jagadish Reddy||Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy has ruled out the possibility of early elections to the State Assembly and only a former president of Pradesh Congress Committee, some Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders were day-dreaming about early polls. Speaking to newspersons after distributing three-wheeled scooters, tricycles, laptops and mobile phones given under schemes of the women development and child welfare to physically challenged persons at Suryapet on Saturday, he said it was the Telangana Rashtra Samithi Government that had been taking care of the differently abled persons with different schemes including giving them a monthly pension of Rs. 1,500 initially and Rs. 3,000 later. He sought to know what kind of welfare was being extended to physically challenged persons in Gujarat which was under Bharatiya Janata Party rule for more than 25 years. The Energy Minister stated that Bharatiya Janata Party ’s thinking was 100 miles behind the vision of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Mr. Jagadish Reddy said Telangana was only State in the country that was giving about Rs. 15,000 crore to farmers every year as investment support (grant) for two crop seasons and also extending life insurance to farmers covering even natural deaths by paying Rs. 3,000 crore premium a year so that family concerned could get Rs. 5 lakh in the event of death of an insured farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-chance-of-early-poll-says-jagadish-reddy/article64946837.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||‘Step up grounding of Dalit Bandhu’||The State Government has speeded up implementation of Dalit Bandhu scheme across Telangana by asking the District Collectors to select 100 beneficiaries in 118 Assembly constituencies so that it could be grounded in March, as announced by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Minister for Scheduled Castes Development Koppula Eshwar, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and SC Corporation Chairman E. Srinivas held a video conference with the District Collector and other officials concerned from Karimnagar, Hyderabad and Medchal, respectively. Special Chief Secretary (Finance) K. Ramakrishna Rao, Secretary (SC Development) and Chief Minister’s Office Rahul Bojja, Managing Director of SC Corporation M. Karunakar also participated in the virtual meet. The District Collectors were told to identify the beneficiaries by taking family as a unit in the 118 constituencies. The scheme is already being implemented in Huzurabad constituency in Karimnagar district, where 17,035 beneficiary families were selected already, and at Vasalamarri gram panchayat in Alair constituency in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district with 72 beneficiary families. Further, the scheme has been sanctioned to Chintakani mandal in Madhira constituency in Khammam district, Tirumalagiri mandal of Thungathurthi constituency in Suryapet, Charagonda mandal spread in Achampet and Kalwakurthy constituencies in Nagarkurnool and Nizamsagar mandals of Jukkal constituency in Kamareddy district. The government has already released Rs. 100 crore for Chintakani mandal and Rs. 50 crore each for the other three mandals for implementing Dalit Bandhu. Officials stated that budget release orders were issued for Rs. 1,191.80 crore to the respective District Collectors for implementing the scheme for 100 beneficiaries each in 118 constituencies. Besides, Rs. 2,257.6 crore was released for implementation of the scheme in Huzurabad constituency and Vasalamarri gram panchayat. Giving the details, the officials said Rs. 1,686.46 crore had been released to 17,035 beneficiaries in Huzurabad in addition to transfer of Rs. 34.07 crore as emergency revolving fund. Similarly, Rs. 7.13 crore has been released to 72 beneficiaries and another Rs. 0.14 crore as revolving fund in case of Vasalamarri. Economic activity schemes for a total of 1,004 Scheduled Castes beneficiary families have been grounded so far including 947 in Huzurabad and 57 in Vasalamarri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/step-up-grounding-of-dalit-bandhu/article64946839.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:39 IST,TELANGANA||22 structures pulled down in HMDA limits||Continuing its drive against illegal structures, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) along with district task forces, has taken action against 22 buildings being constructed without requisite permissions in the limits of four municipalities. On Saturday, three structures in Peerzadiguda, four in Gundlapochampally, two in Adibatla and 13 in Narsingi municipal limits have been pulled down as part of the drive, a statement from HMDA said. Since Monday, action has been taken against 82 illegal structures, of which 66 have been pulled down and 16 seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/22-structures-pulled-down-in-hmda-limits/article38312489.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||Cong. to help people on Dharani grievances||Telangana Congress will take up a one-week ‘Save the Lands’ programme to highlight the discrepancies in the Dharani portal and the party will take representations directly from the people to be forwarded to the government. A meeting of the Congress to discuss the issues created by the Dharani portal for land transactions held at Gandhi Bhavan discussed the new problems created by the portal introduced to reduce the human interface in land transactions. The meeting was chaired by TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy and attended by D. Sreedhar Babu, MLA, and other senior leaders like Shabbir Ali, Mallu Ravi and Bellaih Naik. Later, speaking to the reporters, Dasoju Sravan, AICC spokesperson alleged that the Dharani portal had turned thousands of landowners into landless poor due to the faults in its creation. The government went ahead with the portal launching without discussing with other political parties, farmers organisations and other stakeholders and the result is evident with lakhs of litigations emerging. He said Dharani’s functioning reflects the inefficient administration of the TRS government that was not moved despite farmers committing suicides after their lands did not reflect in the portal. Genuine landowners are making rounds to the Collector and MRO offices without their grievances solved. TPCC spokesperson Addanki Dayakar alleged that the government plans to snatch away 25 lakh acres given by the Congress governments to poor people. The party’s week-long programme will reach out to the people and their grievances would be taken to the notice of the state and central governments. Mandal-wise reports would be created on these grievances. Mr. Sravan said Congress will also question the sudden increase in registration value of the lands. The land value is generally reviewed every two years and enhancement is decided on the situation but the TRS has deliberately did not touch it for 7 years to deny rightful compensation for the lands acquired for various projects. After acquiring lands at a cheaper rate from the poor farmers the government now wants to enhance the registration value, he said. Tribal leader Bellaih Naik also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-to-help-people-on-dharani-grievances/article38312501.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||KIPCL gets ‘A-Grade’||The REC Ltd (REC), formerly Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd, has recognised the Kaleshwaram Irrigation Project Corporation Ltd (KIPCL) as “A Category” institution/agency based on its performance in the financial management – for timely debt servicing – and other areas. In a recent communication sent to Managing Director of KIPCL B. Hariram, one of the Engineers-in-Chief of Kaleshwaram Project, the REC has informed that the competent authority has approved the grading of KIPCL with effect from January 13. KIPCL, since its inception, has been involved in developing, engineering, financing and executing Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project and Palamuru-Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Scheme. The KIPCL borrows from commercial banks’ consortia headed by Union Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and Bank of Baroda besides public sector undertakings such as PFC Ltd (Power Finance Corporation), REC Ltd and National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) to execute the two major projects in Telangana. According Mr. Hariram, with the financial support of banks, financial institutions and the State Government equity, the Corporation has executed the main trunk of Kaleshwaram project from Medigadda (Laxmi) Barrage to Kondapochamma Sagar, a balancing reservoir, and the distributary and field channel works are in brisk progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kipcl-gets-a-grade-for-timely-debt-servicing/article38312506.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||‘Implement Dalit Bandhu nation-wide’||Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao dared Union Government to implement Dalit Bandhu across the state if the BJP is sincere about the welfare of Dalits as it claims. “The BJP at Centre is copying our schemes. Mission Bhagiratha was copied in the name of Har Ghar Jal. Rytu Bandhu was copied in the name of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. If they are sincere about welfare of Dalits, whey not they implement Dalit Bandhu across the country and allot amount in the budget that would be introduced in Parliament on February 1 ?” asked Mr. Harish Rao while speaking to reporters at Bejjanki after participating in several programmes in the mandal. “BJP has ridiculed that Rytu Bandhu will be confined to Huzurabad constituency. “The Chief Minister has directed to implement the scheme across the state in all the constituencies. 100 families from each constituency will be selected and they will be benefited before March 31,” said Mr. Harish Rao adding that about Rs. 25,000 crore will be allotted in the next budget for the scheme. Tension prevails Tension prevailed at Bejjanki mandal headquarters on Saturday when some persons from Budaga Jangam community tried to stop Mr Harish Rao during his visit. They alleged that double bedroom houses were not allotted to the community despite eligibility. They were taken into control by police and later released. Some Congress leaders were also arrested and later released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/implement-dalit-bandhu-nation-wide/article64946832.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||State records 4,393 fresh COVID cases||The daily load of COVID-19 cases in Telangana continues to be over 4,000 for the past three days. The State registered 4,393 infections on Saturday. While 1,16,224 samples were put to test. Results of 9,537 are awaited. Meanwhile, two more COVID patients have died. The number of patients in ICU has increased from 714 on Friday to 770 on Saturday, and oxygen bed occupancy increased from 1,214 to 1,273. The beds occupancy is gradually increasing. The 4,393 new infections include 1,670 from the GHMC limits, 417 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 301 from Rangareddy, 178 from Hanamkonda, 117 from Khammam, 99 each from Sangareddy and Mahbubnagar, and 92 from Mancherial. From March 2, 2020 to January 21 this year, a total of 3.11 crore samples were put through COVID test and 7,26,819 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 29,127 were active cases, 6,93,623 have recovered, while 4,069 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-4k-cases-registered/article38312480.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||Monitoring committee formed||Government has issued orders constituting the State Level Monitoring and Implementation Committee under the chairmanship of the Chief Secretary, to make performance assessment of each city or urban agglomeration recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. The committee will have eight other members including Special Chief Secretary, Environment, Secretary, Urban Development, CPCB representative, TSPCB chairperson, Secretary, Transport, a representative from the State Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Commissioner & Director, Municipal Administration and Commissioner, GHMC. After assessment of performances, the committee will make recommendations for release of grant to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, for implementation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/monitoring-panel-formed/article38312507.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||Economic recovery must be on track: CII||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has underscored the need for States to ensure that economic recovery remains on track to enable people to recover to pre-pandemic income levels. Submitting a set of recommendations on continuity of economic activities during COVID-19, CII in a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said social and economic activities needed to be considered separately. Social activities, in particular mass gatherings for any social sports, entertainment and recreation should be restricted to curtail further spread of the Omicron variant. “These are small, clearly marked geographical areas identified and demarcated by district administration such as neighbourhoods, villages, talukas, urban bodies and pin-codes to monitor and manage the outbreak. Containment at micro zones should be considered only when available hospital beds are 75% occupied. Depending on this, the micro zones can be progressively closed or opened up. Random sampling for testing and sero-positivity and early warning systems will facilitate tracking the spread of the contagion and considering response measures,” CII Telangana said in a release on the letter. Even in the micro containment zones, all factories may be allowed to function under strict supervision and complying with hygiene and safety norms. Work from home Work from home should be encouraged as far as possible for offices, the industry body said. CII said there should be no distinction between essential and non-essential goods and services. All shops may be permitted to open without restrictions on the timing to avoid crowding. CII Southern Region Chairman C. K. Ranganathan said ensuring continuity and sustainability of businesses during the ongoing COVID crisis was extremely important. “Calibrated restrictions would help the State sustain the growth momentum,” CII Telangana Chairman Sameer Goel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ensure-continuity-in-economic-activities-cii/article38312477.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||Tension prevails||Tension prevailed at Bejjanki mandal headquarters on Saturday when some persons from Budaga Jangam community tried to stop Minister T. Harish Rao during his visit on Saturday. They alleged that double bedroom houses were not allotted to them despite eligibility. They were taken into control by police and later released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tension-prevails/article38312698.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||Gold worth Rs. 1. 36 cr. seized at RGIA||Officials of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs on Friday seized gold worth Rs. 1.36 crore from a man who arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport from Dubai. Disclosing details on Saturday, it said that gold, in small chains and paste form, was concealed inside hand baggage and the check-in luggage. The total items weighed 2,715.800 grams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gold-worth-rs-136-cr-seized-at-rgia/article38312494.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:39 IST,TELANGANA||Vaccine on wheels||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccine-on-wheels/article64946958.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:40 IST,TELANGANA||Hang on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hang-on/article64946956.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:24 IST,||MP: Netaji memorial in Jabalpur jail barracks to be opened for public on Sunday||The Madhya Pradesh government on Saturday announced that the Jabalpur Central Jail barrack in which Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose was held for six months during the freedom struggle would be open for public on Sunday to mark his 125th birth anniversary. “The place has been given the shape of a museum,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/netajis-jail-barrack-open-for-public/article38312561.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:24 IST,||Punjab model not merely for sake of election: Sidhu||In the run-up to the Punjab Assembly election, State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday said his ‘Punjab model’ is not a mere election model but a well-researched tailor-made solution-model, based on geographical, social and economic factors created for the people of Punjab. ‘Holistic roadmap’ He said, “It’s very important to have a holistic roadmap for creating an enabling environment for youth, skilling, entrepreneurship and sports, so that they don’t have to move abroad. A one-two point scheme is not required, a multiple pronged approach is the solution.” “Punjab’s Mohali is the centre of technological advancement and future of Punjab. Our youth is going to Bangalore and Hyderabad for better business opportunities. Nonetheless, we don’t provide them with such opportunities. With setting up of advanced IT hubs and launching StartUp city in Mohali, it is expected to become the Millennial Tech-City and Mohali would become the Silicon Valley of north India,” he said. He added, “Youth, Skilling and Entrepreneurship can change the face of the State. It’s time to be a part of this change and create the future we want the next generation to live in.”  It’s very important to have a holistic roadmap for creating an enabling environment for youth, skilling, entrepreneurship and sports, so that they don’t have to move abroad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-model-not-merely-for-sake-of-election-sidhu/article64946883.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:13 IST,||Cong.’s Aligarh candidate slapped with Goondas Act||The Aligarh administration has externed Salman Imtiaz, the Congress candidate from the city seat, for six months under the U.P. Control of Goondas Act. Mr. Imtiaz was president of the Aligarh Muslim University Students’ Union when the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests broke out on campus in 2019-2020. He also led protests in the Old City area of the town. Six cases had been registered against him under various sections of the IPC including 342, 360, 504, 153A, 153B, and relevant sections of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. In an order passed by Additional District Magistrate Rakesh Patel, Mr. Imtiaz has been described as “a frightful person with a criminal aptitude who is a threat to the peace and tranquillity of the city”. He has been asked to leave the city limits immediately and report at the Gajdoondwara police station in Kasganj district. The order further said people live in fear of Mr. Imtiaz and refrain from deposing against him. Mr. Imtiaz said he had responded to the show-cause notice in September 2020 and hadn’t heard from the authorities since then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/congs-aligarh-candidate-slapped-with-goondas-act/article38312387.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:24 IST,||Tribal farmers want natural farming, livelihood in first agriculture budget||With the budget session of the Rajasthan Assembly to start on February 9, farmers in the tribal areas have raised issues which could be included in the first separate agriculture budget. The separate budget is expected to lay emphasis on welfare measures for farmers and make some innovations for their benefit. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had announced in his 2021-22 budget speech that a separate agriculture budget would be presented for year 2022-23. The exercise for the same has since started with the provisions for new facilities in the farm sector, accompanied by sufficient financial allocations. Agro-Industries board The Cabinet has also approved a proposal to establish an Agro-Industries’ Development Board with the objective of increasing the farmers’ income by strengthening the marketing infrastructure. The Board will prepare a roadmap for connecting farmers with agro-processing and value addition and make recommendations for new policies. Tribal farmers in Udaipur, Banswara, Pratapgarh and Dungarpur districts, mostly dependent on rainfed agriculture, have put forward the demands related to natural farming, seed production bonus, organic manure and milk dairy. Agricultural policies should create a livelihood support with the focus on nutrition and food sufficiency, according to the farmers. Jayesh Joshi, secretary of Banswara-based Vaagdhara, which works on tribal livelihood issues, said natural farming with a mixed cropping pattern should be promoted in the tribal areas with the financial and technical assistance and mini-kits of seeds for facilitating crop diversification. Since the cultivators in the tribal belt are mostly small and marginal farmers, they need the tools for preparing organic fertilizers domestically to offset the impact of chemical fertilizers. They also expect an increase in the bonus amount for seed production. Mr. Joshi said the majority of the 12.50 lakh farmers in the tribal-dominated areas and owning about 80,000 hectares of land were trying to adopt natural farming in an unorganised manner. “If their demands are included, they will get a meaningful support for their livelihood,” he said. A milk dairy established in Banswara in 1986, which has since become non-functional, could also be revived to give a livelihood opportunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tribal-farmers-want-natural-farming-in-first-agriculture-budget/article38312001.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:13 IST,||One dose given, records say two||Around 2 p.m. on January 19, Aarti, 19, was waiting in a queue at at a vaccination centre in Madanpur Khadar in south Delhi to get her second dose of COVID vaccine. When her turn came, she was in for a surprise. The screen at the vaccination centre showed that she had already taken the second dose. “I had taken the first dose from our village in Uttar Pradesh and now they are saying that I have taken the second dose too, which I clearly haven’t. One of our relatives from the village had also faced the same issue,” Ms. Aarti said, showing the vaccination slip of her first dose. After waiting for a while, Ms. Aarti left the vaccination centre without getting the second shot. Ms. Arti’s is not the only case of its kind.  Many such cases have been reported across the national capital where the CoWIN portal shows people having taken both the doses of the vaccine, while beneficiaries claim to have received only one dose, several officials told The Hindu . Almost all of these people have been administered the first dose in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar, said the officials.   The Delhi government came across this problem in December 2021 and issued a video to all districts on how these people could take the second dose. According to the video, which has been accessed by The Hindu , a person who faces this issue has to login to the CoWIN portal and click on “raise an issue” and choose “report unknown member in your account” and delete the account.  “Before deleting the earlier account, we note the date of the first dose of the vaccine. Then we create a new account and put that as the date of the first vaccine and then give the second dose,” an official said. “The government noticed many such cases last month and directed all 11 districts on how to deal with them. Now such cases have come down. Most such cases are being reported by migrants,” a senior government official said. However, the official added, an official communication on the issue has so far not been sent to the governments of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. “The Union government must be aware of this issue. This could be happening due to the pressure of inflating the number of vaccinations or it could just be a technical glitch. We don’t know,” the official added. In November, Suman Devi, 27, and her husband faced a similar problem. “Only after we complained, we were vaccinated. The officials took down our PAN details for the second dose,” she said. The couple had taken the first dose in Gopalganj, Bihar. New ID registration Ajendra Sirohi, the state in-charge of Agragami India, an NGO whose field office is being used as the vaccination centre in Madanpur Khadar, said that they have received many such cases. “Every other day we get a case like this. Then it is conveyed to the team in the District Magistrate’s office. Subsequently that person is given their second dose after they are registered using a different ID card,” Mr. Sirohi said. When contacted, Dr. Girish Tyagi, secretary, Delhi Medical Council, suspected some illegal action to be the cause behind this malfunction and wished that the government look into this issue. R.S. Sharma, chairman of the empowered group for COVID-19 vaccine administration for the country, did not offer a comment after details of three persons facing this issue were shared with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/one-dose-given-records-say-two/article64946985.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:13 IST,||BJP remote-controlling L-G to make traders suffer: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday alleged that the BJP is remote-controlling Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal to make traders “suffer” from weekend curfew and odd-even restrictions. “When the Delhi government logically reasoned [with the L-G] to reduce the curbs after the cases came down, he refused to do so at the behest of the BJP,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. The AAP leader said the BJP has been trying to find avenues to politicise the situation. “When the Omicron variant was first found in Delhi, it was the BJP which was slandering the Delhi government over crowded markets. BJP leader Ramvir Bidhuri himself had asked why the government was not imposing restrictions on markets. Taking cognisance of the matter, the government imposed amicable restrictions like night curfew, weekend curfews and odd-even system in markets,” Mr. Bharadwaj said. The moment these restrictions were imposed, the BJP, which had demanded these steps, started another false propaganda that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was hurting business through COVID-19 curbs, he said. “Mr. Bidhuri who called for the curbs then asked the L-G to lift the curbs accusing the government of hurting livelihoods. You could see the BJP’s herd mentality,” Mr. Bharadwaj said. Meanwhile, the BJP on Saturday accused the Delhi government of deceiving the city’s businessmen and workers. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said that the government should first change rules in its own Graded Response Action Plan to provide relief to those engaged in varying kinds of economic activity. “According to the Delhi government’s own rules, the curbs cannot be lifted and it [the government] is aware of it. Despite this, the government made a proposal and sent it to the L-G. It wants to show that it wants to give people relief but the L-G is not letting this happen,” the leader said. In another development, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta urged the L-G to end weekend curfew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-remote-controlling-l-g-to-make-traders-suffer-aap/article38312385.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:13 IST,||City logs 11,486 infections; positivity falls to 16.3%||The downward trend in COVID-19 situation continued in the city on Saturday with the test positivity rate (TPR) falling to 16.36% from 18.04% on Friday, according to a Delhi government bulletin. The TPR had peaked on January 14 to 30.64%. The number of new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours rose to 11,486 from 10,756, a day earlier due to an increase in the number of tests. A total of 70,226 tests were done in 24 hours. Forty-five new deaths were reported, which is the highest during this wave, taking the total deaths to 25,586, as per the bulletin. Of the total 15,409 hospital beds for COVID-19, 83.75% were vacant on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-logs-11486-infections-positivity-falls-to-163/article38312381.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:13 IST,||‘DCPCR notice to North body on parking lot is politically motivated’||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Standing Committee chairman, Jogi Ram Jain, on Saturday said the notice issued to the civic body by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) over the demolition of two primary schools in Karol Bagh was politically motivated. The notice, which was issued on Friday to the civic body’s Director of Education and Deputy Commissioner, Karol Bagh Zone, was based on a complaint from [AAP] Karol Bagh MLA Vishesh Ravi. Mr. Jain said that a surface-level parking was active on the premises for the last two years and that work on a multilevel car parking was to start. He said the project was aimed at resolving the parking issues in the area and at generating revenue in order to address the civic body’s ongoing financial crisis. “Clearly, this notice from the DCPCR is politically influenced by the Delhi government because the civic body polls are nearing,” said Mr. Jain, adding that the schools were shut in 2017 due to low attendance and the students were shifted. According to the complaint, a multi-level parking facility was being constructed illegally on the premises and the demolition of the two schools was against the norms of the Right to Education Act that states children should have access to primary schools within 1-km radius. North Corporation’s Leader of the Opposition Vikas Goyal said that the BJP-led civic body was “trying to fill its pockets” by “selling schools to private builders”. He added, “They [North body] should have utilised the space for schooling purposes. The question here is that why were the number of students so low? This is a deliberate closure of the schools.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dcpcr-notice-to-north-body-on-parking-lot-is-politically-motivated/article38312386.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:12 IST,||Woman found dead at home; husband’s role suspected||A 52-year-old woman was found murdered and her husband injured at their residence in south Delhi’s Saket on Friday. The police suspect that the husband killed the wife following an argument and physical fight between the two. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Benita Mary Jaiker said that the victim has been identified as Shashi Lata Pandey and the injured suspect as Chander Mohan Pandey, 58, both residents of Saket’s G Block. The police said they received a PCR call around 7 p.m. on Friday wherein the caller, Kapil Pandey, said his aunt Shashi was dead and his uncle was injured following a fight. On reaching the spot, the police found Shashi lying in a pool of blood with no visible injury marks. The couple were taken to a hospital where Shashi was declared dead and Chander is undergoing treatment. The police said that Chander’s statement has not been taken because he is being treated in the ICU. The couple’s son Shivam, who was at his workplace at the time of the incident, told the police that his father was depressed after losing his job about two years ago. “There were issues between his parents over residing in their house as the father wanted to sell off the house and the mother wanted to stay there,” the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-found-dead-at-home-husbands-role-suspected/article38312377.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:13 IST,||Man held for cheating, extorting women online||A BTech-cum-MBA graduate has been arrested for extorting money from a woman after threatening to post her private photographs online, the police said on Saturday. DCP (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said the accused, identified as Sahil Sachdeva, 32, is a U.P. resident. He used to meet women on matrimonial sites, give them false promise of marriage and blackmail them using their private photos. The police said a woman complained that Sachdeva, whom she met on a matrimonial site, took her private pictures during video calls and extorted her of Rs. 2 lakh. He has cheated more women in Ghaziabad, Bhopal and Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-for-cheating-extorting-women-online/article38312384.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:12 IST,||JNU molestation: DCW issues notice to registrar||The Delhi Commission for Women on Saturday sent a notice to JNU’s registrar regarding an alleged molestation incident on the university campus, seeking an action taken-report within five days, officials said. It has asked JNU to highlight steps taken to ensure student safety. The incident occurred on the night of January 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnu-molestation-dcw-issues-notice-to-registrar/article38312376.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:24 IST,||Kolhe has right to choose roles, says Nana Patekar||Actor Nana Patekar on Saturday defended NCP MP Amol Kolhe, who is facing flak for playing Nathuram Godse in an upcoming film, saying an artiste has the right to choose a role.  “Not many people know this, but I had played Nathuram Godse around 30 years ago in (British TV series) Lord Mountbatten: The Last Viceroy ,” Mr. Patekar said. “Does it mean that I support the (character’s) thoughts? I am an artiste... It’s an artiste’s choice. When one supports that character’s ideology, then questions can be asked, but for an artiste, it is his bread and butter.”   In the film Why I Killed Gandhi , directed by Ashok Tyagi, Mr. Kolhe will be seen as Gandhi’s assassin. The film was shot in 2017. Mr. Kolhe, who started his political innings with the Shiv Sena, joined the NCP in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kolhe-has-right-to-choose-roles-says-nana-patekar/article38311993.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:24 IST,||HC slams CBI in Jharkhand judge case||The Jharkhand High Court has slammed the Central Bureau of Investigation for its “laxity” in probing the murder of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand, and observed that it seems that the agency was trying to quit the investigation and even protect the accused. The Division Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice S.N. Prasad, while reading the report of the narco-analysis test of the two accused, said when the auto-driver and his accomplice knew that Anand was a judge before hitting him, how could the CBI come up with the theory of murder for robbing a mobile phone? “The investigation raises a question on the credibility of the CBI. It seems the agency is now tired of the case and wants to quit,” the Bench noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-slams-cbi-in-jharkhand-judge-case/article38311991.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:24 IST,||J&K security core group identifies main challenges||Hybrid militants, attacks on soft targets and social media propaganda were identified as three main security challenges for year 2022 by J&K’s top officials from civil administration, intelligence agencies and security forces during a review meeting held at the Badami Bagh Cantonment on Friday. An official spokesman said the core group meeting, co-chaired by General Officer Commanding, Chinar Corps, Lt. Gen. D.P. Pandey and Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh, discussed fresh strategies of the terrorist organisations and their handlers, “including use of hybrid terrorist and targeting of soft targets”. Official data suggested that 15 terrorists killed in 2021 were fresh names and not on the security forces’ radar. “The challenge of propaganda of the nexus through Internet and social media was highlighted. These efforts include propaganda to legitimise killing of Kashmiri civilians by terrorists. The use of social media to spread disinformation is widespread and needs to be countered proactively by a joint effort. Efforts at synergy in exposing fake news, booking of radicals trying to foment unrest and proactive sharing of information by state agencies are being upgraded,” the official said. The top officials from the security grid, during the meeting, acknowledged that the ceasefire has improved the security situation along the border. “However, intelligence inputs of terrorist launch pads and terrorist training activities in Pakistan indicate the need to be alert along the Line of Control,” they said. The top officers also expressed satisfaction over the setting up of the State Investigation Agency and the increased booking by the National Investigation Agency. “The efforts have been effective in targeting drug, hawala and the overground workers’ networks. Legal action on those wilfully harbouring terrorists is being increased.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jk-security-core-group-identifies-main-challenges/article64946884.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:12 IST,||Nothing like the good ol’ dosa!||Some years ago, while holidaying in Goa, I was hit by a strange feeling. I love my meats, and the Goan sojourn was one long meaty fest. On the last day, though, I realised I couldn’t have another meat-rich meal; instead, I wanted dal, roti and sabzi. We actually found a restaurant that served these north Indian staples, and I had — to my utter surprise — the most delectable meal that I could have had in Goa. A similar feeling struck me a few weeks ago. We had gone to Kolkata — the haven of good food, western and eastern — and I had everything that I loved — from ham sandwiches and sausages to juicy kabab rolls and steaks. But once back in Delhi, I felt like having something completely different. And I surprised myself by going online in search of the homely dosa. I realise now that the dosa is quite my idea of comfort food. As a callow young man, I gorged on masala dosas and sambar at Delhi’s coffee houses. Later, the binging on dosas continued at Andhra Bhavan and Saravana Bhavan. And, now, it was the time for Juggernaut. This place had caught my attention some months before the COVID-19 pandemic. I had heard that it offered good south Indian vegetarian food and we decided to order some dosas home. We asked for an onion rawa masala dosa, a ghee roast masala dosa and a set dosa. And along with that we thought we’d have some onion pakoras and dahi vadas. Deliciously crisp The set dosai (Rs. 209) captured my heart. It was a set of three dosas, but prepared like utthapams, somewhat thick and round. I had one of the dosais, soft and crispy at the same time, and enjoyed it thoroughly. The onion rawa masala dosa (Rs. 229), always a favourite, didn’t disappoint us. Prepared with a semolina batter, it had a light and lacy texture. The ghee roast masala dosa (Rs. 209) was deliciously crisp, and came with a side helping of potatoes prepared with mustard seeds, onion and curry leaves. I loved the dahi vadai (Rs. 199) – soft vadas in sweet-and-sour curd with aromatic flavours of hing and ginger, tempered with fenugreek and curry leaves. The food came with tomato and coconut chutneys. For dinner, we had rice with the leftover sambar, redolent with the flavours of vegetables and asafoetida, and the crispy onion bajjis. There was a sweet dish, too, which I think came gratis. A soft ball with a heart of coconut, it brought the curtain down on what was a nice and simple meal. Juggernaut is in Kailash Colony and delivers through food delivery apps. The menu includes snacks, meals, super-meals, shakes, coffees, sweets and savouries. The food is homelike and simple. And for a while, they make you forget all about Kolkata’s steak and kidney pie and filet mignon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nothing-like-the-good-ol-dosa/article64946987.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:24 IST,||Picturesque walk||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/picturesque-walk/article64946888.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:02 IST,||Taliban delegation heads for Oslo talks||The Taliban’s first official talks with the West on European soil since seizing power in Afghanistan will help to “transform the atmosphere of war” after a two-decade insurgency against NATO forces, the group’s top spokesman told AFP on Saturday. The Islamists stormed back to power in August as U.S. and foreign troops began their final withdrawal from the country following a stalemate on the battlefield. No country has yet recognised the Taliban’s government — notorious for human rights abuses during a first stint in power between 1996 and 2001 when they were ousted by a U.S.-led invasion. “The Islamic Emirate has taken steps for meeting the demands of the Western world and we hope to strengthen our relations through diplomacy with all the countries, including European countries and the West in general,” Zabihullah Mujahid said on Saturday. The Taliban want to “transform the atmosphere of war... into a peaceful situation”. The humanitarian situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated since the Taliban’s takeover. International aid came to a sudden halt and the U.S. has frozen $9.5 billion in Afghan central bank assets held overseas. Hunger now threatens 23 million Afghans, or 55% of the population, says the UN. The Oslo visit from Sunday to Tuesday will be focussed on human rights and humanitarian aid as a poverty crisis deepens in Afghanistan. The hardline Islamists will meet Norwegian authorities and officials from a number of allied countries including Britain, the European Union, France, Germany, Italy and the U.S., the Norwegian Foreign Ministry statement said. The delegation is also expected to meet Afghans from civil society, including women leaders and journalists. “These meetings do not represent a legitimisation or recognition of the Taliban” Norwegian Foreign Minister Anniken Huitfeldt said Friday. “But we must talk to the de facto authorities in the country. We cannot allow the political situation to lead to an even worse humanitarian disaster.” The 15-member Taliban team represented by men, and led by Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi, left Kabul on Saturday on a plane organised by the Norwegian government, a Taliban spokesman said. Ali Maisam Nazary, the foreign relations chief for the National Resistance Front (NRF) — an opposition group — condemned Norway over the talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-delegation-heads-for-oslo-talks/article38311873.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:02 IST,||Biden, Kishida vow to ‘push back’ on China||U.S. President Joe Biden and Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida agreed to “push back” against China and condemned North Korea’s spate of missile tests, while Biden underlined U.S. commitment to defending Japan, in virtual talks on Friday. In a video meeting that lasted about one hour and 20 minutes, Mr. Biden also agreed to travel to Japan in late spring of this year for an official visit and summit of the Quad, which groups Australia, India, Japan and the United States, a senior U.S. official said. Mr. Biden has made restoring the importance of the U.S.-Japanese relationship a priority since taking office exactly a year ago, following his predecessor Donald Trump’s questioning the benefit of even longstanding U.S. alliances in both Asia and Europe. After the meeting, which took place by video link, Mr. Biden tweeted that it was “an honour to meet with Prime Minister Kishida to further strengthen the U.S.-Japan Alliance — the cornerstone of peace and security in the Indo-Pacific and around the world,” using an alternative name for the Asia-Pacific region. A U.S. official said Mr. Biden and Mr. Kishida expressed concern over China “intimidating” its neighbours. “The two leaders resolved to push back against the People's Republic of China (PRC)’s attempts to change the status quo in the East China Sea and South China Sea” and also “underscored the importance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait,” the White House readout said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-kishida-vow-to-push-back-on-china/article64946818.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:02 IST,||Deadly fighting between IS, Kurd forces in Syria||Fighting raged for a third day on Saturday between the Islamic State group and Kurdish forces in Syria after IS attacked a prison housing jihadists, in violence that has claimed over 70 lives, a war monitor said. The assault on the Ghwayran prison in the northern city of Hasakeh is one of IS’s most significant since its “caliphate” was declared defeated in Syria nearly three years ago. “At least 28 members of the Kurdish security forces, five civilians and 45 members of IS have been killed” in the violence, said Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. IS launched the attack on Thursday night against the prison housing some 3,500 suspected members of the jihadist group, including some of its leaders, said the Observatory. The jihadists “seized weapons they found” in the detention centre and freed several fellow IS fighters, said the Britain-based monitor, which relies on sources inside war-torn Syria for its information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/deadly-fighting-between-is-kurd-forces-in-syria/article38311878.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:02 IST,||Zen master, who brought mindfulness to West, dies||Vietnamese monk-turned-peace-activist Thich Nhat Hanh, a hugely influential Buddhist credited with bringing mindfulness to the West, has died aged 95. The Zen master, whose reach within Buddhism is seen as second only to the Dalai Lama, spent nearly four decades in exile after being banished from his homeland for calling for an end to the Vietnam-American War. Thich Nhat Hanh “passed away peacefully” at the Tu Hieu Temple in the city of Hue, Vietnam’s Buddhist heartland, his Zen teaching organisation, the Plum Village Community of Engaged Buddhism, said. Before his return to Vietnam in 2018, he set up retreats around the world and wrote over 100 books including on mindfulness and meditation — a cornerstone of a $4.2 trillion global wellness industry espoused by Oprah Winfrey, Arianna Huffington and tech billionaire Marc Benioff. Born in 1926, Thich Nhat Hanh was ordained aged 16 and went on to found a youth school which trained volunteers to build clinics and infrastructure in villages blighted by war. In the early 1960s he travelled to the U.S., where he taught at Columbia and Princeton universities, but after one trip in 1966 to meet U.S. civil rights icon Martin Luther King — who joined his calls to end the Vietnam War — he was barred from returning home. Believing that war was fundamentally wrong, the monk refused to take sides in the conflict and was consequently persecuted by the governments of both North and South Vietnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/zen-master-who-brought-mindfulness-to-west-dies/article64946817.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:02 IST,||Pak. YouTuber jailed for justifying lynching||A Pakistani anti-terrorism court has sentenced a 27-year-old man to one year imprisonment for justifying the lynching of a Sri Lankan citizen in a video, which went viral on his YouTube channel. On December 3 last year, a mob of over 800 men, including supporters of hardline Islamist party Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), attacked a garment factory in Sialkot district, some 100 km from Lahore, and lynched its general manager Priyantha Kumara, 47, and burned his body over allegations of blasphemy. According to police, Muhammad Adnan of Sialkot had uploaded a video on his YouTube channel on the lynching incident in which he justified Kumara's killing and burning of his body. On Friday, ATC Gujranwala judge Natasha Naeem sentenced Adnan to one year jail term and imposing a fine of PKR 10,000 on him. Some 85 suspects linked to the killing will be presented before the ATC on January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-youtuber-jailed-for-justifying-lynching/article38311880.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:02 IST,||Iran warns coalition over Yemen attack||Iran on Saturday condemned recent air strikes on rebel-held areas of Yemen, warning they make achieving peace in the war-torn country “more difficult”. “The continuation of the coalition’s military attacks on Yemen with the silence and indifference of the international community and the uncontrolled sale of weapons to the aggressors... has made the path to achieve a just peace even more difficult,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-warns-coalition-over-yemen-attack/article38311879.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:02 IST,||U.S. suspends 44 passenger flights to China||The U.S. announced on Friday that it was suspending 44 Chinese flights from America to the Asian giant in response to restrictive moves by Beijing under its COVID-19 protocols. The flights are operated by Air China, China Eastern Airlines, China Southern Airlines and Xiamen Airlines. China used the circuit breaker policy to cancel flights by American, Delta and United airlines when passengers who tested negative for COVID-19 before takeoff later tested positive once arriving in China.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-suspends-44-passenger-flights-to-china/article38311881.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:15 IST,||India’s reliance on Chinese goods surged in 2021||India imported $16 billion more of its key top 100 imports from China in the last year, an increase of almost two-thirds from the previous year, an analysis of trade figures shows, underlining deepening dependencies on many crucial imports. India’s total imports from China crossed a record $97.5 billion last year, making up a large chunk of the bilateral trade that reached $125 billion, for the first time crossing the $100 billion-mark, figures released earlier this month by China’s General Administration of Customs (GAC) showed. Of the 8,455 different types of items imported from China between January and November of last year, a staggeringly diverse list covering everything from a range of chemicals and electronics to auto components and textiles, 4,591 showed an increase, according to an analysis of India’s Ministry of Commerce data. The top 100 items by value accounted for $41 billion, up from $25 billion in 2020, according to a study of the numbers by Santosh Pai, an Honorary Fellow at the Institute of Chinese Studies in New Delhi. Most of the top 100 items — each of which accounted for more than $100 million in trade, and included a range of electronic products, chemicals, and auto components — showed sharp growth. The list included both finished and intermediate goods. Of the former category, integrated circuits were up by 147%, laptops and personal computers by 77%, and oxygen therapy apparatus by more than fourfold. Intermediate products, particularly chemicals, also recorded striking growth. One of those, acetic acid, was up by more than eightfold. Among the reasons for the rising imports are a recovery in domestic demand for finished products from China, and an industrial recovery. Growth in India’s exports worldwide has also pushed up the need for many crucial intermediate inputs, and disruptions elsewhere have led to greater sourcing from China in the short-term, for instance in the case of coking coal previously sourced from Australia and Indonesia. India’s record imports from China in 2021, amid a continuing political impasse over the as-yet-unresolved crisis along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), have reignited a debate on whether the trade relationship and a growing deficit is sustainable. In the past 12 months, according to GAC data, the value of India’s imports exceeded total two-way trade in 2019 before the pandemic. ‘Need to differentiate’ India is sourcing both finished goods for the Indian market, such as electronics, in record numbers, while also relying on China for a range of intermediate industrial products, many of which cannot be sourced from elsewhere and are not made in India in sufficient quantities. If dependencies on China had overall increased substantially in the past year, Mr. Pai observed that there was a need to differentiate between the different categories. “If the growth in imports of finished items such as toys, electronics, or furniture, which we could be manufacturing in India, is not a good dependency, the fact that we are acquiring new intermediate goods, for instance, is probably a good development in the broader picture as it means we are emerging as a manufacturing hub and need new inputs to match the global demand for a finished Indian product,” Mr. Pai observed. “The other question is which of these are short-term changes because of disruption during the pandemic, and which are longer-term trends that we need to consider and deal with, and ask whether we can start manufacturing in India rather than still buying from China,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indias-reliance-on-chinese-goods-surged-in-2021/article64946747.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:15 IST,||Yes Bank Q3 profit surges 77% to Rs. 266 cr., total income drops||Private sector lender Yes Bank on Saturday reported a 77% jump in profit to Rs. 266.43 crore for the third quarter ended December. The bank had posted a profit of Rs. 150.77 crore in the October-December quarter a year earlier. However, total income during the quarter under review declined to Rs. 5,632.03 crore from Rs. 6,408.53 crore, Yes Bank said in a filing. Net interest income also slipped by 31% to Rs. 1,764 crore compared with Rs. 2,560 crore in the same quarter in 2020. Gross non-performing assets (GNPAs) as a percentage of assets eased to 14.65% from 15.36%. Net NPAs rise On the other hand, net NPAs increased to 5.29% as against 4.04%. Provisions other than tax and contingencies came down significantly to Rs. 374.64 crore from Rs. 2,089 crore. “On November 1, 2021, the bank had completed the sale of its entire stake in its wholly owned subsidiaries YES Asset Management (India) Limited and YES Trustee Limited to CPL Finance and Investments Limited. The net positive impact to the financial results post this sale, including reversal of the impairment provision was Rs. 14.94 crore,” it said. Provision coverage ratio decreased to 79.3% at the end of December 31, 2021. Fresh slippages stood at Rs. 978 crore while there was cash recovery of Rs. 610 crore and upgrades of Rs. 573 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/yes-bank-q3-profit-surges-77-to-rs-266-cr-total-income-drops/article64946749.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:15 IST,||ICICI Bank Q3 profit rises 25% to Rs. 6,194 cr.||ICICI Bank Ltd. said third-quarter standalone net profit rose 25% from a year earlier to Rs. 6,194 crore, on account of overall improvement in net interest margin, fee income, core operating profit and a 27% reduction in provisions for bad loans. This was the highest-ever quarterly profit, it said. “There was all-round growth during the quarter,” said Sandeep Batra, ED. “We have adequate provisions to meet any situation. There has been a localised impact of the third wave. We do not anticipate any significant disruption to the economic activity at this point and remain optimistic about the overall economy.” Interest margin rises Core operating profit (profit before provisions and tax, excluding treasury income) grew by 25% year-on-year (YoY) to Rs. 10,060 crore and net interest income rose by 23%. Net interest margin stood at 3.96%, compared with 3.67% in the year-earlier period. Fee income grew by 19% to Rs. 4,291 crore. Total deposits rose 16% to Rs. 10,17,467 crore. Net NPA ratio declined from 0.99% at September 30, 2021, to 0.85% at December 31, 2021, the lowest since March 31, 2014. Coverage ratio was 79.9% at December 31, 2021, the bank said in a filing. Provisions (excluding provision for tax) declined by 27% to Rs. 2,007 crore from Rs. 2,742 crore a year earlier. Net NPAs shrink Net non-performing assets declined by 10% sequentially to Rs. 7,344 crore. The gross NPA additions declined to Rs. 4,018 crore from Rs. 5,578 crore in the previous quarter and Rs. 7,231 crore in the quarter ended June 30, 2021. Excluding NPAs, the total fund based outstanding to all borrowers under resolution was Rs. 9,684 crore or 1.2% of total advances at December 31, 2021, a similar level compared to September 30, 2021, the bank said. The bank continues to hold COVID-19 provisions of Rs. 6,425 crore as of December 31, 2021, the same level as September 30, 2021. The loan and non-fund based outstanding to performing borrowers rated BB and below reduced to Rs. 11,842 crore at December 31, 2021, from Rs. 12,714 crore at September 30, 2021. The bank said consolidated profit after tax increased by 19% year-on-year to Rs. 6,536 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/icici-bank-q3-profit-rises-25-to-rs-6194-cr/article64946746.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:15 IST,||Ed-tech firm Veranda mulls Rs. 200 crore via IPO||Ed-tech firm Veranda Learning Solutions Ltd. is planning to raise Rs. 200 crore through an Initial Public Offering (IPO) to finance acquisition, reduce debt and fuel growth initiatives. The firm is seeking to grow its ‘pandemic-proof’ learning model for students and corporate training in terms of content digitisation and campus-in-campus training through multiple acquisitions. It operated 23 Preferred Delivery Centres (PDCs) across 23 cities and in two States as of Q3FY22. It is planning regional expansion and geographical expansion through PDCs in Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Gurugram, Kolkata and Mumbai, its promoter said. Kalpathi Suresh, chairman and executive director said the firm was seeking strategic acquisitions and evaluating targets for brand or business acquisitions in areas such as CA, PSC, MBA, Engineering, Medical and other skilling courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ed-tech-firm-veranda-mulls-rs-200-crore-via-ipo/article64946748.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:20 IST,||‘Public Wi-Fi can create 2-3 crore jobs’||Setting up of one crore public Wi-FI hotspots across the country by this year as envisaged under the present telecom policy has the potential to create 2-3 crore job opportunities, a senior government official said on Saturday. “Given conservative estimate of each hotspot enabling 2-3 direct and indirect jobs, the creation of 10 million hotspots as per the National Digital Communications Policy target by 2022 would potentially generate 20-30 million job opportunity in the small and medium scale sectors,” Telecom Secretary K. Rajaraman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/public-wi-fi-can-create-2-3-crore-jobs/article38312630.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:15 IST,||FabIndia IPO: promoters to gift shares||Lifestyle retail brand FabIndia is planning an initial public offering (IPO) that would raise up to Rs. 4,000 crore, and in a novel approach, the company's promoters also plan to gift more than seven lakh shares to artisans and farmers. On Saturday, the company filed the Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP) with SEBI for the offer that will include fresh issue of shares worth up to Rs. 500 crore. Besides, there will be an Offer For Sale of up to 2,50,50,543 shares. Market sources said the IPO is expected to be worth about Rs. 4,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fabindia-ipo-promoters-to-gift-shares/article38312002.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||India plays for pride with the series lost||The Indian team’s strategy is expected to undergo paradigm shift as it faces a possibility of a clean sweep against South Africa in the third ODI here on Sunday. India's strategy looked completely out of sync with the white-ball game as the batters failed to keep the momentum in the middle overs and the bowlers, save Jasprit Bumrah, looked club class. In two matches, India has been only able to pick up seven wickets — four in the first game when Proteas batted first and only three in the second. R. Ashwin and Bhuvneshwar Kumar, the two senior-most bowlers, looked far from threatening. With the two players having flopped completely, it needs to be seen whether it will try out Jayant Yadav and Deepak Chahar in the next game. At Newlands, there will be more pace and bounce on the track and the Indian team that has been perennially struggling would want to avoid the ignominy of a 0-3 loss. For skipper Rahul, the whole tour, save his match-winning hundred in the first Test, has been a nightmare. Although he is being seen as a long-term future leader, there hasn't been any spark in his leadership. There hasn't been any tactical improvisations in the two games so far. Lack of energy Virat Kohli may have scored 51 in the first game but what is visible is his lack of energy on the field. Rahul would do well to imbibe some of it from his former captain. The two Iyers — Shreyas in batting and Venkatesh as an all-rounder — haven’t yet set the stage on fire In all, massive improvement required in order to be competitive. South Africa has been fined 20% of the match fee for maintaining a slow over-rate against India in the second ODI at Parl, the ICC said on Saturday.  The teams (from): India: K.L. Rahul (Capt.), Jasprit Bumrah (Vice-capt.), Shikhar Dhawan, Ruturaj Gaikwad, Virat Kohli, Suryakumar Yadav, Shreyas Iyer, Venkatesh Iyer, Rishabh Pant (wk), Ishan Kishan (wk), Yuzvendra Chahal, R. Ashwin, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Prasidh Krishna, Shardul Thakur, Mohd. Siraj, Jayant Yadav and Navdeep Saini.   South Africa: Temba Bavuma (Capt.), Keshav Maharaj (Vice-capt.) Quinton de Kock (wk), Zubayr Hamza, Marco Jansen, Janneman Malan, Sisanda Magala, Aiden Markram, David Miller, Lungi Ngidi, Wayne Parnell, Andile Phehlukwayo, Dwaine Pretorius, George Linde, Tabraiz Shamsi, Rassie van der Dussen, and Kyle Verreynne.   Match starts at 2 p.m. IST  .   We are playing an ODI series after a long time and we are just getting used to that Pant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-plays-for-pride-with-the-series-lost/article64946708.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:15 IST,||A grand double for Shahan||Shahan Ali Mohsin, the 17-year old from Agra, further underlined his stature as a top racing talent with a grand double as curtains came down on the third round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Car Racing Championship 2021 at the MMRT here on Saturday. Shahan won the first and third races in the premier MRF F1600 category with local veteran Deepak Ravikumar topping the second on an incident-filled day that also saw Coimbatore’s Arjun Balu (Race Concepts) surviving a few close calls to win the Indian Touring Cars race. The two victories put Shahan within 13 points of leader Chirag Ghorpade in the championship standings. Also achieving a double were Bengaluru’s Varun Anekar (Race Concepts) in the Indian Junior Touring Cars category and Deepak Ravikumar (Performance Racing) in the Super Stock class.  The results (provisional, all 10 laps unless mentioned):   MRF F1600 (Race-2): 1. Deepak Ravikumar (Chennai) 17mins, 01.826secs; 2. Rishon Rajeev (Bengaluru) 17:09.895; 3. Dillon Zachariah (Chennai) 17:11.992.   Race-3 (8 laps): 1. Shahan Ali Mohsin (Agra) 13:31.736; 2. Chirag Ghorpade (Bengaluru) 13:32.182; 3. Rishon Rajeev (Bengaluru) 13:34.482.   Indian Touring Cars (Race-2): 1. Arjun Balu (Race Concepts, Coimbatore) 19:16.528; 2. Ishaan Dodhiwala (Rayo Racing, Hyderabad) 19:19.601; 3. Jeet Jhabakh (Rayo Racing, Hyderabad) 19:27.951.   Indian Junior Touring Cars (Race-2): 1. Varun Anekar (Race Concepts, Bengaluru) 19:54.853; 2. Hatim Shabir Jamnagarwala (Performance Racing, Chennai) 20:24.374; 3. Charen Chandran (Pvt, Coimbatore) 20:32.696.   Super Stock (Race-2): 1. Deepak Ravikumar (Performance Racing, Chennai) 20:02.552; 2. R.P. Rajarajan (Performance Racing, Chennai) 20:24.719; 3. Hareeshwar Prasad (Race Concepts, Coimbatore) 19:24.976, 9 laps.   Formula LGB 1300 (Race-2): 1. Tijil Rao (Momentum Motorsport, Bengaluru) 20:04.385; 2. Viswas Vijayaraj (DTS Racing, Nellore) 20:06.027; 3. Mohd. Ryan (MSport, Chennai) 20:06.747.   Volkswagen Polo (Race-2): 1. Pratik Sonawane (Pune) 19:49.042; 2. Avik Anwar (Bangladesh) 19:55.849; 3. Sandeep Kumar (Chennai) 19:56.439.   (Race-3, 8 laps): 1. Anmol Singh Sahil (Ghaziabad) 15:51.553; 2. Sourav Bandyopadhyay (Thane) 15:57.720; 3. Sandeep Kumar (Chennai) 16:03.562.   MRF Saloon Cars (Toyota Etios — Race 3, 5 laps): 1. Angad Matharoo (Red Line Racing, Chandigarh) 10:39.105; 2. Fahad Kutty (Red Line Racing, Mumbai) 10:42.183; 3. Zahan Commissariat (Red Line Racing, Mumbai) 10:43.933 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-grand-double-for-shahan/article64946745.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,||Cilic sends Rublev packing||World No. 2 and title favourite Daniil Medvedev won over the Australian Open crowd on Saturday as he eased into the last 16 along with Stefanos Tsitsipas. Former finalist Marin Cilic ended fifth seed Andrey Rublev’s hopes with an upset four-set victory. The Croatian, seeded 27, knocked out the Russian 7-5, 7-6(3), 3-6, 6-3. Russia’s Medvedev, who was booed during his second-round victory over Australian Nick Kyrgios, had a more comfortable match as he dismissed unseeded Dutchman Botic van de Zandschulp 6-4, 6-4, 6-2. Greek fourth seed Tsitsipas, who is chasing a maiden Major, was also largely untroubled in a 6-3, 7-5, 6-7(2), 6-4 win over unseeded Frenchman Benoit Paire. In the women’s draw, World No. 2 Aryna Sabalenka overcame the serving problems that have been plaguing her early season, but still needed three sets to get past 31st seed Marketa Vondrousova 4-6, 6-3, 6-1. Simona Halep swatted aside Danka Kovinic 6-2, 6-1 in just 64 minutes. Halep meets Alize Cornet, who celebrated her 32nd birthday by knocking out 29th seed Tamara Zidansek 4-6, 6-4, 6-2. Rohan Bopanna and Croatian Darija Jurak Schreiber made a first-round exit from the mixed doubles losing to Kazakhstan’s Andrey Golubev and Lyudmyla Kichenok of Ukraine 6-1, 4-6, [9-11] in one hour and three minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cilic-knocks-out-rublev/article38311855.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:19 IST,||IPL likely to begin on March 27||The 15th edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL) is tentatively scheduled to begin on March 27. While the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is trying its best for the tournament to be organised in India, it has identified United Arab Emirates (UAE) and South Africa as back-up venues. The Hindu understands that these aspects were informed to the representatives of all 10 franchises during a conference call on Saturday, soon after the BCCI officially announced the pre-auction signings of the Lucknow and Ahmedabad franchises.  “I am delighted to confirm that the 15th season of the IPL will start in the last week of March and will run until May end,” BCCI secretary Jay Shah said in a statement. Date advanced The BCCI had earlier been eyeing April 2 as the start date for the IPL. “Since all the stakeholders have proposed lesser day games, the tournament may be advanced to March 27,” revealed an IPL insider, citing anonymity. Due to the third wave resulting in a nationwide surge, the BCCI will try and host the IPL in the Mumbai-Pune corridor. However, if it doesn’t work out, the event may be relocated to either UAE or South Africa. Shah, however, stressed that the BCCI will try its best to stage the IPL in India and will confirm the venue before next month’s auction. “A majority of the team owners expressed their wish that the tournament be held in India. The BCCI was always keen on staging the 2022 edition that will see two new teams — Ahmedabad and Lucknow — in India. I can tell you that we will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that the IPL stays in India,” Shah said. “The BCCI has not compromised on the health and safety of its stakeholders in the past and will concurrently work on Plan B since the COVID-19 situation with new variants remains fluid. The mega IPL auction will take place on February 12 and 13 and we will lock in the venues before that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-likely-to-begin-on-march-27/article64946715.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||Bawa and Angkrish star for India||Opener Angkrish Raghuvanshi (144, 120b, 22x4, 4x6) and Raj Bawa (162 n.o., 108b, 14x4, 8x6) went on the rampage, adding 206 for the third wicket, as India amassed 405 for five and bowled out Uganda for 79 in its Under-19 World Cup match on Saturday. Harnoor Singh, the other opener, was dismissed for 15 while skipper Nishant Sidhu went for 15. Bawa, who joined Angkrish in the middle with India on 85 for two in 15.1 overs, was unstoppable. The two batters hit a dozen sixes and three dozen fours between them. The Uganda batters were all at sea against the Indian attack, with captain and left-arm spinner Nishant picking up four for 19. Meanwhile, the ICC's Event Technical Committee approved all-rounder Vasu Vats as a replacement for Manav Parakh in the India squad. Vats is a temporary replacement for Parakh who has tested positive for COVID-19. On Friday, Sri Lanka sealed its qualification for the last-eight stage with a dramatic three-wicket victory over West Indies while South Africa defeated Ireland by 153 runs to book its place in the quarterfinals.  The scores: India 405/5 in 50 overs (Angkrish Raghuvanshi 144, Raj Bawa 162 n.o., Pascal Murungi 3/72) bt Uganda 79 in 19.4 overs (Murungi 34, Nishant Sidhu 4/19).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bawa-angkrish-take-india-to-405/article64946712.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:16 IST,||Unbeaten Vidit stays in joint lead||Joint leader Vidit Gujrathi maintained his unbeaten run in the Masters section of the elite Tata Steel chess tournament after a 36-move draw, following a three-fold repetition of moves, with Poland’s Jan-Krzysztof Duda in the sixth round at Wijk aan Zee, near Amsterdam, on Friday. Magnus Carlsen defeated Richard Rapport, one of the three overnight leaders, and joined Vidit and Shakhriyar Mamedyarov at four points. R. Praggnanandhaa drew with Sam Shankland to join four others at 2.5 points. Anish Giri defeated Fabiano Caruana and Sergey Karjakin scored over defending champion Jorden van Foreest to join Carlsen as the winners of the day. In the Challengers section, young top seed Arjun Erigaisi crushed senior compatriot Surya Shekhar Ganguly in 42 moves to increase his lead to 1.5 points.  Sixth-round results (Indians unless stated): Masters: Vidit Gujrathi (4) drew with Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 3); Sam Shankland (USA, 2.5) drew with R. Praggnanandhaa (2.5); Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 4) bt Richard Rapport (Hun, 3.5).   Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze, 4) drew with Nils Grandelius (Swe, 1.5); Daniil Dubov (Rus, 2.5) drew with Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 3.5).   Fabiano Caruana (USA, 2.5) lost to Anish Giri (Ned, 3); Sergey Karjakin (Rus, 3) bt Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 2.5).   Challengers (involving Indians): Arjun Erigaisi (5.5) bt Surya Shekhar Ganguly (2.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unbeaten-vidit-stays-in-joint-lead/article38312016.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||A wonderful initiative: Hafeez||Mohammed Hafeez has been one of cricket’s most durable men. The Pakistan all-rounder was 41 when he announced his retirement from the international game early this month. His last match for Pakistan was the semifinal against Australia in the T20 World Cup at Dubai last November. He soon found himself playing in a tournament for the international cricketers. Turning out for Asia Lions at the Legends League Cricket, he played a splendid cameo to help his side chase down a daunting target set by World Giants at the Al Amerat Cricket Stadium here on Friday night. His 13-ball 27 was what the Lions needed after the second-wicket stand of 88 between the Sri Lankan duo of Tillakaratne Dilshan (52, 32b) and Upul Tharanga (63, 43b). Shortly after his team scored a six-wicket win with four balls to spare, Hafeez said he was happy to be part of the league. “I personally enjoyed playing with the (former) stars of world cricket,” he said. “Sharing the dressing room with them was really special and so is having World Cup-winning Sri Lanka skipper Arjuna Ranatunga as coach. As a child, I grew up watching him.” He feels the league is a wonderful initiative. “I really want to congratulate the organisers on bringing (all the cricketers) under one roof,” he said. “As a fan I am very happy.” Kevin O’Brien could not have been as happy, though. The Irish all-rounder’s 95 off 46 balls went in vain, as the Giants’ 205 for seven was overtaken by Lions. “It was a very good wicket and I enjoyed batting out there,” said O’Brien. “The standard of cricket here is good. The batters are doing well and the bowlers too.” (The writer is in Muscat at the invitation of Legends League Cricket)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-wonderful-initiative-hafeez/article64946711.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:21 IST,||ATK Mohun Bagan back in action today||ATK Mohun Bagan (ATK MB) will look to regain the rhythm as it returns to Indian Super League action after missing three rounds of action owing to COVID outbreak in the squad. The Mariners take on Odisha FC (OFC) at Fatorda on Sunday in the rescheduled fixture of the January 8 engagement that was called off after some players in the ATK MB’s camp tested positive. The Mariners, who are unbeaten in the last five games, have a tally of 15 points from nine matches. A win on Sunday would take them to the top-four with two games in hand. While ATK MB has bolstered its backline with the addition of Sandesh Jhingan, the team will be miss the suspended playmaker Hugo Boumous. OFC, which returned to its winning ways in its previous outing against NorthEast United FC, will be using the newfound momentum against the supposed might of ATKMB. OFC has not beaten ATKMB in the two meetings they have had so far. OFC’s new coach Kino Garcia will be keen to find a win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atk-mohun-bagan-back-in-action-today/article38312634.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:16 IST,||We need to convert our chances: Dennerby||Indian football team coach Thomas Dennerby on Saturday acknowledged that his side will need to be more clinical with its finishing if it is to make the quarterfinals of the women’s Asian Cup. India was held to a goalless draw by lower-ranked Iran in its tournament opener, while Chinese Taipei, the home team’s opponent on Sunday, was blanked 4-0 by eight-time champion China. Despite all the domination against Iran, the Blue Tigresses were unable to find the net, and it cost them three points. “These things come from everyday training, and we are working on it. If you have a chance, you need to take it quickly, maybe in the first touch itself, if possible,” Dennerby said. “We need to convert our chances. We were a little slow in the last match and that gave the rival defenders time to recover, and come at us. These are the little things we need to be better at.” He said the team is now solely focused on the game against Chinese Taipei and is not thinking about the outing against Iran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-need-to-convert-our-chances-dennerby/article64946741.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||United jumps to fourth||Marcus Rashford scored in the third and final minute of stoppage time to earn Manchester United a 1-0 win over West Ham that lifted the team above its opponent into fourth place in the Premier League on Saturday.  The results:   Premier League: Everton 0 lost to Aston Villa 1 (Buendia 45+3).   Leeds 0 lost to Newcastle 1 (Shelvey 75); Manchester United 1 (Rashford 90) bt West Ham 0.   Bundesliga: Hoffenheim 2 (Kramaric 45+1, Rutter 77) lost to Borussia Dortmund 3 (Haaland 6, Reus 58, Raum 67-og.   On Friday: La Liga: Espanyol 1 (de Tomas 14) lost to Real Betis 4 (Iglesias 31-pen, 53, Rodriguez 36, Willian Jose 76) .   Serie A: Verona 2 (Caprari 38, Kalinic 85) bt Bologna 1 (Orsolini 14).   Bundesliga: Eintracht Frankfurt 0 lost to Arminia Bielefeld 2 (Wimmer 5, Schoepf 27) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/man-united-wins-it-late/article38311868.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||Malvika to meet Sindhu||Malvika Bansod battled from the brink of defeat to set up a face-off with P.V. Sindhu in the final before unseeded players Arnaud Merkle and Lucas Claerbout turned the men’s title clash into an all-France affair in the $150,000 Syed Modi India International badminton tournament here. Though Saturday witnessed a number of matches that went the distance, Sindhu was required to spend only 13 minutes on the court against Evgeniya Kosetskaya. After Sindhu won the first game 21-11, the Russian girl gave up the match due to stomach pain. From the other semifinal, Malvika faced unexpected resistance from Anupama Upadhyay. During the 66-minute match, Malvika was down a game and trailed 16-19 in the second before turning the script on its head, winning 19-21, 21-19, 21-7. In the men’s semifinal, Mithun Manjunath did well to battle back from a game’s deficit to force the decider against Merkle. Thereafter, it was the Frenchman who simply blew the Indian away for a 21-19, 17-21, 21-9 victory.  The results (semifinals, Indians unless stated):    Men: Arnaud Merkle (Fra) bt Mithun Manjunath 21-19, 17-21, 21-9; Lucas Claerbout (Fra) bt Nhat Nguyen (Ire) 15-21, 21-18, 21-15; (Doubles): Krishna Prasad & Vishnuvardhan Goud bt Prem Singh Chouhan & Rajesh Verma 21-10, 21-9; Man Wei Chong & Tee Kai Wun (Mas) bt M. R. Arjun & Dhruv Kapila 21-16, 21-12.   Women: P.V. Sindhu bt Evgeniya Kosetskaya (Rus) 21-11 (retd.); Malvika Bansod bt Anupama Upadhyaya 19-21, 21-19, 21-7; (Doubles): Anna Ching Yik Cheong & Yeoh Mei Xing (Mas) bt Haritha Harinarayan & Ashna Roy 21-18, 21-7; Treesa Jolly & P. Gayathri bt Low Yeen Yuan & Valeree Siow (Mas) 17-21, 21-18, 21-16.   Mixed doubles: Ishan Bhatnagar & Tanisha Crasto bt M. R. Arjun & Treesa Jolly 18-21, 21-18, 21-11; T. Nagendra Babu & Srivedya Gurazada bt Akshan Shetty & Simran Singhi 15-21, 22-20, 21-9 .-||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/malvika-to-meet-sindhu/article64946713.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:20 IST,||Tiukaev claims title||Unseeded Ruslan Tiukaev completed his giant-killing run with a title as he downed second seed Aman Dahiya of India 7-5, 6-3 in the boys’ singles final of the Central Excise-CGST ITF Juniors (grade 2) tennis at the Bengal Tennis Association Complex on Saturday. The girls’ crown was annexed by Thailand’s Lanlana Tararudee, who showed great consistency in repeating the triumph she had recorded in the previous leg in Chandigarh last week. Lanlana outclassed second seed Daria Shadchneva of Russia 6-4, 6-3 to collect the full 200 points allotted to the winner.  The results (finals): Boys: Ruslan Tiukaev (Rus) bt Aman Dahiya 7-5, 6-3.   Girls: Lanlana Tararudee (Tha) bt Daria Shadchneva (Rus) 6-4, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tiukaev-claims-title/article38312631.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||Football legend Bhowmick passes away||Subhas Bhowmick, one of Indian football’s most vibrant personalities, passed away at a nursing home here on Saturday. He was 71. The legendary forward’s fortitude and determination fetched the national side and the clubs he played for a host of laurels. The same drive was replicated in his later avatar as coach. The LG ASEAN Cup triumph that he fashioned as East Bengal coach is still regarded as one of the best feats by an Indian manager at the club level. Bhowmick, known by his nickname ‘Bhombol’ among the football fraternity, represented the last generation of players who have witnessed India making a podium finish in a continental championship. He prominently figured in the Indian team that won the 1970 Bangkok Asian Games bronze. He was also part of the Indian team that jointly won the Pesta Sukan Cup with South Vietnam in Singapore in 1971. At a time when international engagements were few and far between, Bhowmick represented India in 24 internationals and scored nine goals. He made an equally big impact as coach, winning the country’s top tournament — the I-League — twice with East Bengal and once with Goan giant Churchill Brothers. Arriving in Kolkata (then Calcutta) from North Bengal’s Raigunj in the latter half of the 1960s, Bhowmick was successful as a winger in the four-forward system prevalent at that time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/football-legend-bhowmick-passes-away/article64946710.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:15 IST,||PVL moved to Hyderabad||With the COVID cases rising in Kerala, the Baseline Ventures has moved the RuPay Prime Volleyball League from Kochi to Hyderabad.  “It will be held at the Gachibowli Stadium. There is no change in dates and the event will start on February 5,” Tuhin Mishra, the Managing Director of Baseline Ventures which is organising the PVL, told The Hindu on Saturday.  The PVL is a seven-team event and three teams — Kochi Blue Spikers, Calicut Heroes and Kolkata Thunderbolts — are currently preparing for the event in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pvl-moved-to-hyderabad/article38312013.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:11 IST,||Theon should deliver in Indian St. Leger||The five-year-old gelding Theon, who ran close second in his last start to My Opinion in the Stayers’ Cup, should make amends in the Villoo C. Poonawalla Indian St. Leger (Gr. 1), the main attraction of Sunday’s (Jan. 23) races here. Rails will be placed 4 metres wide from 1200m to 1000m and thereafter 5 metres wide upto the winning post. In accordance with the permission received from the government authorities, the racing at the Mahalaxmi race course will be conducted behind closed doors (no spectators). PLAY.RWITC.COM PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 12.45 p.m.: 1. Rodrigo (8) Trevor 62, 2. Safdar (10) Shahrukh Khan 61.5, 3. Turmeric Tower (5) Kaviraj 61, 4. Brilliant Light (11) Shelar 60.5, 5. Fortune Cookie (6) Ayyar 60.5, 6. Chastity (1) Aniket 59.5, 7. Divine Soul (4) Nazil 59, 8. Accenture (2) Kirtish 58.5, 9. Istanbul (3) T.S. Jodha 55.5, 10. Suited Aces (7) A. Prakash 52, 11. Smart Choice (12) Raghuveer 50.5 and 12. Gandalf (9) Peter 49.5.  1. RODRIGO, 2. ACCENTURE, 3. FORTUNE COOKIE NOBLE PRINCE PLATE (2,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 1.15: 1. Fairmont (10) Zervan 59, 2. Key To The Mint (12) Trevor 59, 3. Charming Star (2) T.S. Jodha 58, 4. Irrepressible (7) Neeraj 58, 5. Brave Eagle (9) P.S. Chouhan 56.5, 6. Power Of Thor (4) Kaviraj 56.5, 7. Princess Of Naples (—), 8. Brazos (3) Parmar 55.5, 9. Dalasan (5) Ayyar 55, 10. Beastia (11) Bhawani 54.5, 11. Hot To Trot (6) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 12. Scotland (1) Dashrath 54 and 13. Shadows (8) S. Amit 49.  1. KEY TO THE MINT, 2. IRREPRESSIBLE, 3. FAIRMONT Y.M. CHAUDHRY MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86-, 1.45: 1. Hidden Gold (3) P. Vinod 59, 2. Joaquin (2) Zeeshan 55, 3. Aegon (1) C.S. Jodha 51 and 4. Sharareh (4) Peter 49.  1. JOAQUIN JEHANGIR P. DUBASH TROPHY (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46, 2.15: 1. Dreams (3) Parmar 59.5, 2. Evangeline (1) Zervan 58, 3. Sergio (8) A. Imran Khan 56.5, 4. Rising Brave (6) Shahrukh 55.5, 5. Gilt Edge (5) A. Prakash 54.5, 6. On Va Danser (7) Kaviraj 54, 7. Power Of Blessings (4) A. Gaikwad 54, 8. Winter Storm (9) Peter 53.5, 9. Hawk Eye (2) Bhawani 52.5 and 10. Memorable Moments (10) C.S. Jodha 50.  1. ON VA DANSER, 2. WINTER STORM, 3. DREAMS CHANGE OF LUCK PLATE (1,000m) (Terms), 3-y-o only, 2.45: 1. Pegaso (6) Dashrath 57, 2. Balenciaga (3) Sandesh 55.5, 3. Better Half (2) Neeraj 55.5, 4. Brave Beauty (5) Zervan 55.5, 5. Divine Thoughts (1) Trevor 55.5 and 6. Flashing Famous (4) Bhawani 55.5.  1. BALENCIAGA, 2. PEGASO SONNY BRAR TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 3.15: 1. The Bawaji (3) Neeraj 59, 2. Flaming Lamborgini (1) Sandesh 58, 3. Mishka’s Pride (4) Zervan 57.5, 4. Wayin (5) Bhawani 57.5, 5. Treasure Gold (8) T.S. Jodha 56, 6. Circle Of Love (6) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 7. Mandeville (7) P.S. Chouhan 54.5 and 8. Sun Gold (2) Kirtish 54.5.  1. MANDEVILLE, 2. WAYIN, 3. THE BAWAJI VILLOO C. POONAWALLA INDIAN ST. LEGER (Gr. 1) (2,800m) (Terms), 5-y-o only, 3.45: 1. LAGARDE (3) Trevor 57, 2. Marlboro Man (4) T.S. Jodha 57, 3. Theon (1) P.S. Chouhan 57 and 4. Apsara Star (2) S.A. Gray 55.5.  1. THEON JEHANGIR P. DUBASH TROPHY (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46, 4.15: 1. Rambler (3) Kaviraj 61.5, 2. Enlightened (9) T.S. Jodha 60.5, 3. Vincenzo (10) Kirtish 60.5, 4. Chancellor (8) Sandesh 59, 5. Sandman (7) A. Imran Khan 59, 6. Fassbinder (5) Akshay 58.5, 7. Ron (1) P.S. Chouhan 57.5, 8. Bold Advance (2) Dashrath 56.5, 9. Fleur De Lys (4) C.S. Jodha 55.5 and 10. Lightningonmyfeet (6) Peter 52.5.  1. RAMBLER, 2. VINCENZO, 3. CHANCELLOR PLAY.RWITC.COM PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 4.45: 1. Cold Pursuit (11) Rupesh 62, 2. La Petite Maison (12) P. Shinde 62, 3. Myrcella (13) Kaviraj 62, 4. Next Stop The Moon (1) P. Vinod 62, 5. Red Riot (10) S. Amit 62, 6. Royal Crown (4) Aniket 62, 7. Ame (5) V. Walkar 61.5, 8. Anointed (8) T.S. Jodha 61.5, 9. Remy Red (2) Dashrath 61.5, 10. Exclusive (9) Trevor 60.5, 11. Dagger’s Strike (7) C.S. Jodha 59.5, 12. Kardashian (3) Nazil 56 and 13. Supreme Being (6) A. Prakash 53.  1. EXCLUSIVE, 2. MYRCELLA, 3. REMY RED  Day’s Best: JOAQUIN Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6. (ii) 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9; Treble: (i) 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 6, 7 & 8. (iii) 7, 8 & 9; Tanala: All races; Super Jackpot : 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/theon-should-deliver-in-indian-st-leger/article38312616.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:21 IST,||Rain delays start||It will entirely be an Indian field in the ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament to be played at the Indore Tennis Club. Referee Anton D’Souza was grappling with the qualifying event, as rain delayed the start of the matches till 4.30 p.m. on Saturday. Denim Yadav, Saheb Sodhi, Vineeth Mutyala, Daksh Agarwal, Deep Munim, Akarsh Gaonkar, Arjun Gohad and Adhirit Awal are the leading Indians in the boys’ section. Sonal Patil, Kashish Bote, Nandini Dixit, Chahana Budhbhatti, Niyati Kukreti, Gauri Mangaonkar, Millee Chug and Diva Bhatia are the top eight girls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rain-delays-start/article38312633.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:16 IST,||Lalith Babu takes honours||GM M.R. Lalith Babu won his third straight title by clinching the honours in the Marienbad Chess Open at Marianske Lazne in Czech Republic on Saturday. He scored 6.5 points from nine rounds to emerge the winner.  “I am very happy to win three back-to-back titles on coming back to international circuit after the pandemic break,” Lalith told The Hindu .  “Overall, my gameplay was very solid though I missed some chances in couple of games but at the end I am happy that I won the championship,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lalith-babu-takes-honours/article64946743.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 04:36 IST,||YMCA to conduct football tournament||Secunderabad YMCA will conduct a prize money tournament to promote football activity among the youth in the twin cities in February. E. Jayaker Daniel, president, YMCA of Greater Hyderabad, said the tournament would be expanded to an annual competition with a rolling shield to be awarded to the winner every year. “The objective of promoting football among the youth is to bring back the days when the twin cities used to produce some of the best players in India,” said Daniel. Former internationals Shabbir Ali, Victor Amalraj and Mohammed Akbar were also present. “Soon, we will also conduct tournaments in the districts where there is plenty of talent but where the youth do not have the scope to develop their skills,” Daniel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ymca-to-conduct-football-tournament/article38312470.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:08 IST,||India mauls Malaysia||Holder India thrashed Malaysia 9-0 to start its title defence on an emphatic note at the women’s Asia Cup hockey tournament here on Friday. India took the lead through Vandana Katariya, who tapped in an open goal. The Indians earned two penalty corners in quick time, the second of which was brilliantly converted by Deep Grace Ekka.  The result:   India 9 (Vandana Katariya, Deep Grace Ekka, Navneet Kaur 2, Neha Goyal, Lalremsiami, Monika, Navjot Kaur, Sharmila Devi) bt Malaysia 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-mauls-malaysia/article38311852.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||Ahmedabad, Kolkata to host WI||Ahmedabad and Kolkata will host the upcoming three ODIs and as many T20Is, respectively, against the West Indies, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) said on Saturday, curtailing the number of venues to reduce travelling in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. As per the original schedule, West Indies was slated to play three ODIs in Ahmedabad, Jaipur and Kolkata and three T20Is in Cuttack, Visakhapatnam and Thiruvananthapuram, beginning February 6. However, the current situation in the country has forced the BCCI to cut down the number of venues from six to two.   The revised venues:   1st, 2nd and 3rd ODIs in Ahmedabad (February 6, 9, 11); 1st, 2nd and 3rd T20Is in Kolkata (Feb. 16, 18, 20).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ahmedabad-kolkata-to-host-wi/article38311867.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:16 IST,||CFC posts win||Two quick goals early in the second half allowed Chennaiyin FC (CFC) to come back from a goal down at half-time and beat NorthEast United FC (NEUFC) 2-1 at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Saturday. CFC’s fifth win took the two-time champion to 18 points and third in the table after 12 matches, while NEUFC stays at the bottom with nine points from 13 matches. In the 52nd minute, CFC’s Ariel Borysiuk took a shot from outside the box but unfortunately for NorthEast it deflected off its player Sehnaj Singh and the goalkeeper couldn’t do much to stop the equaliser. Minutes later, Vladimir Koman scored the winner with a freekick from the left flank that sailed into the far corner. Earlier in the first half, the Highlanders started the match pressing high but CFC did well to peg them back. Slowly Chennaiyin started asking questions but yet again the team’s profligacy in front of the goal was on display as Rahim Ali fluffed two easy chances within a space of a minute at the half-hour mark. Loopy delivery Vladimir Koman sent in a loopy delivery and found Rahim on-side and unmarked but the Indian striker hurriedly took a weak shot that rolled to the ’keeper. Moments later he received a long ball from the backline and had only the ’keeper to beat but a heavy first touch sent the ball off-target. Poor goalkeeping Against the run of play, NorthEast went ahead thanks to a poor bit of goalkeeping from Debjit Majumder. Defending a corner at the far post, Debjit made a weak attempt with his hands and palmed it down in front of Laldanmawia Ralte who tapped it in easily to help NEUFC take the lead in the 35th minute. Though NEUFC kept the pressure on CFC in the final fifteen minutes of the match, it missed a slew of easy chances and slumped to its eighth defeat of the season.  The result: Chennaiyin FC 2 (Ariel Borysiuk 52, Vladimir Koman 58) bt NorthEast United FC 1 (Laldanmawia Ralte 35) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennaiyin-rallies-to-best-neufc/article64946740.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:16 IST,||Cup of Nations knockouts from today||Underperforming Egypt and Senegal will hope that Liverpool stars Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane can recapture their Premier League form when the Africa Cup of Nations enters the last-16 stage from Sunday.  Pre-quarterfinal line-up: Burkina Faso v Gabon, Nigeria v Tunisia, Guinea v Gambia, Cameroon v Comoros, Senegal v Cape Verde, Morocco v Malawi, Ivory Coast v Egypt, Mali v Equatorial Guinea .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cup-of-nations-knockouts-from-today/article38312251.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:10 IST,||Kaveri RC triumphs||Kaveri RC defeated UDC-A by 136 runs in the final of the Kauvery Hospital-TDCA league entry knockout cricket tournament here on Saturday. Both the teams have qualified for the Kauvery Hospital-TDCA fifth division league.  The scores (final):   Kaveri RC 200/5 in 30 overs (T. Sripal 26, S. Siva Pandiyan 51, S. Ajees 65) bt UDC-A 64 in 19.5 overs (M. Thirumanivasan 3/21, T. Sripal 3/23, S. Bharath 3/6).   Semifinals: Srirangam United 137/9 in 30 overs (L. Kasthuri Rangan 31, Aakash Magesh 38 n.o.) lost to UDC-A 138/5 in 26.1 overs (K. Sasikumar 50, M.S. Rajeev 44).   Bharathi Matric 93 in 20 overs (T. Sripal 5/29) lost to Kaveri 94/2 in 20.3 overs (T. Sripal 34, M. Edwin Jerome 40 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kaveri-rc-triumphs/article64946783.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 06:20 IST,||Mohit Goyat stars in Puneri Paltan's win against Bengaluru Bulls||Mohit Goyat was the star for Puneri Paltan as it defeated Bengaluru Bulls 37-35 in a ProKabaddi League match here on Saturday. The raider scored 13 points, including three tackle points, as Pune stopped Pawan Sehrawat and the Bulls from jumping on to the top of the table.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohit-goyat-stars-in-puneri-paltans-win-against-bengaluru-bulls/article38311866.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:47 IST,||How January leapt four-legged into cyberspace from the pages of Chennai’s social diary||—The dog show by the Madras Canine Club cannot be unthreaded from the warp and woof — if you will forgive the pun — of the metro’s social life in January. Together with the Marghazhi music season and the book fair, it formed a trifecta of engagements that made January glint with pride as it sat beside its 11 cousins on Chennai’s social and cultural calendar. The Madras Canine Club’s dog show had a particularly wide-angled appeal, one that stretched beyond the show-dog fraternity to have even general dog lover eating out of its paws. It was a day out for the entire family — and often, just one lone dog lover in the family could succeed in the setting up a date for the entire family with canines. It was a photo op — in the age of selfie-friendly handphones, that amounts to a truckload of memories. Now, the question is: In these pandemic times, in every sphere, efforts have been made to keep the faithfuls engaged, virtually. How can you fit an entire dog show — with hundreds of canines with varied sizes, and thousands of spectators, dozens of judges — into a six-inch screen? When Siddhartha Sudarsan and Jaisimha KB considered engaging with the regulars online, the thought of a virtual dog show did not even reach the utmost recesses of their mind. Siddharatha, honorary secretary of Madras Canine Club, remarks that beyond the logistics, it would be a disaster on the plane of experience. Dogs are judged on a variety of factors, some of which — such as sociability and obedience — would come into play only in a pulsatingly alive, in-person environment. Besides, for the spectators, the real sensorial experience of watching a dog in action a few meters away cannot be replicated. The duo decided on connecting with the community through a matrix of knowledge-sharing online sessions. “The pandemic had opened up a new avenue of content delivery,” notes Siddhartha. It would have been a shame to have this avenue closed for the fraternity, particularly because the extent of knowledge-sharing in terms of canines is as wide as the globe itself. As geographical boundaries had crumbled, if they went to the right resource persons, they could parade 'n' number of dog breeds. “Our first session — on April 18, 2020 — was about common behavioural issues with dogs and it was handled by dog behaviour specialist Manjunath from Bengaluru. That was the only programme we did on Madras Canine Club-handled Instagram plage; all others would be done on the Club's Facebook page,” says Siddhartha. Jaisimha, a committee member of the Madras Canine Club, adds that the sessions, which have been recorded, can be accessed by anyone at no cost from the Club’s YouTube channel as well. “Our end goal was to reach out to the common man who did not know about dogs, but wanted to make a start somewhere. New breeds not seen in India would be something very different for them. We also featured many regularly seen breeds. However, somewhere along the line, we decided not to focus only on breeds, and moved towards offering a complete package about dogs, which included how to care for them, that is, for any dog,” says Siddhartha. The focus on breeds was an eclectic offering, and the duo seems to have scoured every corner for subject matter experts. “We had a session with the Australian shephered breeder Judy Flynn Vandersteen from the United States. One of the top breeders of the Australian shepherd, Judy had exported a dog to Australia, which had won the best in show at Sydney Royale, one of the top shows in Australia, with over 4000-odd dogs participating in it. The Jack Russell Terrier presentation was extremely detailed: the resource person Dr. Candice Lundin is a veterinarian, and one of the first people to get Jack Russell Terrier properly recognised by the American Kennel Club. She has done a lot of defining work in terms of standardising the breed,” elaborates Jaisimha. “The session on Border Collies — handled by Heather Turner, one of the top breeders from the UK — explained how this breed evolved, with differences defined by where a border collie was raised, and how they were all amalgamated. We had a session with Vicky Collins-Nattrass, who is credited with helping bring in a day called Bull Dog Day in the United Kingdom. She has created considerable awareness about breed standards. She explained why a bull dog should not be too loaded — too heavy is not too good.” The duo notes that sessions about popular breeds in India from the top drawer of experts ensured enthusiastic participation. Jaisimha remarks that these sessions have helped demystify notions around some of the breeds; one of which is about “woolly-coated Siberian Husky, which is often promoted as a desired rarity, whereas a woolly-coated Siberian husky is a deviation from the breed standards, as that is not the right coat type for the Siberian husky.” “Where pugs were concerned, we brought in Jenny Whitney, a breeder from Australia, who was able to demystify false ideas that have accreted around the popular understanding of the breed. There is the notion that black colour is unique — which is not a fact — it is all down to the breeder’s predisposition of bringing two specific colours,” elaborates Jaisimha.  Siddhartha adds: " A session on German shepherds by Sanjit Mohanty (who has the prestigious Verein für Deutsche Schäferhunde — in short, SV — certification from Germany turned out to be a monster session, one that went on for two to two-and-a-half hours. Usually, a session would go on for an hour or an hour and a half. There was also a session on the Dobberman, handled by Tammy Rabold of the Doberman Pinscher Club of America.”  Siddhartha draws attention to how many veterinarians and dog-care specialists came into the picture when the initiative broad-based its approach. Jaisimha highlights this side of the exercise: “Discussing nutrition for dogs, Charley Gray from the United Kingdom was able to provide insights into naturally available food — it is called Bone And Raw Food (BARF) — for dogs. There is a school of thought that as descendants of the wolf, dogs should be able to digest naturally available food. She provided a lot of insight into how this food can be customised and made more beneficial for the dog. How food allergies can be managed. How one should exercise caution about BARF itself, taking great care about what naturally available food is fed to dogs. For example, grapes cannot be fed to dogs — not many people know this, and they persist in their ignorance. We reached out to doctors who could address various concerns dog lovers had about their pets: We brought on board Dr. Catherine Rebecca who is a generalist and then Dr. Nagarajan, a skin specialist, who has retired from the veterinary college, after having served as HOD of its dermatology department.” He observes how these sessions on veterinary medicine made the initiative more inclusive, as it was relevant to anyone tethered by love to any dog.  Somewhere along the line, we decided not to focus only on breeds, and moved towards offering a complete package about dogs, which included how to care for them, that is, for any dog||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/how-january-leapt-four-legged-into-cyberspace-from-the-pages-of-chennais-social-diary/article64947056.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:48 IST,||A virtual book nook||The Chennai Book Fair might have missed its January date with the metro. But a group of publishers have come together to open a new chapter online. People leading six book houses are driving this SaaS company, Virtual Book Fair (VBF), that opened its first book fest on January 14. They are Gandhi Kannadhasan of Kannadhasan Pathippagam; Pugalendi Subbiah of Sixthsense Publications; Kannan Sundaram of Kalachuvadu Pathippagam; Badri Seshadri of New Horizon Media, Murali Kannadhason of The Write Publishing and Karthikeyan Pugalendi of Vanavil Puthakalayam. Faced with dipping sales due to the pandemic, the core team has been drawing up plans, conducting demos to show peers in the book industry why digital presence is important and why “VBF is more a survival” in the new normal. Kannan Sundaram illustrates with some data points on the huge gap between the Tamil publishing industry and the global market. “The total number of Tamil book titles available in Amazon would be around 9,000. The corresponding number at the Chennai Book Fair would be way, way higher. Publishers who convert titles into ebooks are in the same boat; you will find that there would be less than 15 as against 200,” says Kannan. VBF is trying to bridge this gap with a host of tech features that it is introducing in publishing, promotions and sales. And, this starts by helping standard readers to browse titles and offer information that saves their time. Beyond book fairs The start-up is not against physical book fairs. In fact, it is only going to replicate the features of a physical book fair in the virtual world but with added interactive features. Like a publisher can get a storefront and display books their way. One can get help in converting books into digital format. Murali Kannadasan, who represents the third generation in the business, says the book fair is only 10 percent of VBFs core goals. “What we are trying to create is a business to business model as publishing a book in various languages will bring ten-fold income,” he says. VBF will not run through the year; only two-three times a year. Rest of the time only information would be available. “Summer and monsoon are when our sales drop, that is when we would activate it,” says Murali. “The platform will be listing out certified translators in various languages, bring young talent who designing books, provide proof readers and offer author portfolio,” says Murali, who comes from a marketing background. Another tech feature it will be incorporating soon is to allow a browser to read 20-30% of the book and allow him/her to decide whether they want to buy the print copy or go with audio or ebook, says Murali. Badri Seshadri says eCommerce platforms like Amazon and Flipkart are successful but all do not give a fair chance to all. Most booksellers cannot stock a huge print order, with the net result that many good books in Tamil get little exposure. “We plan to get the publisher so that he/she plays a role in listing the titles, that is going to make a big difference between VBF and eCommerce sites,” says Seshadri. Lessons to be learnt For bibliophiles, the platform promises to be a forum for interaction with writers. “Book previews and links to all formats of the book (eBook, audiobook and other adaptations) would be available. Currently, as we are in the process of onboarding publishers and we have unlocked only the shopping carts. Other features will open up as more people come in,” says Karthikeyan Pugalendi, who quit his corporate job to continue the family business. Another aspect of VBF is that publishers can virtually participate in book fairs happening outside their city. “We are in talks with various book fair organisers and associations to give us a space in a physical fair,” says Karthikeyan. The road ahead The road to setting up this platform has not been easy. The team has faced a lot of resistance from some publishers who think digital will further take a toll on the printed word due to piracy and the RoI factor. “Some argued that they have their own ecommerce stores and taking a stall in VBF will sabotage their chances of selling but that is not the case. It is high time we adapted as this is the new normal,” says Karthikeyan. For the platform to see some success, it needs patronage of various stakeholders. The fair so far has been made free for all the publishers coming on board. “We want them to experience and decide whether they feel digital is the future,” he says. VBF is planned for a pan-India audience. It has started the ground work for onboarding publishers from other regional languages, they say.  The platform will list out certified translators in various languages, bring young talent who design books, provide proof readers and offer author portfolios||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-virtual-book-nook/article64947048.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:48 IST,||From a lope to a waddle||In the initial stages, and for a substantial period of time, the online canine knowledge-sharing initiative was loping ahead with the speed of an aerodynamically streamlined greyhound. With passing time, life caught on, and it has reduced to the sluggish waddle of a Shih Tzu. “Initially, it was one session a week. We restricted ourselves to the weekend — usually, Saturday evening — as even though a pandemic was happening, people were still working remotely. Organising sessions with speakers from different time zones posed a challenge,” says Siddhartha Sudarsan, honorary secretary of Madras Canine Club. How did they manage to gather an eclectic mix of experts from different climes. “Basically, the people who spoke in our sessions are contacts we have developed over the years — these are friends. Or, they would be acquaintances. Or, acquaintances of somebody we know.” Siddhartha notes the initiative has been ably supported by the committee of the Madras Canine Club: “They gave us a free hand in the matter, as they were impressed with the fact that we were educating people about dogs.” With the pandemic easing in various parts of the globe, the inititive lost out on frequency. “Whenever there was a let-up in the pandemic, regular commitments would come into play and it was difficult to find experts to handle the sessions So, there has been a lot less traffic in the last six months. The experts have their regular day jobs — as we have ours — and they are also international judges. They judge all over the world. Except for India, all other countries started conducting dog shows later on — after one and a half years of not having dog shows, they were starting to relax,” elaborates Siddhartha. Jaisimha KB, a committee member of the Madras Canine Club remarks that the choice of speakers reflected the decision that this exercise would be “not just for the dog-show fraternity, but also the dog-owning fraternity.” Jaisimha explains the decision to have a live chat session was dictated by the idea that the participants should have a sense of having interacted with members of their interest group. “People can throw questions and we can take them online and provide answers immediately in a real-time scenario. Initially, we had a set curated questions, post-which we would start taking all the questions that came from the audience. We would share the pre-set questions with the guests so that they had a fair understanding of what was expected out of them. And then we started limiting our questions.” Jaisimha points out that “as hosts and guests, both of us were on a learning curve.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-a-lope-to-a-waddle/article64947054.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:48 IST,||Stock up early for the Sunday lockdown, say the shrikes||A brown shrike seems to haunt a massive heap of axed thorny shrubs with the persistence of the Drury Lane ghost. Neatly gathered, the pile of dry prickly branches is plonked on a piece of vacant land that faces a tree-lined bund of the Selaiyur lake. This land is flanked on one side — as also on its rear side — by a coppice of tall shrubs interspersed with trees. From the perspective of having a vantage point to spot prey, the shrike should find the greenery irresistible. The woodpile is high but not as high as most shrubs in the stand. Axed prosopis juliflora dominate the woodpile.  Last week, whenever this writer swung by this space, the shrike would be in attendance. If it was not, it would pop in, in a matter of minutes. It would sit quietly for long — with an air of self-importance, if one put on the anthropomorphic glasses — and occasionally sallying forth to retrieve a worm from the grassy patch below. Brown shrikes are highly territorial, even in their wintering grounds, choosing a space that would hardly be beset with any serious counter-claims from other avians. However, making a woodpile the focal point of its attention was rather intriguing. The preference for a thorny woodpile seems aligned with a behaviour that has earned shrikes an unflattering comparison. They are known as butcher birds, for impaling their prey the way butchers hang a slaughtered animal on a hook. What better hooks in the wild than thorns? The why is in fact more awe-inspiring than the how of it. “Sometimes, after catching their prey, instead of beating it immediately, they would impale it on a thorn and keep it as a reserve supply,” explains V Santharam, ornithologist. “It is not that shrikes always sit on thorny bushes; they do sit on branches of bushes that are not thorny. But then they prefer thorny bushes because it is easy for them to put their excess food on the thorns and eat them at a later date.” Probably, after all, the superior air one sensed from the bird’s deportment was not a figment of anthropomorphic imagination. The shrike just may be stuck up over that fact that it has supplies to last it many Sunday lockdowns,disdaining humans who fill provisionstores up to the rafters on Saturday evening to stock up on essentials. “A shrike may not always put away food for later retrieval and consumption. This behaviour may be prevalent in certain species and certain habitats where food may be scarce. When it is hungry, it just has to return to the space,” Santharam elaborates. In these parts, the brown shrike being a winter migrant, it should find food in plenty and therefore, might only rarely have a compelling reason to play the butcher-cum-hoarder. Shantaram notes that the long-tailed shrike and the southern grey shrike being residents in these parts, they may be spotted engaging in this behaviour “during the dry season or when they have young ones to provide for”. These birds are largely insectivorous, but may take a lizard or even a toad, says the ornithologist. When they impale the bigger preys, this behaviour may come out in bold relief than when it had to do with diminutive preys like worms. Raptors are known for making spectacular kills, tearing intopreys their size, if not larger. When they impale their prey, particularly big-sized ones, the shrikes may come across as displaying the ruthless power of a raptor.  A shrike may not always put away food for later retrieval and consumption. This behaviour may be prevalent in certain species and certain habitats where food may be scarce||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stock-up-early-for-the-sunday-lockdown-say-the-shrikes/article64947051.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:46 IST,||Busy road needs a healing touch||Though the pipe-laying work by the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) on Sholinganallur-Medavaklkam High Road was completed months ago, the exercise has not reached its logical end. The road, which comes under the State Highways Department, still bears the telltale signs of the civic work — from Medavakkam to Perumbakkam. Due to its condition, this stretch of the road poses a huge threat to the safety of pedestrians and motorists. “In the first week of August 2021, the CMWSSB dug up a portion of the road. That is along the pedestrian space. Now, it is more than two months since the work got completed. But until now, the dug-up portion has not been relaid. As the rainy season is over, we want the highways department to relay the road without much delay,” says N Nalla Sivam, a resident of Perumbakkam. As per the plan, the CMWSSB is laying drinking water pipes from the desalination plant in Nemilichery to Pallavaram through Sholinganallur-Medavakkam High Road covering Sholinganallur, Perumbakkam, Jalladiampet and Medavakkam. Except for the Sholinganallur section, the work has been completed on all sections of the road. According to a CMWSSB official, the work is being carried out at a cost of Rs. 200 core. Other concerns Residents want the highways department to ensure that the footpath on the road is pedestrian-friendly. The width of the footpath has reduced on account of encroachments, dumping of waste and parking of vehicles. “Due to this, pedestrians walk on the carriageway. While the road is being relaid, the footpath should also be attended to,” adds Nalla Sivam. Some of the spots along the road in Perumbakkam where the footpath is out of bounds for pedestrians are found near the intersection of Prabhu Nagar Main Road and First Main Road; the intersection of Embassy Residency Road and Medavakkam High Road; and near Kailash Nagar. Yet another issue on this road is the absence of lights. “On the section of the road from Prabhu Nagar Main Road in Perumbakkam to ELCOT in Sholinganallur, there are no lights,” says K Sarangadass, a resident of Perumbakkam. In this regard, N Murugan, Secretary, Perumbakkam First Grade Village Panchayat, says, “The Panchayat has taken up this issue with State Highways Department. On January 20, a team of officials from the highways inspected the road. We expect the stretch to be relaid at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/busy-road-needs-a-healing-touch/article64947065.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:47 IST,||The ride from Keelkattalai to Sholinganallur: A giant move for Sridhar||Common cold has forced intellectually challenged Sridhar R to stay away from work for a week but he is longing to get back. From his home in Keelkattalai to Kumaraswamy Avenue in Sholinganallur, Sridhar takes pride in directing the autorickshaw or leading his mother to the small unit where he is an ‘intern’. Here, he spends a few hours weighing and packing items – an activity that he seems to be liking so far. Recently, with the ex gratia he earned, Sridhar wanted to buy a digital watch.  “We are happy to see him engaged as it is after a long search that we found an enterprise ready to take him,” says Vijaya Rangabhashyam, Sridhar’s mother. By roping in two neuro-diverse individuals, Suchiram Foods, a Chennai-based start-up that launched its operations in October last year, has made a humble beginning in opening up opportunities for people with special needs. Started by Padma Kalyani R, who left her corporate job to take care of her son who is on the spectrum, the enterprise plans to create an eco system in which people with intellectually disability are given earning opportunities by leveraging their strengths. “We plan to take on board two more interns in the coming months,” says Padma, who worked with a few special schools during her bachelors programme in special education.  How does the enterprise work? Padma dons the chef’s hat, pounding various spices at her home in Sholinganallur to give flavourful sambar powder, kanji mix, millet dosa mix and idly dosai milagai podi .  While weekends are reserved for the preparation, weekdays are when they are taken to a small unit where the spices are packed by the interns. “The caretakers/parents of the interns are invited to stay with them while they are engaged in the work of packing and sealing these spices into different pouches,” says Padma. Skill development She says the interns put in four hours a day and the timings are flexible. “There is no obligation from the interns, whatever is possible from them they do,” she says. At her gated community, the orders are delivered by Padma. “Sometimes I take an intern along as this is a way to train them in social skills,” she says. Suchiram Foods collaborates with individuals and entities who empower people with intellectual disability. One such association was with Mirra Charitable Trust, who train people with ID in multimedia skills. The team designed the logo for the enterprise. Need basis “We want to grow organically and wherever possible our aim is to engage and train them so that it offers them a sustainable revenue,” says Padma. The enterprise is happy with the way the model is running so far and the orders that it has been packing for people from other cities too. “I am not running with a target. Our objective is to engage and give the neuro diverse some productive hours. During my interactions with them in these months what I have seen is that each one is different. They do not need elaborate instructions, just allow them to work at their own pace and they will give their best,” says Padma. Padma says what the enterprise is doing is an aspiration. “We were able to implement our plans because of the patronage offered by our community, The Central Park South, and support from family and friends.” Visit them on Facebook or email suchiramfoods@suchiramfoods.in  Sometimes I take an intern along as this is a way to train them in social skills||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/the-ride-from-keelkattalai-to-sholinganallur-a-giant-move-for-sridhar/article64947057.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:46 IST,||‘Road in Pallikaranai needs SWD’||Residents of Jones Sigiriya in West Anna Nagar, a neighbourhood in Pallikaranai, heave a sigh of relief as the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has initiated the process of relaying an approach road to their gated community. S Vijay, Assistant Engineer of Ward 190 in Zone 14, GCC, says it is among roads within GCC limits qualifying for the road-relaying exercise, based on the recent order by the State government to mend roads severely damaged in the recent rains. “Work on this road has begun and will be completed in a week. Only a stretch of the road will be relaid as the rest comes under the Kovilambakkam Village Panchayat,” says the GCC engineer. Jones Sigiriya residents want the Kovilambakkam Village Panchayat to do their part; and additionally, also mend Maxworth Nagar Main Road in Maxworth Nagar, another approach road to the apartment. Residents’ associations from Maxworth Nagar, Rajam Nagar and other gated communities including Chettinad Villas have the same request about Maxworth Nagar Main Road. Construction of a stormwater drain is a another demand. Residents say a stretch of the road relaid only a few months before the north-east monsoon is in a shambles. “As the bitumen is worn out and the road is pothole-ridden, we wonder how well the road was relaid,” says James Selwin, former secretary of Jones Sigiriya Apartment Owners Association. “Without a stormwater drain, the road had to be cut to clear stagnant water. Motorcyclists have had skidding accidents here,” says Vamsi Krishna Jampala, a Jones Sigriya resident. “We have been taking up this issue with the Panchayat for the past three years, but unsuccessfully. A few days ago, work on relaying the remaining half of Maxworth Nagar Main Road began, but without a stormwater drain in place, this is not going to really help.” Anthony Mariadass, secretary of Maxworth Nagar association, says, “Besides the potholes on First Main Road, those on Second Main Road should be fixed.” The Association has made this known to the panchayat. P Vijayalakshmi, a resident, recalls, “In February 2020, residents pooled in money and filled the potholes with rubble. There was only temporary relief.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/road-in-pallikaranai-needs-swd/article64947061.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:46 IST,||‘Are repeated mass cleaning drives the solution?’||While we appreciate the Greater Chennai Corporation for carrying out mass cleaning drives from time to time, the fact remains that these exercises do not offer any permanent solution. In every exercise, loads of plastic waste are found. We are clueless as to where this hazardous plastic waste goes and how they are disposed of. Hence, the Corporation should come up with feasible and sustainable measures to drastically reduce the rate of generation of hazardous plastic waste. Segregation of waste at source and ban on single-use plastic products should be enforced stringently. The State government’s “Meendum Manjapai” campaign is certainly a welcome move. It aims at inculcating the habit of carrying cloth bags for shopping. At this juncture, I suggest that the government should consider banning the manufacture of single use plastic products rather than penalising the tail-end consumers. Jayanthi Premchander is a resident of Valmiki Nagar in Thiruvanmiyur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/are-repeated-mass-cleaning-drives-the-solution/article64947062.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:47 IST,||Made in Chennai: Growing an indigenous idea||Recently, when Kamal Kanta, a 28-year-old with spinal cord injury, attempted a world record to complete a 213-kilometre run in 24 hours on his manual wheelchair at Bhubaneswar, a small team from Chennai was around to cheer him. They are behind Kamal giving him ‘wings’ to vroom on the adaptable wheelchair. The desi wheelchair — designed with Kamal’s body measurement in mind to provide him ergonomic comfort — and his will power went a long way towards ensuring he did not face any roadblocks during the event. For the IIT-Madras incubated start-up NeoMotion that designed and developed the wheelchair, Kamal’s feat is proof that users of such mobility aids can be independent and take up some livelihood work. Kamal himself is a peer trainer where he educates and motivates other persons with spinal cord injury. As per their research, every year three lakh wheelchairs are sold in India, of which two and half lakh are imported. More than 90% of all wheelchairs sold in India are one-size-fits-all, restricting mobility and confidence. “In the early years, a wheelchair would last me only three to four month as I used it to go everywhere. Covering a kilometre in the surgical wheelchair took me 1000 pushes,” says Kamal, who has taken part in over 100 wheelchair marathons. “Along with size, quality of tyre and bearings matter.” Active wheelchair-bound users like Kamal offer feedback that help companies to improvise on their design. “Any normal wheelchair user generally rides a kilometre a day whereas Kamal travels at least 10 km a day. He is active indoors and outdoors, independent and is a product tester for us,” says Siddarth Daga, head of sales and outreach, NeoMotion. He adds the NeoFly wheelchair was given to Kamal as a grant support.  More than 90% of all wheelchairs sold in India are based on a one-size-fits-all model||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/made-in-chennai-growing-an-indigenous-idea/article64947058.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:47 IST,||Chennai Book Fair to have a virtual avatar||The Booksellers and Publishers Association of South India (BAPASI) will be starting work on a virtual book fair once this year’s physical event concludes. Due to the surge in COVID-19 cases in Chennai, BAPASI had to postpone its annual book fair that was scheduled to be held from January 6 to 23 at YMCA Grounds, Nandanam. “Last like year, we have missed the January date for the fair but we are confident that the event will take place once the COVID-19 situation improves in Chennai, may be in March,” said SK Murugan, secretary, BAPASI. This confidence comes from the fact that more than 80% of the infrastructure for the event is ready. “Work on the main pavilion, which is spread across 3 lakh sq ft to accommodate 800 stalls, is over. This apart, the washrooms, stage for events where the guests will be participating are ready,” says Murugan. Having spent lakhs on the event, the book fair will not be a disappointment, he said. In 2021, the fair was conducted in late February. Murugan said its members met on January 21 to discuss the establishment of a permanent book shop at the Connemara Public Library. “The State government has allotted 5,000 sqft at the library, which will serve as a space for us to start working on the virtual book fair,” said Murugan. As all its members are not digitally-savvy, BAPASI plans to orient them on new trends in technology. To start with, covers of the books and a few opening pages will be scanned and uploaded, he said. This will offer buyers a choice of books. “We have some 150 publishers as members and an the online platform, we will give them more exposure of what they have in stock,” said Murugan. He said that a major part of the work related to establishment of the virtual shop is over. The features of the software are being tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/chennai-book-fair-to-have-a-virtual-avatar/article64947055.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:46 IST,||‘Transport department’s land in Velachery lying idle’||In 2010, the State government decided to establish a bus terminus near Madipakkam signal in Velachery, that is near the Southern Railway staff quarters. The facility was planned mainly for buses plying to Nagapattinam, Thiruvannamalai, Pudhucherry, Cuddalore and other districts via East Coast Road (ECR). It is more than a decade now and for reasons unknown the terminus is yet to be developed. At present, SETC buses bound for the aforementioned destinations can be found lined up in Thiruvanmiyur on ECR. There is no space to accommodate these buses in the nearby MTC terminus. During festive seasons, this causes traffic congestion in Thiruvanmiyur. The long-distance buses plying via ECR can start from Velachery and via Pallikaranai and Sholinganallur, access the ECR. This way they do not have to enter the city. Hence, I request the State and public transport department to revisit the plan and establish the facility at the earliest. Besides, I request the State to initiate talks with the Southern Railway so that the Metropolitan Transport Corporation terminus at Vijayanagar junction can be shifted to the latter’s land near Velachery MRTS station. Vijayanagar junction is chaotic due to the presence of MTC terminus. This will be of immense help to commuter who switch between different modes of public transport. I hope the State does the needful in these two matters. S Kumararaja is the president of Annai Indira Nagar Residents Welfare Association in Velachery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/transport-departments-land-in-velachery-lying-idle/article64947064.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:46 IST,||Computer centre for the visually-challenged||The Voluntary Health Services, Chennai (VHS), Vision-Aid and Ford India have joined hands to establish a computer centre for the visually-impaired at Tharamani. Both online as well as offline programmes, ranging from basic mobile technology to advanced computer technology, will be offered through this centre. All services at the centre are offered at no cost to the visually-challenged who come from an underprivileged background, said a release. At an event held recently, 11 patients were provided with smartphones by Vision-Aid, India as part of their latest initiative to empower the visually challenged with mobile technologies. It is a programme undertaken jointly with Trees for Life India. The Vision-Aid Center at VHS was named after Srinivasan Varadarajan and Sundara Srinivasan, parents of Vision-Aid supporters Venkat and Pratima Srinivasan of Boston, USA, added the release. More than 500 patients have been evaluated and assisted at the centre since it opened in February 2021. About 200 patients have been helped by way of being given devices, counselling and training, added the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/computer-centre-for-the-visually-challenged/article38312133.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:47 IST,||‘Stray cattle, a constant presence on ECR’||Two weeks ago, I had the terrible experience of witnessing a calf being thrown away and killed on the spot by a speeding car near Mahabalipuram on East Coast Road. The driver is not to be blamed as a herd of cattle sprung from nowhere and the driver had little time to react and thus lost control of the vehicle. In the melee, a two-wheeler rider fortunately escaped unhurt. This is certainly not a rare case and some motorists would have experienced the same. The problem of cattle menace is prevalent everywhere and my observation is that it is on the rise now. I am sure there must be several unreported accidents besides ‘near misses.’ The risk of an accident is high especially during dawn and dusk when these cattle cannot be sighted properly due to poorly illuminated roads. Motorcyclists are at greater risk of accidents. The drives to impound such animals and put them in a shelter are not visible anymore. It is high time that besides teh stray cattle being impounded, a heavy penalty is levied on the owners. Further, mass awareness programmes should be carried out. M.B. Madhusudanan is a resident of Palavakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stray-cattle-a-constant-presence-on-ecr/article64947060.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:48 IST,||When can we expect the dog show?||Somewhere in 2021, at a time when the third wave still lay in the zone of speculation, did the Madras Canine Club entertain the idea of having an in-person dog show in January, 2022? Jaishima KB, committee member of the Madras Canine Club, has this to say: “We had a schedule ready for the first week of January, and then we all took a prudent decision as a committee saying that we would postpone it. If we had to have the show in January, we would have to intimate the Kennel Club of India, three months ahead of time, as it has to be published in the Indian Kennel Gazette. We did all the planning, and in October, we requested for the dates and they were awarded. And then, as a committee we got together and discussed the pros and cons of going ahead with the plan. We asked ourselves whether we were going to allow spectators to witness the event, and how would we ensure the safety of the spectators and exhibitors, and how would we enforce all the regulations. As we looked into these things, we decided to postpone, and not cancel the event, and see if we can have it organised in September 2022. At the time, the third wave was a question of speculation. We though let us not take a chance — and eventually, the third wave came.” Most probably, ourr event should happen around September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/when-can-we-expect-the-dog-show/article64947053.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:48 IST,||Know your shrikes: Look out for the long-tailed one||The brown shrike ( Lanius cristatus cristatus ) is ironically the shrike that seems to be most at home in and around Chennai, though it hardly has its hearth in these parts. A winter visitor, the brown shrike regularly crosses the spotting scope during the migratory season. “There is the sub-species of the brown shrike called the Philippine shrike. That is also a winter visitor in this region, putting in an appearance in different parts. I have seen it in the Adyar estuary. It is not as common as the nominate brown shrike species though. It looks just like the brown shrike, except that the head is grey and the flanks are orangish,” reveals V Santharam, ornithologist.   In glaring contrast, the resident shrike in this region, the long-tailed shrike ( Lanius schach caniceps ) plays the will-o’-the-wisp — for no fault of its own, but largely ours.  “Grassland and scrub jungles are the main habitat of shrikes and they may tend to inhabit agricultural lands that border on a scrub jungle or a grassland. Now, we have the problem of converting these areas into something else by planting trees and ‘improving’ them.That way, the long-tailed shrike around Chennai is facing a problem. Though a resident, the species is not common around Chennai. For it to thrive, the long-tailed shrike needs a good scrub jungle, a thorny scrub jungle,” explains Santharam. On how to spot a long-tailed shrike when there is one staring you in the face, Santharam lists a few diagnostic features. “Though it is called rufous-backed, the long-tailed shrike has only a grey back. On the flanks, there is a reddish-orangish wash. The tail is blackish and is longer than that of the brown shrike.” As a mimic, the long-tailed shrike can probably give the drongo a run for its money, being capable of vocally impersonating quite a number of other species. “I have found the long-tailed mimicking the pied cuckoo and the red-wattled lapwing. The pied cuckoo call really had me thinking that the pied cuckoo was really where I was. When I looked around and saw where the call was coming from, it was the long-tailed shrike sitting there and making one noise after the other,” laughs Santharam. The ornithologt recalls how many decades ago “we would see the long-tailed shrike in Vandalur — in the scrub jungle which is where the Vandalur zoo stands now — and adjacent hills where there are thorny scrub jungles. But even in those days, the long-tailed shrike was not very common.” Santharam believes shrikes are a subject waiting to be studied in detail, particularly for the odds arrayed against them. “The shrikes are a little higher up in the food chain. By the time the food that they eat comes to them, there would be some residues of chemicals and things that have built up and may be harming them. Grasslands and scrub areas being a casualties of development, it is a double whammy for the shrikes.” Another shrike,namely the southern grey shrike, draws a blank in the Chennai region. Santharam notes: “It is probably no longer to be found in these places. There are however historical records. I have myself seen it in a scrub jungle off the Bangalore highway, in the vicinity of Chembarambakkam lake.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/know-your-shrikes-look-out-for-the-long-tailed-one/article64947052.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:47 IST,||A project to provide a livelihood on wheels||Three independent CSR projects have enabled NeoMotion, co-founded by Professor Sujatha Srinivasan, head, TTK Centre for Rehabilitation Research and Device Development, IIT Madras, to provide customised wheelchairs to more than 160 differently-abled persons. The aim is to impact one lakh lives every year by 2025, said a release. This is important as NeoMotion’s research says that a majority of wheelchairs in India have been donated. Often parameters like seating comfort and compactness are ignored. Swostik Sourav Dash, chief executive officer, NeoMotion, says the CSR projects have taken a different approach by identifying and assessing the beneficiaries before providing wheelchairs. Beneficiaries are selected on the basis of their socio-economic status, need assessment, diagnosis and age. Through video calls every wheelchair is customised according to the beneficiary’s measurements and medical assessment. The start-up will be launching ‘Livelihood on Wheels’, a social project where ‘NeoBolt’ wheelchairs will be used as a tool for work — such as delivering newspapers, milk, food items and also carry out other last-mile delivery jobs, which will help them earn a livelihood. The project model incorporates a percentage of the salary earned to be deposited in a corpus to fund the next set of NeoBolts for a new set of beneficiaries. “It is like EMI but the money will be used to benefit another beneficiary. We are partnering with CSR bodies, NGOs in the vocational training space and potential employers who can employ people with locomotive disability and promote diversity and inclusion in the process,” says Swostik. For details, write to info@neomotion.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-project-to-provide-a-livelihood-on-wheels/article64947059.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:46 IST,||Helpline numbers||lFor any COVID-related help, contact the Greater Chennai Corporation at 044 25384520, 46122300 lVisit http://covid19. chennaicorporation. gov.in/covid/home/ to know the details of sample collection centres, screening centres, COVID Care Centres and vaccination centres. lPersons aged above 60 years with co-morbidities can avail home vaccination by booking it through emergency helpline 1913 or COVID helpline 044-2538 4520 and 044-4812 2300||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/helpline-numbers/article38312135.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:48 IST,||UWA invites nominations from citizens||In celebration of its 45th year, United Writers Association is inviting nominations for its ‘Admirable Achiever Award’. Nominees include journalists, academicians, educationists, professors, authors, artists, scientists, cultural ambassadors, entrepreneurs and defence personnel who have contributed towards the betterment of the society. For details, call 28113588/28110771||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/uwa-invites-nominations-from-citizens/article38312180.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:48 IST,||Online events for R-Day||As part of Republic Day celebrations, Vaigai Kids is organising various competitions for children. Events include colouring, essay writing, fancy dress, art and craft, sloka telling, dance and singing, all on the theme Republic Day. Last day to submit entries is February 2. All the events will be conducted online for children across age groups. A picture or video of the event must be sent to WhatsApp number 9962295688. For details, email vaigaikids@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/online-events-for-r-day/article38312181.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:48 IST,||Photo contest for wetlands day||The Chennai Division of the Forest Department is organising a photography competition to commemorate World Wetlands Day, which is observed on 2 February every year.The theme for this year is “Action for People and Nature”Participants are categorised as below: one, school students; two, college students; three, Wetland Mitras (who care for the wetlands); and four, the general category. Best entries shall be selected by a district-level committee and the winners will be honoured on World Wetlands Day.The best photographs (selected from all districts) shall be exhibited in an appropriate forum. Participants can register via chennaiwetland@gmail.com. For further details, they can contact forest range offices Saran at 984317791.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/photo-contest-for-wetlands-day/article38312183.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:46 IST,||Talent test for school students||Vels Vidyashram is conducting “Vels Olympiad,” a talent test on February 5. According to a press release, students from class five to eight can participate in the event, registering for free. The aim of the test is to build logical reasoning and critical thinking abilities among children. Participants who score well will be offered special coaching, adds the release. For details, visit www.velsvidyashram.ac.in or call 99625 06349 / 99625 06639.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/talent-test-for-school-students/article38312134.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:46 IST,||Booked, virtually||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/booked-virtually/article64947067.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:46 IST,||Stock up early for the Sunday lockdown, say the shrikes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/stock-up-early-for-the-sunday-lockdown-say-the-shrikes/article64947066.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:46 IST,||You can be our volunteer -writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article38312149.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:46 IST,||boosting the response to the coronavirus||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/boosting-the-response-to-the-coronavirus/article64947068.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:49 IST,||Destiny’s child||I recently read in an American journal that Goethe’s Faust was produced as a three-dimensional drama, meaning that it was a three-in-one literary, musical and dance theatre staged in an off-Broadway open-air theatre festival. This provoked me to think about Silappadikaram , one of the five Tamil epics known as Panja Kaviyangal, written by non-Vedic poets. I am not sure whether there is any work dating from the early centuries of the common era in any other regional Indian language that has so much in common with Sanskrit with regard to the theory and practice of musical and theatrical forms.  Silappadikaram is written by Ilango Adigal, a Jain monk. Storywise, it is strikingly original, not outsourced from Sanskrit, but the classical dance and theatrical forms it makes use of have close affinity with the regulations stipulated in the Sanskrit theatre manual, Natya Shastra , attributed to Bharata Muni.  Master of arts  We know very little about our ancient authors, though myths about them are plenty. It might be an interesting speculation to think of Ilango and Bharata as one and the same person, who not only wrote a manual but also illustrated it through fiction in the form of Silappadikaram .  According to Heinrich Zimmer (1890-1943), Sanskrit being the common language of communication among the intellectuals of India in those days, many of the metaphysical and theoretical works in Sanskrit might have had South Indian authorship. However, it is difficult to date our authors and works according to Western ideas of time as our concept of history is cyclical, not linear.  Is Silappadikaram a play or an epic? It is both. It is this distinction that makes it different from literary works in any Indian language, including Sanskrit. Ilango, the consummate dramatist and innovative literary master that he is, initiates a new genre called Muththamizh viraviya pattudai ceyyul, a cultural form integrating poetry, music and drama. Like Shakespeare, he knows that each word has two values, dramatic and literary. Only in the hands of a genius, words acquire their appropriate literary or dramatic identity depending on the context — whether you read it as a poem or see it as a play in your mind’s eye. In other words, a ‘literary word’ acquires a new incarnation as ‘dramatic word’ when it is performed as a play on stage and one can visually experience it.  Anklet as metaphor Shakespeare is lucky as he had good directors and actors to project him on stage as an unparalleled playwright and also a large number of literary critics to establish his credentials as a poet extraordinaire. Ilango is unfortunate in this regard since there has been no analytical, in-depth study of his work as a one-of-its-kind epic drama. Even the dance dramas attempted so far, supposedly based on this work, have not done justice to its vigour and multi-faceted brilliance. Silappadikaram means ‘The Story of the Anklet’, silambu being the anklet worn by young, unmarried Tamil girls in ancient times that was removed on their wedding day. So silambu is a metaphor for virginity and innocence, which later became the insignia of the pathni cult (the worship of chastity).  Like Greek tragedy  The anklet of the title belongs to the protagonist, Kannagi. It proves to be the agent of destiny for her; the hero, Kovalan (Kannagi’s husband); and the Pandya king who unjustly has Kovalan killed for a crime he has not committed, then himself dies on realising his blunder. The wrath of Kannagi burns down the capital city of the Pandyas. Later, the Chera king invades the North and pelts rocks on the heads of the defeated North Indian kings for installing an icon and building a temple to Kannagi. The anklet proves pivotal in all of this: any stage production of Silappadikaram should have a surrealistically huge image of the anklet as its backdrop. It represents Destiny.   Like Fate in Greek tragedies, Destiny plays a significant role in Silappadikaram . As Ilango says, it announces itself in the yaazh (harp) that Kovalan plays, leading to his separation from Madhavi the courtesan and his subsequent death in Madurai, the Pandyan capital. Again, it is Destiny that visits the tongue of the Pandya king who, instead of saying ‘Bring the culprit, inquire, and if he is the one who stole the queen’s anklet, then kill him,’ blabbers without thinking, ‘Kill him if he has the anklet and bring it to me’.   Matalan, a Brahmin and a friend of Kovalan, functions like the chorus in Greek tragedy. He appears in two cantos, the Madurai Kantam and Vanchi Kantam, and provides the link to all the events that happen offstage. In Adaikalakathai (chapter on refuge), we come to know of all the noble qualities possessed by Kovalan, courtesy Matalan. The dramatic value of this scene lies in building up the audience’s admiration for the hero so that the shock is greater when he is wrongfully killed in the very next scene.  To enhance the tragic intensity, Ilango brings Kovalan and Kannagi together in the last scene before Kovalan’s death, when Kannagi serves him the delicious food she has cooked for him. They seem to be enjoying the blessings of a happy married life after a long gap, but Destiny has the last laugh. The lunch proves to be Kovalan’s last supper.  As in Shakespeare’s plays, after an emotionally charged scene, there is dramatic relief in the form of comedy. A pastoral dance ( Aychiyar Kuravai ) performed by cowherd girls to ward off evil succeeds the death scene.  Different classical and folk forms of music and theatre found in three regions of South India (Chola, Pandya and Chera) are beautifully documented in this three-dimensional epic, which stills awaits staging by a competent theatre director. The writer, also known as Ee. Paa, is a veteran Tamil littérateur and cultural historian.  It might be an interesting speculation to think of Ilango and Bharata as one and the same person, who not only wrote a manual but also illustrated it through fiction in the form ofSilappadikaram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/destinys-child/article64947041.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:49 IST,||The rise to absolute power||The objectives of the study on ‘How Modi’s hybrid regime model [is] reshaping political narratives, ecosystems and national symbols’ are ambitious. The projects of the ruling party are certainly ambitious. It wishes to spatially and ideologically remake the country by reconstructing Lutyen’s Delhi, by building a temple where once a grand mosque stood, by introducing a political language that cares two hoots for propriety, and by superciliously dismissing the contributions of Jawaharlal Nehru to democracy. Has it succeeded? Perhaps yes. Barely 10 years ago scholars were writing on multiculturalism, secularism, and minority rights. Today we are back to where modern political theory began — the right to life and liberty in times of mob lynching and police atrocities. How did the political mood turn around so quickly? P. Raman in this detailed exposition of one man’s rise to absolute power answers the question very well. Standing up to the RSS The story begins on February 19, 2013, when Mohan Bhagwat assured the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) hierarchy’s full support to Modi as the prime ministerial candidate. Very soon Modi defied the fundamental presupposition of the organisation; that the individual, no matter how powerful he may be, is subordinate to the collective. He informed senior leaders that he would always be there whenever they called. There was no need to set up a coordination committee to regulate the relationship between a future government and the RSS. In any case his Mission-272, that of securing a majority in Parliament, was intended to reduce dependence on secular allies. He would institutionalise Hindutva so dear to the heart of RSS leaders. They need not worry. Some leaders were nevertheless wary of him. His commitment to liberalisation and to the corporatisation of the economy went against Swadeshi so ardently defended by the organisation. But he was backed enthusiastically by RSS supremo Bhagwat. He was also openly supported by top corporate leaders of initially Gujarat, and then from the rest of the country. The scene was set for “the rise of a classical kind of authoritarian political boss... Like the elected dictators the world over, he communicated directly to voters and party ranks.” Modi’s political strategy was a ‘deadly mix of hard Hindutva and unadulterated neoliberal framework’. Economic liberalisation was conjoined to political illiberalism. The former was secured by corporates. They placed their enormous funds, their media houses, PR agents, digital engineers and survey agencies at the feet of an incoming Modi regime. Political illiberalism was secured by Hindutva that relentlessly subordinates individual citizens to the nation conceived of in purely majoritarian terms. Around the twin planks of his ideology gathered WhatsApp administrators, lynch mobs coordinators, those who rallied audiences, cash dispensers and alcohol distributors. Modi rallies have rewritten the grammar of how elections are fought. His image was projected on gigantic screens, and cheer leaders outshouted other BJP leaders. He was presented as India’s new messiah, the conquering hero who would vanquish the old elite. No visibility and voice The BJP came to power in 2014 and we witnessed the quick degeneration of parliamentary democracy into autocratic populism. Under the Modi regime, elected ministers have been reduced to nothing. They have little visibility and even less voice. The PM chastises them as if they are schoolboys. They are not invited to meetings he holds with their bureaucrats. Civil servants are responsible directly to him. All decisions of ministries have to be cleared by the Prime Minister’s Office. RSS leaders monitored the government for the first two years. With the appointment of Amit Shah as the party president, the rules changed. The RSS was pushed to the margins. Centralised rule seldom makes for good governance though. Badly conceptualised policies of demonetisation and GST led to chaos and intensified poverty. Schemes announced with much fanfare lapsed, and the enthusiasm of the leadership waned. As power came to be centralised in the office of the prime minister, organisations meant to share power or check it, from the RBI to the CBI were hijacked. Yet the Modi juggernaut continued to roll. The BJP secured even more seats in the 2019 general election. This encouraged the government to unfurl the full agenda of Hindutva from Kashmir to Ayodhya and beyond. Demise of institutions In the last chapter, Raman surveys the literature on authoritarian populism and concludes that the concept is appropriate for India. The country has seen the personalisation of power and the demise of institutions ranging from Parliament to civil society. Enthusiastically acclaimed by a media that forgets that it is a part of civil society which keeps watch on the exercise of power, and not a PR arm of the government, Modi has succeeded in making people forget the tragedies his misconceived policies have heaped on India. We are left to ponder an unpalatable question. Have Indians become apolitical, more attracted to strong leaders rather than democratic ones? The reviewer is Distinguished Fellow, Centre for Equity Studies.  Tryst with Strong Leader Populism Aakar Publications||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-rise-to-absolute-power/article64947034.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:50 IST,||Living in quarantine under the shadow of COVID-19||In 2020, as COVID-19 became a global experience, writers from around the world responded to it, trying to make sense of a 21st century pandemic and its aftermath. Edited by Ilan Stavans, And We Came Outside and Saw the Stars Again highlighted the fact that a rampaging virus had brought about “the collapse of a hierarchy of principles” the world had embraced till then. Though as Stavans pointed out in the introduction, the misfortune arrived when the essential tenets of globalisation were already being questioned, with “tariffs imposed, borders closed, immigrants seen with suspicion.” While some writers saw it as a time to recalibrate and start afresh, others argued that paranoid dystopias (of Franz Kafka, Aldous Huxley, George Orwell and Yevgeny Zamyatin) had become the “gross and brutal reality” of our time.  Reconfiguring boundaries  All of 2021 passed in a haze of lockdowns, new deadlier variants, the race for vaccines, hospitalisations and deaths, and the new year dawned with another highly contagious, slightly milder variant on the prowl, leading to case surges around the world. The COVID Spectrum is an anthology of essays from several countries on a disease that has plunged countries into an unprecedented crisis. In their introduction, the editors, Kanchana Mahadevan, Satishchandra Kumar, Meher Bhoot and Rajesh Kharat, all from the University of Mumbai, write that the essays “examine the possibilities of reconfiguring boundaries imposed by symptoms such as the ‘infodemic’ and forced separation.” Some of the ‘neo-normals’ that remain include quarantine, virtual worlds, surveillance, fragile health systems, while questions have been raised about “inequality, authoritarianism, welfare, trauma and sustainability.”  In his foreword, the Slovenian philosopher, Slavoj Zizek, contends that today more than ever, egalitarianism is not just a vague ideal but an urgent necessity — vaccines for all, universal healthcare, global struggle against the global warming. He cites the example of Ugur Sahin, BioTech’s CEO, a Turk living in Germany whose company invented one of the early COVID-19 vaccines. In an interview at the end of 2020, Sahin said, “At the moment, it doesn’t look good — a hole is appearing because there’s a lack of other approved vaccines and we have to fill the gap with our own vaccine.” Zizek says this was a “wonderful moment when the CEO of a company wanted his competitors to get stronger because he knows that only together can we win the struggle against the pandemic.” Theory and experience The first part, ‘Theorising the Pandemic’, has articles on diverse issues around COVID-19, from adapting to the virus, conspiracy theories, fake news, the fundamentals of care. In her essay, ‘The Limits of Responsible Caring in the COVID-19 Pandemic’, Joan Tronto, writing from America, says given how unpredictably the virus affected people, humans could not deny their mortality and the sense of vulnerability this knowledge produced. Yet, she adds, that from this vulnerability came another revelation, i.e., “the profound awareness of the fact that not all people were equally vulnerable. Some are at much greater risk.” Narratives from Cuba (Vinay Lal), Hong Kong (Ada Kot), Mauritius (Basantsingh Deerpaul), Kathmandu (Raji Manjari Pokhrel and Prathama Raghavan) comprise the second part, together with reflections on lessons from COVID-19, how to keep young children safe and dealing with the aftermath. In his essay, ‘The Great Reset?’, Zizek quotes the German philosopher Jurgen Habermas observing in April 2020 that “there never was so much knowing about our not-knowing and about the constraint to act and live in uncertainty.” Zizek points out that Habermas is right when he says that this “not-knowing” does not concern only the pandemic, but even more its economic, social and psychic consequences. Will the post-Corona universe be just another future or something new ‘to come’? According to Zizek, in the midst of “existential uncertainties” we have to change our economic life so that it will be able to survive lockdowns and emergencies that await us. “We need to do what is impossible.”   The COVID Spectrum Speaking Tiger||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/living-in-quarantine-under-the-shadow-of-covid-19/article64947033.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:50 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On January 23, 1957, American inventor Walter Frederick Morrison sold the rights to his invention, which he called the ‘Whirlo-Way’ to the Wham-O toy company. He had come up with the idea in 1937 when he and his girlfriend were throwing a popcorn lid and a cake pan around. Wham-O decided to sell the product as 'Pluto Platter' but college students had come up with another name for it, based on a bakery whose pie tins served the same purpose. How better do we know this toy that even has a sport based on it? 2 Shirley and Eddie Clarkson designed the first Paddington Bear toy in 1972 and gave it to their 11-year-old son. The well-made toys received several compliments, so they began selling the bears in local stores. Paddington Bear creator Michael Bond wanted to sue them both for copyright infringement, but on encountering them in a lift and realising how sweet they were, gave them the license. This allowed them both to earn well and send their son to a good school. Who was the son who now has multiple shows on OTT on history, wars, guns, farming and cars, and owes his life to this toy? 3 This toy is a simple remote control-like device that has a button and a photodiode. When you press it, it causes the TV screen to completely black for one frame. The diode samples the colour reading as a reference and in the next frame causes only the target area to become white. If the game the toy is connected to detects the shift from black to white, you get points. What is the most famous game that used this toy and involved a giggling dog? 4 This American company was established as an institute in 1928 by Lucille King. She developed wooden toys to use as teaching aids for children in the classroom. Since 1984 it has been owned by Hasbro but still produces many lines of educational toys. What company is this whose name was literally what they used to do? 5 One of the most popular toys the world over is a puzzle game created by Alexey Pajitnov in 1984. Its popularity led to an actual psychological effect named after it. The effect is a creative urge to fit shapes together, to organise, to build, to make deals, to fix, to fold sheets. What is the name of this effect? 6 The largest toy company in the world started in 1932, in a workshop in Denmark, when Ole Kirk Christiansen began making wooden toys. He named the company after the Danish phrase that means ‘play well’. As of 2021 the company is valued at $6.5 billion and more than 700 billion pieces of their iconic bricks have been made. What company is this, which also has movies, games and even amusement parks? 7 Matchbox was a popular toy brand which got its name because its toys were sold in boxes similar to actual matchboxes. Their biggest hits were small-scale models of production cars. Elliot Handler and his wife saw their son playing with one of these and came up with an idea. They would produce customised/ modified ‘hot rod’ versions of these cars, eg. with bigger tyres, hood blowers, flame stickers etc. It became a huge hit and was bought over by Mattel, eventually taking over Matchbox as well. By what name do we know this company? 8 Frank Hornby was an English inventor who, though having no formal training in engineering, was responsible for the invention and production of three of the most popular lines of toys based on engineering principles. Two of them are Dinky Toys that made die-cast scale model vehicles, and Hornby Railways, which make model train sets. The third is a brand of model construction system, which contains reusable metal strips, plates, wheels, axles and gears, nuts and bolts. This enables kids to build working models and mechanical devices. What is the name of this company, which till date is a popular birthday gift for young kids? 9 A ‘Gyroscopic Effect’ is the ability of a rotating body to maintain a steady direction of its axis of rotation. This combines the universal laws of inertia (and momentum), friction and gravity, and the transfer of potential to kinetic energy. What toy, which has been around for thousands of years (earliest reference is from 3500 BC), works purely on this principle? 10 These dolls, which received a GI tag in 2009, have a history dating back to King Saboji’s kingdom. Known for their detailed, painted exteriors and famous bobble-head, and made from materials such as papier mache, plaster of Paris, or very light wood, these dolls have a very low centre of gravity that allows them to have a continuous dance-like movement. Named after the city the GI tag attributes it to, what is the name of these dolls? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article64947027.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:50 IST,||Conversation beyond performance||Whoever thought conversation could be bottled, packaged like perfume and sold to those who want to capture a sense, a feeling, an idea. Rewind. Start over. Whoever thought a conversation could be boxed, and when opened, could lead one into new worlds of knowledge and imagination. Whoever thought conversation could become a commodity? The podcasting business thrives on conversation — short takes, mid-sized, and long, unfurling like the mythical tail of Hanuman. These must be distinguished from interviews, which have a discrete and specific purpose, with a clear boundary between seeker and giver of information and insight. Journalistic interviews may serve the purposes of extracting or confirming the news of the day, or as a platform for portraiture, where we watch, listen or read someone drawing out personality. But the conversational podcast does something different; it invites the listener into a closed room to hear the wheels of two minds as they turn. The best conversational podcasts are those where there the host and the guest meet on a level platform — not so much in terms of domain expertise, but as two (or more) people who share a curiosity that is jointly explored as they speak. There is a genuine sense of listening to questions and carefully crafted answers that in turn generate more questions, both for those within the conversation and those listening to it. Even as the exchange is being recorded, the participants do not seem performing. They are so deeply involved in the interchange that the sense of an audience is completely absent. There are any number of such podcasts, each of which gains its flavour from the style of the host and the scope that they set out. All women  One that I discovered a few weeks ago was The Indian Edit , hosted by Nitasha Manchanda, that features conversations with “innovators in design, culture and entrepreneurship”. Manchanda’s guests are all women with a connection, as she says, to the Indian subcontinent. These are not women you would have encountered unless you have a special interest in the fields they represent — perfumery, craft design, children’s publishing, community media, cuisine, among others — but each has a story to tell and a perspective to share. Manchanda notes on her website that as a podcast listener, she rarely came across shows about the kind of people she wanted to hear from, or hear about. In the three years or so that the show has run, she has sampled a wide range of creators and risk-takers, each of whom introduces you to the window of opportunity that they pushed open for themselves. Some conversations do move into the rarefied reaches of high-end fashion and haute cuisine, but overall, there’s something there for those who find themselves stuck, at any stage in life.  Go with the flow You can sample the episodes in any order, but one I would recommend features Sarah Thomas, founder of Kalamata’s Kitchen, an enterprise that aims to make adventurous and compassionate eaters of children, as also the episode where guest Aarti Jaiman of community radio Gurgaon ki Awaaz details her journey. The conversational podcast is perhaps the simplest kind to record and package; it calls for fairly basic production and sound design skills. But it is not easy to sustain, and those who have managed to run a show for any length of time deserve appreciation. And, like Manchanda, if they’ve managed to package it with character, even more so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/conversation-beyond-performance/article64947029.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:49 IST,||Rooted to the land||In the introduction to his fourth novel, Kanganam , Perumal Murugan talks about the word kanganam and what it means. It refers to the ritual yellow thread that people undertaking an important event, such as wedding or temple feast, wear around their wrist. Especially significant for a groom, the kanganam signifies that from that moment on, its wearer will bring all their focus and energies only to the task on hand and not leave the wedding hall or take on other responsibilities. Over time, the word came to mean an absolute determination to finish a task, a single-minded focus.   But the English word, ‘resolve’, while containing multiple meanings in itself, becomes in the translation only a person’s determination to finish a task. Gone are the layers — the idea of weddings and rituals, the carefully concealed social commentary on changing mores. Marking time from when the kanganam was a reminder to focus, to stay true to the event, the house, the relationship, to when the kanganam merely became an ornament, a phrase.  Little touches That loss in translation in the title is carried through the entire book. This is not to say that the translation is bad or inadequate. In fact, Aniruddhan Vasudevan carries the tone and import of the Tamil novel faithfully to the English version. The story’s slow build-up, the layering of events, the people, the settings, and the little touches of rural Tamil Nadu of the 80s and 90s — they’re all there. Resolveis the story of Marimuthu, a farmer in his 30s. Marimuthu yearns to be married, to feel the touch of another human next to him, to have someone to hold on to. He has felt this need from when he turned 18. However, circumstances and the actions of people around him have denied him marriage. We come to Marimuthu via Kuppan, an agricultural labourer bonded to Marimuthu’s family, whose entire life has been spent in service to the family. Through Kuppan and Marimuthu, we see and hear Marimuthu’s family, Paati, Ammayi, each carrying generations of resentment, grudges and anguish, and occasionally voicing them. In particular, Paati (Pooavatha) and Ammayi (Virumaka) are two old women who have lived through changing times, served the men they married and the patriarchy they were wedded to, but still managed to hold on to will and agency. Toll of expectations Then there’s Thanavadhi Thatha, a go-between for anything from marriages to land deals to brokering peace between clans. Given Marimuthu’s one preoccupation, there are many marriage brokers, including the sharp-tongued Veeduthi and the retired maths teacher. There’s Selvarasu, Marimuthu’s estranged cousin, a man who knows what he wants and how to get it, and who is prepared to let old grudges go. There’s also Raman, Marimuthu’s friend, confidante and co-conspirator. Then there are the women — Rosamani, Vasanthi, Poovalayi and more, who could have been Marimuthu’s wives if things had gone well, but end up instead as the objects of his dreams and nightmares. These are minor characters, but each with a full life behind them. Underpinning this are the twin systems of caste and patriarchy. Murugan explains a bit in his introduction, but it comes through in greater detail in the story. The desire for sons that has created an unequal male-female ratio. The pressure to be a conforming, fecund member of society. The toll it takes on women and men. On caste, Murugan presents his commentary with no fanfare but it still hits you with force. It explains Kuppan’s ties to the family: Kuppan recalls, at the very beginning, that the coconut palms in Marimuthu’s farms were planted when he, Kuppan, was but a boy and had just begun working for the family. In all likelihood, Kuppan will die in bondage to the family. There’s the subtle difference in how Marimuthu and Raman — seen as friends — are treated by the village. Despite his promises to Raman, Marimuthu has no qualms turning over land to his cousin, keeping property within the family. Through the book, caste along with its hold on people is presented as is, with no heavy-handed commentary — which makes it all the more powerful as you realise how ingrained it is. Final flavour Translations are always tricky. Especially between two languages that are as idiomatic, with regional quirks and dialects, as Tamil and English. The translator has to weigh the needs of the story, the style and form in which it is presented, the limits of the source language, the capacity of the target language.Perhaps at those points, the story and its overall arc will weigh more than the styling or the flavour.  While I understood the compromise in Resolve , I could not help feeling sad. A bit like the death of a public figure you admire; it’s not a direct personal loss, but it still hurts you. Would it have helped if one simply rewrote the entire thing in English, less of a translation and more of a retelling?   There is this term terroir , which describes the character a crop acquires from its environment. The soil, water, air, they all impact the final flavour. Change one, and the taste changes. Tamil is like that, especially the Tamil Perumal Murugan employs. The language in Kanganam is like Marimuthu — deeply rooted to the land, deriving its nourishment from it, its accent and flavour. Importing this into English would require an equally flavourful dialect. Not a faithful rendition of the word, but a justice to the spirit.  It is thus a tad unfortunate that we have a very good translation, but not a great retelling. The reviewer is a writer and researcher, with interests in history and archaeology, gender, Internet, and technology.@nadjanadika  Resolve Penguin Hamish Hamilton    Underpinning this are the twin systems of caste and patriarchy. Murugan explains a bit in his introduction, but it comes through in greater detail in the story||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rooted-to-the-land/article64947040.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:48 IST,||Fable of Padayappa||Few in Munnar and its environs haven’t seen or heard of Padayappa, the giant wild tusker which roams the hill-resort and its tea plantations. In fact, tourists, keen on getting a snapshot of him, often enquire about his whereabouts. For his reputation for reasonably good behaviour precedes him wherever he goes. The sight of Padayappa padding down the road will make even the stout-hearted quail — more so if one runs into him on a sharp curve. His appearance is quite formidable. Standing nearly 10 feet tall, his ragged ears flap languidly, his mud-caked flanks heave visibly and his massive tusks protrude menacingly. Yet, local people have faith in Padayappa’s innate goodness. They believe he won’t harm anyone if left untroubled and allowed to eat what he wants. This tolerance sometimes sees him plunder fruit stalls and vegetable gardens at will. When people try to drive him away, he puts on a façade of aggressiveness which he soon sheds, though. Padayappa once sociably barged into a football game. Knowing his amiability, the players stood their ground, albeit cautiously, and after a while he lumbered away, perhaps feeling like an unwanted behemoth among midgets. On another occasion, he graciously accepted a coconut, over a wall, from a discreetly distanced well-wisher. These unbelievable images can be viewed on the Internet. Recently, while driving to Munnar at pre-dawn, we noticed a line of vehicles about 50 metres away, their headlights inexplicably switched off. A closer look revealed Padayappa amiably ambling along ahead of us, hardly 15 metres away. Realising that he was holding up traffic, he soon considerately moved to the very edge of the road. And as we crept past him, I could’ve easily reached out and patted him — he was so near! Yet he showed no signs of truculence. gnettomunnar@rediffmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fable-of-padayappa/article64947043.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:50 IST,||Repeater||We were not given the auction for today’s deal, just the final contract and the play. We offer the auction above, which might be duplicated in any rubber bridge club during their cocktail hour. South won the opening spade lead with dummy’s ace and ran the 10 of hearts, losing to West’s queen. The spade continuation was won by dummy’s king. South drew trumps in three rounds, crossed to dummy with the ace of diamonds, and ruffed a spade. This was the position: [See grid 2]. South cashed his last trump, discarding a spade from dummy, and East had no answer. A club discard and all the clubs would run. East chose to part with his spade, but South led a club to the king and then led the six of spades. Any discard by East would give South the rest of the tricks. Beautifully played! This position is known as a repeating triple squeeze. It is quite rare and we hope the readers enjoyed it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/repeater/article64947026.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:49 IST,||Here, there, and everywhere||Not many communities feel a sense of belonging with two countries they view as their own — the Jews call India their motherland, and Israel, their fatherland. So says Ori Z. Soltes in a book he has edited on Bene Israel, Baghdadi and Cochini Jews in India, their customs and lives, Growing Up Jewish in India . Offering a historical account through several articles, the complexity of the topic can be gauged from the fact that the preface runs into 18 pages, followed by an introduction on Indian Jews as a diverse diaspora which is almost as long.  The arrival The Bene Israel Jews are the largest Jewish Indian community and there are a number of theories regarding the timing of their arrival on the western coast, some dating back to the reign of King Solomon, 3,000 years ago. Another theory is that they were part of the lost 10 tribes that disappeared from north Israel and from history in the aftermath of the conquest of the Israelite kingdom by the Neo-Assyrian Empire. And there are other theories too, which Soltes elaborates on to bring clarity to the matter. The book comprises six chapters including an epilogue aside from a foreword by Ralphy Jhirad. There’s a chapter on Kerala synagogues by Orna Eliyahu-Oron and Barbara C. Johnson; there’s another on the synagogues of Calcutta Baghdadi Jews by Jael Silliman. Soltes writes on ‘Refocus and Return’, Siona Benjamin’s multi-layered art, which dots the book; he also pens the epilogue on the community’s past. Benjamin writes a memoir, ‘How I Turned Blue and Other Stories I Remember Growing up Jewish in India.’ Silliman weaves her narrative around the three synagogues of Baghdadi Jews of Calcutta, giving deep insights into the lives of the city’s Jewish community whose numbers have dwindled from 4,500-odd in the mid-20th century to 700 or so in the 1970s and about 20 now. Across the globe Benjamin's piece gives a snapshot of the life of a diasporic Jew. She writes about her grandmother Elizabeth’s long and interesting life journey. Born in Quetta in Pakistan, Elizabeth’s family later migrated to India’s west coast. Her children dispersed to Asia, Africa and North America, perpetuating the idea of the diasporic Jew in a personal way. The distance between the families seemed to widen with her parents in India, most of the family in Israel, a few relatives in the U.S. and Canada, and some in Africa. She remembers that while in India, “I got called everything from a Parsi to Punjabi and even occasionally a cocktail...” In America (she later settled in the U.S.), she was often posed a similar question: ‘Where are you from?’ “So not surprisingly, in my paintings, I also raise the question about what and where is ‘home’ while evoking issues about identity, immigration, motherhood and the role of art in social change,” she writes. Soltes feels, and rightly so, that Benjamin's array of work and her memoir illuminates and carries forward the narrative of the three major Jewish communities in and now outside India. The book is a must read for all as it addresses a complex issue in a rich scholarly way while making it eminently readable. The reviewer is an independent journalist based in Kolkata.  Growing Up Jewish in India Niyogi Books||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/here-there-and-everywhere/article64947035.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:48 IST,||Days of the snake charmer||He was tall and robust. He would appear from nowhere one fine morning and squat somewhere in the porch with his wife or sometimes his son and start playing his familiar snake charmer’s flute — a Pungi or a Been .  Hearing his folk music, we children would rush out of the house. He would continue playing in anticipation of the elders to appear. All in the family would soon spread around the settees to see his snake show. He possessed a vast knowledge about not only snakes but most reptiles. His folklore revolved mainly around different species of reptiles. He spoke a tribal dialect but made sure that everyone understood his language and accent. He would open the intricately woven box made of palm leaves in which the snake was kept.  As soon as the lid was open, a hissing snake would appear with its hood. In case it was a bit lazy, he would poke its hood with the Been for it to show its fangs. We children would shudder in fear. He would reassure everyone and ask us to enjoy the spectacle. His knowledge and lecturing skills could challenge any herpetologist.  It appeared as though he treated our house as a platform to showcase his talent. Much to his liking, everyone paid complete attention. And to the questions posed about snakes, their habitat and prey-base, he took pride in answering calmly. After the show, he would hand in packets containing herbal antidotes to elders with instructions for emergency use. His wife and son were equally well poised and adept in handling snakes. One other reason for this childhood experience etched vividly in my mind is the costumes the snake-charmer and his family wore. A colourful turban-like head gear with complex art work, and multi-hued clothing patterned and pinned with hundreds of sequins gave out an aura. Perhaps, the women in their community were the creators of this unique designer clothing. You would be surprised to know what his expectations were in return for his snake show. He preferred our home-made masala and chutney powders, pickles and other culinary items to money. He would rather demand these things from my grandmother. He would create a loud scene to impress upon her how much he longed to take the masala powders home to share them with his relatives. Everyone at home, despite yielding to his unusual demand, used to find his demanding and dramatic quirks amusing. Before leaving, he would do one routine check for traces of snake movements in and around the house. Almost every one at home used to see them off when he left with his family; such was his charm. What a charming snake-man! sujith_sandur@yahoo.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/days-of-the-snake-charmer/article64947044.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:51 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3186||Across 1 Not just any flyer for a movie? (3,7) 6 Russian ruler ‘beats a retreat’ ... bottles it (4) 9 Employee appraisal at the House of Lords? (4,6) 10 Repelled a raven, largely predatory beast (4) 12 Deaf-ish nans treated, being well looked after (2,4,5) 15 More sickly, kind of green, perhaps slalomer’s heading off (7) 16 Morally improved duke earlier, becoming exalted (7) 17 Artist’s empty landscapes’ sad lines (1,1,5) 19 Hates seeing sights with son not about (7) 20 A sad, a bleak king ordered pudding (5,6) 23 In France, one is where courses take a long time to get through (4) 24 Hoping for an ‘h’ sound (10) 25 Made pencil portrait of Andy (4) 26 Brand new day, etc, for coward (7-3) Down 1 Gratuities regularly shunned; at a push, Everyman will chip in (4) 2 Days before, golfer becomes upset (4) 3 State broadcast assessed value of Wimbledon champ (8,4) 4 Guide daughter to wear a sunblocker (7) 5 Lover Federer admits was excessively giving? (7) 7 Spirited grittiness, tough in the extreme (10) 8 To talk with enthusiasm in talk about hard earth is exhausting at first (10) 11 This acid rain alarmed campaigners (9,3) 13 Mesmerized by Alexander Graham’s weight, according to Spooner (10) 14 Arrangement of elements: potassium, nickel, iron and silver, in part (5,5) 18 Membrane unusually scaly? OK ... (4-3) 19 File ‘requiring less effort’, fancifully? (7) 21 Realize, after losing six balls: it’s a record (4) 22 Commonly, Norseman underestimating tides, primarily? (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3186/article64947025.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:49 IST,||Gumshoe Mania||Manju Jaidka Vishwakarma Publications Rs. 250 A woman whose ambition was to become a sleuth, finds the chance to pursue the vocation in her middle years. The story cuts across geographical boundaries, from the plains of north India to the Hawaiian Islands, to present different facets of human relationships and individual choices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/gumshoe-mania/article64947039.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:49 IST,||The Twyford Code||Janice Hallett Viper Rs. 799 Forty years ago, Steven Smith found a book by disgraced author Edith Twyford, its margins full of strange annotations. He took it to his teacher Miss Iles, who was convinced that the book was the key to solving a puzzle. Miss Iles disappeared. Decades later, Steven investigates the mystery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-twyford-code/article64947042.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:50 IST,||The Betrayal of Anne Frank||Rosemary Sullivan HarperCollins Rs. 483 (Kindle edition) The mystery of who betrayed Anne Frank (The Diary of Anne Frank) looks to have been solved. Based on a cold case probe into who led the Nazis to an annex in Amsterdam on August 4, 1944, Sullivan’s book claims a Jewish notary may have revealed the hiding place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-betrayal-of-anne-frank/article64947030.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:49 IST,||Long Run - A Paradise Augmented||BookStreet Publications T. Sathish Rs. 250 Raghu was an investment manager. Glitz, romance, and success filled his life, until the day his car overturned. His body was broken and he lost his vision. Is his spirit strong enough to overcome? Raghu narrates his life story filled with challenges and unanswered questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/long-run-a-paradise-augmented/article64947038.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:49 IST,||Masala and Murder||Patrick Lyons Niyogi Books Rs. 450 Samson Ryder, a Melbourne-based Anglo-Indian private investigator, is guilt-ridden over the death of his sister. When an Indian industrialist engages him to investigate how his daughter died in Australia, Samson sees in it an opportunity to get closure for himself and the victim’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/masala-and-murder/article64947037.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:49 IST,||Liberty after Freedom||Rohan J. Alva HarperCollins Rs. 599 This is an account of the evolution of the right to life and personal liberty as enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution. Alva says he chose to write about Article 21 as this is “one fundamental right which impacts the life of every single Indian.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/liberty-after-freedom/article64947036.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:50 IST,||Sports Studies in India||Edited by Padma Prakash, Meena Gopal Oxford University Press Rs. 1,895 This volume uses sport to explore social relations. In India, there is sporadic literature on the sociology of sports, and a host of contributors try to fill the gap. The essays show sport as an activity with rules, but also as a phenomenon that impacts society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sports-studies-in-india/article64947032.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:50 IST,||The Rise of the BJP: The Making of the World’s Largest Political Party||Bhupender Yadav, Ila Patnaik Penguin/Viking Rs. 699 A BJP minister and a leading economist trace the BJP’s journey, from its roots to winning 303 seats in the Lok Sabha in 2019. They focus on economics and the political story, and also relatively smaller incidents, which brought the BJP to where it stands now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-rise-of-the-bjp-the-making-of-the-worlds-largest-political-party/article64947031.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:48 IST,||Lore of Collarwali||The tigress T-15, one of the stars of the BBC documentarySpy in the Jungle, better known as ‘Collarwali’, as she was the first big cat to be collared at Pench Tiger Reserve, died of old age. Collarwali, who gave birth to 29 cubs in her lifetime, and was famously unfazed by tourist jeeps as she strode on the kaccha roads, had so captured the imagination of locals and forest officials that she was given a formal cremation overseen by local tribal leader Shanta Bai. The tigress was last sighted at a stream, weak and barely able to walk; she then lay down for a few hours before being taken away by forest officials for treatment. She died the next evening from multiple organ failure due to intestine blockage. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted, saying she had played an important role in making Madhya Pradesh a ‘tiger State’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lore-of-collarwali/article64947045.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:48 IST,||SUNDAY RECIPE||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article64947046.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:34 IST,||More evidence of excess deaths in India during pandemic||In the State-wise data compiled by the Union Government, represented by the Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati in the Supreme Court, it was shown based on media reports that 6,14,211 claims of compensation for deaths due to COVID-19 were filed in 20 States against the reported death toll of 4,29,872 in those States. The numbers were stark for some States. Telangana reported only 3,993 deaths but received 28,969 compensation claims and sanctioned compensation for 15,720 deaths (nearly four times the reported death toll). Gujarat reported only 10,094 deaths but there were 89,633 compensation claims, and 68,370 of them were sanctioned – a multiple of nearly seven times the reported death toll. In contrast, Kerala which reported 49,300 deaths has received 27,274 compensation claims and has processed 23,652 of them. Reflect undercounting Now, compensation claims are not a reliable measure of what the actual death toll due to COVID-19 could have been – in States, where there is greater State responsiveness and general public awareness, claims of compensation could be more, and this could be lower in States with limited capacities. Yet, the fact that some States have gone to process a high number of compensation claims, several multiples over and above their reported death tolls suggest that their governments have acknowledged that these tolls reflect an undercounting of the actual death tally. Excess deaths This is not surprising. Excess deaths analyses based on deaths registered in the Civil Registration System (CRS) have shown that they have been as high as six times the official death toll for just 11 States and Union Territories (Maharashtra, Punjab, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh) for which such data was available. Studies have found the CRS method to analyse death tolls to be a robust way to measure mortality across States. The more complete the CRS registration in States, “the better the opportunities to understand population health and its determinants,” a paper by Aashish Gupta and others recently found.  A recent peer-reviewed paper in Science by Prabhat Jha and others used a national survey of 1.4 lakh adults and estimated that COVID-19 constituted 29% of deaths from June 2020 to July 2021. This corresponds to 32 lakh deaths, of which 27 lakh occurred in April–July 2021. This number was corroborated with two government data sources – one of which was the CRS and which showed all-cause mortality increased by 27% and 26% respectively, leading them to conclude that “India’s cumulative COVID-19 deaths were six-seven times higher than reported official mortality with COVID and non-COVID deaths peaking similarly”.  There could have been a possible overreporting of deaths in the national survey conducted by CVOTER. The authors went on to address this by reaching out to approximately 57,000 people in 13,500 households, and this showed “similar temporal increases in mortality with COVID and non-COVID deaths peaking similarly”. Worldwide phenomenon  Is this an Indian phenomenon alone? A recent news feature published in Nature journal based on the World Mortality Dataset maintained by researcher Ariel Karlinsky, besides other models, found that across countries the pandemic's true death toll was millions more than the official tolls. For example, the WMD dataset revealed that excess deaths in Russia numbered more than one million by the end of 2021, while only 3,00,000 COVID-19 deaths were recorded in the same period. The WMD dataset does not contain figures for India as excess deaths are available only for “subnational” units (States) and not for the whole country or for countries such as China. But extrapolating from subnational data, it could be shown, as the  Science paper did for India, that excess deaths were several multiples over the official death toll and revealed undercounting.   A data story in The Hindu published in September 2021 compared excess deaths for the countries with the highest reported death toll and found that the estimated multiple over the reported toll (using the same method) for India was the highest (5.8 times) and only Chile (5.7 times) came close.  Varied reasons What explains this substantive undercounting of deaths? In the case of India, the reasons are varied. In States like Kerala which have tallied a high number of deaths after reviewing its COVID-19 mortality reporting over time, initially, some deaths of infected people who died after testing negative or left hospitals and then died were not tallied under COVID-19 deaths. This has since been corrected, and Kerala’s case fatality rate has risen to 0.9 (closer to the national average). But in others such as Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana, where excess deaths multiples were quite high, the reasons for the undercounting have also got to do with the States seeking to report less of the mortality as COVID-related. There are States such as Uttar Pradesh, for example, where public health systems remain weak and were overwhelmed by the sudden increase in the spurt of infections and mortality during the second wave, in particular. This also contributed to the significant underreporting of COVID-19 deaths. Many cases were not detected through adequate testing in several States. Also, the absence of proper health care institutions resulted in several deaths occurring outside institutional care and were undocumented. States with a robust CRS (Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala for example) in which deaths are quickly registered after occurrence have tended to show lower excess deaths multiples or have addressed these deaths as COVID-19 related after audits – Maharashtra, for example. But as the Gujarat example shows, even if undercounting of deaths was done for political expediency, such States have had to acknowledge compensation claims even if they are much higher than the reported COVID-19 tolls for the same reason. Estimating the actual death toll due to COVID-19 is an important step in acknowledging the challenges faced by public health institutions and the state in India. This should help epidemiologists and public health specialists devise clear steps to take when faced with a pandemic-like situation and also to prepare institutions to respond to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/more-evidence-of-excess-deaths-in-india-during-pandemic/article64947072.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:34 IST,||Adding radioactive substances in wearables unjustified||Over a year ago, alert press reporters found a device hanging around Congress M.P. Shashi Tharoor’s neck. Was it a GPS device, Translator or a small dictionary? He tweeted that it was “An air purifier (negative ioniser).” Its sellers claim that the device emits two million healthy negative ions per sec from the black brush on its top. These ions may impinge on pollutants, make them negatively charged and get them collected on surfaces of tables, windows, bed etc. Whether it helps to reduce pollution in real life, or not needs scientific validation. Is copious emission of negative ions from it a red flag? On December 16, 2021, the Authority for Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection (ANVS), Netherland issued a statement identifying ten products such as (Magnetix Magnetic necklace, Magnetix Sport boost bracelet, Smiley Kids bracelet, Athletic necklace among others) as containing more radioactivity than legally permitted. The agency cautioned the public against using “Quantum Pendant,” “anti-5G pendant” or “negative ion” jewellery items or sleep mask. Often, “negative ion products” may contain radioactive substances. The ANVS clarified that their warning does not apply to ionic air purifiers, “as they are known not to contain radioactive materials.” Obviously, Dr Tharoor need not worry over any red flag! Radioactive products Sellers of “negative ion” consumer products and “scalar energy products” claim that these products improve the user's health. They may state that they are composed of volcanic ash, minerals etc. These can contain radioactive substances, which emit ionising radiation, which can cause tissue damage and are bad for the user's health. Popular online platforms have been offering such products, often in the form of pendants, necklaces, bracelets, sleep masks etc. for many years now. Manufacturing and selling products containing radioactive substances is not a justified practice. The ANVS found that the level of radiation in these products is low and the risk of health problems is also low. The agency informed all known vendors of these products in the Netherlands that it has prohibited their sale and that they must stop trading in these products immediately. Wearing such products for a long period (a year, 24 hours a day) could expose the wearer to a dose of radiation that exceeds the limit for skin exposure prescribed in the Netherlands. Above dose limit Malaysian researchers led by H.L. Hassan, Department of Physics, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia found that eight out of the 20 pendants, they evaluated, by using state-of-the-art methods were capable of exposing the wearers to an annual effective dose above the dose limit of one mSv for public (PLOS ONE June 1, 2021). The dose from the most radioactive pendant was 2.8 mSv/year.(When the physical energy absorbed by tissues from x-rays, gamma rays or electrons is one Joule per kg, the biologically effective dose is considered to be one Sv. Since Sv is a huge unit, specialists use milliSv - one thousandth of a Sv - as a unit; skin dose in a chest x-ray exam is about 0.1 mSv). Undergarment samples In another IAEA supported project, Hassan and others from Malaysia, the U.K. and Spain found that the undergarment industry in Malaysia and elsewhere advertised that their “negative ion undergarments” contain tourmaline, monazite and zircon, all known to contain uranium and thorium. Among the 13 samples of undergarments they assessed, three were capable of exposing their wearers to annual effective doses above one mSV, the IAEA reference level (Applied Sciences, June 10, 2021). Realising the safety significance of Naturally Occurring Radioactive Materials (NORM), IAEA and member countries provided guidance on the matter. In “Radiation Protection and Safety of radiation Sources: International Basic Safety Standards” (2014), the IAEA considers that the frivolous use of radiation or radioactive substances in toys and personal jewellery or adornments, which result in an increase in activity, is unjustified. The IAEA also published a specific safety guide titled “Radiation Safety for Consumer Products (2016).” The Atomic Energy (Radiation Protection) Rules, 2004 contains provisions consistent with those of the IAEA. Be aware of the facts before using consumer products containing radioactive substances or presenting them to anyone! (K.S. Parthasarathy is a former secretary of the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board, Email: ksparth@yahoo.co.uk)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/adding-radioactive-substances-in-wearables-unjustified/article38311935.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:34 IST,||Two species of fungi associated with basal stem rot found||Researchers from Kerala have identified two new species of fungi from the genus Ganoderma that are associated with coconut stem rot. They have also genotyped the two fungi species, named Ganoderma keralense and G. pseudoapplanatum and identified genetic biomarkers. The DNA barcodes have been made publicly available in DNA sequence repositories so that future studies can use it for early detection of the pathogen. The research was published in the journal Mycologia. Basal stem rot  The butt rot or basal stem rot of coconut is known by several names in different parts of India: Ganoderma wilt (Andhra Pradesh), Anaberoga (Karnataka) and Thanjavur wilt (Tamil Nadu), to mention a few.   The infection begins at the roots, but symptoms include discolouration and rotting of stem and leaves. In the later stages, flowering and nut set decreases and finally the coconut palm (Cocos nucifera) dies.  A reddish brown oozing is seen. This oozing has been reported only in India. Once infected, recovery of the plants is not likely. Not surprising then, that this causes a huge loss: By some estimates made in 2017, in India, around 12 million people are said to depend on coconut farming. Late signs  Another sign of infection is presence of shelf-like “basidiomata,” which are the fruiting or reproductive structures of the fungus, on the tree trunks. “Although microscopic, many fungi… produce macroscopic fruiting structures on the substrates where they grow [for example, Ganoderma ],” says T.K. Arun Kumar of Zamorin’s Guruvayurappan College, Kohikode, who led this research, in an email. He further explains that the basidiomata of Ganoderma bear reproductive propagules (called spores) which are dispersed through wind and sometimes with the help of insects. “That is how the pathogen spreads from one host to the other,” he adds.  Since the fungus is microscopic, it is only detected after the symptoms start manifesting or when the reproductive structures are borne, which can be too late. Lack of taxonomy  Surprisingly, before this study, the disease was commonly attributed to the genus Ganoderma and the specific species involved were not identified correctly. One reason for this could be the lack of studies focusing on taxonomy. “Plant pathologists may be very good at identifying diseases based on disease symptoms, devising strategies to prevent disease occurrence and even in developing disease resistant plants. However, there is a dearth of fungal taxonomists among plant pathologists who are able to identify fungal pathogens with accuracy,” says Dr Arun Kumar.   The two-member team collected the material for their research during the years 2015 to 2019. “There was a large-scale outbreak of the disease in Kozhikode district, Kerala, a few years back and our examination of the collected fungal specimens along with collections [over many years] from plantations throughout Kerala revealed that the identity of pathogenic species was hitherto unrecognised,” says Dr Arun Kumar. This led him and PhD student N. Vinjusha to study the specimens further, first morphologically and then through genome sequencing. The two species seemed to be new to science. “This discovery was based on morphological characters, DNA sequences of the Kerala collections and phylogenetic analyses by comparing DNA of all Ganoderma species known worldwide,” says Dr Arun Kumar. The research has revealed the identity of the pathogenic species associated with butt rot. Hence, species-specific disease prevention strategies can now be developed.  As Dr Arun Kumar says: “So far, scientists and farmers had to solely rely on the visible symptoms of the disease [which appear only at a later stage, after complete colonization], but now they can easily detect the presence of the pathogen much earlier by analysing plant extracts which can be easily obtained at any stage of growth.”  The fungus is microscopic, so is only detected after symptoms show or when reproductive structures are borne, which can be too late.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/two-species-of-fungi-associated-with-basal-stem-rot-found/article64947075.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:34 IST,||New study on antibody responses||A recent study looked at the neutralising antibody responses generated by breakthrough infections in individuals vaccinated against SARS-CoV2. The findings are published this week in C ell. A University of Washington, School of Medicine, press release said that the researchers learnt that the degree of antibody response depended on whether a person has had one, two, three, or four exposures to the spike protein through infection, vaccination, or a mixture of the two. Among their study subjects, those who had completed a three-vaccination protocol, and those who had been vaccinated after recovering from COVID-19, and those with a breakthrough infection after having been vaccinated launched almost comparable neutralising antibody responses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/new-study-on-antibody-responses/article38311936.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:33 IST,||Jumping Larvae||Can insect larvae display jump behaviour?  A team of researchers from North Carolina State University's Plant Disease and Insect Clinic has discovered a jumping behaviour that is entirely new to insect larvae, and there is evidence that it is occurring in a range of species. The previously unrecorded behaviour occurs in the larvae of a species of lined flat bark beetle (Laemophloeus biguttatus) . Specifically, the larvae are able to spring into the air, with each larva curling itself into a loop as it leaps forward.  While there are other insect species that are capable of making prodigious leaps, they rely on something called a “latch-mediated spring actuation mechanism”. This means that they essentially have two parts of their body latch onto each other while the insect exerts force, building up a significant amount of energy. The insect then unlatches the two parts, releasing all of that energy at once, allowing it to spring off the ground.  What makes the L. biguttatus so remarkable is that it makes these leaps without latching two parts of its body together. It uses claws on its legs to grip the ground while it builds up that potential energy — and once those claws release their hold on the ground, that potential energy is converted into kinetic energy, launching it skyward.   To determine how L. biguttatus was able to execute its acrobatics, the researchers filmed the jumps at speeds of up to 60,000 frames per second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/jumping-larvae/article64947080.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:33 IST,||23TH-SC-SS4-Time your exercise||An international team of researchers studied the effect of exercise performed at different times in the day. The study, published in Cell Metabolism, reveals how the body produced different health-promoting signalling molecules, in an organ-specific way, depending on the time of the exercise. Insights include how to realign ‘faulty’ circadian rhythms by adopting the right exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/23th-sc-ss4-time-your-exercise/article64947076.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:33 IST,||23TH-SC-SS2-How people ‘click’||When two people agree, and ‘click’ during a conversation, this shows in their ‘response times’ or time between when one person stops talking and the other begins, finds a study published in PNAS . The study examined response times of strangers and close friends. It also studied how listeners interpreted the quality of conversations between two others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/23th-sc-ss2-how-people-click/article64947077.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:33 IST,||23-TH-SS1-Dinosaur evolution||A new study of dinosaurs led by University of Bristol made a reconstruction of the limb muscles of a small-to-medium sized dinosaur, Thecodontosaurus, which roamed the earth 205 million years ago. The study reveals how massive, 50-tonne quadruped dinosaurs like Diplodocus evolved from this biped species.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/23-th-ss1-dinosaur-evolution/article64947078.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:33 IST,||23-TH-SC-SS3-Doomed exoplanets||NASA’s Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS) mission has spotted three huge Jupiter-like extrasolar planets that are orbiting dangerously close to their giant or sub-giant stars. One of them, TOI-2337b, is likely to get absorbed by its star in less than a million years, the shortest for any known exoplanet. The study helps in understanding the past, present and future of planets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/23-th-sc-ss3-doomed-exoplanets/article64947079.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:21 IST,||Why Siddhant Chaturvedi isn’t copying SRK||When actor Siddhant Chaturvedi began to get into the skin of Zain, the character he plays in director Shakun Batra’s Gehraiyaan , he automatically gravitated towards the stereotypes that Bollywood peddles about love. “I started by writing notes in a diary as Zain, and most of them were rejected by Shakun. That’s when I realised that having grown up on a diet of Bollywood romantic films [most of them starring Shah Rukh Khan], I was conditioned to see romance in a certain way.” As the process continued, Chaturvedi unlearned all that he knew about love and its depictions. “He [director Batra] made me see beyond all the gloss and glamour. He showed me a mirror which was so human, intimate and nuanced.”   In an interaction via Zoom just as the film’s promotions were starting, the 26-year-old said he was still looking for the right words to describe the film. “It’s a relationship drama, but unlike anything you’ve seen before. We called it domestic noir for the longest time and didn’t even have a title until much later because it’s so new and fresh.” Gehraiyaan , a Dharma Production that also stars Deepika Padukone and Ananya Pandey, is Chaturvedi’s third film. The actor had a dream debut of sorts in Zoya Akhtar’s Gully Boy (2019) as MC Sher — who helped Ranveer Singh’s Murad channel his angst and achieve his dream of a career in hip-hop. When I met Chaturvedi days after the release of that film, he was still in a daze processing all the praise that was coming his way. ‘Surreal’ was a word he used often during that conversation and almost three years later that feeling hasn’t changed for the actor, last seen in YRF’s Bunty Aur Babli 2 . “Things still feel surreal. I actually have a film releasing! I’m still very young and new, so I think this feeling will last. It is also a validation that I’m doing something right and that I am living my dreams.”  ‘Either good storiesor great scale’  Like everyone else’s life, Chaturvedi’s also had to hit pause in March 2020 on what seemed like the beginning of a dream run. It would have been natural for him to be frustrated, but he is confident in his abilities and choices. “I knew I’d be working. After this, there’s Phone Booth , Yudhra , and Kho Gaye Hum Kahan . So I was fine, but I was sad about what’s happening in the world. I just wish this [the pandemic] would get over and children can go back to school — they’ve missed three years of their lives. My brother who’s going to be turning 18 has not seen college yet; he couldn’t give his boards. I think it’s bad for one’s mental health.”   Even as he was preparing for Gehraiyaan and his other films, Chaturvedi used the last two years to “sit back and study people and watch their tastes change”. “Thankfully, I haven’t signed much and I’ll take all of this into consideration while signing the other films I’m going to do,” he says, adding, “attention spans aren’t what they used to be, so you need really good content. Now, stories and writers are the most important part because you need the audience hooked. I really need some great stories and, if not, I need big scale [like multilingual films RRR or Pushpa ]. Don’t give me something that’s mediocre.”  Of complex modern relationships  For now, though, he’s anxious to see audience reactions to Gehraiyaan , a film where “you’ll feel like you’re watching yourself at times”. Shooting schedules were delayed because of the pandemic, though Chaturvedi believes it helped the film. “I’m glad it [the shoot] didn’t happen at that time because there were so many things we came up with during the lockdown. Shakun came up with ideas about the characters and picked up those little nuances from real life, real people, and real experiences. It was a never-ending process and he was even tweaking things while dubbing. Because of the pandemic, so many things have changed. The definition of love and relationships, tastes, consumer preferences — everything is evolving and it’s all happening very quickly.”   Batra’s tweaking of the film to reflect the ‘now’ meant that the actors had to bring their A-game and own their characters. The filmmaker’s collaborative directorial process helped. “Us actors prepped for a year, doing workshops, playing games, and doing team building exercises. We would all come up with things to help each other and own our characters. Shakun made sure we were all on the same page. Apart from discussing our characters, he would ask us our opinions on the others and why someone was feeling a certain way.”  And for fun, he made sure to bring something extra to the set. “For every scene, I had my own Bollywood take. So, I’d do the scene that Shakun wanted and then do one in the Shah Rukh Khan style. Shakun shot all of those takes just for fun!” he concludes.  Gehraiyaan will premiere on Amazon Prime Video on February 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-siddhant-chaturvedi-isnt-copying-srk/article64946894.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:31 IST,||Is suspension of MLAs up for judicial review?||The story so far: Twelve BJP legislators were suspended for one year by the Maharashtra Assembly last July for alleged disorderly conduct. The unusually long period of suspension has been questioned by the Supreme Court, which is hearing a challenge to the Assembly’s action. The court has reserved its judgment after hearing elaborate arguments. The main question before the court is whether suspension for a whole year is valid.  What happened on July 5, 2021? There was a ruckus in the Assembly when the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government introduced a resolution seeking empirical data on OBCs (other backward classes) from the Union government. The House was adjourned for a few times before the resolution was passed, as BJP members rushed to the well of the House and were accused of damaging the presiding officer’s microphone and grabbing the mace. Later, Bhaskar Jadhav, a Shiv Sena MLA who was in the Chair during the incidents, said when he was in the Deputy Speaker’s chamber, some members rushed inside and abused him. A resolution moved by the Parliamentary Affairs Minister was subsequently adopted by the House suspending 12 MLAs—Dr. Sanjay Kute, Ashish Shelar, Abhimanyu Pawar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkhalkar, Harish Pimple, Jaykumar Rawal, Yogesh Sagar, Narayan Kuche, Bunty Bhangdiya, Parag Alavani and Ram Satpute. They were barred from entering thelegislative premises for 12 months. What questions has the Supreme Court raised? In the course of the hearing, a Bench, comprising Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, Justice Dinesh Maheshwari and Justice C.T. Ravikumar, questioned the rationality of suspending members beyond an ongoing session. The Bench also cited Article 190(4) of the Constitution, which stipulates that the House may declare vacant the seat of a member who is absent for 60 days without permission, to wonder whether any suspension could traverse beyond this 60-day limit. Also, the Representation of the People Act, 1951, says any vacancy in the House has to be filled up through a by-election within six months of its occurrence, the Bench pointed out, and wondered if a constituency can be unrepresented in the Assembly for a whole year in the light of this six-month limit. Further, suspension seemed to have worse consequences than outright expulsion from the legislature, as a by-election will be held within six months; whereas, a one-year suspension does not entail mandatory filling up of the vacancy. The Bench also wondered about the likely consequences of an unlimited power of suspension for democracy, as it could be misused to alter the composition of a House in which a Government has only a slender majority. What does the State government say? Counsel for the State government has argued that there is no limitation on the power of the legislature to punish for breach of privilege or disorderly conduct in the course of its proceedings. Once the power to punish a member for disorderly conduct is recognised, there can be no judicial review of the manner in which it is exercised. Under Rule 53 of the Maharashtra Assembly Rules, the Speaker could direct a Member to withdraw from the Assembly for disorderly conduct for the day, or the remainder of the Session. However, there is no such limitation when the whole House decides to impose suspension. In this context, counsel contended that when the power to expel a member is available, the power to suspend, being a lesser punishment, is also available to the House at all times. On the provision for declaring a seat vacant if the member is absent for 60 days, the Government has argued that it is the House that declares the seat vacant, and it is not a necessary consequence of a member’s absence for 60 days on which the House met. Further, during suspension, a member continues to hold office, but only loses their voice in the legislature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/is-suspension-of-mlas-up-for-judicial-review/article64947085.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:14 IST,||CGST busts fake input tax credit racket in Bhiwandi||The officers of Bhiwandi Commissionerate of CGST Mumbai Zone have unearthed an Input Tax Credit (ITC) racket of more than 25 fake entities which did bogus billing of more than Rs. 63 crore, defrauding the government of Rs. 11.4 crore. A businessman based in Bhiwandi has been arrested. Acting on information from the Central Intelligence Unit of Mumbai CGST Zone, the officers initiated action at different locations in Thane, Bhiwandi, Raigad and Mumbai which led to detection of GST evasion of Rs. 11.4 crores through generation and passing of fake ITC through an intricate web of bogus billing. A search was conducted at the Bhiwandi-based business premises of M/s. Adarsh Scrap Traders along with 24 other fake entities created for the sole purpose of bogus bill generation. Initial investigation revealed that the firm had fraudulently claimed and passed on ITC worth Rs. 11.4 crore without actual supply or receipt of goods. Fake ITC may go up According to Sumit Kumar, Commissioner, CGST, Bhiwandi, the proprietor of the firm, confessed to the bogus billing and fake ITC racket. “He was arrested on January 21 under Section 69 of CGST Act, 2017, and produced before the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Fort, Mumbai on Saturday. He has been remanded to 14 days judicial custody,” said Mr. Kumar. The amount of fake ITC involved is likely to go up during the ongoing investigation, Mr. Kumar added. “The roots of this network are spread across Nagpur, Pune, Delhi and Nasik, besides Mumbai and Thane. At this stage, it seems that around 25 entities are part of this network. The respective commissionerates are being informed to initiate legal action against the firms falling in their jurisdiction,” he said. This is the sixth arrest by Bhiwandi Commissionerate in the last six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cgst-busts-fake-input-tax-credit-racket-in-bhiwandi/article38312000.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 03:31 IST,||Cadre rules plan||The story so far: The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) sent a communication to all States on January 12 seeking their opinion on the proposal to amend Rule 6 (deputation of cadre officers) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules 1954. Similar letters were also sent proposing changes in cadre rules of the other two All India Services (AIS): the Indian Police Service (IPS) and the Indian Forest Service (IFoS). Through the amendments, the Union government plans to acquire powers to depute IAS/IPS and IFoS officers to the Central Government and Ministries without necessarily taking the State government’s nod. After the All India Services Act, 1951 came into existence, the IAS cadre rules were framed in 1954.  What are the changes proposed? Four amendments including two new insertions are proposed. First, the States should make available the names of such officers, part of a central deputation reserve (CDR), who can be deputed to the Centre. “The actual number of officers to be deputed to the Central government shall be decided by the Central government in consultation with the State government concerned,” the proposed amendment says. The CDR cannot be more than 40% of the actual strength at any point. According to existing norms, States have to depute AIS officers to the Union government offices. The second change is in case of any disagreement between the Centre and the State, the matter shall be decided by the Central government and the State shall give effect to the decision of the Centre “within a specified time.” The “specified time” clause is a new insertion. The third and one of the major changes proposed is if the State government delays posting a State cadre officer to the Centre and does not give effect to the Central government’s decision within the specified time, “the officer shall stand relieved from cadre from the date as may be specified by the Central government.” Presently, officers have to get a no-objection clearance from the State government. The fourth change is that in a specific situation where services of cadre officers are required by the Central government in “public interest” the State shall give effect to its decisions, within a specified time. What triggered the move? In its January 12 letter, DoPT said in spite of existing provisions, States are not sponsoring adequate numbers of officers for Central deputation and the available officers are not sufficient to meet requirements. The letter was preceded by similar communications sent on December 20, December 27 and January 6 where DoPT sought comments from the States. Half-a-dozen States opposed the move and the rest did not respond; it revised the proposal and States have been given time till January 25 to reply. In 2021 and 2020, DoPT sent letters cautioning States that not sending enough officers may affect the future cadre review proposals and that it was unable to fill vacancies at director and joint secretary levels in various Central ministries. Is the problem acute? According to 2021 data, of the total 6,709 IAS officers in the country, 445 were posted with the Union —only 6.6%. In 2014, of the 4,605 officers, 651 were posted with the Union (14 %). In 2021, only 10% mid-level IAS officers (deputy secretary/director, 9-14 years experience) were posted with the Centre in 2021, a sharp fall from 19% in 2014, even though the total pool of such officers at this rank expanded from 621 in 2014 to 1130 in 2021, an increase of around 80%. Why are States opposed to the changes? West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has written two letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying it was against the “spirit of cooperative federalism”. The Chief Ministers of Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Jharkhand— Bhupesh Baghel, Ashok Gehlot and Hemant Soren have also written to Mr. Modi. Before any AIS officer is called for Central deputation, his or her concurrence is required. The Establishment Officer in DoPT invites nominations from State governments. Once the nomination is received, their eligibility is scrutinised by a panel and then an offer list is prepared, usually done with the State government on board. Central ministries and offices can then choose from the list of officers on offer. AIS officers are recruited by the Union and they are lent to States. The publication of the offer list on DoPT’s website was discontinued by the Government in 2018 amid reports that not many State government officers were willing to move to the Centre.  In its January 12 letter, DoPT said in spite of existing provisions, States are not sponsoring adequate numbers of officers for Central deputation and the available officers are not sufficient to meet requirements||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cadre-rules-plan/article64947084.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:14 IST,||AIMIM MP opposes Maharana Pratap’s statue||AIMIM MP Imtiaz Jaleel has opposed a planned statue of Maharana Pratap in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad city, saying the money should be rather spent on a military school in the Rajput king’s name. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation has decided to erect a statue of Rana Pratap in Connaught area here. Mr. Jaleel, local MP and State All India Majalis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen president, said in a letter to District Guardian Minister Subhash Desai that Maharana Pratap’s name is immortal in history due to his valour. But nothing would be gained by erecting his statue by spending Rs. 90 lakh, and the real tribute would be to set up a Sainik School in his name where the youth from rural areas can avail of military training, he said. ‘Pride of Hindutva’ Local Shiv Sena leader and Member of Legislative Council Ambadas Danve, however, criticised Mr. Jaleel for his stand. Maharana Pratap is a ‘pride of Hindutva’, he tweeted, adding that the AIMIM MP “may not get inspiration for good work from statues, but we get that.” Mr. Danve said Mr. Jaleel should get a Sainik School built through a Central government scheme and also ensure that the Kendriya Vidyalaya in the district is expanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aimim-mp-opposes-maharana-prataps-statue/article38311994.ece
23 January 2022||January 23 2022 05:14 IST,||83-year-old man gets 5 years’ RI for molestation||A special court in Maharashtra’s Thane district has sentenced an 83-year-old man to five years’ of rigorous imprisonment for allegedly molesting a nine-year-old girl. Special Judge K.D. Shirbhate convicted the accused of offences under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The Judge sentenced the accused to five years’ of RI and fined him Rs. 5,000. Special public prosecutor Vivek Kadu informed the court that on October 12, 2018, the victim was exiting her school when the accused came and touched her inappropriately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/83-year-old-man-gets-5-years-ri-for-molestation/article38311992.ece
