24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:07 IST,||Omicron in community transmission: INSACOG||Omicron is now in community transmission in India and has become dominant in multiple metros, where new cases have been rising exponentially, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) said in its latest bulletin on Sunday. INSACOG — jointly initiated by the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry, the Department of Biotechnology and others — is a consortium of 38 laboratories monitoring the genomic variations in SARS-CoV-2, the novel coronavirus causing COVID-19. The two-page bulletin, dated January 10 and released on Sunday, says while most Omicron cases so far had been asymptomatic or mild, hospitalisations and ICU cases had been increasing in the current wave. The threat level remained unchanged. The recently reported new SARS-CoV-2 variant — B.1.640.2 — lineage was being monitored, it added and said there was no evidence of rapid spread and while it had features of immune escape, it was currently not a variant of concern. “So far, no case detected in India,” the bulletin said. BA.2 lineage, it added, was a substantial fraction in India and S-gene dropout-based screening was thus likely to give high false negatives. Tests suitable for PCR-based screening applicable to all Omicron lineages had been approved. S-gene drop-out was a genetic variation like that of Omicron.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-in-community-transmission-insacog/article64946341.ece
24 January 2022||NEW DELHi,||German Navy chief quits over remarks at Delhi event||Following an unprecedented controversy in Germany and a diplomatic incident with Ukraine, German Navy chief Vice-Admiral Kay-Achim Schönbach tended his resignation on Saturday over his comments in New Delhi that Ukraine can never get back Crimea and Russian President Vladimir Putin “probably” deserved respect. “I have asked Defence Minister Christine Lambrecht to relieve me from my duties with immediate effect,” Vice-Admiral Schönbach said in a statement according to Reuters. “The Minister has accepted my request,” he said. Speaking at an interactive session at the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (MP-IDSA) on Friday during his visit to India, which coincided with the port call by German frigate Bayern at Mumbai, the German Navy chief said the Crimean peninsula, which was annexed by Russia was “gone” and “not coming back”. He also questioned if Russia really wanted to attack Ukraine. “Does Russia really want a small and tiny strip of Ukraine soil to integrate into their country? Putin is probably putting pressure because he can do it and he splits EU opinion. What he really wants is respect.” Further he stated: “He (Putin) wants high-level respect and my God, giving some respect is low cost, even no cost. If I was asked, it is easy to give him the respect he really demands and probably also deserves. Russia is an old country, Russia is an important country. Even we India, Germany, need Russia. we need Russia against China…” Earlier in the day, Ukraine’s Foreign Ministry said it summoned German Ambassador Anka Feldhusen in Kiev to stress “the categorical unacceptability” of his comments. German Ministry of Defence in Berlin also distanced itself from his comments. The German Defence Ministry stated that navy chief’s statement in “no way correspond to the position of the [German government] in terms of content and choice of words.” He was also given the opportunity to make a statement to the Inspector General of the German military, according to Germany’s Bild newspaper. Later, Vice Adm Schönbach backtracked from his comments in a post on Twitter, saying “it was clearly a mistake.” “My defence policy remarks during a talk session at a think tank in India reflected my personal opinion in that moment. They in no way reflect the official position of the defence ministry,” he said in another tweet. Vice Adm Schönbach also apologised for his comments, Reuters said, “My rash remarks in India... are increasingly putting a strain on my office… I consider this step (the resignation) necessary to avert further damage to the German navy, the German forces, and, in particular, the Federal Republic of Germany.” Disappointing: Ukraine Raising the issue on social media, Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said that Ukraine is grateful to Germany for the support it has already provided since 2014, as well as for the diplomatic efforts to resolve the Russian-Ukrainian armed conflict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/german-navy-chief-quits-over-remarks-at-delhi-event/article38316362.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:10 IST,||Elephant corridors to be restored in south Bengal||The fragmented and patchy forests of south Bengal have emerged as one of the hotspots of human-elephant conflict in the country, resulting in loss of lives of both humans and pachyderms. At times, the conflict results in law and order problems. In November 2021, a herd of 50 elephants came within 5 km of east Burdwan town, prompting the district administration to impose prohibitory orders in several gram panchayats in the region. Between 2014 and 2019, as many as 2,381 human deaths were recorded in elephant attacks across the country, of which 403 (over 16%) were reported from West Bengal. The State, however, is home to less than 3% of the elephant population and records a high death count of pachyderms in conflicts. Minimising elephant-human conflict is the pressing need of the region and wildlife organisations and experts have now taken up the task of undertaking ecological restoration of elephant corridors in south Bengal. ‘Degradation of forests’ “The degradation started not just with increased agricultural activities in the region but also participatory joint forest management such as community forestry, which changed the very nature of the forest to make it commercially viable, not considering the biodiversity of the region,” said Diya Banerjee, an ecologist from Uttarayan Wildlife, who is leading the five-year restoration project. The project is also aimed at creating a balanced ecosystem so that humans and animals can coexist in consonance with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. Abhishek Ghosh, who is associated with the project, said there are 180 to 200 elephants in the region, but due to fragmentation of forests these herds are no longer following traditional migration. “This is the reason that sometimes we see elephants entering towns in Burdwan and Bankura and Medinpur,” Mr. Ghosh said. The project’s objective includes convincing farmers to shift from paddy cultivation to other crops that are not fodder for elephants. “The whole methodology would be in an agro-forestry mode to not just rewild but also take care of participatory stakeholders for a win-win situation. Weaning them away from paddy to more enriched cash crops while fruit plants and forest plants grow,” Atin Chatterjee, an environmentalist, said.  Ms. Banerjee said the challenge for the south Bengal situation is that the entire landscape has become so fragmented that for a small herd of elephants there is hardly any space in the forest and therefore the situation requires utmost attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/elephant-corridors-to-be-restored-in-south-bengal/article64946512.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:07 IST,||3.05 lakh cases on Sunday||The country recorded 3,05,220 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, a 18% increase compared to a week ago. The total number of infections has reached 3.92 crore, and the active cases have crossed the 21.9 lakh mark. Karnataka recorded 50,210 infections on Sunday, followed by Kerala (45,449) and Maharashtra (40,805). On Sunday, 430 deaths were recorded in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/305-lakh-cases-on-sunday/article38316366.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:07 IST,||In the spotlight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-the-spotlight/article64946342.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:54 IST,||Man with Rs. 1.48 crore in cash, jewels arrested||Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel attached to Mangaluru Junction Railway Station on Sunday detained a man travelling with Rs. 1.48 crore in cash and 800 grams of gold ornaments without any valid records on the Mumbai LTT-Ernakulam Duronto Express. The RPF personnel later handed over the man, identified as Mahendra Singh Rao (33), a native of Udaipur district in Rajasthan, to the Government Railway Police (GRP), Mangaluru Central, along with the seized material. The GRP have arrested the man after booking cases under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and Karnataka Police Act. RPF personnel, who were conducting a preventive check on the Duronto Express (Train No 12223) that arrivedat 10.20 a.m.at the Junction, examined the luggage of the man, who was occupying Berth 35 on S4 coach, and found currency bundles wrapped in old newspapers. The accused was taken to the RPF Post where he informed the personnel that he was working for Shubh Gold, owned by Praveen Singh, in Kozhikode of Kerala. A man known to his owner handed him six packs of currency notes and three packets of jewellery at Mumbai to be given to the owner, he told them. The seized currency notes in Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 500 denomination accounted for Rs. 1,48,58,000, while the gold ornaments weighed around 800 grams, worth Rs. 40 lakh, the RPF said in a communique. The operation, under the supervision of RPF Inspector Manoj, was conducted by personnel K. Chithraraj, Satheesh Balaji, K.P. Sanjeev Kumar and K. Shajith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-with-rs-148-crore-in-cash-jewels-arrested/article38316732.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:07 IST,||Boy from Arunachal found: PLA||The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China has told the Indian Army it has found a “missing” boy believed to be from Arunachal Pradesh. A senior Army officer said on Sunday the Chinese soldiers did not specify where they found the boy. But it has been presumed that he is 17-year-old Miram Taron who was allegedly abducted on January 18 by PLA soldiers from near the Line of Actual Control in Upper Siang district. “Only one person from Arunachal Pradesh is missing from that sector along the LAC. So, we believe it is the teenager,” the officer said, confirming that the PLA had informed the Indian Army about finding the missing boy. Opang Taron, the boy’s father, said Miram would be received by the entire village, Zido, when brought home. He added that his wife had gone into shock since their son was “taken away” by the PLA. Miram and his friend Jhonny Yaying had ventured into a forest close to the LAC to hunt and collect herbs and were apprehended by the Chinese soldiers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/boy-from-arunachal-found-pla/article38316363.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:07 IST,||Govt. staff to serve strike notice today||The Pay Revision Commission (PRC) Sadhana Samiti steering committee will serve a strike notice to the Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma on Monday. The committee members are slated to meet the Chief Secretary around 3 p.m. Government employees have resolved to go on strike from February 7. On the other hand, the Committee of Ministers which was appointed to persuade the employees’ associations to accept what had been recommended by the PRC, invited them for talks in the Secretariat at noon on Monday. Apolitical fight The employees’ associations have decided to keep the political parties at bay and have an apolitical struggle. The committee has decided to send a leader from each Joint Action Committee (JAC) to each district to lead the fight against the injustice allegedly meted out to them. The employees’ allegation is that the government reduced their salaries and benefits through deceptive means and that, basically, the mechanism adopted by the PRC to arrive at the revised pay scales has been kept a closely guarded secret. MLC K.S. Lakshman Rao extended support to the employees. Calling it “pay reversal”, the Andhra Pradesh State employees on January 18 rejected outright the government orders on the pay revision and demanded that they be withdrawn forthwith as they were “fully detrimental” to their interests. The employees will organise agitations in different modes before moving into an indefinite strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-govt-employees-to-serve-strike-notice-today/article38316182.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:37 IST,||Vigil up in Bhadrachalam Agency||Tension escalated in the interior villages of Charla mandal as the police intensified vigil in border areas to thwart alleged attempts by Maoists to orchestrate protests against the proposed new police base camps along the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border. The intensified vigil comes in the wake of the ongoing relay protests by several villagers of Pujari Kanker gram panchayat in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district against a new police base camp allegedly proposed to be set up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vigil-up-in-bhadrachalam-agency/article38316612.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:34 IST,||State reports more than 50K cases, 19 deaths||The number of new COVID-19 cases in Karnataka crossed the half-lakh mark on Sunday. The State reported 50,210 new positives, more than the peak of the second wave of the pandemic in 2021. On May 5 last year, cases had peaked at 50,112, following which the number started to decline. However, hospitalisations and the case fatality rate are much lower during this third wave. The total number of positives stands at 35,17,682. Nineteen people succumbed to the virus, eight from Bengaluru Urban, which reported 26,299 new positives. Shivamogga and Tumakuru reported two deaths each. With this, the death toll rose to 38,582. As per the health bulletin, one of the deceased was a three-year-old girl from Mysuru, who had SARI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-more-than-50k-cases/article38316397.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:13 IST,||Row erupts over third peetha||Attempts by some people to create a third peetha in Jamkhandi, a religious centre for the State’s Panchamsali Lingayats, seem to have ruffled some feathers among the community. The two current peethas are in Kudalasangama and Harihar. Sri Basava Jayamrutyunjaya Swami, seer of the Panchamasali Peetha at Kudalasangama, has accused Minister Murugesh Nirani of trying to divide the community, to achieve his personal political ambitions. Mr. Nirani dreams of becoming the Chief Minister. That is why he is dividing the community by creating the third peetha, the seer said recently. The seer also threatened to lead a movement if Mr. Nirani went ahead with establishing it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/row-erupts-over-third-peetha/article38316596.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:08 IST,||Punjab Police books Sidhu aide Mustafa||The Punjab Police has booked Mohammad Mustafa, the principal strategic adviser of State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, for allegedly promoting enmity between different groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-police-books-sidhu-aide-mustafa/article38316499.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:09 IST,||Assam ex-student leader injured in police firing||A former student leader, alleged by law enforcers to be a drug peddler, was injured in police firing in Assam’s Nagaon district, leading to the Opposition calling it an effect of the prevailing “jungle raj” and saying the present situation is worse than that during the “secret killings” of the 1990s. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has ordered a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-ex-student-leader-injured-in-police-firing/article38316684.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:09 IST,||Punjab Police books Sidhu aide Mustafa||The Punjab Police has booked Mohammad Mustafa, the principal strategic adviser of State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, for allegedly promoting enmity between different groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-police-books-sidhu-aide-mustafa/article38316685.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:34 IST,||Transport operator goes missing||The search for Prakash, a resident of Sagar and owner of Prakash Transports, will resume on Monday at Pataguppe Bridge constructed across Sharavathi river in Hosanagar taluk. He has been missing since Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/transport-operator-goes-missing/article38316752.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:13 IST,||Buzz after BJP leaders meet at Katti residence||A meeting of various BJP leaders in Belagavi district, held without the Jarkiholi brothers, has created a sort of interest in political circles across the State. It is believed that most leaders who spoke at the meeting focused on seeking additional berths in the coming Cabinet expansion and about the need to keep the growing clout of the Jarkiholis in check. The leaders met at the North Belagavi home of Forest Minister Umesh Katti near Sri Nagar Public Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/buzz-after-bjp-leaders-meet-at-katti-residence/article38316595.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:09 IST,||Badal demands release of 1993 blast convict||Former Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal on Sunday sought immediate release of 1993 Delhi bomb blast convict Davinderpal Singh Bhullar in the “larger interest of consolidating peace and communal harmony” in Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/badal-demands-release-of-1993-blast-convict/article64946513.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:54 IST,||VHP supports call for tableau procession||Extending support to a call by senior Congress leader B. Janardhana Poojary, the VHP said here on Sunday that parishad activists will take part in the social reformer Narayana Guru’s tableau procession on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vhp-supports-call-for-tableau-procession/article38316728.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:54 IST,||Budget plans for coastal region only on paper||With the State Government preparing to present its Budget for 2022-23 after a month, many proposals announced for the coastal region by the then Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa in the 2021-22 Budget, except the plastic park in Mangaluru, remains on paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/budget-plans-for-coastal-region-only-on-paper/article38316729.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:34 IST,||Mysuru reports 4,359 new COVID-19 cases||Mysuru district continued to report over 4,000 positive cases of COVID-19 for the second successive day on Sunday. A day after reporting a record high of 4,601 positive cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, Mysuru district reported 4,359 on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysuru-reports-4359-new-covid-19-cases/article38316753.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:34 IST,||‘Rehabilitation of tribals in Mysuru being delayed’||NGOs spearheading the cause of forest-dwelling tribals living in and around Mysuru district have urged the State Government to take measures for the rehabilitation of 3,418 tribal families failing which they have threatened to approach the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rehabilitation-of-tribals-in-mysuru-being-delayed/article64946471.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:09 IST,||ED will arrest Delhi Minister, says Kejriwal||Ahead of the Assembly poll in Punjab, the Central government is putting pressure on the Enforcement Directorate to arrest Delhi Cabinet Minister Satyendar Jain, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-will-arrest-delhi-minister-says-kejriwal/article64946588.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:08 IST,||27-year-old arrested in JNU molestation bid case||Days after a PhD student faced a molestation bid inside JNU campus on January 17 night, the Delhi police have arrested a 27-year-old man in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/27-year-old-arrested-in-jnu-molestation-bid-case/article38316498.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:13 IST,||‘Amendment meant to safeguard land mafia’||Training his guns at influential politicians and real estate giants who, according to him, have grabbed large tracts of land through illegal means, social activist and leader of Janandolanagala Mahamaitri, a large conglomerate of different organisations, S.R. Hiremath has said that the amendments to Karnataka Land Reforms Act 1961 are essentially meant for protecting the interests of the land maifa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amendment-meant-to-safeguard-land-mafia/article64946501.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||Mayawati takes a dig at Priyanka over CM face||Taking a dig at Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Sunday said the Congress was in such a bad shape for the upcoming Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh that its “chief ministerial candidate” changed her stand within hours. It would be better if people did not “spoil their vote” by voting for the Congress, she said, adding that they should vote for the BSP. “In Uttar Pradesh, parties such as the Congress are viewed as vote-cutters [dividers] by the people,” Ms. Mayawati said. The former Chief Minister’s attack on Ms. Vadra came a day after the Congress leader clarified that she had not said that she was the chief ministerial face of the party. On Friday, Ms. Vadra pitched herself as the face of the Congress campaign but did not reveal if it meant contesting election or projecting herself as a contender for the Chief Minister’s post. “Do you see any other face from the Congress party? You are seeing my face everywhere,” Ms. Vadra had responded on being asked by presspersons on who would be the party’s chief ministerial candidate. On Saturday, however, Ms. Vadra clarified to a news agency that she did not mean that she was the CM face of the Congress in Uttar Pradesh and had made the earlier remark in “irritation” as presspersons were asking her the same question repeatedly. While warning voters against the Congress, Ms. Mayawati said the BSP was best placed to overthrow the BJP in Uttar Pradesh. The BSP chief said the State needed a government that cared for the entire society and had a “tried and tested” leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mayawati-takes-a-dig-at-priyanka-over-cm-face/article64946322.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:07 IST,||Many freedom fighters recognised now: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday unveiled a hologram of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at India Gate, where a grand statue of the freedom fighter would be placed soon. Marking Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary, the hologram was installed under the canopy where a statue of King George V had stood till its removal in 1968. The Amar Jawan Jyoti, or eternal flame in the memory of those killed in the line of duty in the 1971 war, had flickered in front of the empty canopy till last week. While government officials claimed the flame had been merged with the one at the National War Memorial nearby and not extinguished, the Amar Jawan Jyoti was removed from the site on January 21. The statue, in black granite, would be made by a team of artists headed by National Gallery of Modern Art, Delhi director-general Adwaita Gadnayak, a Culture Ministry official said. Till the statue was completed, the hologram would be switched on at sunset every day, the official said. Mr. Modi said the freedom struggle had involved the sacrifice of lakhs of people, but after Independence there was an attempt to erase their contribution. Today, he said, the country was taking steps to correct those mistakes. He cited his government’s decisions, including observing Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas in honour of tribal freedom fighter Bhagwan Birsa Munda, constructing the Statue of Unity in honour of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and naming an island in the Andamans after Netaji, as steps in that direction. Mr. Modi said Netaji had stated that there was no power in the world that could shake India. “Today we have a goal to fulfil the dreams of Independent India. We have the goal of building a new India before the 100th year of Independence,” he said. He called upon people to take inspiration from Netaji’s “can-do” and “will-do spirit”. Mr. Modi also conferred the Subhas Chandra Bose Aapda Prabhandhan Puraskar, or awards for disaster management, for 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 on individuals and institutes for their work in the field of disaster management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/many-freedom-fighters-recognised-now-pm/article64946332.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,||18% increase in cases from a week ago||The country recorded 3,05,220 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, an 18% increase from a week ago. The total number of infections has reached 3.92 crore, and the active cases have crossed the 21.9 lakh mark. The figures are based on the State bulletins released until 10 p.m. on Sunday. However, Ladakh, Tripura, Jharkhand and Lakshadweep had not yet released their data for the day. Karnataka recorded 50,210 infections on Sunday, followed by Kerala (45,449) and Maharashtra (40,805). On Sunday, 430 deaths were recorded in India, considerably higher than the average levels recorded in the last week. The total number of recorded fatalities has reached 4,89,473. Kerala reported the most deaths with 77 fatalities (39 were from a backlog), followed by Maharashtra (44), and Tamil Nadu recorded 40 deaths. On Saturday, 18.75 lakh tests were conducted(the results for which were made available on Sunday). The test positivity rate (TPR; the number of cases detected per 100 tests) was 16.2%. As of Sunday, 91.3% of the eligible population has been vaccinated with at least one dose, while 67.2% have received both doses. In the 15-17 years age cohort, 56.6% of the population have received their first dose. Altogether, 92,99,71,622 first doses, 68,44,36,700 second doses, and 78,02,602 booster doses have been administered across India. Telangana recorded 3,603 positive cases and one death on Sunday. The number of tests conducted stood at 93,397. A.P.’s highest TPR Andhra Pradesh reported four more deaths due to COVID-19 and 14,440 fresh cases of infection in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. It was the highest single-day tally in the past 241 days (since May 28, 2021). At 30.95%, the daily TPR rate of the 46,650 samples tested in the past day was the highest ever reported in the State. The cumulative tally increased to 21,80,634 and the toll reached 14,542. The active cases increased to 83,610 and the number of recoveries also increased to 20,82,482, including 3,969 recoveries in the past day. The recovery rate further came down to 95.50%. East Godavari, Guntur, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts reported one death each in the past day. Visakhapatnam has again reported over 2,000 fresh cases (at 2,258 cases). This was followed by Anantapur (1,534), Guntur (1,458), Prakasam (1,399), Kurnool (1,238), Chittoor (1,198), Nellore (1,103), East Godavari (1,012), Srikakulam (921), Kadapa (788) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/18-increase-in-cases-from-a-week-ago/article64946315.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||Petition on conjugal rights pending for months in SC||A petition questioning a law that forces a woman to return to her husband and denies her sexual autonomy has been pending in the Supreme Court for months without a hearing. Restitution of conjugal rights, considered a medieval ecclesiastical law from England codified in several statutes, including the Hindu Marriage Act and Special Marriage Act, owes its survival largely to the fact that marital rape is not recognised as crime.  The petition, titled Ojaswa Pathak versus Union of India , was last heard on July 8, 2021. Justice Rohinton Nariman, who had led the Bench, has since retired.  The furious debate to criminalise marital rape compels a thought on how restitution of conjugal rights, though gender-neutral, places an additional burden on women by forcing her to stay with her husband and threatens their bodily autonomy, privacy and individual dignity. If a woman does not comply to return to her husband, the court could even attach her property. Provisions of restitution of conjugal rights empower a husband or a wife to move the local district court, complaining that the other partner has “withdrawn” from the marriage without a “reasonable cause”. The provisions violate a woman’s freedoms of association, to reside anywhere in the country and practice a profession. That is, if a woman stays away from her husband for her job, would it mean that she has “withdrawn” from the marriage. Besides, “reasonable cause” is subjective. The courts have dealt with conjugal rights in a chequered manner.  The Punjab and Haryana High Court in Tirath Kaur case, held that “a wife’s first duty to her husband is to submit herself obediently to his authority and to remain under his roof and protection”.   The Supreme Court, in Saroja Rani case, held that the “right of the husband or wife to one another’s society is inherent in the very institution of marriage”.  New lease The fight against marital rape and restitution of conjugal rights has gained a new lease of life with the Supreme Court’s nine-judge Bench upholding privacy as a “constitutionally protected right”.  The top court, in its recent Joseph Shine judgment, concluded that the State cannot interfere in a person’s private affairs and “privacy is an inalienable right, closely associated with the innate dignity of an individual, and the right to autonomy and self- determination to take decisions”. The time is ripe for the top court to pick up from where it left off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petition-on-conjugal-rights-pending-for-months-in-sc/article64946329.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||‘Marginalised communities are with BJP’||Uttar Pradesh Power Minister and the BJP candidate from Mathura,Shrikant Sharma, shares his thoughts on the Assembly election, power tariffs and other issues. Excerpts: The Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal have tied up in western Uttar Pradesh where you are contesting on BJP ticket. How do you view this challenge, especially in view of the resentment among farmers with regard to the farm laws movement? Our most potent answer to all challenges remains our leadership — that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath — and the work that we have done as a government. The BJP fights on its leadership at the top, the workers who support us at all levels and the work that we do. Whatever the equations that are being sought to be fixed, our ideology, our commitment to that ideology, our leadership and cadre will prevail. Many BJP supporters feel that if Prime Minister Modi had to anyway withdraw the three contentious farm laws, he could have done it earlier rather than wait for a year. Prime Minister Modi had brought in the three laws to benefit farmers, but as he himself said, some farmers could not be persuaded. You are Power Minister in the Yogi Adityanath government, and there have been complaints, especially in western Uttar Pradesh, that power tariffs are high for farmers, compared with Haryana and in Punjab. In the past four years, we have not increased power tariffs by a single rupee, and unlike the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) government, we are providing power to all districts, not the chosen four districts that the SP used to. Under the SP, power tariffs were increased 61%, power was only provided for 18,000 tube wells, whereas under the BJP government we provide power to 50,000 tube wells per year. We have separated the domestic and agricultural grid in rural areas, and have cut tariffs for farmers by 50%. In Haryana and Punjab, power distribution companies are not in the red, unlike what we got in Uttar Pradesh, but we have given the maximum relief that we could . A major problem in Uttar Pradesh is said to be stray cattle that destroy crops as the government has battened down on sale of cattle.  It was our promise that unlicensed abattoirs would be shut down, and we have shut them down. For stray cattle, the local administration has been empowered to build goshalas for keeping them, and that is the policy in place.  Lately, we have seen an exodus of BJP leaders, especially of the non-Yadav OBC communities, towards the SP. How is the BJP going to deal with this? Let me assure you that the swathes of people who supported the BJP in the 2014 Lok Sabha poll, the 2017 Assembly poll and the 2019 Lok Sabha poll are still very much with the BJP. These MLAs may have shifted allegiance, but marginalised communities that supported the BJP are still with us.  Our ideology, our commitment to that ideology, our leadership and cadre will prevail||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/marginalised-communities-are-with-bjp/article64946325.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,||Gujarat’s deep-sea pipeline scheme remains non-starter||Billed as an innovative solution to the perennial problem of river pollution in Gujarat, the State government’s ambitious Rs. 2,300-crore sub-sea effluent disposal pipeline project remains a non-starter even as the pollution in the rivers has gone beyond critical level due to increasing industrialisation. The State government, after floating the tender in 2020, has not moved on the project and is now apparently considering re-working it. In 2020, the government, after the delay of several years, came out with a mega plan to lay the pipeline network to carry industrial effluents directly into the deep sea to save the Sabarmati, Mahisagar, Vishwamitra and Bhadar, which have become critically polluted due to unbated discharge of industrial effluents into them. The industries had welcomed the government’s initiative to build a 300-km effluent discharge infrastructure on a public private partnership (PPP) basis. Of the cost of Rs. 2,275 crore, the government contribution was around Rs. 1,660 crore while industries had committed Rs. 615 crore as their share. In Ahmedabad, the Sabarmati river remains perennially polluted because more than 1,500 industrial units, mostly textiles and dyes, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, located in Ahmedabad city and outskirts dump their effluents, often untreated, directly into the river killing its ecosystem. Similarly, industries in Vadodara dump their effluents into the Mahisagar and Vishwamitra and the textiles hub Jetpur in Rajkot district into Bhadar, Saurashtra region’s main river. Under the project, treated effluent from 11 common effluent treatment plants (CETP) of Ahmedabad and one each from Kheda, Vadodara and Jetpur will be discharged into sea through pipelines that would be laid several kilometres in sub-sea. Accordingly, three pipeline routes were finalised: from Ahmedabad to the Gulf of Cambay of 350 million litre a day (MLD) capacity at Rs. 1,480 crore, Jetpur to Porbandar of 80 MLD capacity at Rs. 665 crore and Vadodara to the Gulf of Cambay of 60 MLD capacity at Rs. 130 crore. The government had said it would be beneficial for nearly 4,500 industrial units in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Kheda and Rajkot.  However, the State government has recently informed the High Court, which is hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) plea about pollution in the Sabarmati river, that it is “reworking the deep-sea pipeline project after the High Court bench sought to know the status of the project”.  Stumbling blocks According to sources, the project has run into several stumbling blocks. The local fishermen have objected to the Jetpur-Porbandar pipeline on the ground that the effluents would pollute the sea and kill fishes and marine ecology that would affect their livelihood. “We have strongly objected to any such move to pollute the sea and kill our livelihood,” said Jivan Jungi, a fisherman and activist in Porbandar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarats-deep-sea-pipeline-scheme-remains-non-starter/article64946313.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||Punjab Lok Congress releases first list of 22 candidates||The Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) led by former Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.) on Sunday announced the candidates from 22 constituencies for the February 20 Assembly election. The PLC is fighting the election from 37 of the 117 seats as part of its alliance with the BJP and the SAD (Sanyukt). Of the 37 seats in the PLC kitty, 26 are from the Malwa region. The PLC’s share in the seat allocation for the Majha region stands at seven, while the Doaba region accounts for four seats. Releasing the first list, Capt. Amarinder said all the candidates had strong political credentials and were well-known faces in their respective constituencies. The former Chief Minister would be contesting from his home constituency of Patiala Urban. There are eight other Jat Sikhs in the first list. Four of the candidates belong to the Scheduled Castes (SC) and three to the Other Backward Classes (OBC), while five are Hindus. Lone woman candidate There is one woman in the first list. Farzana Alam Khan, a former Shiromani Akali Dal MLA, will contest from Malerkotla in the Malwa region. Another key candidate from the Malwa region is Mayor of MC Patiala Sanjeev Sharma who will contest from Patiala Rural.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-lok-congress-releases-first-list-of-22-candidates/article64946319.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:07 IST,||Archaeologist and epigraphist Nagaswamy passes away at 92||R. Nagaswamy, the first Director of the Department of Archaeology, died of age-related complications on Sunday. He was 92, and is survived by two daughters and two sons.  An authority in archaeology, architecture, epigraphy, numismatics, iconography, south Indian bronzes and temple rituals, Nagaswamy favoured the idea of closing temples in Tamil Nadu during the COVID-19 pandemic. He would say that ahamic principles allowed such closure during mahamari (epidemic), fire, earthquake and invasion. “Invoke the God in a tharpai [tarpaulin] and worship in a private place,” he said.   Nagaswamy was born at Kodumudi in Erode district, an abode of Lord Siva sung by Saivate saints. But he would take pride in saying, “ K.P. Sundaramabalukkum enga ooruthan [It is also the birthplace of actor and singer K.P. Sundarambal].”  He had deep knowledge of Tamil and Sanskrit. He obtained his MA in Sanskrit from the University of Madras. He was awarded a Ph.D. in Indian arts by Pune University. After serving the Department of Archaeology in various capacities, he became its Director in 1966 and held the post till his retirement in 1988.  Nagaswamy, whose name was synonymous with archaeology, was always available for his views on South Indian history, its temples, ahamas , Chola bronzes and the shastras of Bharatanatyam. He penned a book, Masterpieces of Early South Indian Bronzes , in 1983 and compiled a coffee-table book for the Tamil Nadu government to mark the World Classical Tamil Conference. His other important books are on Mamallapuram, published by the Oxford University Press, Uthiramerur and Gangaikondacholapuram. He had also published books in Tamil.   According to his website tamilartsacademy.com , Nagaswamy was instrumental in protecting several historical monuments, including the Chera inscriptions at Pugalur, the palace site of Gangaikondacholapuram, the famous 17th century Thirumalai Nayak Palace in Madurai, the Danish Port at Tranquebar and the birthplace of national poet Subramania Bharati in Ettayapuram. He oversaw excavations at the palace site of Veerapandiya Kattabomman at Panchalankurichi and at Korkai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/archaeologist-nagaswamy-passes-away-at-92/article64946335.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,||‘Vaccine must for breaking transmission’||Lack of faith in the vaccine, mistrust in the fast roll-out of the vaccines and the possibility of governments hiding adverse reaction data — these were among the top reasons given to The Hindu by several persons who have refused to take even the first shot of the COVID-19 vaccine so far, despite being eligible.  The problem of a large population being uncovered is compounded by the fact that 6.5 crore persons are now overdue for their second dose of COVID vaccination, according to the Union Health Ministry’s submission earlier this week. “Good vaccination coverage is a must for breaking transmission,” says experts “Most unvaccinated persons are waiting to see how it goes,” said a senior health worker at Safdarjung Hospital. “Despite the best efforts to educate and create awareness about the need for vaccines by the government and medical staff, persons often tell us that they want to wait till a sizeable population is vaccinated.“They are filtering to see the adverse reactions because of an alleged narrative that adverse reactions aren’t entirely reported,” she said. Dr. Rajeev Jayadevan, vice-chairman, Research Cell, Indian Medical Association, Kerala, notes that the most reliable indicators of vaccine effectiveness are critical illness and death rates and not “hospitalisations” any more. Experts have previously suggested that there is a need to bring in measures to ensure sustained vaccination.“While majority of Indians would accept the vaccine, given the large population of India, even a small proportion of hesitant individuals would translate to millions of unvaccinated individuals. “COVID vaccination has only been give emergency use authorisation which means you are willingly participating in a public trial with limited legal powers,” said a retired government official whose entire family including elderly parents with co-morbidities have opted to not vaccinate. He also expressed apprehension about how in such a short time a number of companies have brought out an array of vaccines. Medical experts, however, say that they are aggressively counselling people to opt for the vaccination. “Vaccines protect against deaths,” said Dr. Anil Bansal, member IMA. Stating that this is now a proven fact, he said that people need to be educated. “We have to work with the people and help each other to break the pandemic chain,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-must-for-breaking-transmission/article64946316.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,||Third dose: CII calls for higher CSR levy||Ahead of the upcoming Budget, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Sunday recommended introduction of an additional 1% corporate social responsibility (CSR) levy for a 12-month period to be used for providing ‘precautionary’ shots of COVID-19 vaccine. The industry body also urged the State governments to lift restrictions on economic activity. It reasoned that the occupancy rate of hospital beds due to the Omicron variant of coronavirus was well within the manageable level. The CII, in a statement, said it had written to the Chief Ministers to consider curbs at micro-containment zones only when hospitalisation rates crossed 75%. “Hospitalisation rates in the present wave stand at manageable levels and therefore, industry feels that COVID-related restrictions can be removed to enable the robust recovery process to continue,” T.V. Narendran, president, CII, said. Mr. Narendran added that the CII had suggested to the government that an additional 1%, apart from the mandated 2%, be added to the CSR requirements in the Budget for a specified period of 12 months so that boosters can be made available to all age groups. “In fact, our recommendation has been that if companies spend on vaccines for their employees, their families and members of the community, then that expense can be set off against this additional CSR spend. Besides the government-provided boosters, the market mechanism should also be made to work for people who can afford to pay for their booster shots,” he added. The CII also requested for fast-tracking imports of all international-approved mRNA and protein-based vaccines at a price to be determined by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/third-dose-cii-calls-for-higher-csr-levy/article38316175.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||Why neglect West Bengal, asks Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said the Union government’s decision to install a statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at India Gate was taken under pressure, and raised the issue of non-inclusion of the State’s tableau in the Republic Day parade. Participating in the 125th birth anniversary celebrations of Netaji in Kolkata, Ms. Banerjee asked, “Why is this kind of neglect for West Bengal. None has the guts to wipe the history of West Bengal, I can challenge that. Nobody can change the real history of the country. If someone does that they will be playing with fire..”. Matter of shame During the speech, the Trinamool Congress chairperson raised issues of Amar Jawan Jyoti merging with National War Memorial and said that only installing the statue of Netaji was not enough. “In so many years, there is no clarity about Netaji’s death. On the statue, Netaji’s birthday can be written, will we able to write the date of his death ?” Ms. Banerjee asked. The Chief Minister emphasised the contribution of West Bengal to the country’s freedom struggle and said there were forces in the country that were trying to divide the country over religion — over Hindus and Muslims. “I request them to read about Mahatma Gandhi, Swami Vivekananda and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. None of these personalities ever talked about dividing the country,” she said. Ms. Banerjee said it was a matter of shame that the Planning Commission, which was envisaged by Netaji, had been done away with. “ We will have a planning commission in West Bengal… The tableau from West Bengal has not got space in Republic Day parade in Delhi but will definitely participate in the celebrations at Red Road in Kolkata,” she added. During the celebrations, a siren was sounded at 12.15 hrs, the time of Netaji’s birth, accompanied by the Chief Minister blowing a conch. A number of announcements by the Chief Minister included two universities, including a Sports University named after Netaji and Azad Hind Monument. The State government has set up panels to observe the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji and 75th year of the country’s Independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-neglect-west-bengal-asks-mamata/article64946328.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||BJP ally Apna Dal(S) fields Muslim candidate in Rampur||The BJP’s ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) on Sunday announced that it was fielding Haider Ali Khan of the erstwhile Nawab royalty of Rampur as its candidate in the Suar constituency of Rampur in western Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Haider, who turns 31 in March, was recently declared the Congress candidate from the seat. His nomination by the Apna Da(S), headed by Union Minister Anupriya Patel, is the first instance in recent times when a BJP-led alliance in the State has fielded a Muslim. Mr. Haider, a Shia, joined the Apna Dal in the presence of Ms. Patel in Delhi. What stands out is that the Apna Dal, which commands support among the Kurmi OBC caste and is popular in the Mizrapur-Prayagraj-Varanasi belt of eastern Uttar Pradesh, has fielded a candidate in western Uttar Pradesh’s Rohilkhand. Mr. Haider is expected to take on Abdullah Azam, son of Rampur MP and senior Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, who is languishing in jail after the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government lodged several cases against him. Mr. Abdullah was recently released from Sitapur jail and since he is likely to be fielded again from Suar, it sets up a double battle between the two families as Mr. Haider’s father Kazim Ali Khan is contesting on Congress ticket from the Rampur Sadar seat. Mr. Azam Khan could contest from the seat, which he has won eight times since 1980. In 2019, after he was elected to the Lok Sabha, his wife Tazeen Fatima secured the Rampur Assembly seat in a bypoll. Long-held rivalry Mr. Azam Khan’s long-held rivalry with the ‘Nawabs of Rampur’ has been a key part of his political career, and he has faced several elections against the family or pitched candidates against them. Mr. Abdullah contested from Suar in 2017 comprehensively defeating the sitting MLA, Kazim Ali Khan, present titular Nawab of the Rampur royalty. However, in 2019, the Allahabad High Court declared his election null and void on grounds that he was not of the valid age of 25 when he filed his nomination. The petition was filed by Mr. Kazim Khan, a four-time MLA and Minister for Minority Welfare and Haj under the Mayawati government in 2003. In 2017, he stood third from Suar, securing only around 42,000 votes against the 1.06 lakh votes of debutant Mr. Abdullah. The BJP came second. In 2014, Mr. Kazim Khan contested the Lok Sabha election as a Congress candidate and stood third but got enough votes to ensure that the BJP defeated the SP candidate from the seat where Muslims make up more than 40% of the population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-ally-apna-dals-fields-muslim-candidate-in-rampur/article64946323.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||‘Operation Lotus coming back to haunt BJP in Goa’||Expressing confidence that the people of Goa would vote into office a stable, single-party government led by the Congress in the upcoming Assembly election, senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram on Sunday said the BJP’s ‘Operation Lotus’ to lure MLAs from the Goa Congress and elsewhere was coming back to haunt them, with many of the saffron party’s leaders deserting its ranks today. Speaking to reporters in Panaji, Mr. Chidambaram said the question of whether the Congress would ally with non-BJP parties after the election did not arise at the moment. “What you sow, you reap… What the BJP did to us in 2017 and 2019 is coming back to haunt them. In Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Manipur and in other States [including Goa], the BJP sowed the seeds of ‘Operation Lotus’, which is buying people. Now, it’s coming back to haunt them. Their own people are leaving them… ,” said the former Union Minister. Responding to the comments made by Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee that every vote for the Congress was a vote for the BJP, Mr. Chidambaram said: “I hold a very humble position in the Congress party…I can’t engage with the verbal exchange with the distinguished MP from Bengal. All I can say is that the Congress has the strength, membership, deep roots in Goan society, and past record of history in service to the Goan people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/operation-lotus-coming-back-to-haunt-bjp-in-goa/article64946321.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:56 IST,||‘Govt. should prevent K-shaped recovery’||The Indian economy has “some bright spots and a number of very dark stains” and the government should target its spending “carefully” so that there are no huge deficits, noted economist and former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan said on Sunday. Known for his frank views, Dr. Rajan also said the government needed to do more to prevent a K-shaped recovery of the economy hit by the coronavirus pandemic. Generally, a K-shaped recovery will reflect a situation where technology and large capital firms recover at a far faster rate than small businesses and industries that have been significantly impacted by the pandemic. The country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is expected to grow over 9% in the current financial year that ends on March 31. The economy had contracted 7.3% in the last fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-should-prevent-k-shaped-recovery/article38316130.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||Re-export deadline eased for oxygen containers||The Customs Department has given time till September 30 for the re-export of high-quality containers imported for efficient transportation of liquid medical oxygen during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a circular to field formations, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said it had received representations through the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) for providing relaxations in the re-export of ISO containers imported temporarily for combating the pandemic. Such containers have been used for efficient transportation of liquid medical oxygen owing to the inherent advantage related to multi-modal transportation. “Board hereby guides all the field formations to allow extension of time period for re-exports of ISO containers meant for transportation of Liquid Medical Oxygen grade, …. till September 30, 2022, upon receipt of requests from the importers,” the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs circular said. Duty-free import Currently, containers are allowed to be imported duty-free with the condition of re-export in the next six months. If they are not re-exported within six months or the time limit as given by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, import duty is levied on such containers. When the deadly second wave of COVID-19 pandemic hit India in April-May last year, there was a massive surge in oxygen demand and the government had taken a host of steps to increase domestic availability of medical oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/re-export-deadline-eased-for-oxygen-containers/article38316161.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:07 IST,||NIA links with Germans on probe into SFJ agent||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is in touch with its German counterparts for assistance in the probe against Jaswinder Singh Multani of the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ). He has been booked along with his associates from other pro-Khalistani banned outfits on the charge of attempting to spread terror activities in Punjab. Having registered a case against Multani and others, the NIA has announced a reward of Rs. 10 lakh against him. His suspected role in the recent Ludhiana blast case is also being investigated on the basis of the inputs. The agencies have gathered evidence to establish that various social media platforms and messaging applications were allegedly used as well as funds were raised by Multani and his associates to radicalise and recruit youth in Punjab over the past two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-links-with-germans-on-probe-into-sfj/article38316138.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:07 IST,||Omicron in community transmission: INSACOG||Meanwhile, the INSACOG, in its January 3 bulletin, had warned that Omicron was now in community transmission in India and had become dominant in Delhi and Mumbai, where new cases have been rising exponentially. It further said that the spread of Omicron in India was now expected to be through internal transmission, not by foreign travellers, and a revised sampling and sequencing strategy of INSACOG is being worked out to address genomic surveillance objectives in the wake of dynamic changing scenario of virus infection. “Most Omicron cases so far have been asymptomatic or mild. Since initial detection has primarily been in vaccinated travellers, this should not be taken to mean that Omicron infection will also be mild in high-risk unvaccinated subjects. The threat level remains high and requires constant vigil as the situation rapidly evolves with community spread,” it had said adding that COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and vaccination were main shields against all form of mutations of SARS-CoV-2 virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-in-community-transmission-insacog/article64946333.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||Only Indian tunes at Beating Retreat: officials||Responding to criticism over the dropping of the hymn Abide with me from the Beating Retreat event this year, government sources said this year being the 75th year of Independence, playing of Indian tunes is considered more appropriate.   “This year, only Indian origin or indigenous tunes are on the list,” a government source said on Sunday. Abide with me will not be played so as to include the maximum number of Indian tunes, the source said.   ‘ Ae mere watan ke logon ’ is an Indian tune and pays respect to all who laid down their lives for the safety and integrity of the nation, the source added.  Phasing out of tunes handed down from a colonial past and including tunes that have a deeper connect with the people of India is an exercise, another government source said.  Former Union Minister and senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram said Abide with me was a Christian hymn written in 1847 but no longer “only” a Christian hymn. “The hymn was part of the Beating Retreat ceremony since 1950,” he said in a post on Twitter.  ‘Intolerance of govt.’ “The intolerance of the BJP government has reached such proportions that there are no words to condemn their attitude and outrageous actions,” he added. At the Republic Day parade this year, there will be 16 marching contingents, said Major General Alok Kackar, Chief of Staff, Delhi Area, in a briefing on the Army’s participation at the parade. Due to COVID-19, like last year, this year too, the parade will end at National Stadium and not go to the Red Fort, he said. In view of this, the size of the marching contingents, too, has been reduced from 144 to 96 individuals per contingent, another officer said. The number of attendees at the parade is significantly reduced in view of the large number of cases. At the parade, the Army will showcase the evolution of its various uniforms and weapon systems over the decades, with new and modern weapon systems displayed alongside their legacy counterparts, Major General Kacker said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-indian-tunes-at-beating-retreat-officials/article64946330.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:07 IST,||German Navy chief quits over remarks||“Does Russia really want a small and tiny strip of Ukraine soil to integrate into their country? Putin is probably putting pressure because he can do it and he splits EU opinion. What he really wants is respect,” he said. Further he stated: “He (Putin) wants high-level respect and my God, giving some respect is low cost, even no cost. If I was asked, it is easy to give him the respect he really demands and probably also deserves. Russia is an old country, Russia is an important country. Even we India, Germany, need Russia. we need Russia against China…” Earlier in the day, Ukraine’s Foreign Ministry said it summoned German Ambassador Anka Feldhusen in Kiev to stress “the categorical unacceptability” of his comments. German Ministry of Defence in Berlin also distanced itself from his comments. The German Defence Ministry stated that navy chief’s statement in “no way correspond to the position of the [German government] in terms of content and choice of words.”  He was also given the opportunity to make a statement to the Inspector General of the German military, according to Germany’s Bild newspaper.  Later, Vice Adm Schönbach backtracked from his comments in a post on Twitter, saying “it was clearly a mistake.” “My defence policy remarks during a talk session at a think tank in India reflected my personal opinion in that moment. They in no way reflect the official position of the defence ministry,” he said in another tweet. Vice Adm Schönbach also apologised for his comments, Reuters said, “My rash remarks in India... are increasingly putting a strain on my office… I consider this step (the resignation) necessary to avert further damage to the German navy, the German forces, and, in particular, the Federal Republic of Germany.” Raising the issue on social media, Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Ukraine is grateful to Germany for the support it has already provided since 2014, as well as for the diplomatic efforts to resolve the Russian-Ukrainian armed conflict. “But Germany’s current statements are disappointing and run counter to that support and effort,” he said on Twitter. He added: “The German partners must stop undermining unity with such words and actions and encouraging Putin to launch a new attack on Ukraine.” In addition to the comments, in a reference to reports that Germany had blocked Estonia from sending German-made weapons to Ukraine, Mr. Kuleba added, “Germany’s recent statements about the impossibility of transferring defence weapons to Ukraine, particular due to permission to third parties, the futility of returning Crimea, hesitations to disconnect Russia from SWIFT — do not correspond to the level of our relations and the current security situation. Vice Adm Schönbach’s comments came at a time when the new German Chancellor Olaf Scholz is trying to play a critical role on dialling down tensions over the Russian buildup along the border with Ukraine, and the decision by the U.S. and some NATO members to bolster arms and ammunition supplies to the Ukrainian army.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/german-navy-chief-quits-over-remarks/article38316133.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||Boy from Arunachal Pradesh found: PLA||“Only one person from Arunachal Pradesh is missing from that sector along the LAC. So, we believe it is the teenager,” the officer said, confirming that the PLA had informed the Indian Army about finding the missing boy. Opang Taron, the boy’s father, said Miram would be received by the entire village, Zido, when brought home. He added that his wife had gone into shock since their son was “taken away” by the PLA. Miram and his friend Jhonny Yaying had ventured into a forest close to the LAC to hunt and collect herbs and were apprehended by Chinese soldiers. On January 19, Jhonny told local officials that he had managed to flee from the Chinese soldiers. He had trekked to Tuting, the nearest circle headquarters. Miram and Jhonny are from the same village, about 35 km from where the alleged abduction took place. Tapir Gao, the BJP MP for Arunachal Pradesh, on January 19 tweeted about the “abduction” of the teenager and sought his safe return. There have been a few cases of people in Arunachal Pradesh going missing from the LAC. In September 2020, the PLA had kidnapped five boys from the State’s Upper Subansiri district and released them after about a week. Arunachal Pradesh shares a 1,080-km border with China and villagers, often lacking access to basic amenities, have to forage in the jungles close to the international border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boy-from-arunachal-found-pla/article38316148.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||Charter flight operators rue ban on rallies||The Election Commission’s ban on physical rallies in five poll-bound States since January 8 due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic wave has hit the business of charter flight operators. Just 10-15% of the 350-400 flight hours per month are election-related travel at this stage, the operators said. “Election travel has not really picked up. It had started to pick up initially, around mid-December, but then the EC announced the ban on rallies so that completely stopped most of the (election-related) travel,” said Rajan Mehra, CEO, Club One Air. Kanika Tekriwal, CEO and Founder, JetSetGo Aviation, saidthe company has seen only 70% inquiries for poll-related travel this year as compared to last year. However, no inquiry has been actually converted in actual flights as of yet and their conversion is in process, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/charter-flight-operators-rue-ban-on-rallies/article38316151.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,||‘Plea for probe into violence motivated’||The Tripura government has in the Supreme Court criticised “public spirited” citizens for “selective outrage” over violence in the State while they remained “silent” about incidents of a larger scale in West Bengal. The Tripura government urged the court to dismiss the petition filed by advocate Ehtesham Hashmi, saying the court is being used for an oblique purpose in the name of public interest.Tripura argued that the petitioners did not move a few months back when communal violence hit West Bengal, and suddenly their public sprit was aroused due to some instances in a small State like Tripura. “It is pointed out that such a selective outrage of the petitioner is not presented before this court as a defence but to satisfy this court that under the garb of public interest, the august forum of this court is used for apparently oblique purposes,” an affidavit filed by the State government said. “ No individual or group of individuals professionally functioning as public spirited persons/ groups can selectively invoke the extraordinary jurisdiction of the court to achieve some apparent but undisclosed motive,” the affidavit stated.Mr. Hashmi’s plea has sought an independent probe into alleged instances of violence in Tripura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-for-probe-into-violence-motivated/article38316350.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:07 IST,||‘Govt. ignored Tokyo’s Renkoji temple offer’||Tokyo’s Renkoji temple gave permission to Indian authorities to conduct DNA tests on ashes said to be those of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, according to fresh translation of a letter which refutes claims that the temple was “reticent”, placing doubts on a commission of enquiry’s ruling that the ashes were not Netaji’s’, Madhuri Bose, his grand-niece, says. A new translation of a letter in Japanese written by the chief priest of Tokyo’s Renkoji temple to the Indian government in 2005 revealed that permission was given for DNA test of the remains to the Justice M.K. Mukherjee Commission. This portion of the letter was not translated and an edited English version was attached to the Justice Mukherjee Commission’s report on the disappearance of Bose as evidence that “on account of the Temple Authorities reticence... the commission could not proceed further [on the issue of DNA tests]” and concluded that the ashes were not of Netaji’s, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-ignored-renkoji-temple-offer/article38316129.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||Venkaiah tests positive for COVID-19||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, who was in Hyderabad, tested positive for COVID-19, his Secretariat tweeted. Ahead of his departure for New Delhi to participate in the Republic Day parade, Mr. Naidu underwent the COVID-19 test. This is the second time that he has tested positive. He was positive for COVID earlier in September. The tweet further said that the Vice-President decided to remain in home isolation in Hyderabad for a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/venkaiah-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article38316162.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||ED will arrest Delhi Minister, says Kejriwal||Ahead of the election in Punjab, the Central government is putting pressure on the Enforcement Directorate to arrest Delhi Cabinet Minister Satyendar Jain, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. He added that this was an old trick of the BJP when it realised that it would lose elections. Mr. Kejriwal said that he and his party colleagues would welcome the Central government agencies “coming to prey on them” with open arms as they had nothing to hide and that previous attempts at conducting raids had not yielded any results. “We have got to know through our sources that the BJP government is forcing the Enforcement Directorate to arrest Mr. Jain before the Punjab election by framing him in false charges so they can hurt AAP’s electoral frays,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Reacting to Mr. Kejriwal’s statement, Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri called the allegation ridiculous, and termed it a political ploy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nothing-to-hide-from-agencies-says-kejriwal/article38316142.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,||Protest over attacks on non-tribals||A couple on Sunday staged a sit-in in Meghalaya capital Shillong to “silently protest” 40 years of atrocities against non-tribal people in the north-eastern State. The demonstration at Khyndai Lad, a central landmark in the city, followed the January 20 assault by “unidentified miscreants” on eight non-tribal people, opposite a police station in the Lumdiengjri locality. Three of them, including two Muslims, had to be hospitalised. Sushit Kanti and Kalpana Choudhury had sought permission from East Khasi Hills Deputy Commissioner Isawanda Laloo to go on an indefinite strike until the State government punishes the culprits and protects the fundamental rights of the non-tribal people. The government allowed them to hold the protest for six hours on Sunday.The couple said the Bengalis and other non-tribal communities in Meghalaya had been facing atrocities since 1979. “Till date, not a single murderer, looter, extortionist and criminal has been convicted or punished according to the law. Although citizens of India, we are ill-treated here as third-grade populace,” the duo said. Members of other non-tribal communities took part in the sit-in to underscore their “fear and uncertainty”of their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protest-over-attacks-on-non-tribals/article38316174.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||Punjab Police book Sidhu aide Mustafa||The Punjab Police have booked Mohammad Mustafa, the principal strategic adviser of State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, for allegedly promoting enmity between different groups. The police have registered an FIR against Mr. Mustafa, a former Director-General of Police, under Section 153-A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 125 of the Representation of the People Act. According to the FIR, the police received information about a video in which Mr. Mustafa was allegedly delivering an inflammatory speech. Mr. Mustafa is the husband of Congress candidate and former Minister Razia Sultana. Mr. Mustafa dismissed the allegation, and said his political opponents were trying to make an issue out of nothing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-police-book-sidhu-aide-mustafa/article38316147.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:08 IST,||BJP will not win majority in Goa: Raut||With the BJP in Goa riven by internal rebellions, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday claimed that the saffron party would not win a majority in the upcoming Goa election. Speaking in Mumbai, Mr. Raut said if Utpal Parrikar, son of late Manohar Parrikar, fought the Panaji seat with determination, then he had the potential to lead Goa in future. The Sena leader alluded to the resignations of both Mr. Parrikar and former Goa Chief Minister and long-time BJP loyalist Laxmikant Parsekar, both of whom exited the party after being denied tickets. “Both Manohar Parrikar and Laxmikant Parsekar had helped lay the BJP’s roots in Goa. Now, Mr. Parsekar and the late Mr. Parrikar’s son, Utpal, are no longer with the BJP...I can give you in writing that the BJP will not get a majority in the upcoming election,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-will-not-win-majority-in-goa-raut/article38316158.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Buggie services to run at three Metro stations||To make commuting easier, the Metro Rail plans to run battery-operated buggie services in four stations — Wimco Nagar, Chennai Airport, Vadapalani and Chennai Central. The initiative will benefit thousands of passengers at Wimco Nagar and Chennai Airport. Every day hundreds of commuters switch between the Wimco Nagar suburban railway and Metro stations. But it has always been an arduous task for passengers to travel from one mode to another as they have to walk or take an autorickshaw. Similarly, at the Chennai Airport, many passengers or aiport staff have been asking for a buggie service between the terminals and the station. According to officials of the Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), there will be two eight-seater vehicles in each of the stations, which will be operated throughout the day. “We will finalise the contractor shortly, and these vehicles will be available in six months,” an official said. Separate lane Wimco Nagar will have a separate lane for these buggies in the additional parking space to run between the stations. “Since these vehicles cannot be operated on the road, we will make a separate lane,” the official added. At Vadapalani, thousands of people exit the station and head to Forum Mall nearby. This service will be handy for them. “Chennai Central Metro is the largest underground station and here, many senior citizens and others find it difficult to walk from the concourse to the lift point. These buggies will run inside the concourse level alone,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buggie-services-to-run-at-three-metro-stations/article64946607.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||NLCIL should form panel on land acquisition, says EPS||AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday urged the Neyveli Lignite Corporation India Limited (NLCIL) to constitute a committee to address demands including a fair compensation and permanent employment for those whose lands in Cuddalore district are to be acquired for Mine-III. The panel could include the NLC management, landowners, legislators and senior government officials, since the Protected Special Agricultural Zone was declared by the erstwhile AIADMK government, aimed at protecting the Cauvery delta region, Mr. Palaniswami said in a statement. He also urged the DMK government to initiate all necessary steps in this regard. The NLC has proposed to acquire over 12,500 acres of land in 26 villages within the Bhuvanagiri Assembly constituency in Cuddalore district. Union Minister for Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi unveiled a rehabilitation and resettlement policy on January 17. “It is regrettable that the NLCIL has arbitrarily announced a rehabilitation process for the acquired lands without consulting the people or their representatives and farmers from the affected villages. Not even one percent of the people are willing to accept this,” Mr. Palaniswami contended. During the public hearing organised by the NLCIL on January 17, the management did not answer the queries that the people raised, and opted to end the event half-way, he alleged. He claimed that the two DMK Ministers who took part in the meeting did not speak in support of the people and sided with the management. As per the rehabilitation and resettlement policy, a compensation of Rs. 23 lakh per acre for agricultural land, Rs. 40,000 per cent for housing plots in rural areas and Rs. 75,000 per cent in urban areas was to be granted, Mr. Palaniswami said. The NLCIL had also announced that a 1,000 square feet house in a 2,178 square feet plot would be provided to those giving their land to the project. The NLCIL had rejected the demand for providing permanent employment to those giving their land, but said it would provide either contractual employment or a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 15 lakh, Mr. Palaniswami said. He claimed that the lands to be acquired were “fertile lands” and could generate an income of about Rs. 5 lakh a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nlcil-should-form-panel-on-land-acquisition-says-eps/article64946386.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||90% of Namakku Naame Thittam funds not utilised||More than 90% of the funds allocated under the Namakku Naame Thittam have not been utilised in the city as there are no matching donors. The Greater Chennai Corporation has started another round of campaigning to inform residents about the scheme aimed at developing civic infrastructure in residential areas.   “The Corporation has been allocated Rs. 49 crore this year. But it has utilised only about Rs. 4 crore to Rs. 5 crore so far. It still has Rs. 45 crore to develop civic infrastructure projects under the Namakku Naame Thittam this year,” a civic official said.  If donors collectively contribute Rs. 45 crore to match the existing allocation, a number of civic infrastructure projects estimated at Rs. 90 crore can be taken up by the donors without tendering in a few months time. This is expected to facilitate speedy completion of civic infrastructure projects such as dispensaries, parks, classrooms, libraries, toilets, recreation and sports facilities, waterbodies restoration, roads and street lighting, officials said.  Zonal officers in each of the 15 zones have given letters to residents’ welfare association, public and private companies, manufacturers, institutions and eminent individuals, inviting them to participate in the Namakku Naame Thittam .  However, many residents said they have not tried to utilise funds under the Namakku Naame Thittam because zonal officers have not initiated the project in neighbourhoods where there is an actual need for civic infrastructure. Chidambara Perumal, a resident of Padi Kuppam Road in Anna Nagar West, said the residents have been requesting a well-designed footpath and a relaid road along Padi Kuppam Road, particularly to prevent dumping of garbage along the stretch from Waves Junction to Five Star Apartments.  “We would have tried to mobilise funds to do the work if officials had come to us and explained the key aspects of the Namakku Naame Thittam . If they have already issued a work order for road re-laying, we want some additional work to keep our neighbourhood clean. The Chief Minister visited our area last month and gave us hope. We request local officials to take the lead in making the scheme a success in such areas with persistent civic problems. Officials should sit with residents’ groups and advise them on how to use the funds to resolve civic issues by developing simple infrastructure projects,” said Mr. Perumal.  West Velachery AGS Colony Residents’ Welfare Association secretary Geetha Ganesh said: “We have around 1,200 plus houses including flats/apartments. But enrolled members are around 220 only. Since ours is a new one we do not have that much corpus to share with the Corporation. Many residents are not ready to become members. So, we have been able to give only 33% of the project estimate. We are waiting for the tendering process to start.”  Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said citizens’ participation was very important in metropolitan cities. “Government has initiated the Namakku Naamae Thittam , where these projects can be undertaken if you have more than 33% contribution. If you have 50% contribution then the donors themselves can execute the project. If it is more than 33% but less than 50% then tendering has to be done. But the remaining amount will be given by the government. The Corporation seeks the assistance of the public,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/90-of-namakku-naame-thittam-funds-not-utilised/article64946603.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||The hands behind Keeladi excavations documented||The archaeological excavations at Keeladi in Sivaganga district have highlighted how urbanised the Vaigai valley was as early as the 6th Century B.C. Now, an artist has documented the lives and work of the men and women involved in the excavation. V. Saranraj’s photographs have been displayed, under the title, ‘Keeladi,’ as part of the Chennai Photo Biennale (CPB) Edition-III at the Roja Muthiah Research Library at Taramani. They showcase the role of these workers in the excavation and the steps involved in the process before artefacts were presented. From measuring the site to digging, probing, accessing historical objects, carefully collecting and cleaning them and the tools that were used, the photographs have documented it all. “When the objects discovered were kept for public view during the fifth phase of the excavations in 2019, I was one of the several people who visited the site, curious about our ancient past. I was also interested in knowing more about these workers who brought to light these objects,” he said. In the meantime, Mr. Saranraj was invited by the CPB to submit a proposal. “Since I was interested in Keeladi, I made the proposal about it and the CPB gave a grant to document it.” He rented a house in the Keeladi village panchayat for about a year. During his stay there, he realised how these workers, earning daily and weekly wages, were proud of their work. Over 200 workers, of different communities at Keeladi, were involved in excavations. His works are on display till February 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hands-behind-keeladi-excavations-documented/article64946392.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Leaders pay tributes to ‘Netaji’||Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and the leaders of various political parties paid tributes to ‘Netaji’ Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary on Sunday. Mr. Ravi paid floral tributes to a statue of Subhas Chandra Bose on the Raj Bhavan campus. A communication from the Raj Bhavan said the Governor hailed the extraordinary contributions of the freedom fighter. “The richness of Netaji’s intellectual and spiritual footprints are ever inspiring our people to serve the nation in the spirit of patriotism and nationalism,” the Governor said. He urged the youth and the public to strengthen fraternity and promote the nation’s vision for progress. Mr. Stalin said the late leader was a symbol of patriotism. In a social media post, the Chief Minister said, “His fame is omnipresent like the rays of the sun across the nation, and let’s march ahead with patriotism in the light shone by him.” Health Minister Ma. Subramanian paid floral tributes to the statue and portrait of ‘Netaji’ on Kamarajar Salai. Senior officials were also present. AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran said the late leader played a major role in the struggle for the country’s freedom from the British. Former AIADMK interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala recalled that ‘Netaji’, who formed the Indian National Army, set up a wing for women and named it after the Rani of Jhansi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leaders-pay-tributes-to-netaji/article64946385.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu reports 30,580 COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu recorded 30,580 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday. The number was marginally lower than the 30,744 infections reported on Saturday, though the State tested more persons on Sunday. The State tested 1,49,638 persons on Sunday as against 147,857 persons the day before. Tamil Nadu also reported 24,283 recoveries and 40 deaths. The total number of cases reported so far stood at 31,33,990. There have been 28,95,818 recoveries and 37,218 deaths so far. The number of active cases crossed the two lakh-mark and stood at 2,00,954. The decline in the number of cases reported in Chennai continued for a week now, with the city registering 6,383 cases. Coimbatore reported 3,912 cases. With 1,841 fresh infections, the number of cases in Chengalpattu came below the 2,000-mark. Seven other districts — Tiruppur (1,507), Kanniyakumari (1,248), Erode (1,220), Thanjavur (1,123), Salem (1,074) and Krishnagiri (1,010) — reported more than 1,000 cases. Ten other districts reported more than 500 cases. Eighteen districts reported a decline in the number of cases on Sunday, compared with the previous day. The remaining 20 districts reported an increase. Among the districts that reported a sharp increase were Tiruppur, Thanjavur, the Nilgiris, Tenkasi and Nagapattinam. Among the 40 deaths, 15 occurred at private hospitals and 25 took place at government hospitals. The medical bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare said 39 of the 40 people had co-morbidities. The State administered 10,687 vaccine doses on Sunday. The total number of doses administered stood at 9,04,60,199.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-reports-30580-covid-19-cases/article64946378.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City-based firm to roll out e-bikes this year||City-based Raptee Energy, a start-up that is developing electric motorcycles, will launch its first set of vehicles in the market by July and is also in the process of raising its next round of funding. “We have been testing our prototype on roads for over a year now. The public trials will start later this month. This vehicle will compete against the 250cc and 500cc vehicles,” Dinesh Arjun, CEO and co-founder of Raptee Energy, said. The firm is working on another vehicle, which will scheduled to be out in market in 2024, competing with the 150cc motorcycles. Raptee Energy was the first start-up to be incubated at the Atal Incubation Centre – Anna University in 2020. Until July 2020, the start-up was completely bootstrapped. The team (Keerthivasan Ravi, co-founder and CTO, Phunith Kumar, COO, and Karthikeyan A., the electronics lead) then raised a pre-seed amount of $700,000 (roughly Rs. 5.5 crore) from individual angels and firms. They are now looking to raise $11 million (over Rs. 81 crore) and are in talks with various people. The funds will be used for road and lab testing and for the first batch of motorcycles. Currently, the firm has its research and development happening at Ekkattuthangal and has a small manufacturing unit at the Thirumazhisai SIDCO Industrial Estate, which has the capacity to make over 1,200 units. “This will be a makeshift plant till our second plant goes live,” Mr. Arjun said. Raptee Energy recently inked an memorandum of understanding with the Tamil Nadu Government and is in talks with Guidance, the nodal agency that brings in investments into to the State, to acquire a 36-acre land parcel to set up its second plant. When asked how different is this vehicle from others, he said, “We run a 240V system (patented). Others work between the 48-96V systems. This requires a significantly different architecture.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-based-firm-to-roll-out-e-bikes-this-year/article38316443.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. must allay farmers’ fears over Salem-Chennai expressway’||PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Sunday said the State government must clarify its position on the status of the proposed eight-lane greenfield expressway between Salem and Chennai. Warning that the PMK will not hesitate to launch protests if the project is implemented against the wishes of the farmers, he said farmers in six districts are afraid that their properties may be acquired to implement the project. “At a meeting held on December 15 and 16 in Dharmapuri, the farmers submitted a petition urging the officials not to acquire land for the project. The response from the revenue official in the form of a letter has raised new fears,” Mr. Ramadoss said. He pointed out that while the letter from the revenue official stated that landowners were free to mortgage or divide their property or register their lands, it added that land acquisition in Pappireddypatti and Harur had been temporarily stopped, and it will be restarted, as per the Supreme Court’s order, after obtaining environmental clearance based on guidance from the State government. Govt. position “After M.K. Stalin took charge as the Chief Minister, he met the Prime Minister in June and urged him not to implement the Salem-Chennai 8-lane expressway. If that is the position of the State government, there is no need for the revenue official in Dharmapuri to state that land acquisition would be done based on the State government’s guidance,” he said, adding, “Instead, he could have said that land will not be acquired and the farmers need not be scared.”  At a meeting held on December 15 and 16 in Dharmapuri, the farmers submitted a petition urging the officials not to acquire land for the project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-must-allay-farmers-fears-over-salem-chennai-greenfield-expressway-anbumani/article38316471.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thoraipakkam-Canal Bank Road link to be ready by September||Work to lay a new road from Thoraipakkam to Canal Bank road is progressing at a brisk pace. Nearly 50% of the construction for the 750-m stretch is complete. “Right now, the embankments are being formed and layers of blue metal of different sizes will be laid soon. This road is phase I of a plan to connect East Coast Road (ECR) with Rajiv Gandhi Salai,” an official said. The total cost of the six-lane road is Rs. 176 crore, with Rs. 146 crore having been allocated for land acquisition alone. “We will allow the material to settle for about six months after which the top layers will be laid. The work is expected to be completed by September,” said an engineer associated with the project, which is expected to improve connectivity for motorists on Old Mahabalipuram Road. Though the road will end at Canal Bank Road for now, motorists will be able to cross the Bucknigham Canal using small bridges and then use the internal roads, including Pandian Salai, Vaidhyanathan Salai and Bharathi Street, to reach ECR. “There are some 86 structures that are encroaching upon the Public Works Department land, and we have written to them to remove the buildings. They have also in-principle agreed to that. In future, a bridge is likely to be constructed across the canal,” the official added. K. Natarajan, a resident of Kandanchavady, said steps should be taken to widen the existing bridges across the canal, which were constructed by the Greater Chennai Corporation several years ago. “They are very narrow and can accommodate very small vehicles only. If a car uses it to go to the other side, vehicles have to wait to allow it to cross. On many days one can see traffic jams on these small bridges,” he said. Kamala, a resident of Thoraipakkam, said more such roads connecting ECR and Pallikaranai and Medavakkam should be planned so that OMR’s traffic can be made manageable. “We are going to face five years of Metro Rail construction, during which only four lanes will be effectively be available. Ahead of the work, they should plan to ensure that people are not stuck in snarls,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoraipakkam-canal-bank-road-link-to-be-ready-by-september/article64946599.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||OPS supports govt. on Phase II of Hogenakkal Drinking Water Project||Expressing solidarity with the Tamil Nadu government’s plan to implement Phase II of the Hogenakkal Drinking Water Project in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Sunday condemned Karnataka’s opposition to it. “Karnataka, which refuses to release the quantum of Cauvery water it is legally bound to do as per the Supreme Court’s judgment unless all its reservoirs are filled up, does not have any legal or moral right to prevent the implementation of the Phase II of the Hogenakkal Drinking Water Project in Tamil Nadu,” he said. Maintaining that Tamil Nadu had all necessary rights over the project, Mr. Panneerselvam said: “This government should definitely implement this project. The AIADMK would extend its complete support.” Recalling the steps taken by the AIADMK government under M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa to implement the Hogenakkal Drinking Water Project, he said a detailed project report was prepared in 1986, but it could not be implemented due to a lack of funds, even though a DPR was prepared in 1994 with a revised Budget outlay. In 2005, then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa sent a proposal to the Union government, and eventually, the foundation for the project was laid in 2008, he said, and contended that when the AIADMK came to power in 2011, only 18% of the project had been completed. “Within two years, 82% of the work was completed, and she dedicated the project to the nation on May 29, 2013,” he recalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-supports-govt-on-phase-ii-of-hogenakkal-drinking-water-project/article64946382.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||VCK demands law against hate speech||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Sunday urged the State government to enact a law against hate speech and propaganda in the next session of the Legislative Assembly. In a statement, he said the BJP government at the Centre had ignored the draft prepared by the Indian Law Commission in 2017 to control hate and propaganda in India. “The Tamil Nadu government should implement the recommendations in the upcoming Assembly session,” he said. Mr. Thirumavalavan denied the State BJP’s allegation that a Class XII girl of a Christian missionary-run school in Thanjavur had ended her life because she was being forced to convert to Christianity. “The Tamil Nadu government should not be a mute spectator to this sort of hate propaganda. Strict action must be taken against those who indulge in it,” he said. According to him, the girl had, in a statement recorded in front of a magistrate, alleged that her teacher had made her look into accounts of the school and forced her to stay in hostel even during holidays. He accused the BJP of trying to spread hate against the school and the entire Christian community in Tamil Nadu. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-demands-law-against-hate-speech/article38316438.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin wishes V-P a speedy recovery||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday said he was anguished to know that Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu has tested positive for COVID-19, and wished him a speedy recovery. In a social media post, he said, “I am anguished to know that our respected Vice President Thiru. M. Venkaiah Naidu has been affected with COVID-19. Our best wishes for his speedy recovery and recuperation. I have spoken to Hon’ble Vice President over phone and conveyed our wishes to him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-wishes-v-p-a-speedy-recovery/article38316476.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||70 civic infrastructure projects to be taken up||The State government has given administrative sanction for 70 civic infrastructure projects by the Greater Chennai Corporation under the Namakku Naame Thittam . More works are expected to be taken up shortly.  The civic body will develop parks and playgrounds at 17 locations, build smart classrooms and other facilities at 18 schools, beautify 10 locations, restore waterbodies at two locations, build toilets at 13 locations and lay footpaths at nine locations. The highest contribution has been for parks and playgrounds as per requests from residents. Beautification work has also received a significant amount of money from residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/70-civic-infrastructure-projects-to-be-taken-up/article38316445.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Drive against tobacco products held||The police held a week-long drive against tobacco products and seized nearly 500 kg of contraband during raids in various places across the city from January 16 to 22. A total of 25 persons, accused of selling banned tobacco products, have been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-against-tobacco-products-held/article38316452.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||TRB releases tentative annual planner||The Teachers Recruitment Board has released its tentative recruitment planner for 2022 for 9,494 vacancies. Among the posts to be filled are 4,989 secondary-grade and graduate teachers, for which a notification is expected to be issued in May. There are also 1,334 vacancies for assistant professors in government arts and science colleges and college of education, 493 vacancies for lecturers in government polytechnic colleges and 104 for assistance professors in government engineering colleges, for which notifications are expected in July, August, and September. These three categories of vacancies are subject to the approval of the government||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trb-releases-tentative-annual-planner/article38316469.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||CBI books city-based fruits processing firm for fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked a city-based fruits processing firm on charges of cheating three banks to the tune of Rs. 217.16 crore. Acting on a complaint lodged by a consortium of banks led by the State Bank of India, the CBI’s Economic Offences Wing registered a case against M/s Oceanic Tropical Fruits Private Limited, its directors A. Joseb Raj, Vimala Joseb and James Walter for entering into a criminal conspiracy to cheat the SBI, ICICI and the Central Bank of India. The agency said in its first information report (FIR) that the directors of the company diverted loan funds, falsified/fabricated Books of Accounts and misused the borrowed funds. They also diverted the receivables of the company to other companies by submitting fake vouchers and routed the money through other banks without the consent of the consortium of banks. The SBI said in its complaint that M/s Oceanic Tropical Fruits Private Limited, promoted by its directors, was into the business of processing fruits like mangoes, guavas and papayas besides manufacturing tomato paste with aseptic packaging in drums and cans. The company had its processing and manufacturing facilities at Marakkanam, near Puducherry, and Annur, near Chittoor, in Andhra Pradesh. In 2011, it also entered into a contract with M/s PepsiCo India Holding Private Limited to work as a co-worker for one of their soft drinks for a period of 10 years. Forensic audit After the company approached the banks for funding, the SBI (then State Bank of Travancore), ICICI and the Central Bank of India sanctioned Rs. 178.45 crore, Rs. 75.88 crore and Rs. 20 crore respectively. After the banks brought the company’s loan accounts under the non-performing asset category, an external audit firm was assigned the task of investigating the fraud angle. It was found during the inquiry that the transactions in the bank statement were not traceable in the company’s book of accounts. There was a potential inconsistency in the purchase transactions and unusual transfer of funds to other companies. The forensic auditor observed an upward revaluation of fixed assets (building and machinery) to the tune of Rs. 67.41 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-books-city-based-fruits-processing-firm-for-fraud/article38316451.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murder in Chengalpattu||An ambulance driver was arrested for murdering his 33-year-old co-worker on Saturday night. The Chengalpattu district police said the victim R. Vijayakumar and his friends were drinking on Saturday, when the accused Ajith murdered him due to past enmity. Ajith confessed to the crime after his arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murder-in-chengalpattu/article38316453.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation writes to CMA on auctioning shops near T.K. Market||Unable to find a way to auction the shops it had built in a yard west of T.K. Market, the Coimbatore Corporation has written to the Commissioner of Municipal Administration (CMA) for a solution. Sources said the Corporation was forced to write to the CMA as two groups of traders were making claim to the 80-plus shops the civic body had built at the yard. One group of traders wanted preferential treatment in allotment of the shops and the other was for open auction. Unable to find a way, the Corporation had written to the CMA. The issue started sometime in June 2020 after the Corporation, during the COVID-19 lockdown, demolished 88 makeshift shops on Then Vadal Street, east of the T.K. Market. This was after a court order directing the civic body to remove the shops to free the street of encroachments. A few months after removing the makeshift shops, the Corporation built a yard with over 80 shops on the western side of the Market. The idea was to accommodate the evicted traders who had claimed loss of livelihood. Even as the Corporation was getting ready to auction the shops, the evicted traders urged the Corporation to give them preference over others in allotting the shops. Ignoring claims, the Corporation threw open the yard for open auction, allowing anyone interested to participate. Opposing this the traders moved the Madras High Court, which only asked the Corporation to consider the traders’ petition. Meanwhile, another set of traders approached the Corporation insisting that it should go in for only open auction and not accord preferential treatment to any trader. The sources said the Corporation was also in favour of open auction as it would help achieve as much income as possible. As the Corporation kept mulling options, traders under the Kaikani Siruvyaparigal Kootamaippu-Thiyagi Kumaran Market banner threatened to occupy the shops in December 2021 but gave up after negotiation with the civic body officials. As the claim and counter claim by two groups of traders continued, the Corporation had decided to seek the CMA’s advice, the sources explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-writes-to-cma-on-auctioning-shops-near-tk-market/article64946596.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||G Square to expand to Bengaluru||G Square, which entered the housing real estate segment just about six months ago, plans to expand to Bengaluru shortly.  Eshwar N., Chief Executive Officer of G Square, told The Hindu recently that the company at present operates in Chennai and Coimbatore. It has launched three projects in Coimbatore in the housing plot segment in the last six months and has one more on the anvil.  “We have sold 80 % of the plots in the three projects in Coimbatore. We will launch a project in Hosur in a couple of weeks and will expand to Bengaluru too,” he said. The company, which was so far in the land aggregation segment, ventured into housing plots and launched projects on Pankaja Mill Road (11 to 12 acres), Singanallur (four acres), and at Sulur (nearly 13 acres) here. Its sales turnover so far in Coimbatore is Rs. 350 crore and by the end of June it is looking at another Rs. 500 crore here. “We want to be spread across budget categories and locations and even in communities that we offer we want to cater to every segment of home buyers. For instance, we are looking at theme-based communities such as wellness and sports,” he added. The company also offers a host of amenities even in plots. The size of the plots ranges from three cents to 25 cents, depending on the location and project. The layout development space has a huge demand but is low in supply in Chennai and Coimbatore. So there is a mismatch in demand and supply. There is an underlying demand for this segment in real estate and G Square is catering to this market. “We will be a game changer as we cater to demand in the layout development space,” Mr. Eshwar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/g-square-to-expand-to-bengaluru/article38316492.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:29 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP workers install Modi’s portrait at panchayat office||Tension prevailed at Pooluvapatti in Coimbatore district on Saturday after BJP workers installed the portrait of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the town panchayat office, accusing the local body of having rejected their pleas. The BJP workers alleged that the town panchayat administration had installed a portrait of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi at the office but refused to install the Prime Minister’s. A group of BJP workers, led by M. Baskaran, district secretary of the trade unions affiliated to the party and a former councillor of the panchayat, walked into the office in the morning with a portrait of Mr. Modi and informed the officials of their intent to install it. As the officials refused permission, one of the workers nailed Mr. Modi’s portrait next to the photo of Karunanidhi. Though a town panchayat official asked the BJP workers to remove the portrait, one of them told him to file a police complaint if he had any problem. The party workers also shouted slogans before leaving the place. Mr. Baskaran said the Prime Minister’s was among the list of portraits that could be displayed at public offices and buildings. “The panchayat office used to have the photo of the Prime Minister,” he said. He said the party workers were ready to face action if the local body lodged a complaint with the police. “Next, we are planning to install the Prime Minister’s portrait in all panchayats, town panchayats, post offices, ration shops and cooperative societies,” he said. The Alandurai police said they had not received any complaint till Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-workers-install-modis-portrait-at-panchayat-office/article38316461.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. joins hands with NGOs, local bodies to clear plastic waste||The Forest Department has joined hands with non-governmental organisations (NGOs), local bodies, and the public to clear plastic waste littered along forest boundaries. Such cleaning drives gained momentum after waste materials, including sanitary napkin, mask, etc., were found in the dung pile of a wild elephant at Maruthamalai recently. On Saturday, a cleaning drive was conducted on the sides of Vaidehi stream near Narasipuram and the volunteers removed one tonne waste such as polythene bags, plastic wraps, plastic bottles and liquor. The drive was held on a 750 metre stretch of the stream from Poondi north beat of Boluvampatti block II reserve forest. Boluvampatti Forest Range Officer T. Saravanan led the cleaning drive in which Forest Department staff, Revenue Department staff from Thondamuthur block, police personnel from the Alandurai station, president, vice-president and conservancy workers of Narasipuram panchayat took part.The waste collected was handed over to Narasipuram panchayat. According to District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar, around one tonne waste discarded by people in the elephant proof trench close to Thiruvalluvar Nagar near Kanuvai were cleared in a drive organised by Coimbatore Forest Range Officer R. Arunkumar and volunteers of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust (WNCT) recently. Forest Department staff, WNCT team led by M. Sirajudeen and ward members from Nanjundapuram panchayat also conducted an awareness campaign for the public on the dangers of littering plastic waste. The Department informed the public that stringent action would be taken against people who discard waste in forest areas and along boundaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-teams-up-with-ngos-local-bodies-to-clear-plastic-waste/article64946593.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two held with 10,500 kg of ration rice||The Civil Supplies CID, Coimbatore unit, on Saturday arrested two men who attempted to smuggle 10,500 kg rice that was meant to be supplied through the public distribution system. The arrested were identified as A. Abdul Rahman (27) of Al Ameen Colony in South Ukkadam, and S. Lakshmikanth (23) of Nehru Nagar. According to the CS CID, the two men were arrested during a vehicle check conducted at Thaneerpandal ‘S’ bend late on Saturday. The police stopped the vehicle that was laden with ration rice in 210 gunny bags, each weighing 50 kg. The police said that the accused purchased ration rice from the public at a cheaper rate and planned to sell them at a higher price for those who wanted it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-with-10500-kg-of-ration-rice/article38316494.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested with 18 kg ganja||Three persons were arrested by the Ukkadam police on Saturday on charge of possessing 18 kg ganja. Accused R. Abdulsamad (29) of Sugunapuram east, P. Vinodkumar (32) and M. Arunkumar (21) of Theni district were arrested at Vincent Road junction on Ukkadam – Sungam bypass on Saturday noon. The police said that the three persons transported the contraband in a car from Cumbum in Theni district. They were planning to sell the contraband to suppliers in Coimbatore, the police said. Remanded The three were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-with-18-kg-ganja/article38316484.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special units to be formed for land acquisition||The State government has decided to form five special land acquisition and management units, including one in Coimbatore. According to an order dated January 13, 2022, the government decided to accept the proposal of the Director General of Highways Department and form five special land acquisition units at Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruchi and Vellore. Each unit will be headed by a special District Revenue Officer and 18 field units to be headed by special tahsildars. The aim is to expedite land acquisition works for construction of roads, flyovers, underpasses, high-level bridges, foot over bridges, grade separators, etc and upgrading existing roads. The Department is currently maintaining land records related to more than 61,000 km roads, including highways, major district roads, and other district roads spread across the State. This is a move in the right direction, said K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause. Several infrastructure works are getting delayed because of land acquisition issues. Formation of the special units is expected to expedite the works, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-units-to-be-formed-for-land-acquisition/article38316468.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sunday lockdown brings three districts to a near-standstill||Cuddalore district came to a near standstill as people stayed indoors, vehicles kept off the roads, shops and business establishments remained closed as the complete lockdown imposed on Sundays took effect. The State government had imposed total lockdown on Sundays in a bid to contain the spread of COVID-19. In Cuddalore, barring medical shops and milk booths, all business establishments and markets remained closed. Police sealed the inter-State borders with Puducherry denying entry of vehicles. Police personnel were deployed at vantage points to ensure compliance with the regulations. The Cuddalore district police had erected 52 check-posts in addition to the regular ones. Over 1,400 police personnel were deployed in all the seven police sub-divisions in the district. The lockdown was almost total in Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts too. Those heading to railway stations in Villupuram were asked to produce a copy of their tickets during vehicle checks. The Villupuram police also erected barricades on the East Coast Road and Tindivanam Road and users were stopped and questioned on the purpose of travel. Vehicles plying for essential services and people appearing for banking services exams were allowed to travel, while others were sent back. Fines were imposed on those loitering about or not wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sunday-lockdown-brings-three-districts-to-a-near-standstill/article64946371.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects dedicated water supply scheme works in Erode||With the Rs. 484.45-croreDedicatedWaterSupply Scheme being in trial-run stage, Collector H. Krishnanunni inspected the works on Saturday and asked officials to ensure uninterrupted water supply to residents in all the 60 wards in the Corporation limits at the earliest. The scheme ensures 135 litres per capita per day for the residents and the State government gave administrative sanction for the project on August 29, 2016. Under the State Annual Action Plan 2015-16 of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the scheme was implemented with the Centre’s share of Rs. 242.23 crore, State government Rs. 96.89 core and Rs. 145.33 crore from the Smart City funds. The scheme aims at supplying 81.10 million litres ofwatera day to all the 60 wards in the Corporation limits and was executed by the Tamil NaduWaterSupply and Drainage Board. Works were completed and the scheme was commissioned in February, 2021, after which trail run commenced. Rawwaterwas drawn from the River Cauvery at Varadanallur village at Uratchikottai in Bhavani Town and pumped to the treatment plant with 120 MLD capacity. Cleanwaterwas collected in awatersump of 52 lakh litre capacity. Later,waterwas pumped to sumps at Suriyampalayam and VOC Park from where water is being distributed to the 46 existing and 21 newly constructed reservoirs. Wateris distributed to households in the existing 67.209 km pipelines and to the 1.05 lakh new house service connections through 731.82 km pipelines. Officials said work to delink pipelines from the old scheme and interlink with new scheme was being carried out and leakage works were being attended. Problems were being rectified and regular supply to all the households would be ensured in a few more weeks, they added. Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar, Corporation Executive Engineer T. Vijayakumar, TWAD Board Executive Engineer Ponnusamy and other officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-dedicated-water-supply-scheme-works-in-erode/article64946574.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Districts witness complete lockdown for third Sunday||The third lockdown on Sunday imposed by the State government to control the spread of COVID-19 was total in districts. Very few vehicles could be seen on the arterial roads and in rural areas as most of the people remained indoors. Over 1,100 police personnel were on duty to ensure strict enforcement of the directive. Road users were questioned about the reason behind their journey and allowed to proceed only if their replies were reasonable. Medical shops and petrol bunks remained opened throughout the day but saw minimum customers. Since it was an auspicious day, a few weddings took place at halls where the number of guests was less than 50. In Salem, the lockdown was total as only a few vehicles could be seen on the roads. Most of the roads wore a deserted look throughout the day. However, passengers who arrived at Salem Railway Junction faced hardship as only a few autorickshaws and cabs were available for them to move towards their destinations. Hence, many passengers, mostly from North Indian States, started to walk to reach their destinations in the city limits. Since only take away services were allowed in hotels and restaurants, food delivery executives waited outside many hotels in the city and its outskirts to collect and deliver the food. In Namakkal, all the shops, including workshops, remained closed as most of the roads wore a deserted look throughout the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/districts-witness-complete-lockdown-for-third-sunday/article64946573.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: marginal increase in bed occupancy in Erode, Salem districts||With sharp increase in COVID-19 cases in the past one week, occupancy of beds has also started to increase in the districts. Health Department officials said of the total 1,574 oxygen-supported beds in Erode district, 114 were occupied as on Sunday morning. Likewise, of the total 849 non oxygen-supported beds, 135 were occupied. Of the total 437 ICU beds that were earmarked for treating COVID-19 patients, 10 beds were occupied. Thus, a total of 2,601 beds remained vacant in the hospitals in the district. A total of 20 beds in Covid-19 Care Centres (CCC) were occupied against the total 825 beds, they said. In Salem district, of the total 1,784 oxygen-supported beds, 232 were occupied. Of the 1,158 non oxygen-supported beds, 167 were occupied. Of the total 597 ICU beds, 134 beds were occupied. Thus, a total of 3,006 beds were available for COVID-19 patients. All the 4,666 beds in the CCC were vacant, they said and the occupancy had increased in the last one week. In Namakkal district, of the total 878 oxygen-supported beds, 68 were occupied. Likewise, of the total 432 non oxygen-supported beds, eight were occupied. Of the total 172 ICU beds, eight beds were occupied. Thus, a total of 1,332 beds remained vacant in hospitals in the district. Of the total 400 beds in CCC, 145 beds were occupied, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-marginal-increase-in-bed-occupancy-in-erode-salem-districts/article38316590.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Residents demand resumption of animal birth control programme||Residents have urged the Corporation to resume the animal birth control (ABC) programme that has been stalled for many years now. The residents in many localities complained that there was a sharp rise in the street dog population. The dogs stand on the middle of the road and hinder traffic. They occupy the garbage dumping areas and chase people. The residents of Kollampalayam and Moolapalayam said the dog population had gone up by four times in the last seven to 10 years. Inadequate funds Though the Erode Corporation had started the ABC programme at its facility in Solar in 2010 to control dog population, it was stopped within a few months allegedly due to inadequate funds. The residents wanted necessary action taken so that roads turn safer for motorists and pedestrians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-demand-resumption-of-animal-birth-control-programme/article64946568.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tribal resident gets house for giving land for training centre||A 65-year-old tribal resident of Kongadai village in West Bargur Hills in Erode district, who gave land for constructing a special training centre (STC) under the National Child Labour Project (NCLP), was gifted with an eco-friendly house recently. Located 80 km away from Erode, agriculture is the primary source of income for the people in the tribal village that lacked access to education, mobile connectivity and public transportation. Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural (SUDAR), a Sathyamangalam-based NGO, established two special training centres at the village and enrolled rescued child workers. S.C. Natraj, Director, SUDAR, said that due to space crunch at the centres, the organisation decided to construct another centre when Jadayan of ST Colony contributed 2,300 sq ft land in 2010. “He is fondly called Kalvi Thandai Jadayan Thatha now”, he said and added that Mr. Jadayan was living in a thatched house all these years. Hence, the organisation decided to construct a house for him. An eco-friendly house was constructed and named after Birsa Munda, a tribal freedom fighter in the then Bengal Presidency in the late 19th century. Subbulakshmi Jegadeesan, deputy general secretary, DMK, S. Sivanandan, Secretary, Erode Sengunthar Educational Trust, P.V. Baladandayutham, district president, Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association, Mr. Natraj and a few others took part in the function to hand over the key to Mr. Jadayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-resident-gets-house-for-giving-land-for-training-centre/article64946564.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 1,220 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Sunday reported 1,220 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,17,418. While 554 persons were discharged, 6,291 continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 1,074 new cases taking the overall tally to 1,11,731. While 795 persons were discharged, 5,457 continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 695 cases taking the tally to 59,705. While 394 persons were discharged, 3,172 continue to be under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-1220-new-covid-19-cases/article38316586.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Marathon planned against child marriages||A Sathyamangalam-based NGO, Right Education and Development Centre (READ), has planned to conduct a marathon on the occasion of International Women’s Day on March 8. A release said that the 10-km marathon would be held from SRT School to Four Road Government Higher Secondary School in Sathyamangalam. Prizes would be given to the winners. First prize – Rs. 10,000, second prize Rs. 8,000, third prize – Rs. 6,000, fourth prize – Rs. 4,000 and fifth prize – Rs. 2,000. Also, participants in the age group of 16 to 30 would be given certificates and T-shirts. The marathon is held to protect girl child from child marriage, child labour and against sexual harassment. Interested persons can register with the NGO at 94875-06327 and 99761-23011, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marathon-planned-against-child-marriages/article38316589.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Elephant carcass found||A tusker was found dead by a forest patrol team in Anchetty forests. The carcass was sighted in Manji forests of Anchetty forest range. A team led by Ancherry forest range officer Seetharaman along with the forest veterinarian Prakash inspected the carcass.The carcass was later buried in the forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-carcass-found/article38316585.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen concentrator banks being established||The district administration has launched a campaign to establish Oxygen concentrator banks at the level of Primary Health Centres. At each centre, three to four oxygen concentrators will be placed to cater to patients recovering in home isolation. Those who might need oxygen post-recovery could also make use of this provision as per the risk assessment, and on the basis of recommendation of medical officers of GH, Karaikal, or the PHC concerned. A health staff will explain to family members how to use the oxygen concentrator, Collector Arjun Sharma said in a press release. Medical officers will stay in touch with those being supplied with oxygen concentrator, and if need be, will see through their hospital admission.After recovery, the oxygen concentrators will be taken back and sanitised, and made available to other needy patients. Patients may contact the District Health Helpline 04368-261242 for utilising the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-concentrator-banks-being-established/article38316533.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Jallikattu colosseum can house a martial arts academy’||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin has delighted the people of Madurai by announcing a number of well-designed and visionary infrastructure projects for Madurai, said Agrofood Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In a press release, its president S. Rethinavelu said a state-of-the-art colosseum for jallikattu at Alanganallur, besides attracting a large number of foreign tourists to Madurai, could be used for training youth in other native martial arts. A museum on traditional bull breeds there will attract visitors to Alanganallur throughout the year. This facility will add strength to the long-standing demand to upgrade Madurai airport to an international airport. New flyovers planned at Viraganur, Apollo Hospital, Mandela Nagar and Goripalayam junctions, extending the road on the north bank of the Vaigai river, widening of Melakkal Road, shifting of the wholesale markets to city outskirts, shifting of Madurai Central Prison out of the corporation limits and converting the space into a green zone were commendable. MUDA The formation of Madurai Urban Development Authority (MUDA) on the lines of Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) is a basic requirement for the implementation of various projects for the development of Madurai, the gateway to southern Tamil Nadu. This will ensure a planned development, the release said. A new SIPCOT Industrial Park will be a boon to Madurai and neighbouring districts with a lot of opportunities in food processing. Madurai district will also see a massive growth in agrofood sector. All these plans would ensure an all-round development of Madurai which has been neglected so far, compared to the western districts. Ministers Palanivel Thiaga Rajan and P. Murthy had given their support and input for these projects, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jallikattu-colosseum-can-house-a-martial-arts-academy/article38316725.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sunday dawned with deserted roads and closed shops||Arterial roads, main junctions, bus stands, markets and residential areas in the city wore a deserted look on Sunday. The Sunday lockdown for the third consecutive week passed off peacefully with strict compliance to the COVID-19 guidelines. The State government had imposed the Sunday lockdown in order to contain the spread of COVID-19. Residents preferred to stay indoors for most part of the day. Police personnels were deployed at main locations. A police officer said that similar to the first and the second Sunday lockdown, the third one also passed off peacefully. Not many people were out on the roads this Sunday. The people have cooperated with the authorities, he said. He said that the police were vigilant but were not very strict as the purpose of the lockdown was adhered to. Very few vehicles were seen plying on the roads in the city. Emergency Service vehicles and people with valid reasons were allowed to travel, he said. Of the few vehicles that were plying on the city roads were that of food delivery executives and people out for medical purposes. Only those people who had to step out for emergency purposes were permitted to travel during the Sunday lockdown. Medical stores, hospitals, petrol bunks and a few restaurants were open. As per guidelines, the restaurants were open for parcel services only. Some of the food delivery executives in the city said that it was duty as usual for them on Sunday. They said that they had to work in order to make ends meet. They had suffered financially due to COVID-19, they said. Some residents said that they had made their purchase a day earlier itself so that they did not have to go out to buy things on Sunday. In the evening, people started coming out of their homes. In residential areas, the local people could be seen going out for a walk. Vehicular movement also increased to some extent. While some of them were seen wearing masks, others were seen without masks. The Transport Officials ensured that omni buses were not operated during the Sunday lockdown. The booking centres were closed and it was also ensured that no tickets were booked on the booking portals. Police Personnel were deployed at the Omni Bus Terminus at Mattuthavani to ensure compliance with the COVID-19 guidelines. Southern districts The third consecutive Sunday lockdown saw roads in major towns of Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts deserted throughout the day. The police kept a close watch at check posts. Those who wanted to proceed for weddings were asked to show the invitation. In some places, conservancy workers utilised the roads devoid of people and traffic to clear sand accumulated on the road margins. The day also saw tourist places such as Agasthiar Falls, Manimuthar, Kalakkad, Thalaiyanai, and Courtallam devoid of people. Along with other commercial establishments, the VOC Market and Kamaraj Vegetable Market in Thoothukudi also remained closed.Fisheremen did not venture into the sea and salt pans remained closed. With the total suspension of operation of State and private buses, the old and new bus stands wore a deserted a look. Tiruchendur was also devoid of devotees. As many as 1,500 police personnel were on duty during the Sunday lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sunday-dawned-with-deserted-roads-and-closed-shops/article64946535.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||100 sovereigns of stolen gold jewellery recovered||The Madurai district police and Madurai City Police have solved several burglary cases and recovered over 100 sovereigns of gold since Saturday. A special team of Madurai district police solved several burglary cases with the arrest of one accused from Sattur on Saturday. Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said that 63 sovereigns of gold, one diamond necklace and Rs. 1.5 lakh were burgled from the house of S. Tirumavalavan (62) of Christian Colony in Tirumangalam on December 24. The police team was able to zero in on Muthuraj alias Sujit (30) of Sattur in connection with the burglary.However, the accused was absconding and the special team was on the lookout for him. After the team arrested him on Saturday, he had reportedly confessed to have been involved in several similar crimes in Tiruchi, Erode and Coimbatore districts. The police was able to recover 63 sovereigns of gold from him. The SP appreciated the special team for the arrest of the accused and recovery of stolen properties. Meanwhile, Madurai City Police have recovered 45 sovereigns of gold and Rs. 80,000 from three accused involved in various burglary and theft cases in the city. The police identified the accused as M. Mohideen (32) of Dharmapuri district, his brother Sadiq Batcha and their associate, D. Gopinath (32) of Alanganallur. The police said that the accused had confessed to have burgled homes and stolen valuables from people in K. K. Nagar, Anna Nagar and Mattuthavani areas. Deputy Commissioner of Police T. K. Rajasekaran appreciated the special team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/100-sovereigns-of-stolen-gold-jewellery-recovered/article64946532.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Digitisation of over 10,000 rare books and palm leaf scripts under way||Digitisation of over 10,000 rare books, documents and palm leaf scripts of century-old Daniel Poor Memorial Library of the American College began here on Friday. The work, under Tamil Nadu Digital Library project of the State Government, is expected to be completed by a team of experts, led by Madurai District Library and Information Officer Yasodha by the next two months. Speaking at the inaugural function on the college premises, Principal M. Davamani Christober said that after having digitised the rare books in Anna Centenary Library, Madurai Kamaraj University library and Senthamil College in Madurai, the work on books and palm scripts of American College library has been taken up. “Daniel Poor Memorial Library was set up after an American missionary in 1915. It has got over 1.55 lakh books,” the Principal said. Among them would be The Holy Bible in Hebrew belonging to 1720. Stating that the younger generation, that is addicted to electronic gadgets, were not coming to libraries any more to read books, he said the digitisation would take all rare books to them through their mobile phones and laptops and make them read. Besides two senior faculty members from the college, Daniel Rubaraj and Justine Manohar would coordinate with the team. A separate hall has been provided with scanner facility on the college premises to take up the project. The digitised books would be uploaded through American College website so that people across the world can access them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digitisation-of-over-10000-rare-books-palm-leaf-scripts-under-way/article64946533.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||School correspondent moves HC seeking quashing of FIR||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought response from the State in a petition filed by the Correspondent of Schaffter Higher Secondary School, Tirunelveli, seeking to quash the FIR against him. In December last year, three students of the government-aided school were crushed to death when a wall inside the school premises collapsed. Four other school students were injured in the incident. A case was booked against the Correspondent, the Headmistress and the Contractor. In his petition, the school Correspondent K. Selvakumar said he was names the first accused. He had been appointed school Correspondent only three months prior to the incident. The petitioner denied the allegations levelled against him. He said that at the time of the incident, Tirunelveli witnessed heavy rainfall. The school had a valid stability certificate and received a no objection certificate from the Fire and Rescue Services Department, he said. Justice G.R. Swaminathan adjourned the hearing by a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-correspondent-moves-hc-seeking-quashing-of-fir/article38316594.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||High Court Bench directs Centre to grant pension to freedom fighter’s wife||Bringing relief to the wife of a freedom fighter, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Centre to process the application made by the woman seeking the grant of pension under Swatantrata Sainik Samman pension scheme. The petitioner, M. Sornam of Thanjavur district, said her husband M. Muthaiya had served in the Indian National Army under the leadership of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. She said her husband was arrested and jailed in Burma (Myanmar). He was detained in Pegu Detention Camp from May-July 1945 and transferred to Rangoon Central Prison where he was detained from August 1945 to April 1946. His co-prisoner S. Raju, a member of the Indian National Army, had endorsed the detention of her husband, she said and added that she was getting a pension from the State government. But the Centre had rejected her application. Her husband had applied twice to the Centre for pension in 1987. But they were rejected. In 1991, her husband died, she said. The Centre did not accept the co-prisoner certificate and said the petitioner had not given a valid Non Availability of Records Certificate (NARC). The co-prisoner’s certificate was not accepted by the authorities on the grounds that it was certified only till December 1945 and a valid Non Availability of Records Certificate had to be provided by the State government. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan took note of the fact that the co-prisoner had issued the certificate only till December 1945 as he had been detained only till then. It was obvious that he could not give a certificate about further incarceration of the petitioner’s husband. With respect to NARC, the Centre could have clarified it with the State government by taking into account the plight of the widows of freedom fighters, the judge said. The court directed the Centre to process the application made by the petitioner. “The executive arm should realise that every step towards achieving the goal of independence required sacrifice and suffering of freedom fighters, who, each, by taking their own small step, had played a part in achieving that goal. A fervent hope can only be expressed that there will be an attitudinal change in the mindset of the officialdom in recognising at least the widows of those valiant warriors. The Raj era had ended. Let Swaraj be given to these unfortunate victims who now suffer at the hands of the modern day bureaucrat,” the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-directs-centre-to-grant-pension-to-freedom-fighters-wife/article64946391.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Constable dies||A woman constable, D. Kalavathi (40), who collapsed at S. S. Colony on Saturday night died on the way to Government Rajaji Hospital. The police said that the constable, who had health issues, was about to leave for home after duty when she swooned on the station premises at around 9.45 p.m. The police rushed her to a private hospital from where she was referred to the GRH.However, she died on the way. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha and other senior police officials paid their respect at the GRH on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-dies/article38316561.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNEB Assistant Engineer held for job scam||An Assistant Engineer with Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB) in Sholavandan, M. Satya. 34, was arrested in connection with a job scam. Police said that K. Deivam, 56, of Usilampatti lodged a complaint with the Madurai District Crime Branch stating that Sathya had taken Rs. 20 lakh from him on the promise of getting a job in Tamil Nadu Electricity Board. Inquiry revealed that Assistant Engineer had received Rs. 2 lakh from another person also. She was booked for cheating and criminal breach of trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tneb-assistant-engineer-held-for-job-scam/article38316562.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu government and DMK played their part in OBC reservation in all-India quota seats||Tamil Nadu’s ruling DMK and the State government played the role of a driving force in the long road that culminated in the Supreme Court’s validation last week of the OBC quota for NEET-all-India quota seats in medical college admissions. It was the DMK, represented by senior advocate P. Wilson (now a Rajya Sabha member), which instituted a writ petition before the Supreme Court seeking a mandamus. But the party was asked to take its case to the Madras High Court in June 2020. In the High Court, the DMK argued that the all-India quota seats at State-run medical and dental institutions in Tamil Nadu ought to follow the reservation policy as applicable under an Act of 1993. However, the High Court deferred the case, saying it had to be heard by the Supreme Court where a similar issue was pending. Back in the Supreme Court, on July 13, 2020, the petitions were disposed of on the ground that the issue raised in the High Court was different from the one pending with the top court. Finally, the High Court, on July 27, 2020, held there were no legal or constitutional impediments to extending reservation to the OBCs in the all-India quota seats in the medical colleges in Tamil Nadu. The High Court had then directed the Union government to constitute an expert committee for implementing reservation for the OBCs in the seats surrendered by Tamil Nadu to the all-India quota. But the High Court had observed that the reservation should be implemented only from the academic year 2021-22 since it would disturb the selection process set in motion for the academic year of 2020-21. The State challenged the order in the Supreme Court, which upheld the High Court’s decision. Meanwhile, the Union government constituted an expert committee to determine the modalities of granting reservation to the OBC candidates in the all-India quota seats in undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the State-run medical colleges within Tamil Nadu from the academic year 2021-22. But the DMK filed a contempt petition before the High Court against the Union for non-implementation of the OBC reservation in the all-India quota seats. However, the Union government issued its notice of July 29, 2021, to implement 27% OBC reservation (non-creamy layer) and 10% reservation for the economically weaker section in the 15% undergraduate and 50% postgraduate all-India quota seats in the current academic session of 2021-22. The Supreme Court, earlier this month, upheld the constitutional validity of the OBC reservation in the all-India quota medical and dental undergraduate and PART B 10 postgraduate seats. The constitutionality of the criteria used for the identification of the economically weaker section is yet to be decided. Appearing before a Bench, led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, last week, Mr. Wilson said the judgment would go a long way in the fight for social equality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-government-and-dmk-played-their-part-in-obc-reservation-in-all-india-quota-seats/article38316435.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Untreated sewage pollutes historic Aayi Kulam in U.T.||The historic Aayi Kulam in Muthurayarpalayam was once the lifeline of the city. During the French regime, it was the perennial source of drinking water for Puducherry. Legend has it that King Krishnadeva Raya (A.D. 1509-1530) of the Vijayanagara empire, while on a visit to the house of Uiyyakunda Viswaraya Mudaliar in Villianur, mistook the house of Aayi, a courtesan, for a temple, and bowed before it. When he was told that it was a Devadasi’s house, he ordered its demolition. Aayi pleaded with the king not to do that, and decided to dig a pond there to quench the thirst of the people. The pond later served as a source of drinking water for the entire city during the French regime. During the 18th Century, the city experienced water scarcity. Napoleon Bonaparte III deputed his engineer, Lamairesse, to solve the problem. Lamairesse stumbled upon the pond constructed by Aayi in Muthurayarpalayam and brought water through canals to the area where the Bharathi Park is located. But the present condition of the tank is pathetic. It has now become a cesspool, with sewage from over 20 habitations, including Iyyankuttipalayam, Dharmapuri, Kurumbapet and Muthurayarpalayam, draining directly into the Muthurayarpalayam drain and, eventually, the tank, residents say. All government agencies have turned a blind eye to the release of untreated sewage and rampant encroachments, they allege. “The pond is now strewn with plastic bags, bottles and solid waste. Every drain that connects one pond to the other has been almost ruined due to non-stop dumping of garbage by residents. The drain abutting the Aayi Kulam that links Kanagan lake and other waterbodies is also in a complete mess. There seems to be no end to the systematic destruction of waterbodies in Puducherry,” said K. Ramamoorthy, president of Sembadugai Naneeragam, an environmental organisation. Several houses have come up on poramboke lands located on the fringes of the pond. Sewer lines were not laid before developing them, and all the inlets leading to the main drains are choked. Sewage needs to be diverted to proper sewer lines and channelled to the sewage treatment plant at Kanagan lake. “There is a need to erect barricades around the tank to prevent people from disposing waste,” Mr. Ramamoorthy said. “It is pathetic to see the present condition of the pond, which was once a perennial source of drinking water and the ‘theppakulam’ for local temple festivals. During the post-merger days, the administration had dug 12 borewells opposite the pond to draw sub-soil water at the rate of 20 lakh million litres per day,” an environmentalist said. “For more than a decade, the pond had small puddles and filled up during the rain. But now, the water table has depleted, and it has become a collection point for untreated sewage. Fear has spread among the locals that the borewells located near the pond may also have been contaminated,” he said. Steps for revival Mr. Ramamoorthy pointed out that successive governments had taken steps to revive the pond by drawing water from the Oussudu lake and channelling it to the Aayi pond situated a few metres away from the pumping station at Muthurayarpalayam. Though funds to the tune of Rs. 75 lakh were released for laying pipelines, the work didn’t take off. Broken pipes were still seen in the pond, he said. An official said sewage had entered the pond due to leakage from the drain connecting the Kanagan lake. “Sandbags have been placed at the inlet, and we will look into the level of pollution,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/untreated-sewage-pollutes-historic-aayi-kulam-in-ut/article64946486.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID spread masked by under-detection’||Assailing the government for failing to draw up an effective response to the worrying spread of COVID-19 in the third wave, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said while cases were increasing at a rapid rate, the actual magnitude of spread was masked by under-detection due to low test volumes. In a virtual press conference, the senior Congress leader said even with under-detection of incidence, there had been a dramatic increase in fresh infections, in the range of 2,000 to 3,000 daily, as well as some of the highest test positivity rates (TPR) that the Union Territory had ever seen. ‘More tests’ If there are more tests, the actual number of cases would be known, Mr. Narayanasamy said. He called for taking testing to the rural areas and reaching out to the villagers, where there was no proper guidance on treatment or isolation measures. New Year Celebrations According to Mr. Narayanasamy, the surge in cases was solely because of the "foolhardy decision" to allow New Year celebrations, after which infections began to rise in Puducherry immediately. Even after the decision of Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister N. Rangasamy to permit New Year celebrations against the advice of political leaders, including himself, was criticised, neither of them had come up with a rationale, Mr. Narayanasamy said. The departments concerned were also very lax on the enforcement of COVID-19 norms, he added. The net result of all this was that the administration, instead of protecting people’s health endangered it, Mr. Narayanasamy alleged.  Even with under-detection of incidence, there has been a dramatic increase in fresh infections in the range of 2,000 to 3,000 daily V. Narayanasamy Former Chief Minister of Puducherry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-spread-masked-by-under-detection/article64946366.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jipmer will not deny services to the needy, says Lieutenant Governor||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said Jipmer officials had given an assurance that needy patients would not be denied treatment due to COVID-19-related restrictions on outpatient (OP) visits. Following a meeting with Jipmer Director Rakesh Aggarwal at Raj Nivas, the Lieutenant Governor said she had specifically asked to ensure that measures for reducing overcrowding did not come in the way of offering emergency and essential services to the needy. Earlier, Jipmer officials said a large number of physicians were infected and this was one reason behind restricting OP visits. To reduce the risk of transmission to those going to outpatient department (OPD) for consultation, Jipmer had decided to commence teleconsultation services and to limit the number of in-person OP consultations to 50 pre-registered patients, in each department last week. ‘Rescind the system’ Meanwhile, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy flayed Jipmer’s decision to limit healthcare services to pre-registered patients. As insisting on online registration for appointments will put essential medical care beyond the scores of the rural poor, seeking refuge in Jipmer from the region, he urged the administration to rescind the system and render healthcare services to all needy, who turn up at the institution, irrespective of whether they had registered or not. Jipmer said in a press note that it was complying with the instructions issued in the interest of the common man by the Lieutenant Governor that OPD services in Jipmer should continue in "letter and spirit". ‘Fake messages’ Terming recent messages circulating in some news outlets and social media that Jipmer had closed OPD services as false, Mr. Aggarwal said all OPDs continued to attend to patients, who have taken prior appointment. Additionally, doctors are providing treatment through teleconsultation and prescribing medicines via e-prescription, eliminating the need for in-person visits. Reiterating that the decision to reduce the number of people attending its OPD had been taken to ensure safety of patients and prevent Omicron spread, Jipmer added that the restrictions were short-term measures, in compliance with the social distancing norms of the Government of India. It is not possible to enforce these norms with the usual 10,000 new patient registrations in the institute. The institute authorities are regularly reviewing the COVID-19 situation and the restrictions will be revoked as soon as fresh cases subsides. Jipmer appealed to those who have trivial illnesses to seek treatment from doctors in their own town or neighbourhood, instead of coming to Jipmer. Patients in need of their monthly supply of drugs for chronic ailments are requested to get it from government health centres in their locality or from a generic pharmacy such as Jan Aushadhi, for the time being. Patients with more serious ailments can always take prior appointment on teleconsultation so that they are promptly attended to when they come to Jipmer and do not have to spend a long time in a crowded OPD. Jipmer continues to provide all emergency services, performing all essential surgical and other non-COVID procedures. Intensive care and treatment for cancer and kidney failure patients is continuing, despite several healthcare workers and their family being infected, Jipmer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jipmer-will-not-deny-services-to-the-needy-says-lieutenant-governor/article38316554.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. sees highest single-day COVID-19 toll in months||The Union Territory recorded five COVID-19 deaths, the highest single-day toll in several months, and logged 1,897 fresh cases, detected from 4,801 tests, on Sunday. All the five deaths occurred in Puducherry, taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,906. The patients, including one woman, were in the 55-90 age range and had one or more co-morbidities. The Union Territory has recorded as many as 19 deaths due to COVID-19 inside a week. Puducherry accounts for 1,488 of the overall toll, followed by 255 in Karaikal, 109 in Yanam 109 and 54 in Mahe. Of the fresh cases, Puducherry logged 1,395, Karaikal 342, Yanam 116 and Mahe 44. With 1,264 recoveries from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 15,696, of which 174 were in hospital and 15,522 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 39.51%, the case fatality rate 1.25% and the recovery rate 88.44%. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,52,213 cases and 1,34,611 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 21.29 lakh tests conducted till date, over 17.94 lakh returned negative. In all, 2,631 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered a total of 15,21,213 doses. Meanwhile, Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said the rise in COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory was part of a third wave surge across the country, and urged people to keep a vigil against the pandemic and follow COVID-19-appropriate norms. Interacting with reporters after garlanding the statue of veteran freedom fighter Netaji Subash Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary, the Lieutenant Governor said although a total lockdown was enforced in several States, Puducherry had not done so in the interests of the livelihoods of people. She appealed to people to not be complacent and adhere to safety protocols, and added that hospitals had been fully equipped to cope with any rise in admissions. Other districts Cuddalore district reported three deaths and 352 fresh cases on Sunday, which took the district’s tally to 69,627. Two men, aged 74 and 76, and a 77-year-old woman died of the disease, taking the toll to 881. The district saw 65,615 recoveries and the active case count stood at 2,689. Villupuram district recorded 533 fresh cases, taking the total number of cases to 49,962. Kallakurichi district recorded 224 cases, taking the overall tally to 34,010.  The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,52,213 cases and 1,34,611 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 21.29 lakh tests conducted till date, over 17.94 lakh returned negative||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-sees-highest-single-day-toll-in-months-1897-fresh-cases-recorded/article64946368.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for forging G.O. on lockdown restrictions in U.T.||The Puducherry Cyber Crime police, on Sunday, arrested a youth on charges of forging a government order on COVID-19 lockdown restrictions in the Union Territory and posting it as his WhatsApp status. Police said the accused, Praveen Kumar, of Uruvaiyar near Villianur, downloaded and forged the government document, dated April 21, 2021, on his phone. He reportedly forged the date on the order and posted the same as his WhatsApp status to create panic among members of the public. Following a complaint lodged by Puducherry Collector E. Vallavan, the Cyber Crime police registered a case and he was arrested and his mobile phone was seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-forging-a-go-on-lockdown/article38316481.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Turtle trapped in net released into sea||An Olive Ridley turtle which got caught in a fisherman’s net was rescued and released into the sea on Saturday. The fisherman, J. Pasupathy of Therkku Puthukkudiyiruppu in Manamelkudi taluk, upon returning to the shore on Saturday morning in his boat, noticed the trapped turtle, a protected marine species under Schedule I of The Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. He alerted the Forest Department officials who retrieved the turtle from the net and released it into the sea with the assistance of local fishers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/turtle-trapped-in-net-released-into-sea/article64946408.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Consecration of shrine in Ramanathapuram||The Maha Samprokshanam of Kothandaramar Temple here was performed on Sunday.  The 400-year-old temple under the administration of Ramanathapuram Samasthana Devasthanam was renovated at a cost of Rs. 45 lakh. Diwan of Samasthanam V.K. Palanivel Pandian said Rani Sethupathi R.B.K. Rajeswari Nachiyar, hereditary trustee, took up the renovation work two years ago. Several works such as repair of compound wall, flooring and fresh coat of painting, besides amenities for devotees, were taken up. The works were delayed due to COVID-19, he said.  The consecration of the temple was done by a team of priests between 9 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. in which Rani Lakshmi Nachiyar and Nagendra Sethupathi were present. The Samprokshanam of the temple was last performed in 2004.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consecration-of-shrine-in-ramanathapuram-held/article64946393.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen demand more compensation for seized boats||There has been a mixed reaction from fishermen associations to the announcement by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin that the State government would give Rs. 5 lakh for mechanised boats and Rs. 1.5 Lakh for country craft seized by Sri Lankan Navy. While the Rameswaram All Mechanised Boat Fishermen’s Association has thankedthe Chief Minister, the District Country Craft Fishermen Welfare Association has demanded an increase in compensation for their boats to Rs. 5 lakh. Representatives of mechanised fishermen association met the Chief Minister in Chennai recently in the presence of DMK MLA Kadhar Batcha Muthuramalingam and Minister for Fisheries Anitha R. Radhakrishnan. The association demanded compensation for mechanised boats seized by the Sri Lankan Navy but could not be salvaged back to India.It also sought relief for a mechanised boat belonging to Vasthiyan of Thangachimadam that sank in high seas after it was hit by a Sri Lankan Naval ship on Friday. Besides, it wanted the bank loan obtained by fishermen to buy deep sea fishing boats waived off. Meanwhile, country craft fishermen association president S.P. Rayappan handed over a memorandum to Thoothukudi MP M.K. Kanimozhi on Saturday. The association thanked the State government for announcement of compensation. It said the cost of the boat, motor, fishing net and other paraphernalia was around Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 15 lakh depending upon the size of the craft. Hence, the compensation announced by the Chief Minister for country craft should be increased to Rs. 5 lakh. Mr. Rayappan said the association members wanted to meet the Chief Minister to impress upon him their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-demand-more-compensation-for-seized-boats/article64946390.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Boy drowns in tank||A seven-year-old boy, M. Noor Muhammad of Kattupalli, drowned in a tank at Erwadi on Sunday. Police said the deceased went with his mother Sajira Begum, 27, to the tank along East Coast Road. Even as his mother washed clothes, he got down into the tank and drowned. He was rescued and rushed in a ‘108’ ambulance to Government Hospital at Kilakarai.However, he was declared ‘brought dead’.Erwadi Dargah police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-drowns-in-tank/article38316534.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level drops to 110.80 ft in Mettur dam||Water level at the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur stood at 110.80 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 120 feet on Sunday. At 8 a.m., the inflow stood at 758 cusecs and the discharge was 8,000 cusecs into River Cauvery. The storage was 79.55 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) againstthe full capacity of 93.47 tmc ft. Water level at the Bhavanisagar dam in Erode dropped below 100 feet and stood at 99.25 feet against the FRL of 105 feet. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 855 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project canal, 700 cusecs into Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs into River Bhavani for drinking water purpose. The storage was 28.14 tmc ft against the capacity of 32.80 tmc ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-drops-in-mettur-dam/article38316470.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 55,000 persons vaccinated during mega camp||A total of 55,354 persons were vaccinated at the 19thmega vaccination camps held across the district on Saturday. Health officials said that while 28,552 received their COVID-19 doses in Salem rural, and 10,610 persons received their vaccine in Corporation limits. In Attur Health Unit District, a total of 16,192 persons received vaccine doses, they added. In Erode, 18,702 persons received vaccine doses in camps that were held at 503 centres across the district. In Namakkal, 13,449 persons received vaccine during the mega camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-55000-persons-vaccinated-during-mega-camp/article38316591.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Explosion creates flutter||An explosion that was reported at Kottaiyur near Watrap after a tractor ran over a mysterious object created a flutter here on Sunday afternoon. Superintendent of Police M. Manohar, who inspected the spot, said a bomb used for poaching wild boars and dumped in garbage exploded when the tractor ran over it. However, no one was injured and the tractor was not damaged in the incident. Six more bombs were found near a stream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/explosion-creates-flutter/article38316556.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tusks seized||Officials of the Department of Forests on Sunday seized a pair of elephant tusks and arrested nine persons, at Devathanapatti in Theni district. Acting on a tip-off, the officials, led by the District Forest Officer, Kodaikanal, P.K. Dileep, arrested the accused and seized the tusks. “When we got information from the Protection and Vigilance Wing of our department that a gang was trying to sell the tusks , we rounded them up,” said Mr. Dileep. Stating that the tusks had changed many hands in the last 10 to 15 years, Mr. Dileep said investigation was under way to ascertain the source of the tusks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pair-of-tusks-seized-nine-held-near-theni/article38316558.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stare at another loss||First it failed to rain. Then it rained continuously causing loss to farmers who had chosen to cultivate black gram, green gram, cumbu, maize, sorghum and onion. Despite the plants getting rotten due to the sustained wet condition, the farmers of karisal bhoomi (black cotton soil) of Vilathikulam, Ettayapuram and Kadambur did not give up. They used the last opportunity of the season to cultivate coriander and sunflower.But, after over month of cultivation, they are staring at another round of loss. Coriander can be grown only in pure black cotton soil. Therefore, the farmers of Pudur and Vilathikulam cultivate it. “In rest of the areas, like Muthalapuram, Eral, Kazhugumalai, Kayathar, Vilathikulam and Pudur, they went for the traditional sunflower cultivation,” said A. Varadarajan, president of Karisal Bhoomi Farmers’ Association. Though the State government had warned about lack of adequate germination in sunflower, the farmers went all the way to Telangana, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh to buy seeds.“Big companies had not produced the sunflower seeds this year.The seed was not available anywhere in Thoothukudi district.The farmers bought it for a premium in other States,” he said. However, after more than a month of sowing, the farmers were now disappointed as the flowers in the plants were abnormally smaller in size and they did not have any seeds, Mr. Varadarajan said. Stating that the crop cultivated on 10,000 acres had failed and there was no possibility of getting any yield, Mr. Varadarajan wanted the district administration to take up field inspection for crop loss and distribute compensation under crop insurance scheme at the earliest. The farmers have lost five to six quintals of seeds. Mr. Varadarajan said the compensation for the crops lost in 2020-2021 under the crop insurance scheme was yet to be distributed. “The farmers cannot wait for compensation any more as they have lost crops for two continuous years,” he added. The woes also continued for coriander farmers as the cold condition for the last few days was threatening to force withering of flowers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stare-at-another-round-of-loss/article64946399.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Thoothukudi port poised to become major hub’||The Thoothukudi port has the ability and potential to bring development to the State and become a major industrial hub/port city, said Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi at the ninth edition of CII Logistics 2022. Speaking at the event on the Future of Thoothukudi port city, she said the State government was working towards the development of the port into an industrial hub and the local people also welcomed this. Pointing to the efforts made in this regard, she saidthe Chief Minister promised Rs. 1,000 crore investment for the development of the port and this would help the port grab more opportunities and draw more investments. First-of-its-kind This first of its kind development in South East Asia would create a great impetus for the development of the Southern Districts in the State, she contended. Tamil Nadu had a rare combination of good infrastructure with skilled workers and young professionals. Cemtre-State efforts With the Centre and State government working together in this regard, it would take Thoothukudi to a level of industrial development which will also help in the overall development of Tamil Nadu. Minister for Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Geetha Jeevan appreciated the efforts taken so far by the authorities to develop the port city. The event was attended by Collector K. Senthil Raj, Chairman of TIIC Hans Raj Verma, Chairman of VOC Port Trust T.K. Ramachandran, Chairman of CII Tamil Nadu S. Chandrakumar and CEO of DP World Subcontinent Rizwan Soomar. Chairman of CII Thoothukudi Chapter Michael Motha welcomed the participants to the event that was held in the virtual mode. Member, CII, Antony Thomas proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoothukudi-poised-to-become-major-industrial-and-port-hub-says-kanimozhi/article38316577.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||NHAI told to convert stretch of highway into six-lane road||The Tiruchi district administration has asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to convert the four-lane Tiruchi-Madurai highway into a six-lane road near Panchapur, where a new integrated bus terminus has been proposed. The bus terminus project, which is a long-pending demand of the people of Tiruchi, is gaining momentum with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin laying the foundation stone for it recently. The Tiruchi Corporation, which has about 550 acres of land at Panchapur on the outskirts of Tiruchi on Madurai highway, has cleared about 50 acres of land for the project. Though the salient features of the terminus are yet to be finalised, officials expect that the Detailed Project Report (DPR), which is being prepared by a Bengaluru-based consultant, will have details on various aspects, including design and elevation of the bus terminus and passenger amenities. As per the instruction of Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru, Collector S. Sivarasu and Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman reviewed the progress made in the project. Since it is projected as a model terminus in the region, the officials have been collecting inputs from various experts and stakeholders to include as many facilities as possible. It is expected that at least six roads would cross the Tiruchi-Madurai highway near Panchapur, thereby raising hopes of manifold increase in traffic in and around the new bus terminus, necessitating a six lane road. Collector S. Sivarasu, who held a number of meetings with various officials over the new bus terminus project, told The Hindu that it was important to make provisions for the hassle free operations of city and long distance buses, omni buses and lorries and trucks from the bus terminus to various destinations. It should address the future population as well as number of vehicles in the next 30 to 40 years. Hence, the NHAI had been asked to convert the highway into six lane for at least one km from Panchapur. Mr. Sivarasu added that he had sent an official letter to the NHAI on the need of expanding the highway. The district administration would take all possible steps to NHAI for the expansion plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nhai-told-to-convert-stretch-of-highway-into-six-lane-road/article38316541.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Noise pollution high in Tiruchi||Despite the lockdown and the new normal of restricted working hours, not many places in the city can claim to be noise-free. Whether it is the din caused by road traffic, factory sirens, construction sites, fireworks or amplified announcements and songs played over public address systems, Tiruchi’s residents are being increasingly exposed to ‘second-hand noise.’  The lockdown’s new emphasis on mobile vending has given many sellers a chance to publicise their ware through audio announcements played on loop. This is more common in areas such as Thillai Nagar where a significant number of commercial enterprises co-exist with individual houses and apartments. “The advertisements start at around 6 a.m. and as more sellers join in through the day, it becomes a flood of noise - be it vegetable, herbal coffee, clothes or snacks, everything under the sun is being sold amid this cacophony. The noise is unbearable, especially when it goes on until late evening,” K.V. Narayanan, a long-time resident of Thillai Nagar, told The Hindu .  A new sonic disturbance has emerged in the form of public service announcements (PSAs) played at the traffic junctions in Tiruchi, where messages about COVID-19 safety protocols are interspersed with instrumental film melodies. While well-intentioned, the PSAs are more of a menace to the permanent residents and those who work on the road, such as labourers and police personnel, said city resident K. Mahadevan. “I have stopped opening my windows because the loud announcements at the traffic junction give me a headache,” he said. “The noise is especially disturbing for hospitals and schools, which are officially meant to be silent zones. People working daily in the vicinity of the noisy area like labourers and policemen, are indirectly affected by the noise. Is there any proof that these announcements will help the road user or motorist?” he said. A recent study by Gnanamani College of Engineering, Namakkal, used Geographical Information System (GIS) mapping to measure the noise levels in Railway Junction, 2020 Food Corner, Ponnagar Post Office, Bharathiar Salai and Dr. Ambedkar Street. Road noise levels between 17.24 to 72.62 decibels were recorded during peak and non-peak hours of traffic. Noise pollution is a threat not just to the environment, but also human health. Prolonged exposure to unwanted sounds can disturb mental balance, increase sensitivity to stress and can also creating permanent hearing loss, say medical studies. “Noise pollution has destroyed the calm of our neighbourhood. I hope the authorities will frame some guidelines on this soon,” said Mr. Narayanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/noise-pollution-high-in-tiruchi/article64946577.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Five pieces of elephant tusk seized, two arrested||In a joint operation, officials of the Forest Department and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau on Sunday seized five small pieces of elephant tusk and arrested two persons in this connection. Acting on a tip-off, the joint team swung into action and confiscated the tusk pieces from two persons - Arunpandi and Soundararajan - at Devarayaneri Narikuravar Colony on the city’s outskirts. They were carved in such a manner to look like tiger nails andin smallchips, said forest officials. The Forest Department is conducting an investigation. An Assistant Conservator of Forest, Protection and Vigilance, Chennai and an Assistant Conservator of Forest, Forest Protection Squad, Tiruchi were part of the team that made the seizure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-pieces-of-elephant-tusk-seized-two-arrested/article38316536.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi City Police trace 16 persons missing this month||The Tiruchi City Police have traced 16 of 20 missing persons this month and handed them over to their family members. Special police teams have been formed to trace the whereabouts of the remaining persons. In one such instance, the police traced a woman who had left her home in Puthur along with her two children due to family problems. Acting on a complaint from the woman’s husband, the police took steps and traced her and their two children.In another instance, the police traced within 24 hours two children who were missing from their housein Ariyamangalam area and handed them to their mother, the complainant. A release said Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan appreciated the police personnel for having acted swiftly on complaints. Another release said the City Police conducted awareness meetings with traders and general public on crime prevention on Saturday. The meetings were presided over by the Assistant Commissioner of Police of the respective range. The police appealed to the public to work with them in thwarting crimes. Such awareness meetings would be conducted regularly, the relase added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-city-police-trace-16-persons-missing-this-month/article38316548.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Delay in promotion interview irks university faculty||Despite having applied for promotion in 2019, professors in Bharathidasan University who are eligible for the post of Senior Professors as per UGC’s CAS (Career Advancement Scheme) norms have been retiring from service without receiving the benefit since last year. Last year, five of the 14 applicants retired from service, and two more will be retiring from service in the cadre of Professor if the CAS promotion is not awarded before June, university sources said. In their individual representations to Vice-Chancellor M. Selvam at the start of this month, at least eight professors had sought conduct of interview for the next stage promotion: from Professor (AL-14) to Senior Professor (AL-15). All applicants have fulfilled the UGC norms: Professors with 10 years of teaching experience, 10 best publications in peer reviewed / UGC-listed journals, and award of Ph.D. degrees to at least two students over the 10-year period. “It is not about the difference in pay as the status attached to the cadre of Senior Professor by UGC, National Assessment and Accreditation Council, and other academic bodies is of vital importance,” M. Selvam, Chair, School of Business Studies, who is one of the applicants, said. Prof. Selvam, who is also a Syndicate Member, said that unlike the CAS for other cadre, the interview has to be conducted in time for promotion from Professor to Senior Professor cadre since only those in service will be benefitted. According to university sources, the authorities have reached out to the State government to depute its nominee in the Selection Committee, which also includes a nominee of the Chancellor and Governor. According to the applicants, the onus is on the university to pursue the issue with the government in right earnest. The university had conducted interviews for promotion of Assistant Professor to Associate Professor, and from Associate Professor to Professor in 2019. For these cadres, the second notification was issued during June 2020, and the interview was conducted six months later. However, the case of applicants for the post of Senior Professors was not accorded cognisance. This despite the Chancellor and Governor emphasising at the meeting of Vice Chancellors during October last year that promotion to teachers should be made in time. “There is no valid reason for not conducting interview for Senior Professor cadre in the last two years,” Prof. Selvam said, citing the Syndicate’s approval of the recommendation of the Scrutiny cum Evaluation Committee for the conduct of the interview for Senior Professor as per UGC norms during last August. Further delay would demoralise the senior teachers, he said, adding that other State universities, including Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, Alagappa University, and Bharathiyar University, had already awarded Senior Professorship under CAS.  It is not about difference in pay as the status attached to the post by UGC, NAAC and and other academic bodies is of vital importance M. Selvam, Chair, School of Business Studies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delay-in-promotion-interview-irks-bharathidasan-university-faculty/article38316553.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||3,192 fresh cases in central districts||The central districts on Sunday reported 3,192 fresh COVID-19 cases. One death was reported in the region- in Tiruchi, according to a bulletin issued by the State Health Department. On Sunday, Thanjavur district reported one of the highest numbers witnessed in the region so far. A total of 1,123 patients reported positive in Thanjavur, while Tiruchi reported 757 cases, making up one-third of the total number of cases in the region. A steep spike was also reported in Nagapattinam district, where 305 persons tested positive, and Karur was next with 250. In Tiruvarur, 218 fresh cases were reported, and in Pudukottai, 206. Ariyalur district registered 177 fresh cases, and Perambalur, 116. Mayiladuthurai district reported 100 fresh COVID-19 cases, relatively the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3192-fresh-cases-in-central-districts/article64946578.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||24 monkeys found dead close to a highway||In a shocking incident, 24 monkeys were found dead in an open area near the Tiruchi-Chennai national highway at Nedungur, a few kilometres way from Tiruchi, on Sunday. Locals noticed the dead monkeys in the morning and immediately alerted the Forest Department officials. A Forest Department official said 18 out of the 24 monkeys were male and six were female. The department has launched an investigation into the incident, constituting a team. Although the cause of the death was not known immediately, the autopsy report would establish the reason behind it, the official said. The age of the monkeys would also be determined in the post-mortem. It is being suspected that the monkeys would have been caught in some other place or district and their bodies dumped near the highway. Special team  Chief Conservator of Forests, Tiruchi Circle, N. Satheesh told The Hindu that a special team had been formed to probe the “unnatural death” of the monkeys. Poisoning of the monkeys was also not being ruled out, he said, adding that the post mortem report would determine the exact cause of the death.  Samples would be lifted from the monkeys for testing, he further said. A case would be booked by the Forest Department in this connection, Mr. Satheesh added.  Although the cause of the death was not known immediately, the autopsy report would establish the reason behind it. The age of the monkeys would also be determined in the post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-monkeys-found-dead-close-to-highway-near-tiruchi/article64946374.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Passengers stranded at railway station||Nearly 100 passengers who were to travel early on Monday morning from Tiruchi stayed put at the railway station. Since there was no bus plying on Sunday, the passengers had reached there on Saturday night and to spend two nights on the platform. Among those sleeping on the platform outside the railway junction were about 15 members of a family, including young children below the age of five. The family members had been working at a spinning unit near Karur and had booked tickets to travel to Prayagraj, their hometown, early on Monday morning. However, due to the Sunday lockdown in force in the State, they were constrained to reach the junction on Saturday night.  Speaking to The Hindu , Manu, a 28-year-old man who was among the group, said his family had travelled 120 km on the bus to reach the railway station where they spent the nights on Saturday and Sunday. “We had to pack food for two days, and are spending the time right here on the platform, eating and resting, etc,” he said. They availed themselves of the utility of the nearby pay-and-use toilet.  With little money, they did not have the ability to pay for hotel rooms for two nights. "We are daily-wage labourers who are forced to return home as our work here is completed. We cannot afford rooms to rest," Manu's brother Ramlal said. Like them, a single woman with two children had also been resting at the platform. "There is no need for the Sunday lockdown. I am forced to sleep here with my children and know it is unsafe," the woman said while buying milk for her children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passengers-stranded-at-railway-station/article64946389.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bull tamer dies||A 21-year-old bull tamer who took part in a jallikattu n Pallapatti on Saturday succumbed to injuries at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Sasi Gilbert from Dindigul was a construction worker who had travelled to Pallapatti to take part in the jallikattu. He was severely injured in the abdomen and was rushed to the Tiruchi GH, where he was under treatment. According to GH sources, it was found that there was severe damage to his lungs and he was bleeding. "A surgery was performed late on Saturday night, however, he could not be saved as the bleeding was excessive," a doctor said. An autopsy would be conducted following which his remains would be handed over to the family members. This is the third death during this year's jallikattu calendar in Tiruchi. A 24-year-old spectator at the Navalurkuttapattu jallikattu and a 29-year-old bull owner at Periya Suriyur had also succumbed to injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bull-tamer-dies-in-hospital/article38316535.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Sunday stood at 110.65 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 814 cusecs and the discharge 8001 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article38316540.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||In view of maintenance works, there will be power shutdown in the following areas served by Woraiyur substation from 9.30 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesday: Mangala Nagar, Akilandeshwari Nagar, SBI Colony, Aravanur, Maruthandakurichi, Santhosh Nagar, Alavanthan Nagar, Ramanathanallur, Seerathoppu, Sathanur, Amirtharajanallur, Thennur High Road, KMC Hospital to Puthur Junction, Quaid-E-Milleth Nagar to Pathrikai Pathipagam, according to a TANGEDCO press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article38316544.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||All roads, temples and tourism places look deserted||With all commercial establishments shut, all roads and tourist places wore a deserted look in the southern districts on the total lockdown on Sunday. The third consecutive Sunday lockdown, aimed at controlling the surge of COVID-19 in its third wave, saw roads in major towns of Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts deserted throughout the day. But for essential services such as petrol pumps, medical shops and milk sale and supply, all commercial activities had been banned. Restaurants accepted only takeaway orders. Only vehicles meant for essential duties were allowed as police prevented needless travel by the general public. The police kept a close watch at check posts. Those who wanted to proceed for weddings were asked to show the invitation. For others who ventured on roads, the police gave a warning and sent them back. Those who arrived by trains and buses from distant places were allowed to proceed to their native places in autorickshaws and taxis. In some places, conservancy workers utilised the roads devoid of people and traffic to clear sand accumulated on the road margins. The day also saw tourist places such as Agasthiar Falls, Manimuthar, Kalakkad, Thalaiyanai, and Courtallam devoid of people. Moreover, with less rain in the recent days, all the falls in Courtallam had less flow. Thoothukudi Along with other commercial establishments, the VOC Market and Kamaraj Vegetable Market in Thoothukudi also remained closed. All fish and meat shops had downed their shutters. Fisheremen did not venture into the sea and salt pans remained closed. With the total suspension of operation of State and private buses, the old and new bus stands wore a deserted a look. Tiruchendur was also devoid of devotees. As many as 1,500 police personnel were on duty during the Sunday lockdown. Police checked vehicles at 68 temporary check posts - 23 in Thoothukudi town - across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-roads-temples-and-tourism-places-look-deserted/article64946403.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiger census in KMTR begins today||Annual estimation of tigers in Kalakad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve here will begin on January 24. Frontline staff including foresters, forest guards, forest watchers and anti poaching watchers would be involved in the eight-day exercise.For the first time, Ecological Andriod app, developed by Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, will be used by the enumerators in the first tiger reserve of Tamil Nadu, said Conservator of Forests and KMTR Field Director N. Senthil Kumar. The app will eliminate human errors in tiger estimation and provide more accuracy in data collection.The enumerators in different teams would stay in the anti-poaching camps of all the 50 beats in the reserve for eight days. This exercise will also be part of the phase I and III of the once-in-four-year country-level assessment of tigers, co-predators, prey and their habitat.This will be the 5th cycle of All-India Tiger estimation. The enumerators will go deep inside the forests and intensively search the areas for direct and indirect evidence of tiger, co-predators like leopards, dholes and sloth bear along with mega herbivores like elephants and gaurs. A minimum of 15 km per beat in three different trails will be walked for data collection. Prey abundance data will be collected in two km line transect in each beat for three consecutive days. In-line transect data will be collected using the simplest method of visual encounters of prey animals like sambar, chital, wild pig. Vegetation parameters like trees, shrubs, herbs, grass and weeds and human disturbances recorded in transect are very much essential to quantify and justify the presence or absence of prey species in a beat. Mr. Senthil Kumar said the probability of visual encounters of prey animals is not the same across the tiger reserve since the areas are characterised with varied vegetation and terrain types. Under such circumstances, pellet count aids in assessment of prey presence in the beat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiger-census-at-kalakad-mundanthurai-reserve-from-today/article38316576.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam was125.70 ft(max level 143 ft) with inflow of 333.68 cusecs and discharge of 904.75 cusecs. Level in Manimuthar dam was 115.30 ft (118 ft) with inflow of 45 cusecs. Discharge was 380 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38316835.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||Work on new Collectorates in Tirupattur, Ranipet expedited||Around 80% of the work on the new Collectorates in the newly created Tirupattur and Ranipet districts has been completed. The Public Works Department has been executing the work for more than a year, officials said. A total of 25 departments will be accommodated in the new Collectorates. “Ramps and specially designed toilets for persons with disabilities will form part of the facilities for members of the public. The work is expected to be completed by May,” Tirupattur Collector Amar Kushwaha said after an inspection. Spread over 10.38 acres, the new seven-storey complex in Tirupattur will have large halls for organising weekly grievances meetings, conference rooms for official meetings, post-offices, ATMs, reverse osmosis watertaps, toilets and visitors’ halls. The new buildings will also have a rainwater harvesting system with soak pits. Solar panels will be installed on its terrace. A variety of local tree species will be planted on the premises. CCTV cameras will be installed on the premises. The neighbouring Ranipet district administration is also in the last phase of completion of the new Collectorate near Walajah. Spread over 13.40 acres, the new Collectorate will be a four-storey building. It is being built at a cost of Rs. 118.20 crore. Apart from basic facilities for visitors, the new complex will have a large landscape, parks and a playground for children, tiled walkers’ path and a rainwater harvesting system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-new-collectorates-in-tirupattur-ranipet-expedited/article64946483.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||3 escape unhurt after car goes up in flames||Three men had a narrow escape after their car went up in flames on the Bengaluru Highway (NH: 48) in Ambur town of Tirupattur district on Sunday afternoon. Police said S. Abdul Majid (24), the car driver, and his friends Inayat (23) and Dizath (25), on Sunday, were returning from Chennai to Bengaluru. When the vehicle approached Ambur town on the near-empty highway due to complete lockdown, at around 2 p.m., Mr. Majid noticed smoke billowing from his car. He immediately moved it to the side of the road and alighted from the vehicle with his friends. Within a few minutes, the car was completely gutted, police said. Passersby tried to douse the blaze but without success. Some of them alerted the police and informed the fire and rescue services personnel, who battled for 30 minutes to douse the fire. A probe by Ambur town police is on to know whether there was any leakage in the car’s battery.  Fire and rescue services personnel battled for 30 minutes to douse the fire||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-escape-unhurt-after-car-catches-fire/article64946369.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Residents of town panchayats in the Nilgiris urged to boycott elections||The Coonoor Consumer Protection Association has called on residents in town panchayats in the Nilgiris to boycott the upcoming urban civic body elections to force the government into downgrading them to village panchayats so that they will be eligible for more Central government schemes. In a press release, S. Manogaran, president of the association, said the 11 town panchayats in the district did not fulfill the criteria to be notified as town panchayats. He said because of this, town panchayats like Devarsholai in Gudalur, where the majority of residents are from tribal communities, did not get access to Central government schemes such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act Scheme. The association said most of the residents of town panchayats were small farmers, tea growers and agricultural workers. “We estimate that around 40% of people living in these areas fall below the poverty line, and that if these areas are downgraded to village panchayats, more Central government funds can be allotted to these areas and help pull people out of poverty,” said Mr. Manogaran. He added that relatively more developed areas with larger concentrations of populations located near Coonoor, such as Adhigaratty, Yedapalli and Hulikal were still administered as village panchayats, while many town panchayats had far less public infrastructure. The association brought the issue to the notice of the district administration, he said, adding that people living in these areas had been urged to not vote in the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-of-town-panchayats-in-the-nilgiris-urged-to-boycott-elections/article38316493.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 198 fresh COVID-19 infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 55,619 with 198 fresh cases reported on January 23. With a total of 52,522 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 1,943. The district’s toll is 1154. Ranipet district reported 447 fresh cases and the overall number of cases stood at 48,968. In Tirupattur district, 370 cases were reported on Sunday and the total number of cases stood at 32,789. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of fresh infections were 547, which took the overall tally of cases to 60,920. Of these, 57,108 have been discharged and the number of active cases stood at 3,134.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-198-fresh-covid-19-infections/article38316838.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||TDP demands probe against Minister for ‘casino-style’ event||The controversy over the alleged involvement of Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) in organising a casino-style event in the convention hall he owns at Gudivada in Krishna district during the Sankranti celebrations continues to rage. The Opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) on Sunday demanded that the issue be probed by the Directorates of Enforcement and Revenue Intelligence On Saturday, the TDP had lodged a complaint in this regard with Eluru Range Deputy Inspector General of Police K.V. Mohan Rao. The opposition leaders claimed to have concrete evidence to prove their charge. The Minister vehemently denied it, and vowed to commit suicide if the allegation that the organisers had his backing was proved. The issue had reached a flashpoint on January 21 as the attempts by the TDP’s fact-finding committee to visit the hall (K-Convention) had resulted in a clash with the YSRCP activists, who argued that it was the duty of police to establish the facts and that the opposition leaders were trying to politicise the issue by accusing the government of bringing ‘Goa culture’ to Gudivada. The TDP leaders insisted that the event could not be organised without the knowledge of the Minister. A delegation of the TDP, comprising Kollu Ravindra, Konakalla Narayana, Varla Ramaiah, Bonda Umameshwara Rao, among others, had initially lodged a complaint with Krishna district Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal and later approached the DIG. They alleged that the organisers had fixed a fee for entering the convention center, where tables were arranged to conduct the banned games. Obscene dances formed a part of the celebrations, they alleged. There were bouncers, and cheer girls had been brought from other States to entertain the punters, the TDP leaders alleged. Seeking to prove their charges, the TDP leaders released the video footage and photographs purportedly taken at the convention hall. “Though the illegal activity was conducted in the middle of the town, the police did not take any action. They vowed to stop gambling and cockfights during Sankranti, but could do nothing as the banned activities were arranged in the function hall owned by the Minister,” the TDP leaders alleged. The TDP also complained to Krishna District Collector J. Nivas and demanded that the issue be thoroughly probed. ‘Cases registered’  Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Siddharth Kaushal said that Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinivasulu had been appointed as the inquiry officer, and that cases were registered against 47 trouble mongers who had resorted to violence.  “The situation in Gudivada is peaceful now. Action will be taken on the basis of the inquiry report,” he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tdp-demands-probe-against-minister-for-casino-style-event/article64946365.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for Area Commander of Home Guard||Virudhunagar District Police has invited applications for the post of Area Commander of Rajapalayam Home Guard. In a statement, Superintendent of Police M. Manohar said that any graduate from Tamil Nadu, aged between 20 years and 45 years, with good conduct and healthy physique was eligible for the post. Selected person will not be given any wages or allowances for the honorary post. Interested persons can collect the application form from the District Police Office and submit the filled-in application by January 31, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-area-commander-of-home-guard/article38316555.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Will not brook discrimination on the basis of religion, caste and politics’||Amid claims that a Class XII girl in Thanjavur had died by suicide after she was forced to do domestic chores at her hostel this month and her parents were asked to convert her to Christianity two years ago, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi denied the allegations. He said the warden [since arrested] had paid the fees for the girl. In an interview on Sunday, he, however, made it clear, “we will not tolerate any discrimination on the basis of caste, religion and politics in classrooms.” Excerpts:  Did the School Education Department order any inquiry into the death of a schoolgirl in Thanjavur? The Chief Educational Officer immediately conducted an inquiry. We also collected information from the Collector and the police. The police have recorded the girl’s statement [when she was in hospital] and told us that it would be submitted in court. They have made it clear that pressure to convert was not the cause. I would appeal not to divert the issue. Though it is alleged the warden caused the girl mental agony, it is the warden who had paid her fees. Other issues will be known during the trial. We took action [the arrest of the warden] because the girl was agonised and forced to take the extreme step. We understand the pain of her parents and the sentiments of members of the public. The BJP, citing a video clip of the girl, is claiming there was an attempt to convert the girl to Christianity... It was wrong. They should not have recorded the girl’s statement. They had questioned her in a provocative manner and she had not given any clear-cut answer. But a life has been lost, and whoever is responsible for it will be punished. Some BJP leaders are demanding that the school be shut down... We have recorded statements from over 30 students. None of them alleged any pressure to convert to Christianity. In fact, more number of Hindu students are studying there. Christian institutions in that area accord priority to education. They have not made use of the opportunity to convert students to Christianity. Truth will come out only after a thorough inquiry. Was there any lapse on the part of the school management in informing the parents that the girl had attempted to end her life on January 9? From what we gathered from the CEO and others, there was no delay. Even after the earlier incidents, we had asked the schools not to suppress issues of suicide to protect themselves. We have made it clear that they should not make light of the complaints of students. They should respect the sentiments of students and report to their parents when there are complaints. The schools can win the confidence of parents if they attend to the grievances of students. I reiterate that schools focus on these issues. The girl had complained that the hostel warden had forced her to do domestic chores... It is not acceptable. When a school teacher in Nagapattinam district cleaned toilets, I advised him not to do it. He would have done it out of his love for his school and students. I, however, explained to him that there were people appointed to do the work. He said there was no one to clear the toilets. I told him that he could file a complaint with the CEO. When we do not want even teachers to do non-teaching work, will we allow students to do the cleaning? When we received such complaints, we issued warnings to the headmasters. As far as this incident is concerned, the truth will be known once the inquiry is over. There are claims that some teachers in Christian institutions induce students to convert to Christianity. How do you propose to tackle such complaints?  We are particular that there should not be any discrimination on the basis of religion, caste and politics in classrooms. I expressed my opinion when a teacher in Thiruvannamalai chided a student for wearing a rudraksha . It was not the business of a teacher to decide what a student should wear. They come to school only to study. A student can be a Hindu, Christian or Muslim. The teacher’s duty is to keep him in a classroom and teach. When we recruit volunteers for ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’, we conduct a test and assess them through the school management committee. A volunteer is recruited after a few layers of screening. The programme is not to eulogise any political leader or a government. Our object is to teach the students. When we pay so much attention to the recruitment of volunteers, you can understand our priority. If students come across complaints of conversion, they can use the helplines and bring the issue to the notice of the authorities.  Has your Department taken any action against a couple of schools in Chennai where teachers were accused of sexually harassing students during online and offline classes? We organised a training programme with the help of Tulir [a voluntary organisation] on November 19, the World Day for the Prevention of Child Abuse. The aim is to create awareness and educate the teachers and the non-teaching staff on what is being expected of them. It is about their conduct, the kind of questions that can be asked in the classrooms and the limit on any conversation with students. It is being conducted in batches. Teachers who attend the programmes have been asked to address other teachers, non-teaching staff members and students to create awareness. Instructions have been issued to display the helpline numbers 14417 and 1098 in every classroom. The numbers are also on display at all 1,20,000 centres that have been created for ‘Illam thedi Kalvi’ to bridge the learning loss. We have asked the teachers and volunteers to explain the purpose of these helpline numbers to students because awareness in rural areas is not adequate. The government is very particular about the enrolment of girl students and we do not want such incidents to prevent them from going to school. The Chief Minister himself spoke in the Assembly about speedy delivery of justice in a case filed under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. It will always remain a warning. The State has been witnessing suicides by students, either owing to harassment on campus or because they are unable to cope with academic challenges, including the need to clear NEET. Does your Department have any plan to deal with it? Today, students need to have emotional intelligence, too. We are working with Tulir, and more organisations are coming forward to work with us. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian organised a conference to help students face the challenges posed by NEET. There is a need to offer psychological counselling to students. The Chief Minister has advised us to involve parents in training programmes since half the pressure comes from parents themselves. We are preparing a career guidance programme, which will be ready in a month. It will include motivational ideas. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)  We have recorded statements from over 30 students. None of them alleged any pressure to covert to Christianity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-not-brook-discrimination-on-the-basis-of-religion-caste-and-politics/article64946376.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports two deaths, 3,912 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 3,912 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday. The Health Department said that 1,957 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 22,921 active cases on Sunday. Two more persons from the district died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 2,545. Tiruppur district reported 1,507 new cases on Sunday and 736 persons recovered. There were 6,438 active cases in the district on Sunday. A total of 418 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in The Nilgiris on Sunday. The district’s overall case tally stood at 38,000. A total of 2,036 persons are under treatment. Meanwhile, the lockdown imposed as a preventive measure against COVID-19 spread was near total in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts on Sunday. The police said that only vehicles plying for essential services and other emergencies were allowed. Coimbatore city police had deployed 788 personnel who conducted vehicle checks at many places. Avinashi Road, Tiruchi Road, Mettupalayam Road, Palakkad Road, Sathyamangalam Road and Thadagam Road witnessed very minimal traffic. Coimbatore rural police tasked 500 personnel for lockdown enforcement on Sunday. Vehicle movement between Tamil Nadu and Kerala via major inter-State check posts, including Walayar, was minimal as a total Sunday lockdown was effective in Kerala too. The police and Health Department staff checked the whereabouts, documents and temperature of people at the inter-State check posts before allowing them inside Coimbatore district. Goods vehicles carrying essential items were exempted from checking. In Tiruppur district, shops and establishments remained closed. The police conducted vehicle checks at important locations in the city and district borders. Cases were registered against a few people who ventured out unnecessarily and those who violated COVID-19 safety norms. Violators fined Coimbatore Corporation officials on Sunday slapped a total fine of Rs. 70,500 on people who violated lockdown norms. Sources said that Deputy Commissioner M. Sharmila and flying squads went around the city to enforce lockdown and fine violators. By Sunday evening the Corporation had slapped Rs. 70,500 fine on persons who ventured out during the lockdown and those not wearing mask.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-two-deaths-3912-new-covid-19-cases/article64946595.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Girl’s suicide: parents give statements||After the emergence of a video clip in which she claimed that two years ago, the school asked her parents to convert her to Christianity, the BJP launched protests and urged the government to ensure a fair probe. The parents filed a petition alleging she was forced to carry out domestic chores at the hostel and asked to convert to Christianity. Police said the statements of some students and teachers had been recorded.  ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girls-suicide-parents-give-statements/article38316432.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||One road, two rules||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-road-two-rules/article64946372.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||At a standstill||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/at-a-standstill/article64946608.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:53 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Korayaru waterfall in Vannadu panchayat in Pachamalai hills, which locals call 'Mini Courtallam' has the potential to turn into an important tourist centre during monsoon if the walking path is improved. The slippery path causes difficulty for tourists trekking to the location to take bath in the 'herbal' water. The waterfalls must be developed on the lines of the ones in Salem, Namakkal and Theni districts. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti   Recurring time overrun for completion of the underground drainage work has reflected in stagnation of water in trenches dug up along the roads for laying of pipelines. At places where pipelines have been laid, the trenches have not been filled with soil in adequate measure. Spillage of water into the streets and levelling of the uneven surface with construction debris have only made matters worse. The civic body must devise intervention measures to mitigate these difficulties. P.K. Raman, Ayyappa Nagar  The Phase II implementation of Underground Drainage Project seems to be progressing in a skewed manner. The UGD scheme has not covered some portions in Tiruchi West Assembly constituency, including SBI Staff Colony in Crawford, and Arockiasamy Pillai street, forcing residents to shell out money heavily for emptying their septic tanks. At the same time, the project seems to have made progress in peripheral areas like Tiruverumbur and Kattur M. Nagarajan, Crawford   The seemingly large size of the M.G.R. Statue roundabout in Cantonment appears to cause traffic bottlenecks quite often. As was done in Headpost Office and Chinthamani areas, it must be reduced. Also, traffic signals has to be established here. R. Gurunathan, Varaganeri   A wandering troupe of monkeys is causing trouble to residents at Thirukkarugavur in Papanasam taluk in Thanjavur district. Monkeys get into shops and houses in search of food, and scatter vessels all over while trying to slip out with grocery items, fruits, vegetables, snacks, and other eatables. The monkeys also cause damage to windshileds of cars. The local body must trap the monkeys and release them in the forest. K. Ramesh Babu, Othapathi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article64946410.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - Tirunelveli||Street dog menace has exceeded all limits at Eruvadi in Tirunelveli district. Packs of dogs roam in front of houses. It is time the authorities implemented Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules, 2001, under which sterilisation and vaccination are done to control stray dog population and to prevent rabies, and reduce man-dog conflict. A. Kaja Nazimudeen, Eruvadi.   It is disheartening to note a rise in sexual crimes in educational institutions. Only a few girls come out in the open to make a complaint courageously. The internal assessment system wreaks havoc as lecherous teachers take advantage of this situation. Even women doing Ph.d are not spared. In every educational institution, a vigilance panel must be set up, without the school staff in it. The panel must periodically review complaints and hold an impartial probe, and the culprits must be brought to book. This would instil fear among those who make sexual advances towards hapless girls. A.M.N. Pandian, Tirunelveli.   Omni-buses starting from Tirunelveli and those coming from Kanniyakumari district and other places are parked along south and north bypass roads in a haphazard manner. They often change their starting points. Passengers who get down at Veithankulam Bus Stand rush to catch the omni-buses parked along North Bypass Road spending more than hundred rupees for the small distance as autorockshaw fare. Further, there is no restroom facility for omni-bus passengers. Now that with the opening of the renovated Veinthankulam Bus Stand, the temporary bus stand set up near Perumalpuram police station may be converted as a permanent bus stand for omni-buses. S. Nallasivan, Tirunelveli.   With reference to a report on fisherman warned against using purse seine nets, the State government, as per the Tamil Nadu Fishing Regulation Act, 1983, has banned use of purse seine net as it seriously harms marine life and destroys untargeted species too. Even after nearly four decades, this practice continues. Apart from causing irreparable damage to themarine life, this type of fishing also causes friction amongfishing community. Confiscating purse seine nets at the user end as well as in manufacturing units should have a salutary effect rather than issuing warning to poor fishermen every now and then. J. Edison Devakaram, Thoothukudi.   As part of the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions, theState government hasimposed closure of places of worship on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. But peoplethrong in front of the closed gates of the places of worship and on the very next day when the gates are opened, the worshipers gather enmasse, without wearing masks or keeping a safe distance. This scenario wasmore pronouncedin places such as Tiruchendur and Rameswaram. Wedo not haveself-discipline of standing in a queue or maintaining a safe distance, as we did during the second wave. Butpeople stand in queue outside TASMAC outlets. Now thatOmicronis on the rise, the authoritites must ensure strict compliance of SOP. Rajakumar Arulanandham, Palayamkottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-tirunelveli/article38316832.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||24-01-22 - City Cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA ANUSHAM ARTS ACADEMY - 98841 90454 Today R.R.Sabha Hall-2, Mylapore. B/N 4.30 p.m. Dr.Bhavana Rao Guru: Gayathri Sasidaran. 5.45 p.m. S.V.Ananya Guru: Arul Jothi. 7.15 p.m. Shraddha Murali Guru: Radhika Vairavelavan. All are Welcome. https://livewebcast.in/anusham Kartik Fine Arts 24997788 NATYA DARSHAN MINI DANCE FESTIVAL today at Narada Gana Sabha Mini Hall in association with Saba Foundation (in memory of Shri L. Saba-retnam, Former Chairman, KFA). 06.00 p.m. Rajalakshmi Bhaskaran and Reshma Mohan (Disps. of Sikkil Vasanthakumari). 07.30 p.m. Dr. Archana Narayanamurthy (Disp. of Pandanallur S. Pandian). All are welcome. Covid 19 SOPs to be followed. Rukmini Arts & Music Trust, Ch-90. Ph: 044-24916460 Today 6.15 p.m. Violin concert by Shri. R.K. Shriramkumar, Shri. B. Ganapathiraman, Shri. N. Guruprasad at Ragasudha Hall, Mylapore. Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha (Regd) Vani Mahal. Ph: 28152166 Vanimahal@gmail.com 32ND BHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 32ND BHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 at Sri P. Obul Reddy Hall. Today 04.00 p.m. Bharatha-natyam by Ms. S. Pavithra Dharshni & Ms. G.K. Sapna Guru: Smt. D. Bhavani. Tomorrow: 04.00 p.m. Bharatha-natyam by Ms. Amritha Kadhirvelu Guru: Smt. Vijayalakshmi Eswaran. 06.30 p.m. Bharathanatyam by Ms. K.S. Kavi Bharathi Guru: Smt. Deepa Sadasivam. Entry as per Govt. SOP Guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-01-22-city-cinema/article64946604.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar on “Education & Women Empowerment”, 10 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: National Girl Child Day programme, 10 a.m.  Adithya School of Business Management: CEO Meet, 2 p.m.  SankaraCollegeof Science and Commerce: National Girl Child Day celebrations, 12.05 pm.; Industry-Institute meeting, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article38316490.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:15 IST,KARNATAKA||Row over move to establish third Panchamasali peetha||Attempts by some people to create a third peetha in Jamkhandi, a religious centre for the State’s Panchamsali Lingayats, seem to have ruffled some feathers among the community. The two current peethas are in Kudalasangama and Harihar. Sri Basava Jayamrutyunjaya Swami, seer of the Panchamasali Peetha at Kudalasangama, has accused Minister Murugesh Nirani of trying to divide the community, to achieve his personal political ambitions. Mr. Nirani dreams of becoming the Chief Minister. That is why he is dividing the community by creating the third peetha, the seer said in a recent media conference in Bengaluru. The seer said that Mr. Nirani was upset with him as he did not lobby with the BJP leadership for the Minister to be appointed as the Chief Minister, after the exit of B.S. Yeddiyurappa. The seer said that except for Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and Vijayananda Kashappanavar, a few other political leaders sided with him when he led a padayatra for re-categorisation of the community among the backward classes. The seer also threatened to lead a movement against the third peetha if Mr. Nirani went ahead with establishing it. A former MLA, Mr. Kashappanavar has also opposed the idea. “This is not a religious move It is a political move by Mr. Nirani who is blinded by his ambition,’’ Mr. Kashappanavar said in Bagalkot on Saturday. Responding to this, Sri Vachananda Swami of Panchamasali Peetha in Harihar said he is supporting Mr. Nirani’s move. “The Panchamasali community is the largest block among Lingayats. It needs a third seat of spiritual power. It is also facing several challenges, including attempts at conversion by Christians. It needs more religious leaders and not a few,’’ he told journalists in Davangere on Sunday. “I am in favour of the third peetha. In fact, if the community were to have a peetha and a seer in every district, I will be very happy,’’ he said. Mr. Nirani has denied the charge. He told journalists in Bagalkot on Saturday that creating the third peetha is aimed at strengthening the community and not dividing it. The seer should not accuse me of trying to divide the community. Instead, he should introspect who is trying to divide the community by demanding religion status for Lingayat, he said. He added that a third peetha is necessary for the all-round development of the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/row-over-move-to-establish-third-panchamasali-peetha/article64946499.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||BJP leaders’ meeting at Katti’s residence creates a buzz||A meeting of various BJP leaders in Belagavi district, held without the Jarkiholi brothers, has created a sort of interest in political circles across the State. It is believed that most leaders who spoke at the meeting focused on seeking additional berths in the coming Cabinet expansion and about the need to keep the growing clout of the Jarkiholis in check. The leaders met at the North Belagavi home of Forest Minister Umesh Katti near Sri Nagar Public Park. The three-hour-long meeting started with dinner and went beyond midnight, party sources said. The issues discussed include the defeat of Mahantesh Kavatagimath in the Legislative Council polls, who will be inducted into the Cabinet and who will be dropped, whether Ramesh Jarkiholi and his protege Mahesh Kumthalli will be made Ministers, inclusion of three-time MLA Abhay Patil into the Ministry and whether Mr. Umesh Katti and Shashikala Jolle will be retained as Ministers. The other points on the agenda included the appointment of loyalists of various MLAs as heads of boards and corporations and the delay in mayoral elections to urban local bodies. However, the highest amount of time was spent on discussing the rising clout of the Jarkiholi brothers in Belagavi politics and the perception that their influence is growing outside the district also. Some leaders argued that Ramesh Jarkiholi has been trying to push his case with the BJP high command and the Sangh Parivar leaders. His frequent visits to the residence of RSS North Karnataka coordinator Arvind Rao Deshpande in Athani have been cited by some leaders as his desperate attempts at proving his authority. Some others spoke of media reports that have suggested that Mr. Umesh Katti and Ms. Shashikala Jolle will be dropped from the Cabinet in the next round of expansion to make way for Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi or his brother and KMF chairman Balachandra Jarkiholi. The MLAs spoke of two recent incidents as evidence of this fact — the united efforts of the Jarkiholi brothers in ensuring the victory of Lakhan Jarkiholi against the BJP’s official candidate Mahantesh Kavatagimath and the no-confidence motion moved by some directors in the District Central Cooperative (DCC) Bank. DCC Bank chairman Ramesh Katti said that the Jarkiholi brothers had provoked five DCC Bank directors to issue letters of no-confidence in him and sought a re-election. He also suspected that Balachandra Jarkiholi is trying to create a pan-Karnataka cooperative financial institution, drawing capital from the KMF, only to ensure that the Gokak family (the Jarkiholis) can achieve monopoly over that institution. Mr. Umesh Katti told the group that he will stand by them in their times of need and sought their cooperation, if the party high command sought consensus on the issue of district leadership. The meeting is seen by some as Mr. Umesh Katti’s attempt to emerge as the unquestioned leader of Lingayats in North Karnataka and to remind the BJP’s State leadership that Lingayats formed the bulk of its following in the region. The list of invitees revealed attempts by Mr. Umesh Katti to patch up soured relations with his political rivals, the former Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi and MLA and DCC Bank director Mahantesh Dodagoudar. Meanwhile, Mr. Abhay Patil confirmed before reporters in Belagavi on Sunday that the meeting was held in the Katti residence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-leaders-meeting-at-kattis-residence-creates-a-buzz/article38316412.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. should talk to us’||“Most of the 440 government degree colleges have remained closed for 45 days now. This is because over 14,500 of the 18,500 teachers in the colleges are guest lectures. We have been on strike for one-and-a-half months, and the Government has not had the courtesy to talk to us,” said Somashekar Shivamugi, president of the Karnataka State Government College Guest Lecturers’ Coordination Committee. ‘Divide and rule’ He described the new guest lecturers’ scheme as a “divide and rule” policy. “By transferring workload of two lecturers on to one, the Government is trying to create a wedge between senior and junior lecturers. In effect, the scheme will not help either the seniors or juniors,’’ he said. He accused the State Government of playing into the hands of some bureaucrats who were opposed to the idea of absorbing guest lectures as permanent faculty. “The Government has regularised doctors and lecturers of the job-oriented courses in the past. We have asked the Government to absorb teachers into the 7,000 ministerial staff vacancies in colleges. Even that is not being done,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-should-talk-to-us/article38316411.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:15 IST,KARNATAKA||Two charred to death||Two men, Ashok Disnoi and Limbaram Disnoi, both aged 35, were burnt to death in a fire in a shop selling plastic material and toys in Nidagundi village, Vijayapura district, on Saturday night. The police said that a short circuit may have caused the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-charred-to-death/article38316607.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Motorists with non-ISI helmets to be fined Rs. 500||Two-wheeler drivers and pillion riders take note: soon, wearing a helmet alone may not protect you from a fine. The Bengaluru City Traffic Police is planning to once again enforce the ban on helmets that don’t carry the ISI mark, after a month of conducting awareness drives. The aim is to minimise fatal accidents and the importance of ISI-marked helmets, said senior traffic officials. After a month-long awareness campaign, the traffic police will start penalising riders. “A rider wearing a sub-standard helmet will be considered as helmetless, and will be fined Rs. 500. This is applicable for pillion riders, too,” said Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic), B. R. Ravikanthe Gowda. Apart from the penalty, a rider’s licence will be impounded and sent to the RTO concerned recommending suspension. The period of suspension may vary between six to eight weeks. According to Mr. Gowda, a study conducted by the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) and the traffic police at 15 locations across the city revealed that only 44% of motorists use ISI-marked helmets. “The rest use sub-standard helmets just to avoid being penalised by the police. The study also revealed that 70% of pillion riders use helmets,” said Mr. Gowda. Over the years, awareness drives and penalties have seen more people wear helmets but not ISI-standard. “”Over the last 20 years, the traffic police managed to increase the percentage of riders wearing helmets from 5% to 92% through strict enforcement. However, out of the 92% of riders only 44% wear ISI-helmets and follow the rules by strapping them,” he added. Traffic police officers say that more often than not, two-wheeler riders often use the price of an ISI-standard helmet as an excuse. “People spend thousands of rupees buying two-wheelers but become careless when buying helmets,” said Anilkumar Grampurohith, Inspector (traffic), Chickpet. The traffic police is planning to write to all DCPs requesting them to ensure that police personnel follow the rules. Police personnel using half helmets have to replace them with ISI-marked ones. The campaign is going to start from within the department, said Mr. Gowda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/motorists-with-non-isi-helmets-to-be-fined-rs-500/article64946610.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||KSRTC staff federation seeks merger of all four RTCs||The KSRTC Staff and Workers’ Federation has reiterated its demand to merge the road transport corporations (KSRTC, BMTC, NWKRTC, and KKRTC) into one body. The federation has submitted a list of suggestions to the committee appointed by the State Government to study the restructuring of RTCs and making them financially sustainable.The committee is headed by former IAS officer M.R. Sreenivasa Murthy.In its detailed submission, the federation maintained that the Government’s decision to carve out separate corporations from the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has not serve any purpose. In 1997, the Karnataka Government decided to bifurcate KSRTC into new corporations such as the Bangalore Metro Transport Corporation (BMTC) and the North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC). In 2000, one more corporation, the KKRTC (formerly NEKRTC), was formed. “The bifurcation of KSRTC has failed to achieve the desired objectives. One central office became four. What the travelling public got was four chairmen, four vice-chairmen, four MDs, four central offices with a multiplicity of officers. It has become a top heavy administration. Four corporations have four boards. These corporations have not been able to find any additional source of income. These bifurcations, per se have not done any good to the commuters or to the workers or to the organisations. Continuous financial loss, huge debts, and deep discontentment of workmen are the only achievements,” said the federation in its letter. It argued that merging all the four corporations into one will help in reducing administration cost and ensure quick decision making with a single board in charge. Among the other suggestions, the federation stated that budgetary allocation should be made available every year for the purchase of new vehicles, construction of depots, and infrastructure needs. In addition to this, civic bodies should subsidise 50% of the total expenditure. It cited the Tamil Nadu modeland suggested that a base price be fixed for the purchase of diesel. If there is any increase beyond the base price, the State Government should provide a subsidy. On fixing fares, the federation said recommendations made by the PGR Sindhia Committee should be implemented. The committee had recommended that a permanent tariff committee, headed by a retired High Court judge, be constituted to revise the fare structure on a periodic basis. Expenses incurred to ward social obligations such as student bus passes should be reimbursed by the Government. In another major suggestion, the federation said that corporation vehicles should be exempted from paying highway tolls.  Highlights   Highlights * Annual budgetary allocation for the purchase of new vehicles * Pay staff their salaries every month * Follow recommendations made by the PGR Sindhia Committee on fixing fares * Corporation vehicles should be exempted from paying highway tolls||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-staff-federation-seeks-merger-of-all-four-rtcs/article64946616.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. to fund creation of 75 new NCC units in State: CM||The Karnataka Government will fund the creation of 75 units of National Cadet Corps (NCC) in educational institutions across the State to commemorate 75 years of Independence, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday as he relaunched the Government Flying Training School at Jakkur here. “The additional units will enable induction of additional 7,500 cadets to NCC in the State. The State Government will spend Rs. 12,000 per cadet annually in the new units. This comes at a time when the interest of youth towards NCC has come down,” the Chief Minister said after inaugurating a slew of programmes organised by Department of Sports and Youth Empowerment here. He said that there are about 44,000 NCC cadets studying in educational institutions in the State currently. Stating that the Government wants to have about 50,000 NCC cadets by next year, the Chief Minister said that Karnataka will hold discussions with the Defence Ministry to tweak certain regulations to shift NCC cadets to colleges. Relaunching the flying school after a gap of six years, Mr. Bommai said that it was important for the school to remain active to protect the aerodrome. “The Government has decided to train 100 young pilots and a new twin engine trainer aircraft has also been purchased. We will try to provide additional land to make the runway safe and full- fledged,” he said. A note from the office of K.C. Narayan Gowda, Sports and Youth Empowerment Minister, said that the work on restarting the flying school had been completed in just six months, and the Government intends to offer pilot training to 100 youth every year. “Courses will commence next week.” The 874 metre runway has been made functional while five single engine aircrafts have been repaired besides purchase of a new Rs. 5 crore twin engine aircraft, the note said, Meanwhile, the Chief Minister also launched a heli tourism project on the occasion. As part of the project, the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation has tied up with two agencies for a period of five years. Each agency will have to provide a minimum of 50 trips a years for the first two years and a minimum of 100 trips from the third year while KSTDC helps in getting permission to use Government owned helipads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-fund-creation-of-75-new-ncc-units-in-state-cm/article64946618.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Many Bengalureans choose to stay home||Deserted shopping hubs, near-empty malls, and vacant tables at restaurants. Most Bengalureans chose to remain indoors this weekend even though the State Government lifted curfew amidst pressure from traders, and the retail and the hospitality sectors. The shopping hubs of Old Pete area and Commercial Street were bereft of the usual crowds as citizens chose to stay at home. “People have not come out of their homes during the weekend, despite the curfew being lifted. We expect the situation to improve over the next weekend,” said Mohammed Nazim, vice-president, Bangalore Commercial Association. Senior trade activist Sajjan Raj Mehta from Chickpet said the crowds were thin in the Old Pete area as well. Other hubs like Gandhi Bazaar and Malleswaram also reported thin crowds. Most of these markets did not see any weekend rush. Many malls and cinema theatres also reported very low turnout. BJP MLA and owner of Garuda Malls said as against an average footfall of over 30,000 during the weekend days, Garuda Mall off M.G. Road reported not more than 300 footfall on Sunday. After three shows on five screens, the mall saw less than 200 people buying movie tickets. “Unlike the Delta variant, Omicron causes only flu-like infection, with very low hospitalisation, which is why the Government withdrew the weekend curfew. However, there is a fear psychosis created by the media and people are not coming out,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-bengalureans-choose-to-stay-home/article64946617.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:36 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Karnataka sees 100% first dose vaccine coverage||Karnataka on Sunday achieved a milestone of recording 100% average coverage of the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. In doing so, it is the first large State, with a population of more than 4 crore, to achieve this. The State has also achieved 85% average coverage of the second dose of the vaccine. “The State took exactly one year and seven days to achieve this. I thank all healthcare workers and district administration for making this happen,” said Health minister Dr. K. Sudhakar in a tweet. However, this does not mean that every eligible person has received the first dose of the vaccine, senior officials from the Health and Family Welfare Department explained. “Based on the 2011 census and extrapolation, we arrived at a target population for each district under every category for vaccination. This is an estimate and not an absolute number. The 100% achievement only means we have covered the estimated target population in the State,” the official explained. For instance, 12 districts, including Bengaluru Urban, Udupi, Mandya,Raichur, Kalaburagi and Dakshina Kannada, have achieved an average coverage in the range of 97% - 99% of their target population. However, 12 other districts, including Dharwad, Bidar, Vijayapura, Davanagere, Bagalkot, Gadag, Chikkaballapur and Kodagu, have overshot their target and have achieved coverage in the range of 101% - 105%. Thus, the average coverage of all districts for the first dose reached 100% on Sunday. Since January 20, the positivity rate of COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru Urban has been on the decline from 25% to 22% on Sunday. After hitting a peak of daily cases of 30,540 on January 20, the number of positive cases has been declining gradually. Health Minister Dr. K. Sudhakar said he hoped the city had already crossed its peak, but the government could not be sure of this yet. “If the daily cases and positivity rate continue to drop or at least plateau over the next one week, we can say the city has crossed its peak,” he said. He also added that going by the trend during the last two waves of the pandemic, now other districts are expected to register rising positivity rates. “We were seeing that in districts like Mandya, Mysuru, Tumakuru, Hassan and others. Usually there is a lag of two weeks between Bengaluru and other districts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-records-100-first-dose-coverage/article38316386.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Corruption unlimited’||The KSRTC Staff and Workers’ Federation highlighted the level of corruption, which it claimed is prevalent across all four RTCs. “Corruption grew by leaps and bounds at all levels. Transfers of the officers were auctioned while there was a fixed amount for other staff. Corruption at divisional and higher level encourages or necessitates pilferage of revenue at lower levels. Sanction of leave, transfer, relieving or transfers, promotions, posting, line checking and disciplinary action are the common sources of the corruption,” it stated in a letter to the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corruption-unlimited/article38316400.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:17 IST,KARNATAKA||HDK attacks Siddaramaiah again on latter’s remark in Tumakuru||Defending his attack on Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah that continued even on Sunday, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said that he had to respond since the former had unnecessarily spoken about him and the Janata Dal (Secular). "Why should he speak about our party when our party leaders are hijacked and being inducted (into Congress). Is it right on his part to say JD(S) needs to be chased away from Tumakuru? Is it right to chase away a political party from a district in democracy. When he can speak, he should also have the capacity to hear what we say," Mr. Kumaraswamy said on Twitter. He also termed the Opposition leader as a "self-proclaimed Constitution scholar." The two former Chief Ministers are exchanging barbs after Mr. Siddaramaiah recently said that the JD(S) acts as a shadow party to the BJP and has no ideology of its ownHe also said that the JD(S) needs to be chased away from Tumakuru. Mr. Kumaraswamy said: "Though he says he does want to speak about me, he keeps referring to me. Besides, he keeps spitting venom about JD(S). I am not scared of him." Further he said: "He has become desperate after he realised that he will not become Chief Minister again. It is true we have lost elections. It includes me, my father and my brother. But we have not lost hope."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-attacks-siddaramaiah-again-on-latters-remark-in-tumakuru/article38316424.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||Former High Court judge K.L. Manjunath passes away||Chairman of the Karnataka River and Border Protection Authority and retired Karnataka High Court judge K.L. Manjunath, 68, passed away here late on Saturday. During his long legal career, Mr. Manjunath served as an advocate and president of Advocates Association before being elevated to the Karnataka High Court. He also served as chairman of the Andhra Pradesh Backward Classes Commission. He was appointed chairman of the River and Border Protection Authority during the JD(S)-Congress coalition regime. With Karnataka being a party to Mahadayi, Krishna, and Cauvery inter-State river disputes and border issues with Maharashtra, Mr. Manjunath had given valuable legal suggestions. Mr. Manjunath hailed from Kantharajapura village, in Hassan district. The cremation will take place near Nelamangala on Sunday. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar were among those who condoled the death of Mr. Manjunath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-high-court-judge-kl-manjunath-passes-away/article64946490.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||Netaji statue to be shifted to the front of Vidhana Soudha||The State Government will soon shift the statue of freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to the front of Vidhana Soudha, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said here on Sunday. "Bose's statue will be shifted to a suitable spot in front of the Vidhana Soudha befitting the honour he deserves," the Chief Minister said after paying floral tributes to Netaji on the occasion of his birth anniversary. Currently, the statue is behind the Vidhana Soudha near the Western gate. "Netaji's next birth anniversary would be celebrated in front of the Vidhana Soudha," he said, adding that his government would respond positively to the demands of various organisations, which have been working with immense love and commitment for Netaji's ideals. Stating that Netaji's principles, ideals, patriotism and the spirit of sacrifice for the country need to be instilled among youth, Mr. Bommai said that the State government has decided to celebrate Netaji's 125th birth anniversary in a meaningful manner throughout the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/netaji-statue-to-be-shifted-to-the-front-of-vidhana-soudha/article64946489.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Auto driver held for sexually assaulting minor||The police have arrested a 34-year-old auto driver for allegedly sexually assaulting an eight-year-old girl in his neighbourhood on Saturday evening. According to the police, the victimwas alone at home while her mother, a garment factory worker, was at work. “The accused knew that she was alone. Around 6.30 p.m., he barged into the house, assaulted her and fled,” said the police. When the girl’s mother returned home from work, she saw her daughter in tears. When she learned of the assault, she took her daughter to a hospital in the area and alerted the police. Based on a complaint the police tracked down the auto-rickshaw driver a few hours later. He was arrested and booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The accused is married and has two children. He is in police custody for questioning,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auto-driver-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor/article38316403.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||KSDL donates to CM relief fund||Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Limited (KSDL) has handed over a cheque for Rs. 3 crore to Chief Minister Relief Fund. The contribution was handed over to Basavaraj Bommai, Chief Minister, earlier this week, in the presence of Murugesh R. Nirani, Minister for Large and Medium Industries, Madal K. Virupakshappa, Chairman, KS&DL and MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksdl-donates-to-cm-relief-fund/article38316404.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Murder: Three labourers held||The Kothanur police on Sunday arrested three construction labourers who fled to their native place in Assam after allegedly beating a colleague to death in a drunken brawl. Three other labourers who were part of the attack remain absconding. The incident occurred at the construction site in Kothanur on January 1. The accused, Anthony Singh, Kishan Yekka and Niranjan Turki, lived on the construction site along with other labourers. “They along with three of their associates often got inebriated at night and created a ruckus. On January 1, the victim, Murugan, a labourer from Tamil Nadu, who also lived on the site, took objection to the noise and shouted at them to keep quiet,” said a police officer. They argued for a while, following which the six men attacked Murugan with a cricket bat, and ran away. A few labourers spotted the injured lying on the ground. “They took him to a hospital, but Murugan had sustained severe head injuries and succumbed,” the police officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/murder-three-labourers-held/article38316402.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Minor found dead||A 16-year-old girl was found dead at her house in K.P. Agrahara on Saturday night. Police suspect that the girl, a Class X student enrolled in a private school, ended her life. (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minor-found-dead/article38316405.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:36 IST,KARNATAKA||Journalist killed in road accident||A 49-year-old journalist was killed when a truck overturned and fell on the bike he was riding, in front of the Town Hall on Sunday. The deceased, Gangadhar Murthy, working as a sub-editor with a leading Kannada daily, was heading to the office. The truck, belonging to a private logistic company, was going towards the city market from J.C. Road. It overturned after the driver lost control of the vehicle while negotiating a curve. The driver fled the scene while passers-by rushed to Mr. Murthy’s aid. He was taken to Victoria hospital where he was declared dead. A crane was used to remove the truck and clear the road. The police have registered a case of rash and negligent driving and causing death due to negligence, against the driver. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai condoled Mr. Murthy’s demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/journalist-killed-in-road-accident/article38316390.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:35 IST,KARNATAKA||Transport operator goes missing||The search for Prakash, a resident of Sagar and owner of Prakash Transports, will resume on Monday at Pataguppe Bridge constructed across Sharavathi river in Hosanagar taluk. He has been missing since Friday. As his vehicle was found abandoned on the bridge, the police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel have been searching for him around the bridge and the river since Friday. Prakash had left his residence at Sagar on Friday morning alone. He did not return home that day. When the family members looked for him his vehicle was found at Pataguppe Bridge. A missing person case was filed at Sagar police station. Shivamogga district administration has decided to involve expert swimmers from Gokarna in the search operation. They are expected to join the operation on Monday morning. Prakash who founded the transport firm operated more than 30 buses on routes connecting Sagar to Bengaluru and other places. Following the COVID-19 pandemic, he had stopped many buses and surrendered a few to the Transport Department, according to his friends and close associates. He had employed more than 100 employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transport-operator-goes-missing/article64946467.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:15 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Amendment to safeguard interests of land mafia’||Training his guns at influential politicians and real estate giants who, according to him, have grabbed large tracts of land through illegal means, social activist and leader of Janandolanagala Mahamaitri, a large conglomerate of different organisations, S.R. Hiremath has said that the amendments to Karnataka Land Reforms Act 1961 are essentially meant for protecting the interests of the land maifa “People like D.K. Shivakumar [Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president], H.D. Kumaraswamy [Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former Chief Minister] and R. Ashok [Minister and BJP leader] have amassed large tracts of land through illegal means. Mr. Kumaraswamy has grabbed around 20 acres of land belonging to people of Scheduled Castes communities in Bidadi hobli in Ramanagaram district. The amendments made to Land Reforms Act are essentially meant for protecting such land-grabbers. The very purpose of the original Land Reforms Act, which was enacted to translate the land-to-tiller promise into a reality and helping the large sections of landless peasants to own pieces of agricultural land, is defeated by the present amendments. It is a criminal conspiracy that an elected government should not have indulged in,” Mr. Hiremath said at a press conference here on Sunday. And, terming the amendments made to the APMC Act as an effort to turn the self-esteemed farmers into “slaves of corporate powers” and also, the newly enacted Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act as sounding a death knell to the farming community, Mr. Hiremath asserted that all those who had faith in the Constitution that ensured social justice, equality and liberty, are determined to continue their fight till the government withdraws the “anti-people” amendments and the Act. “These three laws, two are amendments and the other, a new Act, are anti-people in general and anti-farmer in particular and the State Government should repeal them. Our other demand is for ensuring legal backing for Minimum Support Price (MSP) for farm produce. It is a demand that has been firmly raised by the farmers movement on the borders of the national capital. It is the demand that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, when he was Chief Minister of Gujarat, put before the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and later did not press for it when he became Prime Minister himself,” Mr. Hiremath said. Mr. Hiremath announced that his conglomerate of people’s movements will shortly take up a State-wide campaign against the three laws, while seeking legal backing for Minimum Support Price for farm produce. It will conclude the campaign in Bengaluru during the Budget Session of the State Legislature in February 2022, he added. “One jatha will start from Basavakalyan in Bidar and another from Male Mahadeswara Hill in Chamarajanagar district. Both will converge in Bengaluru and culminate during the Budget Session,” Mr. Hiremath clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amendment-to-safeguard-interests-of-land-mafia/article64946497.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:15 IST,KARNATAKA||Bharat Ekta Manch plans to celebrate national festivals, including R-Day||Bharat Ekta Manch, a consortium of several religious groups, will celebrate national festivals to help people understand the importance of national pride and the nation’s rich cultural heritage. Towards achieving this objective, the forum will celebrate Republic Day on Shaikh Roza Dargah premises in Kalaburagi on Wednesday. Syed Shah Mustafa Quadri of Malkhed Dargah and Fr. Santosh of St. Mary’s Church, addressing a press conference here on Sunday, said that national festivals are a treasure that will help revive spiritual values and remind people about the sacrifice of the freedom fighters. Fr. Santosh said that national festivals unite a diverse country with harmony and brotherhood, but unfortunately, these festivals have become limited to government offices. He then appealedto every citizen to participate in celebrations related to national festivals. The main objective of Bharat Ekta Manch is to spread the message of brotherhood, peace, justice and humanity, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bharat-ekta-manch-plans-to-celebrate-national-festivals-including-r-day/article38316599.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:15 IST,KARNATAKA||Electrocuted||A 21-year-old farmer was electrocuted after he came in contact with a low-hanging live wire in an agricultural field in Mukaramba village of Kalgi taluk, Kalaburagi district, on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Shivakumar Basanoor. The incident occurred when the farmer accidentally touched the low-hanging live wire while working in the field in the evening. He died of electric shock on the spot. A case has been registered in the Ratkal Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/electrocuted/article38316605.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:57 IST,KARNATAKA||VHP supports call for tableau procession||Extending support to a call by senior Congress leader B. Janardhana Poojary, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) said here on Sunday that parishad activists will take part in the social reformer Narayana Guru’s tableau procession in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Wednesday. Mangaluru Divisional Secretary of the VHP Sharan Pumpwell said in a release on Sunday that Mr. Poojary has said that all, irrespective of parties, caste and religion, should support the procession to be taken out in the taluks in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on the Republic Day, as a tableau of Naryana Guru proposed by the Kerala Government for the Republic Day Parade in New Delhi this year has not been selected. The VHP welcomes the statement of Mr. Poojary, he said. “All Hindus have been hurt with the tableau not getting accommodated in Delhi’s parade due to a conspiracy by the Communists,” Mr. Pumpwell said. He said that Narayana Guru fought against inequality and untouchability and was one of the greatest saints in the country.“The VHP requests all its activists to take part in the procession,” the divisional secretary said. Meanwhile, CPI(M) leader Sunil Kumar Bajal said in a release on Sunday that all Left, secular parties and other organisations will take out a procession in the city at 3 p.m. on January 26 from Clock Tower to the office of the Deputy Commissioner carrying a portrait of Narayana Guru. It is to condemn the Union government for not allowing a tableau of Narayana Guru from Kerala to participate in the Republic Day Parade in Delhi. By denying permission, the Union Government has humiliated the social reformer, he said. In another statement, Mr. Poojary has said that he will lead a procession from Kankanady Garodi to Kudroli Gokarnanatheswara Temple on Wednesday carrying the portrait of Narayana Guru on his head.  All Hindus have been hurt with the tableau not getting accommodated in Delhi’s parade due to a conspiracy by the Communists Sharan Pumpwell, Divisional Secretary, Vishwa Hindu Parishad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vhp-supports-call-for-tableau-procession/article64946523.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:57 IST,KARNATAKA||2021-22 Budget plans made for coastal region only on paper||With the State Government preparing to present its Budget for 2022-23 after a month, many proposals announced for the coastal region by the then Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa in the 2021-22 Budget, except the plastic park in Mangaluru, remains on paper. Among the major proposals announced for the coastal region by Mr. Yediyurappa included setting up of an Advanced Bio-tech Innovation Centre for Aquamarine, developing waterways between Mangaluru and Panaji, upgrading the Karnataka Coastal Development Authority as a board, development of beaches and adopting upgraded technology to beef up coastal surveillance. The then Chief Minister said that the bio-tech innovation centre will be established for the development of bio-technology industries and innovative startups and to encourage the production of light food items utilising the bio-active compounds available from fish and sea weed. The Government allocated Rs. 6 crore for the centre during 2021-22. Sources said that it has remained merely a proposal. The proposal to introduce a Bill to revamp the Karavali (Coastal) Development Authority into Karavali (Coastal) Development Board for the comprehensive development of the coastal area also has not made any headway. The Budget had mentioned developing waterways between Mangaluru and Panaji under the public-private partnership to promote tourism and for affordable passenger and freight transportation. It proposed to upgrade more beaches to international standards to promote tourism. In this background, it proposed to develop Trasi, Maravanthe, Ottinene and other beaches in Udupi district with an outlay of Rs. 10 crore. The then Chief Minister had said that to boost tourism, a proposal has been submitted to the Union Government to develop waterways in the Kali (Uttara Kannada), the Nethravathi and the Gurupura (Dakshina Kannada) and from Hangarkatta to Manipal in Udupi district. Nearly a year after these announcements were made, they have remained as assurances only. Plastic park The then Chief Minister had said that with assistance from the Union Government, a plastic park will be developed at Ganjimutt in Mangaluru to encourage plastic and petro-chemical industries. This project received the final approval from the Union Government last week. The park will be set up on 104 acres of Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) land at an estimated cost of Rs. 62.77 crore. Of this, 50% of the project cost, that is Rs. 31.38 crore, will be borne by the Union Government and the remaining 50% by the KIADB, the Union Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers wrote to the KIADB on January 21 stating that the project should take off within three months from the date of sanction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2021-22-budget-plans-made-for-coastal-region-only-on-paper/article38316733.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Nearly 2K traffic violation notices return as ‘addressee not found’||The city traffic police are making efforts to trace rule violators in nearly 2,000 cases in which traffic challans sent by post have come back with acknowledgement as “addressee not found” in the last two months. “We are sorting out these cases. With technology, we are tracing out these offenders and making them pay the fine,” said Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) M.A. Natraj. In the last year, the city traffic police have traced nearly 12,000 such violators, he added. CCTV cameras In addition to manual booking of cases, the traffic police are going through images of CCTV cameras at the traffic automation centre and registering traffic offences. Mr. Nataraj said for the last three months, the traffic police personnel at the centre have been going through footage of CCTV cameras installed at 15 important places. Traffic police posted at different traffic junctions are also noting down vehicle numbers of the offenders and booking cases. Using the vehicle information provided by the State Transport Department, traffic challans are sent to these offenders by post. All these offenders are from the State, who reside in the city. In the absence of integration of the systems of State and the Central Transport Departments, the city traffic police are not sending traffic challans by post to vehicles registered in Kerala and other States. Fines related to such vehicles are collected on the spot. One among ways to trace the address, Mr. Nataraj said includes use of apps that help to find out the actual postal address of offender. “If we do not succeed in tracing the offender, the record of such vehicles remain in our database. Whenever such vehicles come on the road, fine is collected on the spot by officers who are checking vehicles.” Mr. Nataraj said vehicles are being checked regularly at different points in the city everyday. Of the fine that is collected included Rs. 40,000 recently paid by a resident of Thokkottu, whose car was stopped by traffic police as it had tint on the side glasses and rear windshield. It was then found he was booked for other offences for which the fine had not been paid, Mr. Nataraj said. Last year The total fine collection by the traffic police last year was Rs. 5.86 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nearly-2k-traffic-violation-notices-return-as-addressee-not-found/article38316746.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Kilingar Gopalakrishna Bhat, philanthropist, passes away||Philanthropist Kilingar Gopalakrishna Bhat, known as Sairam Bhat, a resident of Kilingar in Badiyadka Gram Panchayat in Kasargod district of Kerala, passed away on Saturday. He was 85. An agriculturist, Bhat was seen as a messiah of the poor having helped in the construction of over 265 houses for the downtrodden in the region without any government support. In his effort to make the youth self-reliant, he provided hundreds of autorickshaws and sewing machines to young men and women to lead their own life. It all started in 1995 when the region had witnessed torrential rainfall. Kuntian, for whom Bhat used to provide areca palm leaves to renovate his house every year, approached him in the midst of rain looking to restore his house. Bhat, who had set apart some money for his Kasi Yathre, decided to use it to provide a permanent shelter to Kuntian and thus, started his journey to provide shelters to the homeless. From there onwards, Bhat helped people to build their own houses, many times on their own land and at times even by buying a piece of land for them in and around Badiyadka Gram Panchayat. A staunch devotee of Sri Sai Baba, Bhat built Sai Mandir in his village and used the facility to carry forward his social activities. Being a Purohit and a traditional medicine practitioner, Bhat arranged allopathic free medical camps every week at the mandir that used to benefit hundreds of villagers in the area. He is survived by his wife Sharada Bhat, son Krishna Bhat and daughters Shyamala and Vasanthi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kilingar-gopalakrishna-bhat-philanthropist-passes-away/article64946524.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Hitachi Energy bags Rs. 160 cr. contract from Railways||Hitachi Energy India Ltd. has won ordersworth over Rs. 160 crore for its key electric components to support the electrification of the country’s railway network to enable Indian Railways achieve 100% electrification by 2023. A release here said that electric locomotive manufacturers,Chittaranjan Locomotive Works (CLW) and Diesel Loco Modernisation Works (DMW), part of Indian Railways, placed orders with Hitachi Energy for traction transformers for passenger and freight locomotives in the October-December 2021 period. Railway electrification is a key element in India’s drive towards net zero carbon emissions. At the recent UN Climate Change Conference (COP26), India reaffirmed its commitment to shifting to electricity for transport and reducing the economy’s carbon intensity by 45% by 2030. Complete route electrification of the Railways is an important aspect in this regard, Hitachi said. “Electricity will be the backbone of the entire energy system and at Hitachi Energy, we are committed to the accelerated electrification and decarbonisation of the world’s transportation and rail sectors,” Hitachi’s MD and CEO N. Venu was quoted as saying. He added, “Indian Railways is a longstanding customer of Hitachi Energy and these orders further show that Hitachi Energy is regarded as a trusted partner of choice for the rail industry.” Traction transformers are critical components in the traction chain that affect both train performance and operator services. More than half the world’s electric locomotives and train sets are powered byHitachi Energy transformers, the release said. Hitachi has an estimated global installed base of over 30,000 units of these transformers enabling essential train functionssuch astraction, lighting, ventilation, braking, signalling and communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hitachi-energy-bags-rs-160-cr-contract-from-railways/article38316745.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||Help from technology||Teachers in a college in Mangaluru said that the digital Learning Management System (LMS) introduced by the Department of Collegiate Education has helped students to study online. Under this system, the students can have access to pre-loaded lessons online and through an app. The contents can be accessed offline through smart classes, he said. This platform has videos of the lectures, PPT, study material and practice test of multiple-choice questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/help-from-technology/article38316410.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Raghavendra Maiyya gets award||Sri Kundeshwara Kshetra at Hirgana in Karkala taluk on Sunday felicitated Yakshagana Bhagavatha (singer-director) Halady Raghavendra Maiyya with the Kundeshwara Samman 2022. Mr. Maiyya has been in the field of Bhagavathike for the last four decades making a mark with his unique style of singing and direction. Having entered the field of Bhagavathike at the age of 15, he was trained by Yakshagana Guru Narnappa Uppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/raghavendra-maiyya-gets-award/article64946520.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:57 IST,KARNATAKA||4,253 new voters in Udupi district||As many as 4,253 new young voters have been added to the voter list in Udupi district during the latest enrolment drive, according to Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao. With this, the district now has a total of 10,12,842 voters — 5,25,155 women, 4,87,676 men and 11 others. He said that the Election Commission received 7,862 applications for new enrolment, 16,815 applications for deletion of names, 2,962 for correction and 552 for change within Assembly constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4253-new-voters-in-udupi-district/article38316739.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:36 IST,KARNATAKA||Elephants, gaurs being counted||In the ongoing exercise to enumerate the tiger numbers at Bandipur and Nagarahole, the elephants and the gaurs too are standing out to be counted in high numbers. For, their size and their visibility in plain sight makes them easier to track unlike tigers that tend to lurk in the shadows, hide in the bushes or are easily camouflaged by the surrounding vegetation. “It is not just the tigers but even the elephants and gaurs are being counted as part of the All India Tiger and Mega Herbivore Enumeration’’, said Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. But it is pertinent to note that the tiger estimation exercise does not rely on direct sighting of the big cat nor is it about individual counts but of estimating a population range. It also takes into account the camera trap images as part of Phase IV of the survey. Besides, other telltale signs like scat, pug and scratch marks, etc., are considered before the scientists analyze the data and arrive at a figure based on various parameters. On the first day of the census in Nagarahole which commenced on Sunday, a good number of elephants were sighted as were the gaurs but there were no direct sightings of the tigers. More than 300 field staff have been deployed in Nagaraholecovering the 91 beats. The exercise commenced around 7 a.m. and the data was being studied, scrutinized and uploaded to the MSTRIPE (Monitoring System for Tigers - Intensive Protection and Ecological Status) app that is being used in the exercise. It was the same scenario in Bandipur on Saturday where no tigers were sighted on the first day of the exercise though the national park has some of the highest densities of the big cat in the country. While there were 126 individual tigers identified based on camera trapped images, the actual numbers based on other signs were pegged at around 173 in Bandipur and their numbers are expected to stabilize around 200 this year. However, V. Karikalan, DCF, Mysuru, who also holds additional charge of Bandipur, said the first day exercise entailed covering some of the shrub forests on the periphery and hence the tigers may not have been sighted while there were no dearth of elephants and gaurs. He hastened to add that the tiger census was not about physical sighting of the big cat but also included other parameters. The data would be analyzed by scientists to arrive at the population density in a landscape with statistical tools. In 2018 In the 2018 exercise, the largest contiguous tiger population in the world was found in the Western Ghats (Nagarhole-Bandipur-Wayanad-Mudumalai-Satyamangalam-BRT block) and the numbers were pegged at about 724 tigers. The same landscape also supported the largest Asiatic elephant population and the same trend can be expected in the ongoing exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elephants-gaurs-being-counted/article64946465.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:35 IST,KARNATAKA||Rehabilitation of displaced tribals in Mysuru being delayed: NGOs||Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) spearheading the cause of forest-dwelling tribals living in and around Mysuru district have urged the State Government to take measures for the rehabilitation of 3,418 tribal families failing which they have threatened to approach the court. The crux of the issue revolves around an order of the High Court of Karnataka delivered more than 7 years ago in which it directed the State to rehabilitate the 3,418 tribal families who were displaced or suffered injustice during the implementation of various development projects. Though the NGOs have time and again approached the Government to implement the court orders, their plea has been greeted with a deafening silence so far. In the latest salvo fired by Development through Education (DEED) and Budakattu Krishikara Sangha (BKS), it was pointed out that the attention of the Chief Minister, the Governor, the local MLAs and the chief secretary of the State was drawn four times in 2021 alone and yet there has been no meaningful progress. Hence the NGOs have cautioned that in case the Government failed to expedite the process, they will file contempt proceedings against the State Government and the administrative machinery in their quest for justice. S. Sreekanth of DEED and P.K. Ramu of BKS said that though the senior officials in the Revenue Department have averred that a committee has been constituted to draw the action plan for rehabilitation, nothing concrete has emerged so far. In the interim period, the NGOs have also submitted another list of 1,500 families from 32 hamlets in Hunsur taluk who were displaced but their names were left out of beneficiaries drafted by a committee constituted by the High Court. Suspecting the intentions and seriousness of the Government in taking up the implementation works, the NGOs pointed out that the then Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru, D. Randeep had submitted a report to the Government regarding tribal rehabilitation. But the Government has since vested the responsibility with the regional commissioner with a direction to study the process afresh, according to the NGOs and alleged that the Government was only delaying the rehabilitation exercise. Mr. Sreekanth said that a report to provide a package under which each family would receive Rs. 15 lakh apart from 5 acres of land was submitted in 2014 as part of the rehabilitation work. But the Government ignored it and was calling for a fresh approach to study the rehabilitation package which amounted to further delaying the implementation, the NGOs alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rehabilitation-of-displaced-tribals-in-mysuru-being-delayed-ngos/article64946469.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:36 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru district reports 4,359 COVID-19 cases, one death on Sunday||Mysuru district continued to report over 4,000 positive cases of COVID-19 for the second successive day on Sunday. A day after reporting a record high of 4,601 positive cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, Mysuru district reported 4,359 on Sunday. According to a media bulletin released by the district administration on Sunday, a total of 4,359 people tested positive against 8,314 samples that were collected, indicating a positivity rate of 52.4 per cent. During the last two days, the number of positive COVID-19 cases had far outnumbered the highest daily infections reported during the second wave. During the second wave, the highest number of positive cases on a single day stood at 3,500. While Mysuru city accounted for 2,976 cases, the highest in the district, Nanjangud with 306, K.R. Nagar with 232 and Hunsur with 210 cases followed Mysuru city. H.D. Kote reported 112 cases, Mysuru taluk 199 cases, Periyapatna 155 cases, Saligrama taluk 40 cases, and T. Narsipur reported 119 cases. Sargur taluk, however, recorded just 10 cases. Meanwhile, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the district too shot up to 16,447. However, as many as 15,940 cases had been isolated at home. One death was reported on Sunday, taking the cumulative death toll due to COVID-19 in the district to 2,452.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-district-reports-4359-covid-19-cases-one-death-on-sunday/article38316766.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:35 IST,KARNATAKA||Automatic washing for railway coaches||The Mysuru railway division has set up an automatic coach washing plant at the shunting neck of Mysuru yard. It was proposed in 2018-19. The 30m long automatic coach washing plant can approximately wash 140 coaches a day. Set up at a cost of Rs. 223 lakh, it consists of two water tanks of 20 kl and 30 kl capacities. The washing is done in eight stages with the coaches going through four brush stations before they get soft water and RO water spraying. The air blowers are used for drying the coaches afterwards. About 60 to 70% of recycled water is used. The automatic plant reduces manpower, washing time, besides improving washing quality. The plant is yet to become fully operational as minor works are pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/automatic-washing-for-railway-coaches/article64946466.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress leaders wary||Wary of former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah incurring the wrath of the Vokkaliga community with his offensive against former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, Congress leaders have advised him to restrain himself and instead allow the Vokkaliga leaders in the party to respond to any provocation from the JD(S) leader. Amid the ongoing war of words between Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Kumaraswamy, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson M. Lakshmana told reporters in Mysuru on Sunday that Mr. Siddaramaiah has been advised against reacting to provocative words from Mr. Kumaraswamy. “A strong response is necessary to the attacks mounted on Mr. Siddaramaiah, but other Vokkaliga leaders in the party should react. We have asked Mr. Siddaramaiah not to react. It is the responsibility of other leaders to react,” he said. A similar political strategy will be adopted by the Congress when it comes to responding to political charges against any of its leader. Responses to charges from political adversaries against their leaders will be made by leaders belonging to the same community, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-leaders-wary/article38316413.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:36 IST,KARNATAKA||Waiver of interest sought||Despite being overruled on several occasions by the Government, the Mysuru City Corporation is making another attempt to get the interest on water dues waived if consumers come forward to go for a “one-time payment” of the arrears.  Confirming this to The Hindu , MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy said: “We are writing again to the Government with a proposal to consider waiving the interest on the outstanding principal amount of the bill so that consumers make use of the opportunity and clear arrears. The MCC had in the past made such appeals but they were not considered.”  It is making yet another attempt to mobilise resources sincethe unpaid bills have accrued to the tune of Rs. 219 crore, including Rs. 146 crore of principal amount and Rs. 73.6 crore interest accrued on the principal amount. Only once such a provision was given to the consumers and the drive turned out to be a big success with the defaulters queuing up the cash counters of Vani Vilas Water Works here to clear the dues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/waiver-of-interest-sought/article38316765.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:36 IST,KARNATAKA||BJP MPs have done little for Kannada: Cong.||The Congress came down on the BJP MPs of Karnataka for their alleged failure in securing sufficient grants for research and study of Kannada as a classical language. Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, KPCC spokesperson M. Lakshmana said Kannada was accorded the status of a classical language in 2008. The Centre had allocated funds for other languages, but Kannada had been ignored, he lamented. “Why are the 25 BJP MPs from Karnataka silent? Have they been instructed to remain silent?” he questioned while claiming that people of the State had now realised that they had been cheated by their BJP MPs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-mps-have-done-little-for-kannada-cong/article38316610.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:35 IST,KARNATAKA||Train coaches de-reserved||The railway authorities have de-reserved some coaches on important trains due to the rise in demand. The number of such unreserved coaches have been increased for 12610 Chennai Express from Mysuru, for 12609 Mysuru Express from Chennai, on 16236/16235 Tuticorin Express from Tuticorin to Mysuru and back. They have also been increased on Tirupati Express from Chamarajanagar and on the return journey as also on the Renigunta Express. The second class seating coaches have been de-reserved and this has come into effect from January 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-coaches-de-reserved/article38316757.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:57 IST,KARNATAKA||Recognition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recognition/article64946526.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:36 IST,KARNATAKA||Hazy weather||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hazy-weather/article64946460.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors of power||The talk of leadership change may have subsided now inKarnataka, but aspirants to the chair continue to make every effort to score brownie points.  Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan ( in picture ) recently championing the cause of Karnataka Sanskrit University, even at the risk of being branded “anti-Kannada”, is an attempt to endear himself to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), party sources say.  His recent uncharacteristic outburst against D.K. Suresh at a State Government event in Ramanagaram was also an attempt to project himself as a Vokkaliga leader capable of taking on the D.K. brothers on their turf,theyobserve. However, the fact that no other Vokkaliga leader on stage rushed to his support indicated he has yet to achieve that status within the party fold,they say.    Motorists stopped by the police for violating traffic rules sometimes try to avoid paying the penalty by calling up either senior officers or politicians to influence policemen. Recently, a person who was stopped by the traffic police for not wearing a helmet called up none other than Home Minister Araga Jnanendra ( in picture ).  Narrating the incident in an interaction with media in Shivamogga, the Minister said he received the call around 11 p.m. and the person on the other side said he had come out of his house on his motorbike to purchase medicines in a shop located at distance of 500 metres from his residence, without wearing the helmet. The person refused to pay a penalty as he had travelled only a short distance. Hearing the plea, the Minister told the rider to pay the fine and said that wearing a helmet is mandatory for safety, irrespective of distance. The Home Minister’s contention was that penalties are imposed as a measure to instill discipline among the public. It would indeed be a deterrent if politician always led by example in matter of rules.    Dakshina Kannada District Youth Congress president Lukman Bantwal’scall to hold a protest march in Mangaluru against non-selection of float featuring Narayana Guru in the Republic Day parade in the national capital has not gone well with seniors in the Congress, including DCC president Harish Kumar. While Youth Congress office-bearers maintained that they need not inform every action to Mr. Kumar,former Minister B. Ramanath Rai ( in picture ) questioned the conduct and attitude of some young leaders. This led to heated exchanges between the party old-timers and the young turks in the presence of MLA U.T. Khader, former legislators J.R. Lobo and Ivan D’Souza, and AICC Secretary P.V. Mohan recently..  Later, tempers cooled with the intervention of former KPCC president G. Parameshwara, who visited the party office in Mangaluru on that day.Despite differences, Mr. Bantwal led the protest march with a group of activists, including senior leaders. Rattled by the youth leaders’ action, Mr. Rai briefly participated in the protest and left along with other leaders midway. The Congress has planned a procession of the tableau of Narayana Guru on January 26. Congress activists are hoping for better conduct by their leaders on that day. K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj Sathish G.T. Raghava M.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corridors-of-power/article64946491.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Rs. 2.03 cr. for road repairs||A sum of Rs. 2.03 crore has been sanctioned for the restoration of 24 roads damaged in rain and floods in the Cherthala Assembly constituency. Agriculture Minister and Local MLA P. Prasad said the work would be launched soon. The roads to be refurbished include Kodiyannatt-Pattachira; Ettezhathu-Vallapura road; Pattanakkad V.R. Junction-Unnikandam road; Indira Junction-Kundathikadavu road; Muhammaparambu Velikakathu-Meippil road; Puthanangadi-Muslim Palli road; Kandamangalam-Vembally road; Mundamveli-Chakkamveli road; Muslim Palli-Library road; Vattachira-Kannamkulam road; Kattayil-Navaveethi road; SNDP-Chitteyath road; Thakadiveliyil road; Elamathu-Chalunkal road; Chellapuram-Gandakarna Temple road; Pottachal-MLA road; Varanad- Theruvil road; Azhithottunkal- Arashupuram road; Irumbupalam- KSEB road; Muslim Palli- Beach road; Kanjikuzhy Palam- Kattayil road; Chennanattu road; Nagamkulangara-Muslim Palli road; Kadambanattu Devi Temple road; and Muhamma Mangalathuveli-Kallattu road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-203-cr-for-road-repairs/article38316704.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Minister says T.N. will execute Hogenakkalwater project||Water Resources Minister Durai Muruganon Saturday asserted that Tamil Nadu had the right toexecute, legally and on humanitariangrounds, thesecond phase of theHogenakkalcombined drinking water project. Assuring the people that the project would be “definitely implemented,” Mr Durai Murugan,inastatement, referred to observations of his Karnataka counterpartGovindKarjol against Tamil Nadu’s project. The Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal, in its final order of February 2017, allocated 2.2 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) to Tamil Nadu for consumptive use. Consequently,the Statehad been permittedto draw about 11 tmc ft. This had been made, after the Tribunal had apportionedwater among States [and Union Territory of Puducherry] of the Cauvery basinon the basis of irrigated areasserved. After providing water for various beneficial uses to all parties to thedispute, the Tribunal hadfixed 25.71 tmc ft as Tamil Nadu’s share out of the balance quantum of water. This was, in turn, worked outon the basis of the 2011 Census,after considering the requirements of the permitted irrigated schemes. TheSupreme Court,in its judgment in February 2018, confirmed it, Mr Durai Murugan said. He added that under the National and Tamil Nadu Water Policies, domesticrequirements had been given the first priority. The Clause XVIII of the Tribunal’s final orderhad also permitted the use of water for such essential requirements. Regardless of thediversion ofwater from any reservoirfor the purposes of domesticor waterdistributionby local bodiesorindustry, theutilisationof water would be accounted foronly under the head of the State concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tamil-nadu-willexecute-water-project-minister/article64946415.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||SilverLine: call to suspend social impact study||Amid raging protest against the SilverLine project, the Anti-K Rail SilverLine People’s Struggle Committee has raised questions about the credibility of the government-appointed agency that has begun a social impact assessment in Payyanur. The committee, which met on Sunday, demanded that the assessment be immediately stopped and questioned the competence of the agency which was collecting details from people. The committee termed the questions in the 17-page questionnaire for the assessment as “extremely farcical”. P.C. Vivek, convener of the committee in Kannur asked, “Since the project boundary and buffer zone have not been brought to the notice of the people, on what basis are they being asked about the land to be acquired and its direct impact? Since survey stones have been laid, it is improper to ask landowners about the number of such stones and the geographical area where they are laid. The committee said it was improper to classify the affected people on the basis of religion and caste and APL and BPL categories. “Information such as family members’ names, personal details, particulars about property, employment, and monthly income are more likely to be misused, “Mr. Vivek said. The questionnaire is designed in such a way that it indirectly says that the people are willing to give up their land for the project. Such a move cannot be allowed, the committee said. It observed that experts had held that the SilverLine project could be environmentally, socially and economically detrimental to Kerala. This is more or less accepted in the detailed project report too. The government must abandon the project in public interest. Its plan to go ahead with the project will force people to come out to the streets at a time when COVID cases are spiralling. “The farcical social impact study and laying of survey stones should be stopped immediately,” the committee said. Committee district chairman A.P. Badaruddin, K.P. Chandrangathan, V.K. Raveendran, M.K. Jayarajan, K.V. Chandran, and R. Aparna spoke.  It is improper to classify the affected on the basis of religion and caste and APL and BPL categories, says people’s panel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-suspend-social-impact-study-for-silverline-project/article38316662.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:37 IST,KERALA||Weavers pin hopes on online platform amid pandemic threat||Handloom weavers in Ernakulam district, mostly comprising cooperative societies from Chendamangalam, are looking forward to a boost in sales through its newly launched online platform, as the third wave of COVID-19 threatens to disrupt the market. The online platform, with support from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), has been launched at a time when weavers’ societies are facing serious shortage of raw materials like hang yarn. The steep rise in prices of raw materials too has come as a big setback to traditional handloom production units, which had been hoping for a revival of fortunes after COVID-19 restrictions were lifted and Onam and Christmas seasons saw an increase in sales. The Chendamangalam Handloom Weavers Societies Empowerment Consortium has soft-launched the online marketing platform, said Ajith Kumar Gothuruth, secretary of Chendamangalam-Karimpadam Weaving Cooperative H191. He added that the platform would help weavers sell their products across the globe adhering to quality standards. T.S. Baby, a veteran in the handloom sector, said the extended rebate for 10 days during Christmas had a positive impact on sales. However, the serious shortage of raw materials and their spiralling prices turned out to be a huge setback to the sector on which thousands of families in the district depended, he added. While the yarn price has gone up by around 30%, that of dyeing materials has risen by almost 100% over the last eight months. Mr. Baby said the government had also reduced the subsidy offered on the transport cost of yarn, and incentives like depot subsidy had been cut to 25% of the earlier levels. The bulk of the yarn for cooperative weavers societies is imported from Tamil Nadu. There have been reports of a fall in production as well as export of yarn causing shortage of the raw material. Though spinning mills in Kerala too produce yarn, the production level is low owing to several reasons including shortage of cotton, said Mr. Ajith Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weavers-pin-hopes-on-online-platform-amid-pandemic-threat/article64946555.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:37 IST,KERALA||Near-lockdown in Ernakulam district||The lockdown-like curbs in Ernakulam district on Sunday saw most people remaining confined to home, but for those who ventured out for urgent trips. As on Sunday evening, a total of 69 cases were registered in Kochi for COVID protocol violations like not wearing mask and for unnecessary travel. Four persons were arrested and two vehicles taken into custody. A total of 85 cases were registered in the Ernakulam Rural police limits under various heads, for violating provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance Act. A total of 1,500 police personnel led by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik were deployed to patrol public places and enforce the pandemic norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/near-lockdown-in-ernakulam-district/article64946556.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Hema panel talks tough on ‘bans’||The Justice K. Hema Commission, constituted by the State government to address issues faced by women in the Malayalam film industry, has suggested that a tribunal should be constituted and empowered to bar those in the industry who impose unofficial bans on others, denying them work. The report of the committee, which was submitted to the State government on December 31, 2019, is yet to be made public. Incidentally, several actors who voiced the issues plaguing the Malayalam film industry, had complained that they were unofficially banned from movies and denied professional opportunities. On the issue of unofficial ban, the panel suggested that the tribunal, upon finding that a person or persons have banned a particular person from working in cinema , can ban/bar the guilty from working in cinema. The tribunal must have powers to slap fine on the guilty and suggest compensation for the aggrieved parties. The guilty can be sent to civil prison for non-payment of fine or compensation, if it cannot be realised, according to the report. All segments of industry The tribunal shall be headed by a retired district judge, who has a minimum experience of five years on the trial side. Powers It will have powers to address the issues faced by different segments of the industry, including actors, directors, producers, and script writers. Cinematographers, hair stylists, make-up artistes and junior artistes will be covered by the tribunal, according to the recommendations of the panel, which had actor Sarada and former civil service officer K.B. Valsalakumari as its members. The tribunal, at the first instance, shall make efforts to solve the problems between the parties and can involve an expert of its choice or take advice or aid from experts. Sensitive issue Besides the sensitive issue of ‘casting couch,’ issues relating to non-payment of agreed remuneration, non-execution of contracts, use of drugs and alcohol also plague the sector. “The only solution to these issues is to enact a statute covering the industry and constitute a tribunal,” Ms. Hema said.  Cinematographers, hair stylists, make-up artistes and junior artistes too will be covered by the tribunal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hema-panel-talks-tough-on-bans/article38316705.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:38 IST,KERALA||Laying of SilverLine stones a double whammy for landowners||The laying of survey stones for the SilverLine rail corridor in Thiruvaniyur located off the city has come as a bolt from the blue for people whose land had been frozen over 30 years ago for the Thripunithura bypass, a project which has ever since remained a non-starter. Even as two generations of people struggled to make ends meet, unable to sell their land or rebuild their houses, survey stones for SilverLine were laid at 20-metre width earlier this month, including a little away from the frozen land where people had resettled in new houses or were in the process of building houses. The situation is much like in the Edappally-Moothakunnam NH 66 corridor, where houses and shops which were built afresh by people who surrendered land to widen the national highway at 30-m width, had to yet again relocate recently when the NH width was fixed at 45 m. The president of Thripunithura Bypass Action Council Alias A.V. spoke of how about a dozen survey stones were laid in Thiruvaniyur panchayat for SilverLine. “Already 219 landowners were left in the lurch after survey stones were laid and their land were frozen for the bypass project which remained in paper during the past 30 years. The laying of stones for the rail project has resulted in more number of people being affected,” he said. Interestingly, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has not acted, although the alignment frozen for the Thripunithura bypass was included in national highway development under Bharatmala Pariyojana Project. Its inclusion in the project was after Mr. Alias, a Gulf returnee, shot off a letter addressed as public grievance to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) in 2020. “I surrendered 25 cents for the project. The stalemate over the project has resulted in none wanting to purchase even the balance portion of the land that I own. The government must at least now de-freeze the land so that three-decades of uncertainty would end,” he said. Most landowners are neck-deep in crisis. Their plight would turn for the worse if survey stones are laid on rest of the land that they possess, said Benny Behanan, MP, whose constituency includes a part of the bypass alignment. “Else, the NHAI must include the frozen alignment in its upcoming Kundannoor-Angamaly NH bypass stretch,” he added. The Thiruvankulam regional secretary of Ernakulam District Residents Associations’ Apex Council (EDRAAC), M.M. Mohanan hoped the plots of land identified for the SilverLine project do not meet the same fate as those which were frozen for the Thripunithura bypass. “A total of 12 hectares remain frozen for the bypass project. Landowners are unable to sell their plots even for urgent needs like marriage or education. The SilverLine alignment has been laid just 50 to 100 metres away from the frozen land. Many who were constructing houses have halted the work and opted for rented houses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laying-of-silverline-stones-a-double-whammy-for-landowners/article38316680.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:38 IST,KERALA||Vendors return to footpaths, put pedestrians at risk||A fortnight since the renovated 2.20-km Marine Drive walkway was formally opened, visitors to the prime location are finding it difficult to safely walk up to the half-a-dozen entry points to the walkway, as vendors have wantonly encroached upon footpaths of Abraham Madamakkal Road, which extends from High Court Junction to the first Goshree Bridge. The situation is much the same at the northern end of Shanmugham Road, where vendors have blocked entry to the walkway. The gravity of the situation can be gauged from the fact that pedestrians have to skip the neatly paved footpaths and walk though the road, risking their life, since most vendors have occupied the entire width of the footpath located a stone’s throw away from the High Court and the Police Club. The footpaths on the eastern side were renovated by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) as part of its smart road project. CSML Chief Executive Officer Shanavas S. said efforts were on to clear the footpaths, which also have tactile tiles to guide visually challenged people, of encroachments. “A letter in this regard was recently given to the police. The Kochi Corporation too will have to step in, as directed by the High Court, to ensure that footpaths and roads are cleared of vendors and other encroachers.” According to street vending rules, only licensed vendors can do business in public spaces. They also ought to vacate the space every evening. In this case, they are blatantly flouting rules while at the same time occupying substantial space on the renovated footpath, Mr. Shanavas said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic) Kuriakose V.U. said the police had been assisting the Kochi Corporation in clearing public spaces of encroachments. The civic agency must identify such instances, while members of the public must pass on information if evicted vendors return to do business, he added. On the need for wide, well-maintained footpaths and open spaces to ensure physical and mental health, senior lawyer M.R. Rajendran Nair said the corporation and the police must help pedestrians reclaim their rightful space. “In addition, the civic agency must help ready adequate pay-and-park spaces, including multi-tier ones, to prevent haphazard parking on footpaths and road shoulders. Else, pedestrians stand the risk of being knocked down by vehicles. CSML and civic agencies must also ready dedicated cycle tracks,” he said. Organisations like Ernakulam Vikasana Samiti have been critical of the alleged failure of the authorities to remove iron posts installed by telecom firms from footpaths renovated by CSML. “They [iron posts] block narrow footpaths, defeating the very purpose of the costly renovation,” said K.S. Dileep Kumar, Samiti president. Terming the recent eviction drive by the corporation at Menaka an eyewash, he said most vendors had returned to the footpath. “There is a gang which collects up to Rs. 2,000 as rent a day from such vendors,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vendors-return-to-footpaths-put-pedestrians-at-risk/article64946552.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Probe ordered into Serifed postings||The Kerala High Court has directed the State government to conduct an inquiry into the nominated board of directors of Kerala State Sericulture Co-operative Apex Society Limited (SERIFED) recruiting around 300 persons allegedly in violation of rules. It ordered a probe into the government absorbing 271 persons illegally recruited to SERIFED into various government services as well as in the Kerala Khadi and Village Industries Board. The court asked the three-member committee comprising representatives of SERIFED, Director of Handlooms and Textiles, and the Central Silk Board, formed to prepare a project report on the feasibility of silk weaving as well as the revival of SERIFED, Post-Cocoon Sector and Silk Weaving, to submit the report to the government in four months. In two months It ordered the State government to take a decision on the revival of SERIFED, Post-Cocoon Sector and Silk Weaving within two month of getting the report. The directives were issued on Friday on a batch of writ petitions on proposals for liquidation and revival of SERIFED. The court noted that Plan funds allocated for the development of sericulture in the State were openly diverted for paying salary to illegally recruited employees. ‘Reason for collapse’ Inspections by the Department of Finance, Planning Board, and the AG’s Office revealed that the reason for the collapse of SERIFED was illegal appointments. The court said the audit reports would establish that the SERIFED Board did not take steps to affiliate taluk-level societies as members of SERIFED, and that the reason for the loss sustained by the Society was the appointment of excess employees and opening of large number of district offices. The court observed that by making illegal recruitments, the nominated board of SERIFED had played fraud on the government and the public, especially the educated unemployed in the State who were waiting for appointment.  Plan funds for development of sericulture diverted for paying salary to illegally recruited employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-asks-state-govt-to-probe-serifed-postings/article38316659.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Actor counters director’s allegations in High Court||Terming false director Balachandrakumar’s allegation that a conspiracy was hatched by actor Dileep to harm the investigation officers in the actor sexual assault case, the actor told the Kerala High Court that the director had earlier falsely claimed that he got bail in the case due to his intervention through the bishop of Neyyattinkara. In a reply statement filed in their anticipatory bail case on Saturday, Dileep and four others said that “Mr. Balachandrakumar’s wife was a Latin Catholic Christian and he claimed that he had close relationship with the bishop of Neyyattinkara who, he claimed, is close to dignitaries like the Chief Minister, Ministers, and police officers. Mr. Balachandrakumar said he would intimate the bishop of the false implication of (Dileep) and the bishop would inform the dignitaries the true facts and that would result in proper investigation.” They alleged that Mr. Balachandrakumar had fabricated and circulated, ‘WhatsApp chats between the actor and his brother P. Sivakumar and his brother-in-law T.N. Suraj regarding the bishop’s intervention in the grant of bail to him.’ Not a friend Mr. Balachandrakumar was not a friend of any of the petitioners. He was an unknown scriptwriter/director whom they tried to support, professionally and financially. It was with ulterior motives that Mr. Balachandrakumar had turned against the petitioners. The timing of the revelations was noteworthy. The revelations about an alleged incident that took place on November 15, 2017 was made after four years and 40 days, at a time when the examination of the de facto complainant — investigating officer Baiju Paulose — was scheduled from December 29, Dileep told the court. Mr. Balachandrakumar had stated that he repeatedly phoned in April 2021 B. Sandhya, Additional Director General of Police, who supervised the sexual assault case , but she did not respond. The statement was made by him falsely “to cover up the role of the officer in hiring him to raise false allegations to disrupt the ongoing trial,” Dileep said. The digital evidence claimed by the director was “fragments of speech or broken words whose time of recording, sequence of recording, manner of recording etc. were uncertain,” the actor said.  Dileep, four others were filing a reply statement in their anticipatory bail plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/actor-counters-directors-allegations-in-high-court/article38316712.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:38 IST,KERALA||Chellanam residents foresee another season of hardship||Residents of Chellanam have expressed apprehension about the possibility of the most vulnerable segments of the coastal village not getting protection during the next rainy season though the setting up of tetrapods appears to take off soon. Samples of tetrapods to be deployed for coastal protection have been kept ready, and the authorities hope to be complete the work in 19 months. K.J. Maxy, MLA, who visited the tetrapod construction site had said on Saturday that the process could be speeded up. T.A. Dalphine of Pachima Kochi Theera Samrakshana Samiti said 19 months looked like an unrealistic target considering that no ground work had been done for the making of tetrapods. There are practical difficulties associated with their construction as well as their transport to the coastal segments where they will be deployed. Survey conducted He said a survey had been conducted to construct a road to transport the tetrapods from the construction site to the coast. It will require large cranes to lift the structures and move them to the coast. V.T. Sebastian of the Chellanam Samyukta Samara Samiti said men, machinery, and materials had to be mobilised for such large-scale construction work, and the process was time-consuming. The project awarded to Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society involves work on 7.5 km of the coastal segment. The project cost is Rs. 240 crore. He said the Janakiya Samiti had been on the path of protest for 819 days now and have been demanding work to protect the entire segment of the coast from Chellanam to Fort Kochi, which is 17.5 km long.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chellanam-residents-foresee-another-season-of-hardship/article38316679.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||Kochi school fast-tracks journey to carbon-neutral status||The Chavara Darshan CMI Public School in Koonammavu, near Kochi, has laid the foundation for going carbon-neutral with a string of measures that include creating clusters of bamboo forests, encouraging its students to adopt natural farming methods, growing vegetables, garden plants, and trees that absorb carbon. The school will also tap renewal sources of energy and shift totally to LED systems as part of the efforts, said Principal Tomy Kochilanjikkal on Sunday. The school, in Kottuvally panchayat, has encouraged its students to take up natural farming and recycle used materials to create a cleaner and safer environment. The school will also measure its energy use, examine the nature of the soil on the campus and audit the energy use by its vehiclest o achieve the goal of total carbon neutrality. 34 types of bamboo The greening efforts on the campus have been taken by the Nature Club members of the school with the help of the Department of Agriculture, which has extended technical support to the programme. While natural farming activities have been going on at the school over the last two years, the big step towards greening the campus began with the establishment of a hundred clusters of 34 types of bamboo found all over India, said sources in the department.The school has an aquaculture pond, a poultry farm, and a livestock farm. The campus also has ornamental plants and trees that facilitate carbon absorption. The vegetables produced on the school campus are being sold through its Eco Shop. The proceeds from the sales are used to produce environment-friendly products that can replace plastic, Fr. Kochilanjikkal said. The students havethe strong support of the teachers and employees of the school. “One of the biggest achievements is that students and their parents are now drawn to homestead farming. Many cultivate at least a portion of the vegetables and fruits they require on their terraces,” the Principal said. Different types of leafy vegetables, including the red amaranth, grown on a 30-cent plot in the school, were sold through the Eco Shop recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-school-fast-tracks-journey-to-carbon-neutral-status/article64946536.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Confident of cracking case, says ADGP||The Crime Branch (CB) team, probing the case in which Dileep reportedly threatened to endanger the life of police officers, has collected adequate evidence and are hopeful of garnering more, Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) S. Sreejith has said. He was speaking to mediapersons after arriving at the CB office at Kalamassery, where Dileep and four others who had been arraigned as accused, are being interrogated. “The probe team is confident of solving the case. We will get leads from the actor and the others irrespective of whether they cooperate with the interrogation or not. The High Court will be informed of any indifference that they show,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/confident-of-cracking-case-says-adgp/article38316710.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Govt. told to challenge nun case verdict||The government must depute a team of prominent lawyers to challenge the recent verdict that acquitted bishop Franco Mulakkal, the Central committee of Save Our Sisters (SOS) has demanded. A decision on further action will be taken in consultation with the nun who had alleged that the bishop had raped her repeatedly. A few retired judges of the High Court have agreed to provide free legal aid. The core team of lawyers will shortly visit the nun, said Fr. Augustine Vattoly, convenor of SOS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-told-to-challenge-nun-case-verdict/article38316714.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:37 IST,KERALA||Currency worth Rs. 75 lakh seized at airport||The Customs on Sunday seized foreign currency worth Rs. 75 lakh from a Palakkad native who was to travel from Kochi to Dubai on a Spice Jet flight. The currency in Euro, Dollar, and Dinar were found concealed in his hand bag and luggage. Arrested An autorickshaw driver was arrested on Sunday on the charge of attempted murder, after he waved a knife at two-wheeler riders, near Cochin Shipyard on Saturday. Nikhil Sunil, 29, of Palluruthy was arrested and remanded following a complaint by the two-wheeler riders. The incident was the fallout of the duo questioning the auto driver who abruptly stopped his autorickshaw in front of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/currency-worth-rs-75-lakh-seized-at-airport/article38316669.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:37 IST,KERALA||Rights panel directive on taluk hospital||The State Human Rights Commission has directed the Health Service Director to urgently look into the demand for resuming the facilities for COVID test and treatment at the Palluruthy Taluk Hospital. The Commission passed the order on a complaint seeking to resume the facilities at the taluk hospital. People were now forced to depend on hospitals in Karuvelipady and Fort Kochi, leading to crowding in these hospitals. The Commission asked the Director to file a report in this regard in four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directive-on-taluk-hospital/article38316660.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Complaint redressal system mooted||The civic authorities of Kochi are working on a proposal to reintroduce the public complaint redressal system in the city. The move comes in the wake of a complaint from a woman entrepreneur, who came out with the allegation that a few officials of the Kochi Corporation had sought bribe for issuing clearances from the civic body. As the complaint went viral, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve had intervened in the issue and assured the woman that the officials would deliver the necessary clearances. He had also assured the complainant that the documents regarding the clearances would be delivered to her home. The developments had reportedly left a dent on the public image of the service deliverance system of the civic body. Though a proposal for a complaint redressal system was mooted in the Kochi Corporation, it didn’t succeed. Now, efforts are on to reintroduce it as part of the Smart Kochi project in the wake of the new developments, said Mayor M. Anilkumar. The proposed system will automatically generate response to the complaints, which will be communicated to the complainants. The details of the complaints will be made accessible to the Mayor, civic heads and senior officials the moment the complaints are lodged. There will also be an effective follow-up and complaint redressal mechanism. Details of the project will be worked out shortly, he said. The civic administration, according to Mr. Anilkumar, was quick to act on the complaint of the woman and initiated action against the officials who reportedly erred. Fresh complaints The administration has also launched a probe against some other officials following fresh complaints. There were also complaints against some officials of the Health Department, and action was initiated, he said. The message that no one from the administration will support wrong-doers has been sent across officials. No recommendations or lobbying from trade unions will be entertained to protect erring officials. It has also been made clear that erring officials will have to face the music, he said. The Mayor felt that the introduction of online system in more sectors of governance like the issuance of various certificates, payment of fee and taxes and submission of applications would go a long way in the curbing the possibility for corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-complaint-redressal-system-mooted-for-kochi/article38316674.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Kollam gears up for IMI project||District Collector Afsana Parveen has said that the preparations for Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI) immunisation programme are under way in Kollam. The announcement was made at a meeting of the district-level task force that was convened online. The programme, which aims to vaccinate 90% of children, provides immunisations against diphtheria, typhoid, tetanus, polio, tuberculosis, measles, and jaundice. Apart from children under two years of age, pregnant women will also be vaccinated and they will be identified through joint surveys by various departments at the regional level. The services of Kudumbashree and ASHA workers will also be utilised for the same. The Collector has been instructed to issue notifications to local bodies about the programme. A list of children and expectant mothers who haven’t taken vaccination will be prepared after conducting surveys in all local bodies. Since the spread of COVID-19 has intensified in the district, precautions will be taken for vaccination sessions to ensure safety. For this, the cooperation of various departments including Health, Women and Child Welfare, Labour, Education, and Tribal Welfare will be sought. “The training for district-block level teams has already started in Kollam,” said State Mission Officer and WHO Consultant, Dr. Prathapachandran. DMO Dr. Bindu Mohan, RCH Officer Dr.M. S Anu, and various departmental heads, were present.  The programme, which aims to vaccinate 90% of children, provides immunisations against diphtheria, typhoid, tetanus, polio, tuberculosis, and jaundice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-gears-up-for-imi-project/article38316695.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||ESI hospital to get more beds||ESI Model Hospital, Asramam, the only super-specialty hospital run by the Employees State Insurance (ESI) Corporation in the State, will soon increase the number of beds and expand outpatient facilities. “The ESI has approved a proposal to increase the number of beds in the hospital to 150. Labour Secretary Sunil Barthwal has said that the project plan submitted by Central Public Works Department has been approved,” said N.K. Premachandran, MP, who had earlier handed over a memorandum to implement a comprehensive plan for the development of the hospital. In addition, 129 SST beds, 21 HDU beds, and 18 ICU beds will be set up. Critical care The extra facilities will be installed as part of measures to improve the critical care system. The number of operation theatres will be increased from three to six and the labs will be modernised. The radio diagnosis unit will be developed by setting up CT scan and MRI ultrasound facilities. Outpatient treatment will be expanded by providing treatment facilities in 11 super-specialty departments. “At present the ESI is examining the estimate submitted by the Central Public Works Department and further steps will be taken in a time-bound manner to start construction,” he said. In 2021, new guidelines were issued for the purchase of state-of-the-art medical equipment for the hospital to provide quality treatment to ESI beneficiaries. Directions were also issued to procure equipment worth Rs. 2 crore to upgrade the treatment facilities and switch to first-rate equipment.  ESI is examining estimate submitted by Central Public Works Department and steps will be taken in a time-bound manner to start construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/asramam-esi-hospital-to-get-more-beds/article38316703.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||‘Quota for disabled not practical’||A section of aided primary school managers have claimed that 4% reservation for people with disabilities will prove to be challenge to those running single schools. In a recent memorandum to General Education Minister V. Sivankutty, functionaries of Kerala Aided (Primary) School Managers Association (KASMA) had pointed out that the Education department had issued an order making the quota mandatory for aided schools only in November last year. Going by the order, one of the 25 persons being appointed should be a differently abled person. In the past 50 years, a majority of aided primary schools have not appointed 25 teachers. Even 50 persons have not been appointed in most schools that are around 100 years old, KASMA president P.S. Sasikumar said in the memorandum. Mandatory Three percent reservation was mandatory for them under the People With Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995, from February 7, 1996. Under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, the quota was raised to 4% from April 19, 2017, with retrospective effect. It was the KASMA functionaries who opposed the Kerala High Court stay order on appointments in aided schools last year. In an order on September 6, 2021, the Director of Public Instruction had sought to clear all appointments to aided schools made by July 15, 2021, by September 24. The court stayed this order after the Kerala Federation of the Blind filed a petition alleging that the 4% quota for persons with disabilities had not been implemented. This put 2,883 appointments across the State in a limbo. The High Court vacated the stay later. Less than 25 teachers Organisations representing persons with disabilities had demanded that they be given the first reserved post. In a large majority of primary schools, there are only four posts. If the first post is given under the quota, the reservation percentage would go up to 25. The managements claimed that there were many schools in the State which were set up before the Kerala Education Rules were formulated. There are less than 25 teachers in those schools, they added. Qualified applicants There are only around 500 qualified applicants who deserve to be appointed under the persons with disabilities quota, KASMA claimed, adding that a majority of them had already got jobs. The State government had not issued any guidelines for the appointment of persons with disabilities, and the Social Justice Department had not conducted any study on the issue, it said. KASMA leaders claimed that the Education department had issued the order to implement reservations with retrospective effect on November 11 only after the High Court stay order. The process to gauge backlog posts began only in December.  The State government has not issued any guidelines for the appointment of persons with disabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quota-for-disabled-not-practical-in-aided-primary-schools/article38316657.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:34 IST,KERALA||Kozhikode Corpn. prepared to handle surge in COVID cases||The Kozhikode Corporation has directed all councillors to closely monitor unvaccinated people and those with co-morbidities in each ward to rein in COVID-19 cases. A meeting of councillors on Saturday chaired by Mayor Beena Philip noted that the corporation was prepared to handle the situation at present and would evaluate its preparedness, if needed. The Mayor said the third wave was quite different from the previous two waves, and that it was milder, probably because most people had been vaccinated. District Medical Officer (DMO) V. Ummer Farooq said though there was a rise in cases, hospitalisation is sparse, and hence the Health department was able to handle the situation. Enough beds are available at hospitals, and the support of private hospitals will be sought, if necessary. As many as 100 beds will be readied at the Government Homoeo Medical College in the event of a sudden surge in cases. The corporation will appoint the required number of staff for cleaning, waste disposal, and data entry at the facility which will be a second-line treatment centre. The corporation also decided to strengthen its Rapid Response Teams to ensure that patients go into home isolation and international travellers follow quarantine norms. Steps are being taken to speed up provision of financial aid to the families of those who died of COVID-19. Besides, steps are being taken to speed up administration of the second dose of vaccination and vaccination of those belonging to the 15 to 18 age group. Arrangements have been made at hostels to isolate residents who test positive, the DMO said. Health standing committee chairperson S. Jayasree requested councillors to make arrangements for communication between newly identified patients and doctors in each ward. They also should actively support families in which all members test positive. Antigen tests may be restarted to obtain quick results. The corporation is prepared to meet emergencies, Ms. Jayasree noted.  Enough beds are available at hospitals, and the support of private hospitals will be sought, if necessary V. Ummer Farooq District Medical Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-corpn-prepared-to-handle-surge-in-covid-cases/article38316648.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Infotainment centre on Kozhikode beach||The Kerala Maritime Board has invited expressions of interest from agencies to set up an infotainment centre in 2.5 acres of land under the Department of Ports at South Beach in Kozhikode. The centre, with focus on tourism, is expected to boost the potential of South Beach, which is growing popular among beachgoers in the city after its recent renovation. There is a large portion of land at South Beach that was earlier set aside for lorry parking near Valiyangadi. After the lorries were removed, the land has been lying vacant and the department is planning to put it to better use. The South Beach was renovated recently with the support of MLA M.K. Muneer. Tiled pathways, seating arrangements, cafeteria, ornamental lights and toilets were set up. A cycle and skating track near Kothi could also be added to the area. The plan is to develop an information centre with facilities for watersports, a floating bridge, and a children’s park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/infotainment-centre-being-planned-at-south-beach/article38316656.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:35 IST,KERALA||Tour organiser C. Narendran passes away||C. Narendran, 62, who passed away here on Sunday, was a pioneer in the travel and tourism sector in the State. As the chairman and managing director of Vivekananda Travels, he popularised the concept of low-cost tours to well-known spiritual centres in North India. Narendran was born to K.V.C. Narayanan Nair, founder of the travel and tour company, who conducted the first Kashi tour from Kerala in the 1970s. There were study tours and leisure packages too under the Vivekananda stable. Those who travelled by Vivekananda vehicles to destinations in North India remember that Narendran ensured that their stay was comfortable and that they got Kerala food on time. Malayali cooks always accompanied the travellers. Narendran himself was an avid traveller, having trekked the Kailash-Manasarovar over a dozen times. He is survived by his wife Usha, a former deputy director of the Treasury department, and two daughters. Minister for Tourism and Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas condoled Narendran’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tour-organiser-c-narendran-passes-away/article64946558.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Vigil against fake RT-PCR papers||With some inter-State passengers producing fake RT-PCR certificates to secure travel clearance, the Police and Health departments have adopted intensified screening measures at various points covering border checkposts, railway stations, and bus stands. The validity of the certificate is likely to be checked at multiple points to ensure that no inter-State passenger bypasses screening measures. The details of some passengers who left the State after producing fabricated RT-PCR certificate are with the police, who will carry out further investigation. The Karnataka police have registered cases against four youths from Kozhikode district who recently crossed a Karnataka checkpost by submitting fake documents. In the wake of increasing cases, only those who carry a COVID-negative certificate will be permitted to continue their journey after the screening at various checking points. Certificates older than two days will not be considered as valid document for inter-State travel. According to police sources, attempts to alter previously issued RT-PCR certificates have also been reported from some locations. In such cases, the persons or firms engaged in the preparation of such documents will be booked for criminal offence. There were similar cases against several persons during the first and second wave of the pandemic, they added. “Incidents of issuing certificates without checking samples and backdated fully vaccinated certificates have been reported in cities like Hyderabad. Diagnostic centre owners and travel operators were found playing a crucial role in such cases,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-against-use-of-fake-rt-pcr-papers/article38316655.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||RTC suspends tourism trips||The spike in the number of COVID-19 cases has disrupted the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation’s budget tourism trips from Kozhikode district to various ecotourism spots in the State. Many scheduled trips have been cancelled and the booking amount refunded to passengers. Tour coordinators Tour coordinators said no booking would be accepted at the KSRTC’s Thamarassery depot until further orders. The detection of some COVID-19 cases among those who took part in a recent trip to Munnar from Kozhikode also prompted the KSRTC to temporarily suspend scheduled trips. Officials at the KSRTC’s State-level control room said there would be restrictions on all sightseeing trips for two weeks. Lifting of curbs The curbs would be lifted only after a review meeting, they said. Concerns over a third wave affected services when the KSRTC was about to make a good profit from such trips. The increase in the number of bookings was a testimony to the popularity of the cost-effective trips that attracted many youths and elderly persons. 300 persons About 300 persons had benefitted from the trips organised to Munnar, Wayanad and Nelliyampathy. Trip coordinators at the Thamarassery depot said the payment made by passengers had been credited to their accounts. However, the old reservation list would be maintained to give priority to the passengers when the trips would resume, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-suspends-sightseeing-trips/article38316650.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Training||SRC Community College functioning under State Resource Centre has invited applications for Teacher Training (one year) and advanced diploma courses. Qualification required to apply for the courses is Plus Two/any teacher training course/any diploma. Lateral entry is also open for the second year of advanced diploma courses, according to the college authorities. Last date Last date for submitting applications is January 31. Visit www.srcc.in or call 8111937212, 7356971881 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited-for-teacher-training-courses/article38316697.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Pre-primary students need no uniform||A government order has freed students in parent-teacher association (PTA)-run pre-primary sections attached to State schools from the monotony of uniforms. The decision comes on the recommendation that uniforms run contrary to the idea of an unconstrained preschool environment. The recommendation was made by a committee appointed by the Director of General Education to study various issued related to preschools. The government also decided that pre-primary teachers and ayahs appointed by PTAs after 2012 without government sanction need not be paid honorarium. Orders had been issued earlier that preschools should not be started as part of schools from December 7, 2012. However, many PTAs went ahead and started preschool classes, and such a situation should be avoided, the committee had recommended. Since the government’s orders had been violated, it was decided that no honorarium be paid to the teachers and ayahs. Training The government also decided that pre-primary teacher training provided by the government undertaking KELTRON and other institutions, did not follow the guidelines of the National Council of Teacher Education, and hence need not be considered for pre-primary teacher appointments. The committee reported that a study conducted by the State Council of Educational Research and Training in 2019-20 had found that 341 pre-primary teacher training institutions, including KELTRON, were not functioning as per the NCTE guidelines.  Uniforms run contrary to the idea of unconstrained preschool environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-uniform-for-pre-primary-students-in-state-schools/article38316658.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||Corporation to expand medical support team||The city Corporation has decided to rent five more ambulances and five taxis with protective shields, considering the increasing demand from COVID-19 positive patients to travel to and from hospitals or COVID-19 First-Line Treatment Centers (CFLTCs). The Mayor has also issued orders to expand the mobile medical team with more doctors and nurses, as there is demand from government hospitals too for doctors with many on duty testing positive. Currently, the city Corporation has four ambulances, out of which one went into repair on Saturday. According to health officials, there has been a surge in demand for ambulances in the past few days. On Saturday, the three ambulances ran a total of 78 trips. Talks to be held The civic body will be holding negotiations with ambulance associations and owners on Monday to fix the rates. In addition, five taxis with protective shields also will be hired. The services of the mobile medical team were much sought-after during the second wave of the pandemic. After the situation eased, the team was wound up in December. But, with the number of COVID-19 cases witnessing a major surge in the city in recent weeks, the Corporation decided to revive the team. Currently, the team consists of three doctors, five nurses, and medical volunteers. The Mayor has now accorded permission to expand the team with two more doctors. “The team is providing consultation through video calls for those who require it. In the case of bed-ridden patients, they are providing consultation at home. The functioning of the medical team and the expanded ambulance services is expected to become full-fledged by Monday evening,” said Corporation Health Officer R.S. Gopakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-to-expand-medical-support-team/article38316825.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||Capital adheres to lockdown restrictions||The State-wide lockdown observed on Sunday was near-total in the capital district with the public largely remaining indoors and refraining from gathering in public spaces. The curbs were necessitated by the alarming levels of COVID-19 spread with Thiruvananthapuram having the highest caseload in the State. In the State capital, the City police had deployed sizeable contingents of personnel across nearly 60 checking points to screen vehicles as early as 7 a.m. Besides, 18 entry/exit points along the city’s boundaries were barricaded to restrict movement to essential services. The arterial roads remained deserted for most part of the day. The police adopted a stringent stance to prevent inessential travel. Those who were headed to procure essential commodities, attend marriages and religious functions, and report for duty in essential services were permitted to travel. Affidavit, identification and travel documents were also examined by the law enforcers. Despite the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) deciding to run a considerable number of buses, the Central bus station in Thampanoor witnessed low patronage. Several commercial outlets, even those in Chala, remained closed in anticipation of low sales, despite the district authorities permitting those trading essential commodities to function from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Many customers preferred home delivery, despite the police permitting take-away, traders said. 56 persons booked According to official statistics, as many as 56 people were booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Act, while 22 were arrested for various violations. Sixteen vehicles were also impounded in the city. In the Thiruvananthapuram Rural police limits, cases were registered against 12 people. Nine offenders were arrested and four vehicles seized for unnecessary travel.  18 entry/exit points along the city’s boundaries were barricaded||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-adheres-to-lockdown-restrictions/article64946436.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||Hospitals struggle as more staff test positive||As the rapid spread of COVID-19 begins to fill up hospitals, one of the primary issues faced by hospitals in both private and public sector is the shortage of human resources. In the past five days, at least 1,700 health-care workers have tested COVID-positive as per official records and the shortage of hands has been putting a lot of strain on hospitals COVID-19 management per se is very labour-intensive as apart from patient care duties, hospitals have to devote staff for the mountain of clerical work involved, including uploading lab data to ICMR portal, updating the admission/ occupancy data and answering helpline queries. On top of that, healthcare staff falling ill and becoming indisposed has stressed all hospitals. ‘Marginally better’ “Things are marginally better than during the last wave as all healthcare workers are vaccinated. Most have only developed a mild disease now, so they can join back after seven days. Footfall has reduced on the non-COVID side since the past few days, so we are pulling staff from all specialties to help with COVID care. There is no crisis right now but we are dreading the next two weeks when the graph could peak,” says Rajalekshmi Arjun, senior consultant, Infectious Diseases, KIMSHEALTH. Public sector hospitals, however, are struggling because apart from healthcare workers falling sick themselves, they are being saddled with more responsibilities without any additional hands. Doctors also point out that the COVID care burden is unequally divided between hospitals that while some major hospitals such as the General Hospital are forced to sacrifice non-COVID care to take in more COVID patients, many other hospitals such as the Peroorkada Model Hospital or the Chest Diseases Hospital at Pulayanarkotta, which have ample facilities as well as human resources, remain grossly under-utilised. “Many systemic deficiencies remain completely unaddressed and this is adding to the pandemic fatigue and staff burnout,” a senior doctor in a public sector hospital says. Fear easing Even when hospitalisations are increasing in proportion to the huge daily spike in cases, it is much lower than what it used to be during the last wave. The fear factor among the public seems to be leveling off and more people are willing to remain at home or take tele-consultations, doctors say. Yet, needless admissions continue in government hospitals, most of which are pre-emptive admissions on patient request.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospitals-struggle-as-more-staff-test-positive/article38316715.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||‘The Story of George’ that is going places||When Frenchwoman Claire le Michel comes to Thiruvananthapuram next, she will not be able to look in on George, a gnarly, old Bengal tiger, at the city zoo. George passed away the day after Christmas last. Claire, though, has immortalised George since her visit to the zoo two years ago. He continues to live on through a story by Claire (and translated into English by Jerome Gordon) that has been published on a French blog, aired on radio, and has led to a library project that involves reading, writing workshop, and interaction with children. On Saturday, George was the star of a reading night at the library in Parthenay in western France where the audience was invited to listen to ‘The Story of George’ and watch videos. Claire, a writer and dancer, came to the city for a writing residency at the Alliance Francaise de Trivandrum. Keen on writing about a spiritual connect between nature and animals, she got in touch with senior zoo veterinarian Jacob Alexander who took her round to see the tigers, and, of course, George. The tiger had been captured and brought from the wilds of Wayanad in 2015 after it began straying into human settlements and killing livestock. When he reached the zoo, he was old and frail, his lungs infected with a parasite and maggot-infested wounds, and a missing nose tip. It was touch-and-go, but prolonged medical treatment and some surgeries saw him through. When Claire saw George, named after the lead character in a popular Malayalam romantic movie, she was touched by the beautiful beast who was born free and had roamed the jungles once, how he had shown remarkable resilience and hung on to life, and the way Dr. Alexander took care of him and other animals. Back in France, Claire wanted to talk about George, his story, and man’s relationship with nature. In April 2020, she sat down to write ‘The Story of George,’ and finished the 38th and last episode in September 2021. The episodes were first published on the blog of a dance theatre company la Compagnie Un soir ailleurs. Then, Radio Gatine, located in Parthenay, decided to record and air the story. Claire says the tiger’s story is 50% observation of real situations and reflections on life (“...we are all living the same strange situation for two years all over the world...) and 50% imagination. The narrator of the story is a magpie called Carbon Crow, and George and the bird have conversations, about life and human beings. Dr. Alexander is also a character in the story, as are some other animals in the zoo such as Gracie, the lioness. Claire wanted to remain connected to Kerala and as luck would have it, Eva Martin, Director of the Alliance Francaise de Trivandrum, who was moved by the story, decided to be a partner. Parthenay town has now created a web page with all events and resources connected to ‘The Story of George’. Dr. Alexander says George was around 15 when he reached the zoo, and with proper care and treatment, he managed to live on for six more years. His story highlights the importance of in situ conservation of animals and of nature and wildlife conservation. Zoos, as a technique of ex situ conservation, also have a role to play in accommodating in near-normal conditions rescued animals that cannot be released back into the wild as in the case of George. The facilities also promote ex situ research that can complement in situ conservation efforts. Zoos also create education and awareness, and the thank-you notes and drawings that he has received from schoolchildren in France show how successfully George’s story has done that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-story-of-george-goes-places/article64946434.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||No let-up, as State reports 45,449 cases||For the fourth consecutive day on Sunday, the COVID-19 case graph hovered around the 40,000 mark, with the State logging 45,449 new cases, when 1,01,252 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool now has 2,64,638 patients, of whom, 3.5% are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals. The Health department’s data says that during January 16-22, the average active cases were 1,72,290. Hospitalisations increased by 91% and ICU occupancy by 58%. Oxygen bed requirement rose by 101% during the same period in comparison to the previous week 27,961 recoveries Patients seem to be recovering much faster, something that has been observed world over during the Omicron wave. The State has been reporting a good number of recoveries since the past four days and on Sunday, 27,961 were reported to have recovered from the disease. Hospitalisations are rising daily in proportion to the increase in new cases. On Sunday, the number of patients who newly entered hospitals in the State remained more or less steady at 1,098. Total number of patients admitted with COVID in hospitals went up from 8,430 to 8,883. ICU and ventilator occupancy seems to rise faster than the rate of hospitalisation. On Sunday, 71 persons were newly admitted in ICUs, taking the the current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals to 1,017. Ventilator occupancy went up slightly from 232 to 235. This includes 38 recent deaths and 39 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the government. Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 11,091 cases, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 8,980, Kozhikode 5,581, Thrissur 2,779, Kollam 2,667, Malappuram 2,371, Kottayam 2,216, Palakkad 2,137, Alappuzha 1,564, Pathanamthitta 1,723, Idukki 1,433, Kannur 1,336, Wayanad 941 and Kasaragod 630 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-let-up-as-state-reports-45449-cases/article64946537.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||NCC contingent wins laurels at R-Day camp||The National Cadet Corps (NCC) contingent that represented the Kerala and Lakshadweep NCC Directorate has achieved a historic feat in the ongoing Republic Day Camp 2022 in New Delhi. All six participants in the Best Cadet competition have won medals with three of them winning the coveted gold medal. The others bagged a silver and two bronze medals. The Kerala and Lakshadweep NCC Directorate is also in line to receive three of the six batons presented by the Prime Minister. Seventeen NCC Directorates from across the country participated in the competitions. Madhav S. of 28 (K) Battalion, Ottapalam (Sree Neelakanta Government Sanskrit College, Pattambi), won the All India Best Cadet Award with gold medal in the category of Senior Division (Army). Kuruvilla K. Ancheril of 7(K) Naval Unit NCC, Ernakulam (Sacred Heart College, Thevara), and Kirti Yadav of 21(K) Battalion, Ernakulam (St. Theresa’s College, Ernakulam), won the gold medals in the Senior Division (Navy) and Senior Wing (Army) categories respectively. The trio will receive the medals from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 28. Meenakshi A. Nair of 7(K) Naval Unit NCC (Sacred Heart College, Thevara), won the silver medal in the category of Senior Wing (Navy). Arjun Venugopal of 3(K) Air Squadron NCC, Kochi (St. Albert’s College, Ernakulam), and M. Akshitha of 1(K) Air Squadron NCC, Thiruvananthapuram (MG College, Thiruvananthapuram), bagged the bronze medals in the Senior Division (Air) and Senior Wing (Air) categories respectively. Minister hails cadets Congratulating the winners, Higher Education Minister R. Bindu expressed joy over the shining performance of the State’s contingent at the national meet. The team persevered by battling the prevailing COVID-19 situation as well as the extreme cold to achieve its goal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ncc-contingent-wins-laurels-at-r-day-camp/article64946416.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||Adolescent girl clubs to be revived in all local bodies||Minister for Women and Child Development Veena George will inaugurate the activation of adolescent girl clubs in all local bodies in the State on Monday, National Girl Child Day. Adolescent girl clubs, started in anganwadis earlier to address problems faced by adolescents, and give them a sense of direction, had become inactive. Now, they are being revived and renamed ‘Varnakoottu.’ Activities to provide adolescent girls mental support, promote their creative and sporting abilities, and seminars will be held online in the current COVID-19 situation. For this, anganwadi-level management committee meetings will be convened online, and with their support, the clubs will be renamed on Monday, and observe National Girl Child Day. Child Development Project Officers (CDPO) have been directed to conduct orientation programmes using the services of psychosocial school counsellors to promote peer group support among the club members. The club members will meet on a fixed day in a month that is decided by the CDPOs. A member with leadership qualities, with preference given to NSS/NCC members, should be selected, and ToT (Training of Trainers) model training organised for them. Awareness programmes with the support of various departments such as police, Excise, Education, Health, Women and Child, Social Justice, Disaster Management, and so on will be held. The members will be involved in activities such as visits to the elderly and the bedridden, bringing back school dropouts to education, and ensure services of nutritionists to children with anaemia. The Women and Child Development Department will organise a host of programmes starting Monday and continuing up to International Women’s Day in March. Debate on dress code In the week starting Monday, a debate on gender-neutral dress code in educational institutions, menstrual hygiene and diet, adolescent health, sharing of best adolescent girl clubs in the district, and felicitation of students who have stood out for their bravery or extraordinary achievement will be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adolescent-girl-clubs-to-be-revived-in-all-local-bodies/article38316828.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||8,980 new cases in district||Thiruvananthapuram district recorded 8,980 COVID-19 cases and 9,017 recoveries as the active caseload stood at 57,486 on Sunday. Ten more recent deaths have been attributed to the infection, taking the district’s death toll to 6,749. A seven-year old girl from Aruvikkara succumbed to the disease on Friday. The other deceased were aged between 52 years and 87 years. As many as 283 COVID-19-infected people were hospitalised in various parts of the district on the day. Isolated With this, the number of people who have been isolated in hospitals in the district stood at 1,768. A total of 10,1257 people are currently in quarantine either in their homes or in institutions. Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil has tested positive for COVID-19. He has been quarantining in his official residence here in the absence of any serious difficulties. All public functions scheduled by the Minister for the next few days have been called off, his office has informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/8980-new-cases-in-district/article64946437.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||Govt. leaving people to their fate: Chennithala||Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, MLA, alleged that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government had left COVID-19 ravaged State to its plight. An “online administration” ran the State remotely from the U.S. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who has gone to the foreign country for treatment, had not assigned his authority to any Cabinet colleague. Moreover, with no elections around the corner, Mr. Vijayan had no incentive to aid the masses or bring them under the social welfare net. The CPI(M) was focused on holding party conferences with scant regard for public safety. In Kasaragod and Thrissur, the party had coerced the district administration to sanction the party conferences in violation of pandemic protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-leaving-people-to-their-fate-chennithala/article38316830.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:49 IST,KERALA||New norms to optimise mAb cocktail use||The government has come out with new guidelines for optimising the use of the monoclonal antibody (mAb) cocktail of casirivimab and imdevimab, in COVID care and to prevent the indiscriminate use of the drug. It directs that the decision to use mAb should be taken by the relevant institutional medical boards, strictly as per guidelines and on the basis of appropriate ICMR-approved tests to detect if the virus variant involved is Omicron or Delta. Though the drug has to be prioritised for specific groups of people, unvaccinated with high risk factors, immunocompromised, those with chronic renal disease and on dialysis, mAb continues to be widely used or misused in private sector and prescribed to anyone who has health insurance or can afford to pay. Public perception The public also apparently believes that mAb is the magic remedy for COVID. “The current mAb cocktail of casirivimab and imdevimab is an effective option to prevent disease progression amongst those with serious risk factors, when the Delta variant is involved. But it cannot neutralise Omicron. At a time when Omicron variant is fast replacing Delta as the dominant variant, administering this drug indiscriminately to all and sundry is not just ineffective, but a waste of valuable resources,” a senior doctor in Health Service says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-norms-to-optimise-mab-cocktail-use/article38316716.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||New project to conserve local mango varieties||They go by the generic moniker ‘Nattumavu,’ and, in fact, putting a name to each and every one of them may be easier said than done. The Department of Fruit Science, College of Agriculture, Vellayani, is now working on a project to conserve and propagate local mango varieties which are gradually vanishing from our midst. Initially, the focus is on indigenous varieties found in Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Kollam, and Alappuzha. tions. Contact numbers The project is coordinated by Simi S., head, Department of Fruit Science. People who have information on local varieties have been requested to contact the department on 9496366698, 9946867991.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-project-to-conserve-local-mango-varieties/article38316823.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:44 IST,KERALA||BJP insulted Guru: CPI(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government for allegedly offending the legacy of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru by rejecting Kerala’s Republic Day pageantry float featuring the seer’s image and life message. Mr. Balakrishnan said on Sunday the Centre’s decision was a repudiation of Kerala’s secular and progressive values and an insult to the memory of the seer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-insulted-guru-cpim/article38316829.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Thrissur Collector’s FB post on COVID draws flak||‘Koottam Kurachal Nettam Koodum’ (Less crowd; more benefit), a post by Thrissur District Collector Haritha V. Kumar in her official Facebook page, has invited sharp criticism in the wake of Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] district conference. As soon as she posted the message, many commented with photos of the CPI(M) Thrissur district conference. Many criticised the Collector for her failure to take action against the alleged protocol violations at the CPI(M) conference, which concluded on Sunday. Following this the comment box of the page was closed. Though it was opened later, the negative comments had disappeared by the time. There was sharp criticism against organising the CPI(M) district conference amidst the sharp increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in Thrissur. Complaints filed Many, including the Youth Congress, had submitted complaints to the District Collector, urging her to stop the conference and take action against the organisers. Attendence More than 150 people allegedly attended the meet held at the VKN Menon Indoor stadium. It was against this backdrop that the Facebook post of the Collector, which appeared on the concluding day of the conference, irked many. Some suggested that this post should have been exhibited at the venue of the conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collectors-fb-post-draws-flak/article64946425.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Postponed||The Kerala University of Heath Sciences (KUHS) has postponed its PhD year-end examination-2022. The examination was scheduled to be held from January 29. The rescheduling of the examination has been done in the wake of the spurt in COVID-19 cases in the State. New date The new date of the examination will be announced later, according to a press release issued from the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuhs-exam-postponed/article38316649.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:48 IST,KERALA||Restrictions bring life to a standstill||The police also counselled families to limit the number of attendees at marriages and funerals. Most citizens appeared reconciled that the infringement on their freedom was necessary to prevent the pestilence from overwhelming the State’s finite healthcare infrastructure. Most private buses, autorickshaws and taxi cabs remained off the road. Bars remained closed. Restaurants and hotels disallowed customers but permitted takeaways and home delivery. But toddy shops were allowed to operate since the government reckoned toddy tapping a traditional sector. Fish, meat, milk, vegetable, fruit and provision stores; medical shops; laboratories; clinics and diagnostic services remained open from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Newspaper distribution and news operations continued unimpeded. Purportedly under fire from the Opposition, the government postponed elections to Kudumbashree units in B-category (Threshold-2) districts. Currently, Idukki, Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta and Wayanad fall under the categorisation. The government had fixed hospitalisations and intensive care unit admissions as the baseline to gauge the virulence of the pandemic and calibrate district-wise regulations accordingly. By one account, the Kerala Police Association has told the government that COVID-19 had temporarily incapacitated an estimated 1,500 officers. It has called for streamlining deployment and reorganising law and order duties to tide over the shortfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-bring-life-to-a-standstill/article64946543.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Sunday lockdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sunday-lockdown/article64946546.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:37 IST,KERALA||Picture of neglect||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/picture-of-neglect/article64946553.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:49 IST,KERALA||Lonely, but not lost||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lonely-but-not-lost/article64946428.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Sunday showdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sunday-showdown/article64946549.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:35 IST,KERALA||A splash of fun||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-splash-of-fun/article64946559.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:34 IST,KERALA||Online competitions||The Kozhikode district administration and the Department of Information and Public Relations are organising online competitions for the public and students as part of Republic Day celebrations. The competitions organised by the district administration are on the theme ‘My Country, My expectations’ and include film review, reels making, essay writing, Haiku, and photography. There is no age limit. Entries for writing competitions shall be submitted through the Nammude Keralam mobile application. Painting, digital poster making and fancy dress competitions will be for various age categories. For details, visit the official social media pages of the District Collector or contact 98477-64000 or 0495-2370200. The competitions organised by the District Information Office are entirely for students of upper primary, high school, higher secondary and college levels. All competitions will be on the topic ‘My views on India’s future’. Entries with a scanned copy of student ID card, shall be mailed to diodir.clt@gmail.com. For details, contact 0495-2370225.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-competitions/article38316663.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:34 IST,KERALA||City locked down||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-locked-down/article64946561.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police step up vigil in Bhadrachalam Agency||Tension escalated in the interior villages of Charla mandal, especially those located in proximity to Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district, as the police intensified vigil in the border areas to thwart alleged attempts by Maoists to orchestrate protests against the proposed new police base camps along the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border. The intensified vigil comes in the wake of the ongoing relay protests by several villagers of Pujari Kanker gram panchayat in neighbouring Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district against a new police base camp allegedly proposed to be set up near their village. Police blame the Maoist rebels behind the protests in the strife-torn south Bastar region of Chhattisgarh. Having set up a base camp at Chennapuram in Charla mandal close to the inter-State border with Chhattisgarh recently, the Telangana police is mulling setting up of two more such camps one at Pusuguppa and another at Vaddipeta or Unjupalli, sources said.The move forms the crux of the multipronged strategy of the police to extend outreach activities to win over the hearts of local tribal people of border villages and step up joint anti-Maoist operations in coordination with the Central armed police forces (CAPFs), the Greyhounds, and other agencies concerned, sources added. However, some Maoist leaders have issued statements in the recent past criticising the move to set up police base camps terming them as a repressive measure to curb Maoist movement, drive away Adivasis from forests and deprive them of their rights over “jal, jameen and jungle.” However, police strongly rebutted the allegations and defended the move to set up police camps as imperative to ensure peaceful atmosphere in the restive inter-state border region to usher in development. Members of the outlawed CPI (Maoist) have summoned several Adivasis of Kurnapalli and Yerraboru villages of Charla mandal to Puttapadu forest area in Chhattisgarh three days ago and detained them for two days, Charla Circle Inspector of Police Ashok said. The rebels let them off on Saturday after bringing pressure on them to hold protests against the proposed new police base camps in the mandal, he said, alleging that the ultras were trying to mislead tribal people by unleashing a false propaganda to hinder development in remote tribal areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-step-up-vigil-in-bhadrachalam-agency/article64946291.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stalin opposes changes to IAS Rules||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, opposing the proposed amendments to the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954. He argued that it struck at the very root of the country’s federal polity and State autonomy. He urged the Prime Minister to engage with the States to further strengthen the nation’s federal spirit. Contending that civil servants must be allowed to work with a free mind and stay apolitical, Mr. Stalin said the ramifications of the proposed amendments were ominous and “would cause an irreparable damage to the spirit of cooperative federalism that exists between the Union and the States and result in concentration of power with the Union government.” A copy of the letter was shared with the media. Instead of imposing restrictive provisions to usurp the power of the States, the Union government can “positively reconstruct the working/service conditions for All India Service officers through a transparent empanelment process and by ensuring professional space and independence” so that the officers could opt for deputation to the Union government “voluntarily without any need for coercive rules,” Mr. Stalin said. Highlighting that many States were “woefully short of officers”, primarily owing to the wrong cadre management policies of the Union government, he said while the Union government was availing itself of the common pool of Group-I officers at the national level, the States banked on the limited pool of IAS officers in the State. Opposes lateral entry The States were at the forefront of implementation of various programmes, including the Union government’s schemes. The States also faced frequent natural disasters, which required the services of IAS officers. “Forcing the State governments to depute officers would surely aggravate the governance deficit in various States. Further, the Union government’s lateral entry recruitment has also affected the morale of the officers who seek deputation on their own,” Mr. Stalin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stalin-opposes-changes-to-ias-rules/article64946289.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Don’t give religious colour to student’s death’||Claiming that religious and political forces were attempting to undertake a “false campaign” alleging religious conversion in the case of the death of a girl student of a Christian school in Thanjavur district, the Tamil Nadu Bishops’ Council (TNBC) on Sunday requested the government and the police to take appropriate action against such attempts. “Religious and political forces that have not attempted to know the real reason behind this regrettable incident in the school, are carrying out a false campaign of ‘religious conversion’ and are trying to disturb communal harmony through this campaign,” Most Rev. Antony Pappusamy, president of the council, said in a statement. It was “amusing” to see BJP State president K. Annamalai raising slogans over ‘religious conversion’ instead of demanding legal, appropriate investigation into the incident, the Arshbishop of Madurai said. In a statement titled ‘Don’t give religious colour to student’s death’, he said, “We are not considering statements of Mr. Annamalai and his likes in isolation but as a part of the false slogans by majoritarian religious and political forces across the country.” Maintaining that the TNBC would always support the steps taken by the government, he requested the Tamil Nadu government and the police to undertake a neutral investigation into the death of the student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-give-religious-colour-to-students-death/article38316431.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:05 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy’s death: probe panel faults NGO Home||The committee inquiring into the alleged suspicious death of a boy lodged in a Child Care Institution (CCI or NGO Home) reportedly found that the authorities concerned had tried to hush up the incident. G. Anil (12), an inmate of Asha Jyothi Handicapped Welfare Society located in Pedapadu mandal of West Godavari district, had died in May last under suspicious circumstances. District Collector Kartikeya Misra, expressing concern over the boy’s death, had directed Joint Collector (Development) Himanshu Shukla to inquire into the incident. The committee, it was learnt, had observed that the Asha Jyothi Handicapped Welfare Society did not intimate about the death of Anil to his sister Bhagya Sri, who was studying in government-run Balasadan, at Denduluru in West Godavari district. “Under Rule 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, the CCI management should inform the family members and the authorities concerned, or guardian immediately about the health condition of the boy and intimate them, in case of death, and hand over the body to the blood relatives. This was not done in this case,” said an officer investigating the case. “Even after several months after the incident, the management did not intimate the death of the boy to his family members, the Collector, who is the registration authority for the CCIs, the District Probation Officer, who is the nodal officer for the CCIs, the Member- Secretary of District Level Inspection Committee of the registered homes, and the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU), and has violated the Model Rules-2016 framed by the government,” the officer said on Sunday. Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma said the Chintalapudi police received a complaint on the death of the boy.  “We are investigating the reasons for the death of the boy. We are also looking into the negligence of the home, if any,” the SP told The Hindu .  The incident had come to light a few days ago when Bhagya Sri sought to see her brother and lodged a complaint with the District Collector, seeking action against the home organisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boys-death-probe-panel-faults-ngo-home/article38316842.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Statue of Equality’ gets final touches||Works are apace on the 216 ft tall statue of 11th century reformer and Vaishnavite saint Ramanujacharyulu to be unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the sprawling 40 acre ashram of Tridandi Chinna Jeer Swamy at Muchintal on February 5. The ‘Statue of Equality’, as it is called, was being installed tomark the 1,000th birth anniversary of Ramanujacharyulu. It was built of Panchaloha, a combination of gold, silver, copper, brass and zinc, by Aerospun Corporation in China and shipped to India. It was the second largest in the world in sitting position of the saint. Divya Desams The monument will be surrounded by 108 `Divya Desams’ of Sri Vaishnavism tradition (model temples) like Tirumala, Srirangam, Kanchi, Ahobhilam, Bhadrinath, Muktinath, Ayodhya, Brindavan, Kumbhakonam and others. The idols of deities and structures were constructed in the shape at the existing temples. The idols were also painted. The base building, which was 16.5 mts tall, had a meditationhall where a 54 inch statue of Ramanujacharyulu made of 120 kg gold, representing the years he lived, will be inaugurated by President Ramnath Kovind by performing the first puja on February 13. The inner sanctorum deity was meant for daily worship by people. The beautification works at ‘Sriram Nagar’ where the ashram was located are in full swing. A 45 ft tall dynamic water fountain in front of the statue was being colourfully painted.Work on construction of fountain, laser show, modern lighting and sound system neared completion. The main temple at the base, the steps leading to the statue surrounding walls and the rock pillars were given a dab of paint. A large fountain and dazzling lighting around the statue were given final touches. Well carpeted internal roads, majestic flooring and a garden with flowers and medicinal plants have added splendour to the ambience. The 13-day event from February 2 to 14 will have performance of sacred fire every day. The construction of sheds for the fire and the cow dung cakes to go into it was taken up by about 500 workers.There were 144 sheds made of bamboo and palm branches. The fire will be performed at 1,035 pits in four corners in themorning and evening sessions by about 5,000 rithviks and Vedic pandits from across the country. The road widening works to Sriram Nagar from Bengaluru highway on one side and Sangiguda crossroads near Pedda Golconda over nine km went on at brisk pace. Another road widening from Bengaluru highway to Pedda Shahpur thanda crossroad, Gollur and Ameerpet over eight kms was nearly completed. Avenue plantation in the middle of the road and sideways was taken up. The power utilities made arrangements for uninterrupted supply as the event was co-hosted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. A 33/11 kv sub-station was already set up at Muchintal. Arrangements Mission Bhagiratha authorities have arranged supply of 15 lakh litres of drinking water to the sumps in ashram. A long form of dung cakes made special machines were baked in sun for use in holy fire.The cakes were preserved in plastic bags later. Four kgs of cow ghee will be used for the rituals at every fire pit. There are nine pits in each shed. About two lakh kgs of pure cow ghee was procured from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat. On Saturday, the Madhya Pradesh (MP) Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan took the blessings of Chinna Jeer Swamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/statue-of-equality-gets-final-touches/article64946294.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||60 doctors test positive in 2 Telangana hospitals||Several doctors and healthcare officials at government hospitals in Telangana have tested COVID-19 positive. Among them are 33 senior and junior doctors out of the around 50 at the Government General and Chest Hospital, Erragadda, and over 30 out of the 100 at Government ENT Hospital. “The services are not interrupted. But, by the time the isolation period of one doctor is ending, another doctor is testing positive,” said Dr. Mahaboob Khan, Chest Hospital superintendent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/60-doctors-test-positive-in-2-telangana-hospitals/article38316183.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Environment Ministry notice to Telangana||The Ministry of Environment and Forest has issued a show-cause notice to the State government recently seeking explanation on the execution of Dindi lift-irrigation project without environmental clearance from it. The issue of notice came to light after the Ministry filed an affidavit with the National Green Tribunal when the latter sought clarification on a complaint lodged by Andhra Pradesh government that the project did not have environmental clearance.  Superintending Engineer of the project Venkateswara Rao told The Hindu that they will reply to the notice saying the project did not require environmental clearance because it was initially grounded as a drinking water scheme. The question of clearance will arise in future when it was integrated as an irrigation project.  The project was taken up with a capacity of 30 tmc ft to irrigate 3.40 lakh acres, he said. The notice of the Ministry warned the government that it will initiate action against the project under Environment Impact Assessment Notification 2006 without prior notice if a response was not received within 15 days. The notification envisaged that any irrigation project with an acreage in excess of 50 hectares will require environmental clearance from the Ministry. But, the State government did not make any application for clearance. Challenged The Dindi lift-irrigation project was aimed to lift 30 tmc ft water from the reservoir of Palamuru-Rangareddy at Vattem to provide drinking water to flourosis-affected villages and irrigate 3.40 lakh acres. Water would be lifted from Vattem to another balancing reservoir at Ulpara from where it would be further taken to Dindi. But, both Palamuru-Rangareddy and Dindi lift-irrigation projects did not have permissions as per a Central gazette notification defining the scope of Krishna river management board. The permissions were required within six months of the notification coming into force. The board, however, said it had not received the detailed project reports for the twin projects so far. A group of farmers of Andhra Pradesh challenged the Palamuru-Rangareddy project while the government of the State complained about Dindi lift-irrigation project in the NGT in separate petitions. The AP government also requested the Jala Shakti Ministry to take steps to stop the projects. The Ministry informed the tribunal that it had asked the Telangana government not to ground the projects without permissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/environment-ministry-notice-to-telangana-on-dindi-project/article64946292.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Interrogation of Dileep, four others begins||The first day of interrogation of actor Dileep and four others at the Crime Branch office in Kalamassery got over on Sunday night. This was part of the probe into a case registered on the basis of his reported threat to endanger the life of police officers who were probing the 2017 sexual assault on an actor in Kochi, in which Dileep is an accused. The High Court of Kerala had on Saturday directed Dileep and other persons arraigned as accused, including his brother P. Sivakumar and brother-in-law T.N. Suraj, to report before the investigation officer probing in the case, on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. The direction came on an interim order on their anticipatory bail plea. A team led by S. Sreejith, ADGP, led the interrogation which was recorded to prevent any possible allegation of police high-handedness. Dileep is said to have contended that he did not issue any threat to do away with the police officers and that he had only used curse words against them. Cell phones seized The cell phones of Dileep and four others were seized by police for scientific examination, say unconfirmed reports. The court had restrained the police from arresting Dilip and the others till January 27. The court had also directed the actor and others to cooperate with the investigation. Any attempt to interfere with the probe would be viewed seriously and lead to the cancellation of the interim order of protection against the arrest, it had observed. Directing the police to place a report regarding the interrogation and any other material evidence collected before it in a sealed cover on January 27, the court had said an in-depth investigation was required into the case and the allegations were very serious. The Crime Branch had on January 9 registered the case on a complaint filed by an investigating officer based on a purported audio clip of Dileep, in which the actor was allegedly heard conspiring to attack the official and others who were in the probe team. The actor and others were booked under IPC provisions including Sections 116 (abetment), 118 (concealing design to commit offence), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (criminal act done by several people).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/interrogation-of-dileep-four-others-begins/article64946296.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rape victim’s earlier note blames police||A note reportedly left by a rape victim who was found dead in her house at Tenhipalam on Thursday last has accused the police of threatening her and vilifying her family. The girl had left the note when she tried to commit suicide by cutting her wrist about a year ago. The girl was a victim in several cases charged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at the Feroke police station, and she had reportedly attempted to end her life a couple of times before. The note, circulated on social media on Sunday, said that the Inspector at the Feroke police station had spoken to her obscenely. The note also accused the Inspector of threatening her and the man betrothed to her. The note said that the Inspector summoned her lover to the police station, threatened him against marrying her, made vulgar comments about her. The girl’s mother confirmed that she had left the note when she attempted to end her life about a year ago. She said the girl could have been rescued had the authorities heeded her pleas to provide her daughter with treatment and counselling. No treatment, shelter It is learned that the girl was not produced before the Child Welfare Committee even after the committee reportedly asked the police to do so. No treatment or shelter was given to the girl who was raped on different occasions during the COVID-19 period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rape-victims-earlier-note-blames-police/article38316351.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employees urge State govt. to find amicable solution to demands||APNGOs Association State associate president Chowdary Purushottam Naidu on Sunday asked the government to find out an amicable solution over the representations with regard to fixation of 30% fitment and continuation of old HRA slabs and other benefits. He urged the government to withdraw all the G.O.s issued recently since they were ‘detrimental to the interests’ of the employees. Representatives of over 80 associations participated ina roundtable conference held at the APNGOs Home to chalk out an action plan for the proposed agitation. Mr. Purushottam Naidu said that the reduction in salaries and other benefits was not done by any government in the country and it would become a bad precedent if implemented in A.P. ‘Mind your language’ “In the backdrop of skyrocketing cost of living, the government should enhance wages. It should not reduce salaries. It hurts the feelings and sentiments of the staff who always wanted cordial relations with the government. We are hopeful that the government will listen to our grievances and find out an amicable solution over pending demands,” he said. Mr. Naidu urged the employees and representatives of the associations not to use unparliamentary language while criticising the government since the protests should not lead to a confrontation with policy makers. APNGOs district president Hanumanthu Sairam said that rallies and dharnas would be taken up on January 24 and relay hunger strikes on January 27. Other forms of protest would continue till the proposed indefinite strike on February 7. A.P. Government Employees’ Association leader I. Narayana Rao said that all the unions were united in their resolve to step up pressure on the government over PRC issues. Leaders of NMU and Employees’ Union indicated that RTC staff would also join the strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/employees-urge-govt-to-find-amicable-solution-to-demands/article64946299.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:31 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another COVID testing lab will be set up in Tekkali: Collector||With the significant jump in the number of COVID-19 cases, Srikakulam district administration has decided to set up another testing facility in Tekkali to provide test reports quickly. Earlier, the number of cases used to be around 300 to 400. But it has gone up to 1,250 per day in the district. Around 3,000 samples are being collected per day from patients but people in far-off places like Itchapuram and Palasa, are struggling to reach Srikakulam due to lack of frequent transport facility. District Collector Shrikesh B. Lathkar directed the officials to establish one laboratory in Tekkali as the existing one at RIMS-Srikakulam was unable to process all the samples collected from patients showing COVID symptoms. “As many as 60 patients were tested for Omicron, a new variant of COVID, in the last one month. That is why, we are giving utmost priority to prevent the spread of the disease. The test reports will come within 12 hours with the establishment of laboratory at Tekkali. It will be beneficial to many people living in Uddhanam region and other remote areas,” said Mr. Shrikesh. He directed ITDA-Sithampet Project Director Navya to send the samples quickly to laboratories from tribal areas so that the patients would be given test results quickly. He asked the officials to create awareness among people to be in home isolation till the test results were informed to them. “The people should maintain safety protocol strictly since the new variant is spreading very fast. Although it is not dangerous, it disturbs health completely. Many people with other diseases will face more complications if proper care is not taken,” said Mr. Shrikesh. According to officials, 1,26,150 positive cases were reported in the last two years. Currently, 4,127 patients have been suffering from COVID and among them 120 were admitted to hospitals for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-covid-testing-lab-will-be-set-up-in-tekkali-collector/article64946482.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Third wave: lockdown total in Kerala||Life appeared relatively stagnant in Kerala on Sunday, with the government enforcing a State-wide lockdown to retard the momentum of the suspected Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 surge. The drastic but, arguably, necessary Sunday lockdown to slow down the “virulent third wave” rendered usually busy localities devoid of activity. Roads, markets and shopping districts remained relatively deserted. The police fanned out in strength across the State to discourage in-essential travel and clustering in public places. They turned back travellers without affidavits attesting to their reason for travel. However, the police allowed those reporting for work and journeying to hospitals and vaccination clinics to pass unimpeded. The police also counselled families to limit the number of attendees at marriages and funerals. Most citizens appeared reconciled that the infringement on their freedom was necessary to prevent the pestilence from overwhelming the State’s finite healthcare infrastructure. Most private buses, autorickshaws and taxi cabs remained off the road. Bars remained closed. Restaurants and hotels disallowed customers but permitted takeaways and home delivery. But toddy shops were allowed to operate since the government reckoned toddy tapping a traditional sector. Fish, meat, milk, vegetable, fruit and provision stores; medical shops; laboratories; clinics and diagnostic services remained open from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. Newspaper distribution and news operations continued unimpeded. Purportedly under fire from the Opposition, the government postponed elections to Kudumbashree units in B-category (Threshold-2) districts. Currently, Idukki, Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta and Wayanad fall under the categorisation. The government had fixed hospitalisations and intensive care unit admissions as the baseline to gauge the virulence of the pandemic and calibrate district-wise regulations accordingly. The government is reportedly worried that the likelihood of COVID-19 impelled critical staff shortages in hospitals, government offices, law enforcement, emergency services, and public utilities would impede the administration. Police personnel affected By one account, the Kerala Police Association has told the government that COVID-19 had temporarily incapacitated an estimated 1,500 officers. It has called for streamlining deployment and reorganising law and order duties to tide over the shortfall. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) operated long-distance service minimally. The police helped ferry patients from railway stations and bus terminals to hospitals. The government will re-impose the lockdown again on January 30. C||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/third-wave-lockdown-total-in-kerala/article64946288.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drop amendments, Kerala CM urges Modi||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has urged the Centre to drop the proposed amendments to the deputation rules of IAS and IPS officers. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Vijayan said the amendment would induce a fear psychosis and an attitude of hesitancy among All India Service officers to implement the policies of a State government formulated by a party/parties politically opposed to the ruling party at the Centre. Pointing out that the present deputation rules were heavily loaded in favour of the Centre, he said further stringency would weaken the very root of cooperative federalism. “In our federal setup, the State governments are on a par with the Central government, as both of them are elected by the people, though the division of authority in the Constitution does give the Union jurisdiction over a wide range of subjects.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-amendments-kerala-cm-urges-modi/article64946295.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl’s suicide: parents give statements||The statements of the parents of a Class XII student of a Christian missionary school in Thanjavur district, who died by suicide recently, were recorded by a judicial magistrate in Thanjavur on Sunday in compliance with the Madras High Court’s direction. The parents appeared before the Judicial Magistrate-III in Thanjavur and gave their statements, which were recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The process went on for two hours, police sources said. A copy of the statements will be submitted to the Madurai Bench of the High Court in a sealed envelope on January 24. Protests launched The girl, belonging to Ariyalur district, was staying at the school hostel near the institution. After the emergence of a video clip in which she claimed that two years ago, the school asked her parents to convert her to Christianity, the BJP launched protests and urged the government to ensure a fair probe into the charge. Petition filed The parents filed a petition alleging that she was forced to carry out domestic chores at the hostel and asked to convert to Christianity. The police sources said the statements of some students had been recorded in the presence of members of the Child Welfare Committee. And the statements of some teachers had also been recorded as part of the investigation. A woman Deputy Superintendent of Police was heading the investigation.  ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girls-suicide-parents-give-statements/article38316428.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oppn. parties extend support to staff stir||Communist Party of India (CPI) national Secretary K. Narayana has appealed to the State government to find a mutually acceptable solution to the PRC agitation and cautioned it against stretching the issue further. Mr. Narayana welcomed the employees’ decision to fight to get their due. “The illusions over the Jagan regime are gone now and the employees have clearly understood his intentions,” he remarked. Expressing his support, he warned the negotiators on the government’s side not to escalate it to a point of no return. On the other hand, he flayed the employees for keeping political parties away, advising them to open their eyes to the reality and understand which political party had misused them and which parties had been fighting on their behalf. Similarly, CPI(M)’s frontal organisation Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) is also supporting the agitation. It flayed the State government for making a ‘false claim’ that the pay had not reduced with the release of the Government Orders, but later taking refuge behind the State’s precarious financial situation. “It is unethical on the State’s part to claim that the financial position had deteriorated from the day when the Interim Relief of 27% was issued. The employees’ fight for pay enhancement is justified but the government is not even assuring them pay protection,” criticised CITU’s Chittoor district secretary Kandarapu Murali. Condemning the ‘reverse PRC’, Congress leader P. Naveenkumar Reddy demanded that the State withdraw the ‘dark’ G.O.s intended to harm the interests of the employees, teachers and pensioners across the State. Finding a deliberate attempt by the ruling party’s social media to paint the agitating staff black in the eyes of public, he said the government’s attitude smacked of ‘burning the bridge’ after crossing the river with the help of employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppn-parties-extend-support-to-staff-stir/article38316369.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Musical programme brings out essence of Annamayya compositions||The musical programme ‘Sri Sri Sri Annamacharya Sangeetha Nrutyotsavam’, organised by Bharat Arts Academy and ABC Foundation here on Sunday, brought out the essence of the various compositions penned by the saint poet. Mahati auditorium came alive as the audience gave a thunderous response to the day-long concert. ABC Foundation president ‘Lion’ Kadiri Venkata Ramana Rao and academy’s president Lalitha Rao called the event an attempt to not only introduce the younger generation to classical music and dance forms but also kindle in them spiritual fervour and a passion for Indian culture. MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, who took part as the chief guest, hailed the organisers for their sincere attempt to draw the children’s attention way from modern trends and towards classical art forms. The presence of Tallapaka Hari Narayanacharyulu, a direct descendent of Annamacharya lineage, turned out to be an added attraction. TTD trust board member P. Ashok Kumar, Deputy Mayor Mudra Narayana, Additional Superintendent of Police E. Supraja and social activist P.C. Rayulu took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/musical-programme-brings-out-essence-of-annamayya-compositions/article64946297.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:05 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam leaders bet big on youth to regain power||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has expressed confidence that the party will come back to power in the next general elections, not only by riding high on the ‘YSR Congress Party misrule’ but also by leveraging the youth power. The party’s youth wing ‘Telugu Yuvatha’ organised the birthday celebrations of TDP national General Secretary Nara Lokesh at NTR Circle here on Sunday, when former MLA M. Sugunamma, Tirupati Parliamentary constituency in-charge G. Narasimha Yadav, Telugu Yuvatha State president Sriram Chinnababu and general secretary A. Ravi Naidu cut a cake dedicated to the leader. The party also organised ‘Annadanam’ camp and provided food to the needy. On the occasion, the party leaders claimed that the State’s youth power had been grossly under-utilised, with an increasing number of educated youth staying without employment. Ms. Sugunamma recalled that the previous TDP rule, with Mr. Lokesh as the Minister for Information Technology, had brought huge investments in the form of software and hardware companies to the State in general and to Tirupati in particular. Mr. Lokesh, who had also held the Panchayat Raj portfolio, had laid roads to the tune of thousands of kilometers, which, she said, were deprived of a single tar coat today. Mr. Chinnababu and Mr. Ravi Naidu vowed to leverage the youth power by taking the message across to the State’s youth on the need to bring TDP to power again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-leaders-bet-big-on-youth-to-regain-power/article64946357.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Liquor smuggling dips as price comes down’||The State has witnessed a dip in the number of cases pertaining to inter-State smuggling of liquor after the government came up with the move to rationalise the prices. The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) found the smuggling activity, which had roots in the higher pricing of liquor in the State, took a dip after the prices witnessed a downward revision. Avula Ramesh Reddy, State Director of the SEB, which restricts the inward flow of illicit and non duty-paid liquor from the neighbouring States, said that the cases booked between November 18 and December 18 in 2020 and December 19, 2020 and January 18 dropped significantly from 5,701 to 2,262, while the total quantity seized also fell sharply from 85,095 litres to 32,852 litres. Apart from the price rationalisation, Mr. Reddy also attributed the fall in cases to the heightened vigilance by the SEB at the check-posts along the porous State borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-smuggling-dips-as-price-comes-down/article38316793.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alert sounded as tiger cited in E.G. Agency||The Forest Department has sounded an alert for the tribals on the movement of a tiger in the V.R. Puram reserve forest in East Godavari district. The alert was issued after a tiger was sighted by a tribal man on January 20, and its pug marks were recorded by the forest officials during a preliminary investigation. As on Saturday, the tiger is believed to be moving near the Godavari and Sabari rivers, some 20 km away from the Papikonda National Park (PNP), in V.R. Puram mandal in Chintoor Agency.  “Two teams of guards are monitoring the tiger movements in the reserve forest. The tiger has ventured out from the deep forests in search of prey but did not return to its habitat,” Divisional Forest Officer (DFO-Chintoor) V. Saibaba told The Hindu .  “The tribals have been cautioned against venturing into the forest for a few days as the tiger is reportedly moving near habitations. Compensation for cattle loss (if any) will be provided to tribals,” said Mr. Saibaba, who is overseeing an exercise undertaken to track the movements of the tiger. The forest authorities have also installed CC traps in strategic locations to trace the tiger. The tiger estimate exercise under the aegis of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) is in progress in PNP that straddles East and West Godavari districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alert-sounded-as-tiger-cited-in-eg-agency/article38316789.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Energy saving: BEE tells States to follow A.P. and Kerala models||The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) of the Ministry of Power has advised the States that are keen on implementation ofthe energy-efficiency and conservation programmes to follow the Andhra Pradesh and Kerala models to achieve the desired outcomes. The BEE said that Andhra Pradesh won its place among the top 10 States in the State Energy Efficiency Index prepared by the Alliance for an Energy Efficient Economy by successfully implementing a pilot project based on Internet-of-Things (IoT) in the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector and taking various other initiatives. BEE Director General Abhay Bhakre suggested that dedicated State Designated Agencies (SDAs) be set up to have a focused approach to realise the potential for saving energy and improving efficiencies, a press release issued by A.P. State Energy Conservation Mission (AP-SECM) CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy said. Net zero target He stated that the BEE’s efforts in the last few years resulted in saving energy equivalent to 129 million ton of oil worth about Rs. 40,950 crore, which set the stage for the country to achieve net zero emissions by the year 2070, with emphasis on involvement of municipalities, commercial and residential buildings, and agriculture and industrial sectors. Minister for Power R.K. Singh was quoted as telling the BEE in a recent webinar to motivate all the States to have SDAs and sensitise the citizens to make their contribution to achieving the goals. Secretary of Ministry of Power Alok Kumar, BEE Deputy Director General Ashok Kumar,Secretary R.K. Rai and others were present in the deliberations. Mr. Kumar pointed out that under Cycle-1 of Perform, Achieve and Trade (PAT) scheme, India achieved 8.67 Million Tons of Oil Equivalent (MTOE) and 13.28 MTOE in Cycle 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/energy-saving-bee-tells-states-to-follow-ap-and-kerala-models/article38316791.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||14,440 fresh cases in State, test positivity rises to 31%||The State reported four more deaths due to COVID-19 and 14,440 fresh cases of infection in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. It was the highest single-day tally in the past 241 days (since May 28). At 30.95%, the daily test positivity rate of the 46,650 samples tested in the past day was the highest ever reported in the State. Cumulative tally The cumulative case tally increased to 21,80,634 and the toll reached 14,542. Active cases increased to 83,610. The number of recoveries went up to 20,82,482, including 3,969 recoveries in the past day. The recovery rate further came down to 95.50%. East Godavari, Guntur, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts reported one death each in the last 24 hours. More cases in Vizag Visakhapatnam reported 2,258 fresh cases. It was followed by Anantapur (1,534), Guntur (1,458), Prakasam (1,399), Kurnool (1,238), Chittoor (1,198), Nellore (1,103), East Godavari (1,012), Srikakulam (921), Kadapa (788), Vizianagaram (614), West Godavari (613) and Krishna (304). The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (3,01,755), Chittoor (2,66,149), Guntur (1,88,454), West Godavari (1,83,361), Visakhapatnam (1,77,591), Anantapur (1,66,657), Nellore (1,54,401), Prakasam (1,45,047), Kurnool (1,30,205), Srikakulam (1,29,984), Krishna (1,24,784),Kadapa (1,20,995) and Vizianagaram (88,356). Bharat tests positive Staff Reporter in Rajamahendravaram writes: Member of Parliament from Rajamahendravaram Margani Bharat tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. His health condition is stable and he is in home isolation in the city as advised by doctors. Last week, Mr. Bharat had conducted a grievance redress programme in his constituency and appealed to the YSRCP cadres and general public to be alert about the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14440-fresh-cases-in-state-test-positivity-rises-to-31/article64946481.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:05 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic effect: Tyagaraja fete reduced to one day||Vocalists and musicians rendered “Pancharatna Kriti”, a composition of Tyagaraja that is considered to be the five crowning jewels of Carnatic music, at the 175th ‘Sadguru Sri Tyagaraja Swamivari Aaradhana Sangeethotsavam’ at Ghantasala Venkateswara Rao Government Music and Dance College here on Sunday. The festival, coinciding with the death anniversary of the poet, used to be a five-day event earlier attracting a large number of musicians from across the city. But this time, the event was cut down to just one day in view of the rising COVID cases. Vocalists and instrumentalists paid their tributes to saint poet Tyagaraja in an hour-long ‘brindagaanam’, while renditions of ‘Jagadanandakaaraka’ in Naata Raga, ‘Dudukugala Nanne’ (Gowla Raga) captivated the audience. Noted musicians who took part in the festival include Malladi Suribabu, Malladi Sriram Prasad, Modumudi Sudhakar, Popuri Gowrinath, Vemuri Venkata Viswanath, C.P.V. Sastry, K.V. Brahmanandam, college Principal Govindarajan (Veena), Ganduri Srinivasa Sastry (violin), Parupalli Subrahmanya Phalgun and N.S. Kalyan Ram (mridangam) among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-effect-tyagaraja-fete-reduced-to-one-day/article64946356.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Experts fear disintegration of primary education system||Amidst serious concerns raised over the proposed school restructuring programme, the School Education Department has expedited the process of mapping Classes 3 to 5 in primary schools in the government sector to the high schools located within a radius of 3-km for their merger. The government’s contention that the move will facilitate optimal utilisation of infrastructure and human resources for higher learning outcomes among children is disputed by a few experts in the education sector, teacher unions, and other stakeholders. Distance a concern They argue that the increase in the distance of schools up to 3 km from home will force many children to drop out of school, especially the girl students. The different timings and teaching levels of the primary and high schools might also cause inconvenience to the primary children, they argue. Instead, the government should think of establishing a primary school in every village panchayat with good infrastructure, comprising pre-primary education along with Classes 1 to 5, and with adequate teaching staff, they suggest. “In the existing set-up, one or two teachers teach all subjects to Classes 3 to 5 in primary schools leading to poor learning outcomes. Students need specialist subject teachers, especially for major subjects such as English, mathematics and science. The merger will facilitate this, resulting in imparting of quality education,” said M. Ramalingam, Joint Director, School Education.  “Moreover, primary schools do not have good infrastructure,” he says, speaking to The Hindu .  Vitapu Balasubramanyam, Member of the Legislative Council from Chittoor, Nellore and Prakasam teacher’s constituency, says the major concern is the division of the primary schools into two parts. “No other State in the country is doing it. The National Education Policy-2020 that is being cited by the government, does not recommend disintegration of the primary education system,” he says. Removing Classes 3 to 5 will drastically reduce the size of primary schools left with just Classes 1 and 2. “They may become non-formal education units in the days to come. We seem to be moving in that direction,” says Mr. Balasubramanyam. Pointing out that traditionally, formal education starts with Class 1, he says in the new set-up, it may “actually and abruptly” start from Class 3. Also, in the new scheme of things, the primary schools comprise anganwadi centres and Classes 1 and 2. While the former come under the Women and Child Welfare Department, the latter under the Education Department. “How does that work,” he wonders. Long-term plan Experts also see the move as a long-term plan to reduce the number of teachers. “Around 58,000 teachers will be surplus in the future. There are already 24,000 vacant teacher posts,” said an education expert. Teachers working in municipal schools say that the move would reduce the existing 2,115 municipal schools to only 335. “Around 1,675 (80%) municipal schools will be merged, leaving only 335 (20%) of schools. The municipal school education system will almost come to an end,” said S. Ramakrishna, State president of Municipal Teachers’ Federation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/experts-fear-disintegration-of-primary-education-system/article64946478.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Electric scooter showroom opens in city||Electric scooters company BGauss opened its first dealership, Hithika Motors, in Andhra Pradesh in the city on Sunday. Varun group chairman V. Prabhu Kishore along with BGauss founder and managing director and RR Global director Hemant Kabra and Hithika Motors’ proprietor Harsha Vardhan inaugurated the showroom at Ramavarappadu. Sixty scooters were delivered to the customers who pre-booked them. Mr. Harsha said BGauss scooters could be charged in three hours for a run of 70 km at a top speed of 50 kmph and come with features like anti-theft alarm, anti-theft motor locking, keyless start, USB charging, reverse assist and three riding modes (Eco, City, Sport) among others. Price range The A2 model comes with a starting price of Rs. 67,999 and B8 model starts at Rs. 82,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/electric-scooter-showroom-opens-in-city/article38316839.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:05 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister thanked for sanctioning Eklavya School to Narsaraopet||BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao thanked Union Minister for Tribal Welfare Arjuna Munda for sanctioning Eklavya School and a modern sports complex to provide quality education and sports facilities to tribal students in Narsaraopet Parliamentary constituency. Mr. Narasimha Rao stated in a press release that tribals constitute 5% of Guntur district’s population and they are concentrated in Narsaraopet constituency. None of the 28 Eklavya Schools sanctioned for Andhra Pradesh has been allotted to the Palnadu region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-thanked-for-sanctioning-eklavya-school/article38316778.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No dues to mid-day meal cooks, contractors’||Education Minister A. Suresh on Sunday condemned the allegation made by TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu on the mid-day-meal scheme. In a statement, the Minister said there was no truth in his allegation that the government had kept the payments to the cooks and contractors of the mid-day-meal scheme pending. Informing that they had been given their full payment till December, he said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had given clear instructions on timely payment. The Minister said the State had re-modelled mid-day-meal scheme into ‘Jaganna Goru Muddha’ with certain changes in the interest of the children. ‘Unique menu’ Andhra Pradesh was the only State that served ‘chikki’ along with eggs five days in a week. The menu prepared for six days had 15 varieties of dishes at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,797 crore. Of this, the Centre’s contribution was Rs. 406 crore. He said the state had roped in 88,296 cooks through self-help groups who worked in 41,000 schools, while NGOs like Akshaya Patra and ISKON supplied food to 4,000 schools. Every care was being taken to ensure that the children were served nutritious and delicious food, he said. ‘Nutritious diet’ The Minister said the TDP leader had no idea about the scheme. He said unlike during the TDP rule, when the mid-day-meal scheme was reduced to a mere formality, as the Central funds were pocketed by the party leaders, children now enjoyed healthy and nutritious food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-dues-to-mid-day-meal-cooks-contractors/article64946474.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:05 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APCO announces 30% discount on its clothing range till January 31||The APCO showroom in Vijayawada was abuzz with activity on Sunday as the cooperative society announced 30% discount on its clothing range and an additional 10% discount exclusively for armed services personnel till January-end as part of the Republic Day celebrations. Speaking at a programme organised in this connection, Director of the State Military Welfare Department Brigadier Venkata Reddy sought to draw people’s attention to the importance of handloom in the Independence movement. “Leaders wore handloom garments as an expression of their national sentiments,” he said, adding that handloom was a symbol of nationalism and urged the youth to patronise it in a big way. The organisers paid rich tributes to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose on the occasion of his birth anniversary and felicitated freedom fighters. APCO Chairman Chillapalli Mohanarao threw light on the strong connection between the Republic Day celebrations and handlooms. Freedom fighters Rampilla Narasayamma, Lagadapati Chenchayya, Eluru Ramulu and Bandaru Vimalamma were felicitated on the occasion. Similar celebrations were held in APCO showrooms across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apco-announces-30-discount-on-its-clothing-range-till-january-31/article38316770.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:05 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book on Bahmani dynasty coins released||Former Deputy Speaker of Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly Mandali Buddha Prasad released a book, Coinage of Bahmani Dynasty , written by a Guntur-based numismatist J.V.S.V. Prasad at a programme organised by the Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati.  Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Buddha Prasad said coins reflected history ofa region, and pointed out that Mr. Prasad had collected all the coins issued by the 10 Bahmani rulers, who ruled between 1347 and 1527 AD from Gulbarga and Bijapur. Pleach India Foundation CEO E. Sivanagireddy said the collection of Mr. Prasad comprised almost all the coins of the Bahmani dynasty in different denominations in gold, copper and silver. Historian Movva Srinivasa Reddy, who reviewed the book, said the variety of the coins had contributed to growth of the Deccan economy. Students of Andhra Loyola College, PB Siddhartha College and history-lovers were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-on-bahmani-dynasty-coins-released/article38316841.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sniffer dog that served city police for 9 years dies||A sniffer dog that served the Vijayawada City Police for around nine years died due to ill-health here on Sunday. Dolly, a Labrador retriever, underwent training in Intelligence Security Wing (ISW), Hyderabad, in detecting explosive substances. The canine had since then assisted the police in solving cases and providing VIP security. Recalling her achievements, the police said Dolly stood top and received the ‘Best Performance Award’ in the Police Duty Meet in Punjab in 2015. Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata, Assistant Commissioner of Police (City Security Wing) V.S. Vasan and other officers paid their last respects to Dolly at the AR Grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sniffer-dog-that-served-city-police-for-9-years-dies/article38316840.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:05 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||“Develop technologies to fulfil needs of society”||“We are witnessing a new era of reflection, thanks to the pandemic and this has expedited efforts to develop technologies to fulfill the needs of the society, saidS. Balachandran, Executive Chairman and CEO, Buimerc Corporation Ltd., Dubai, UAE. Addressing the inaugural session of a three-day international conference on “Advances in Mechanical Engineering and Material Science” organised in virtual mode by VIT-AP University, Mr. Balachandran emphasised the role of mechanical, civil and electrical engineering in building block of current technologies development. Founder and Chancellor, VIT, G. Viswanathan spoke about the contribution of VIT group of institution to the field of research. Vice-Chancellor, VIT- AP S. V. Kota Reddy prsent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/develop-technologies-to-fulfil-needs-of-society/article38316843.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam district reports 1 death, 2,258 new COVID cases||The single-day COVID-19 tally crossed the 2,000-mark yet again, as the district recorded 2,258 new infections in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,78,111. The district has recorded highest single-day tally in the State followed by Anantapur district (1,534). The district has reported as many as 14,824 COVID-19 cases in the last nine days, at an average of around 1,600 cases per day. During the same period, one person died due to the infection and as many as 854 persons undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered. While the number of recoveries has increased to 1,61,289, the death toll stands at 1,127. It may be noted that the district has reported 19 deaths, so far, this January. The number of active cases has shot up to 15,695. In the last 24 hours, the Health Department conducted 5,657 COVID-19 tests out of which 2,258 persons tested positive. The positivity rate is hovering around 39.9 %. Despite increase in COVID-19 cases over the last 10 to 15 days, very few affected person are needing hospital admission giving a huge relief to the health authorities. Almost 99 % of the active cases are being treated under home isolation, according to the Health Department officials. Only those with comorbidities and other major health issues are being admitted to the hospitals. According to District Medical and Health Officer Vijayalakshmi, out of the total 15,595 active case in the district as on Sunday morning, only 241 persons were treated in COVID-19 hospitals in the district, including CSR Block of King George Hospital (KGH). “On Sunday, 2,258 persons tested positive. Of them, only 34 required hospitalisation, while 2,224 persons are being treated under home isolation. The persons who are admitted to hospitals are aged over 50 years and above with comorbidities. We had admitted them to hospitals to prevent complications,” the DMHO added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-district-reports-1-death-2258-new-covid-cases/article38316777.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rail users upbeat over success of Vizag-Yelahanka special||Rail users from Visakhapatnam region are in an upbeat mood on the successful run of the 08577/78 Visakhapatnam – Yelahanka – Visakhapatnam Tatkal Special train. They took to Twitter to thank DRM Waltair, DRM SBC and other railway officials for their initiative. Though the train was jampacked, and a bit delayed as it was a special train and had to give precedence to the regular ones, they seem to have no regret. Krishna@Krish528, @UttamChakram and @13lrvamsi sought more trips and permanent regularisation of the train. N. Gajapathi Rao, BJP State Council Member and a former ZRUCC Member of E Co R, in a letter to Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, earlier this month, sought introduction of a direct train between Visakhapatnam and Bengaluru. He recalled how the Prasanthi Express, introduced between Visakhapatnam and Yeswanatpur in 1998, was extended to Bhubaneswar from 2006, after which there is no originating train from Visakhapatnam to Bengaluru. Information obtained under the RTI shows that 06580 Tatkal Weekly Special from Visakhapatnam to Yeswantpur was an overwhelming success with the highest occupancy among weekly trains on this route. It had 143.54% occupancy during 2017-18 and 146.72% in 2018-19. The weekly special train was withdrawn in November 2018, despite the high demand for reasons best known to the railway authorities. Ironically, some other weekly trains with comparatively lower occupancy from Bhubaneswar and Puri, running on this route, are being continued. Rail users from the region are demanding introduction of a regular bi-weekly express from Vizag to Bengaluru. The train should have a dedicated rake and one trip should start from Bengaluru on Friday evenings for the convenience of techies, returning to Vizag to spend the weekends. The same rake can return on Sunday evening to reach Bengaluru on Monday morning. “In the absence of direct trains, and lack of berth quota on through trains, many passengers from Vizag to Bengaluru are travelling to Samarlakota and boarding Seshadri Express. Some go to Vijayawada and travel by bus to Bengaluru,” says Ravi, a frequent traveller. Meanwhile, the Railway Board has advised the East Coast Railway (E Co R) to work out the feasibility to run a new train between Bengaluru and Visakhapatnam, according to RTI information obtained from the E Co R headquarters. Train no. 06580 Tatkal Weekly Special train had an average occupancy of over 140% during two consecutive financial years. Rail users wonder what more ‘feasibility’ does the Railway Board want.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rail-users-upbeat-over-success-of-vizag-yelahanka-special/article38316847.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||VUPPC to picket BJP office in city on February 13||The Visakha Ukku Porata Committee (VUPPC) has decided to picket the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office in the city on February 13 to protest against the party State unit’s support to the Union government on its decision on ‘100% strategic sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP).’ The VUPPC leaders held a meeting at the Public Library here on Sunday, to chalk out the plan of action to mark the completion of the year-long relay hunger strikes launched by Steel workers, on the banner of the VUPPC, on February 12. Interacting with the media, VUPPC leaders Ch. Narasinga Rao, Mantri Rajasekhar, J. Ramakrishna(AITUC), Y. Mastanappa (YSRTUC) and G. Ganapathi Reddy (HMS) condemned the attitude of the BJP State leadership in failing to speak out against the decision of the Centre, while all other political parties were opposing it. They said that meetings were being held at various district headquarters in the State to garner support for the agitation against privatisation of the VSP. Meetings would be held on January 26 in Guntur and on January 27 in Tirupati in this regard, they said. A signature campaign, with the objective of gathering one crore signatures, would be held in Visakhapatnam city during the first week of February. A total of 365 workers, carrying flags, would participate in the hunger strike on February 12 to mark the completion of one year of relay hunger strikes for protection of the VSP from privatisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vuppc-to-picket-bjp-office-in-vizag-on-february-13/article38316814.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) leaders conduct padayatra against garbage collection charge||Members of the CPI(M) on Sunday conducted a padayatra against levying of charges for garbage collection. The padayatra was organised in Ward 20, 21 – China Waltair, CBI Down, Relli Veedhi and Rajaka Veedhi in the city. Speaking during the programme, the party leader and Corporator of Ward 78, B. Ganga Rao, said that the YSR Congress Party has been imposing various taxes to burden the common people. When the agenda for levying charges for garbage collection was introduced in the GVMC council, all the YSRCP Corporators had approved it, he recalled. A few YSRCP leaders have been threatening to dump wastes before houses of people or to deprive them of the benefits of government schemes, if the charges are not paid. The leaders should stop such threats, he said. Mr. Ganga Rao said that people should refuse to pay the charges being imposed on them and express their opposition to the State government’s move. He said that on January 28 the CPI(M) would conduct a dharna before Waltair Sachivalayam against the taxes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-leaders-conduct-padayatra-against-garbage-collection-charge/article38316811.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-day AIB-SAC conference begins||Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam (IIM-V) Director M. Chandrashekhar has said that sustainability and profitability go hand-in-hand and hence in the long run organisations need to invest more in sustainable methods to create wealth. He was speaking at the inaugural of the three-day Academy of International Business (AIB) South Asia Conference (SAC), which began at IIM-V here on Sunday. Prof. Chandrasekhar also spoke about the importance and emergence of the new business models at the event being hosted by the IIM-V in virtual mode. In the keynote address, Farok Contractor, president, AIB, and distinguished professor, Rutgers Business School, USA, highlighted the agenda of SAC, and spoke about the importance of studying international business. As many as 109 research papers, from across the globe, were submitted at the AIB-SAC, covering various themes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-day-aib-sac-conference-begins/article38316815.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||City doctor elected president of Indian Psychiatric Society||N.N. Raju, a noted psychiatrist from the city and former Superintendent of the Government Hospital for Mental Care, was installed president of the Indian Psychiatric Society at a ceremony held, here. Dr. Raju is the second person from the city to have occupied the position at the national level. The other person being Dr. Jaya Nagaraja, who had occupied the position 35 years ago.The installation was supposed to have been held at the annual conference of the Society, which had to be postponed due to the spurt in COVID-19 cases. Dr. Gautam Saha introduced the new president to the audience and handed over the medallion. Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy, who participated as the chief guest, commended Dr. Raju on his achievement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-doctor-elected-president-of-indian-psychiatric-society/article38316844.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man arrested for ‘raping’ minor daughter||A 42-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping his 15-year-old daughter at Arilova in the city, on Saturday night. According to Inspector of Arilova Police Station, Emmanuel Raju, about a year ago, one Eswara Lal of Arilova had undergone kidney surgery after both his kidneys were damaged. His wife, who had donated her kidney, had left to her mother’s house after the surgery, to take complete bed rest over a period of time. Eswar Lal has been staying along with his daughter in his house at Arilova since then. On Saturday, the minor girl, who is studying in Class X, did not leave school even after school hours. When questioned by one of her teachers, the girl informed her that she did not want to go back home, as her father has been sexually exploiting her over a period of time. With the help of the teacher, the girl lodged a complaint with the local police on Saturday night. The girl in her complaint stated that she was allegedly raped multiple times by her father, Mr. Emmanuel Raju said. Arilova Police have registered a case under Sections of rape and the POCSO Act. The case was handed over to the Disha Police Station for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-arrested-for-raping-minor-daughter/article38316773.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||PRC Sadhana Samithi formed in Vizag district||A PRC Sadhana Samithi was formed at the district-level by employees JACs, to organise struggles for achievement of the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) demands. Giving details to the media on Sunday evening, samithi convener Eswara Rao said that a bike rally would be taken out across the city on January 25 to express resentment of the employees against the PRC given by the State government. A ‘Chalo Vijayawada’ programme would be organised on February 3. He said the object was to elicit the support of the general public. A flash strike would be organised on February 7 and the government should bear the responsibility for the inconvenience to people, in view of the strike, he said. He said that a solution to the issue of fitment should be worked out at the level of the Chief Minister. He alleged that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has thrown cold water on the aspirations of the employees. Mr. Eswara Rao alleged that the Chief Minister had cheated them after saying that 27% interim relief would be given. The nterim relief given was negated by limiting fitment to 23%. He demanded making the Ashutosh Mishra Committee report public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prc-sadhana-samithi-formed-in-vizag-district/article38316812.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man found murdered||A man, aged around 30-years, was found murdered at Gopal Reddy Nagar under Gajuwaka Police Station limits here on Sunday night. The victim was identified as S. Prasad. Police reached the spot on getting information and are on the look out for suspects. Sources said that a few are being questioned by the police regarding the case. Gajuwaka Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-found-murdered/article38316845.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Swarnajayanthi express cancelled today||Train no. 12803 Visakhapatnam – Nizamuddin Swarnajayanthi express, leaving Visakhapatnam on January 24, has been cancelled due to cancellation of pairing train, according to a statement issued by A.K. Tripathi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, here on Sunday. Further, the following trains will be short-terminated: 18514 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul night express, leaving Visakhapatnam on January 25, will be short-terminated at Jagdalpur and in the return direction, 18513 Kirandul – Visakhapatnam night express will start from Jagdalpur on January 26, instead of Kirandul. Similarly, 18551 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul train, leaving Visakhapatnam on January 23 and 26 will be short-terminated at Jagdalpur and in the return direction, 18552 train will start from Jagdalpur on January 24 and 27, instead of Kirandul. Passengers have been asked to note the changes and act accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/swarnajayanthi-express-cancelled-today/article38316813.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:20 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cockfights: 10 held, four roosters seized||The district police arrested 10 persons for their alleged involvement in gambling and cockfighting by betting money, at Golugonda and Anakapalle (rural) areas in the district on Sunday. The police seized four roosters and around Rs. 3,000 from them. The team of Kothakota Police, based on information of an ID arrack manufacturing unit, also destroyed around 2,000 litres of fermented jaggery wash (FJ wash) after conducting a raid at Atlapalem village under Ravikamatham mandal in the district on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cockfights-10-held-four-roosters-seized/article38316774.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||PRC row: govt. staff to serve strike notice today||The committee has decided to send a leader from each Joint Action Committee (JAC) to each district to lead the fight against the injustice allegedly meted out to them. ‘Deceptive means’ The employees’ allegation is that the government reduced their salaries and benefits through deceptive means and that basically the mechanism adopted by the PRC to arrive at the revised pay scales has been kept a closely guarded secret. MLC K.S. Lakshman Rao extended support to the employees. ‘It’s pay reversal’ Calling it ‘pay reversal’, the Andhra Pradesh State employees on Tuesday, January 18, rejected outright the government orders on the pay revision and demanded that they be withdrawn forthwith as they were ‘fully detrimental to their interests’. The employees will organise agitations in different modes before moving into an indefinite strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prc-row-govt-staff-to-serve-strike-notice-today/article38316792.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ready to roll out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ready-to-roll-out/article64946475.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:05 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety net||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-net/article64946362.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Destinations get closer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/destinations-get-closer/article64946285.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jolly time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jolly-time/article64946308.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||R-Day makeover||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/r-day-makeover/article64946298.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:09 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traffic awareness programme organised||The traffic wing of the city police conducted an awareness campaign on road safety at Maddilapalem Junction here on Sunday. Comedian Apparao, popularly known as ‘Jabadarsth Apparao’, took part in the campaign along with the traffic police personnel. He interacted with motorists and created awareness on the importance of wearing helmet and seat belt. He also appealed to road users to follow traffic rules without fail. Dwaraka Police Division Inspector Ch Shanmukha Rao and a few other personnel took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/traffic-awareness-programme-organised/article38316846.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:41 IST,TELANGANA||Guest lecturers’ strike leaves colleges crippled||For more than 45 days, guest lecturers of government degree colleges have been on strike demanding job security. This has impacted teaching at colleges across Karnataka severely, as semester exams are fast approaching and a major portion of the syllabus is not taught yet. Many college authorities fear that too much time has already been lost. Over 14,500 guest lecturers are staging protests in Karnataka. In many colleges, there is only one or a handful of permanent faculty for a subject, which has a workloadof 70 to 80 hours in a week. Such colleges are more severely hit. “The students of core subjects such as Mathematics, Chemistry, Computer Application have great difficulty as the guest faculty in these subjects were on protest. The permanent lecturers are finding it difficult to manage as they are burdened with handling the entire syllabus in the absence of guest faculty,” said K.T. Krishne Gowda, principal of Government First Grade College for Women in Hassan. The college has more than 2,500 students. Among the teaching faculty in the college, only 40 are permanent, while 102 are guest lecturers. In some colleges, there is none to take classes for students of BSc. The Government College for Home Science in Holenarsipur offers B.Sc. in Food Science, Chemistry and Zoology. But, there is no lecturer to teach these subjects. University of Mysore has announced the dates for the examination of the third and fifth semesters, beginning on February 22. Only a month is left to cover the entire syllabus. Before going on strike, the guest faculty hardly completed 25% of the syllabus allotted to them. It is difficult to cover the entire syllabus, even if they come back to work by Monday, as more than 45 days are already lost. K.S. Dinesh, principal of Govt College for Women at Holenarsipur, said 75 guest lecturers were working in the college against the permanent faculty of 27. Teaching had suffered a setback. “It is impossible to manage all classes with the permanent staff alone. The senior officers of the department have held several meetings on this issue,” he said. Similar is the situation in Government Women’s First Grade Degree College in Kalaburagi. Kashinath Biradar, principal, said: “A total of 56 guest lecturers are working in our colleges as compared to 50 permanent lecturers. English, Women’s Studies, Chemistry and Kannada are the worst-hit subjects as they were heavily dependent on guest lecturers. The agitation has mounted the workload on some of the permanent lecturers who are taking additional classes to cover the syllabus,” Mr. Biradar said. Rajashekara Hebbar, principal of Government First Grade College, Mangaluru, pointed out that guest teachers had taught for about one-and-half months before going on strike. The strike has put more pressure on permanent faculty members who have extended their teaching hours on their own to ensure that students did not suffer, Mr. Hebbar said. Incidentally, in Dakshina Kannada, all guest teachers are not participating in the strike. Some who are not members of their association are continuing teaching. A case in point is in the Car Street College where 28 guest teachers are teaching while 100 teachers have totally boycotted classes. A teacher at the Government First Grade College in Belthangady said the strike has particularly hit the teaching of Economics, English and Commerce as most of the government colleges have less number of permanent teachers teaching those subjects.  ( With inputs from Mangaluru, Kalaburagi, and Belagavi )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/guest-lecturers-strike-leaves-colleges-crippled/article64946441.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||Health staff burdened with doctors, HCWs down with COVID||Several doctors and healthcare officials at government hospitals continue to be away from work as they were detected with COVID-19. While there is no interruption in Out Patient or elective services, the waiting time for patients to avail the facilities got a little longer. At least 33 senior and junior doctors out of the around 50 at Government General and Chest Hospital, Erragadda, and over 30 out of 100 of them at Government ENT Hospital were diagnosed with COVID. They are under isolation for seven days. In this current situation where people are getting infected or re-infected despite full vaccination, the doctors are hoping they test positive in turns, so that this does not hit medical services. But, doctors and healthcare workers, who are not infected, are burdened with both Out-Patient and In-Patient services. “We are falling short of HCWs and time available to attend to patients. We are forced to give priority to patients who need immediate care,” said doctors from the ENT Hospital. The HCWs from Chest Hospital too, said the same. “The services are not interrupted. But, by the time the isolation period of one doctor is ending, another doctor is testing positive and going into isolation,” said Dr. Mahaboob Khan, superintendent of Chest Hospital. Since many people with COVID are asymptomatic, doctors have appealed to patients to visit hospitals only if essential or opt for video consultations. “One should be careful not to add health problems in this situation. It is better to avoid COVID rather than being careless about consequences,” said a doctor. No holiday Sunday (January 23) was hectic for thousands of ASHA, ANM, and other healthcare workers, with no holiday. They were busy conducting fever surveys to find if anyone has symptoms of COVID and distribute home isolation kits. They are working along with staff from the municipality and Panchayat Raj departments. “The orders to work on Sunday were received on Saturday evening. The fever survey will go on for four more days, at least. Whether we have to work on January 26 would be known on Tuesday,” said a HCW. Besides the survey, ANMs have to be available to offer COVID vaccination. Health staff are also involved in tests. The available HCWs are delegated work: to conduct tests, vaccination, and fever survey. “There is a huge dearth of staff. If all vacancies are filled up, services can be better,” said a Health official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/doctors-health-staff-down-with-covid-burden-up-for-others/article64946456.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||‘Doctor’s advice, medicines just a phone call away’||Just a phone call would get doctor’s advice and medicines to the doorstep of those feeling ill with cold, cough, fever or any other symptoms, in Mahabubnagar district, as part of the ‘Intinta Aarogyam’ programme launched along with fever survey. As part of the programme, medicine kits would be given to those who are suffering from COVID symptoms such as fever, cough, severe body pains and others. Teams of medical and health department, ASHA and Anganwadi workers are visiting every household in the district since Friday, as part of the fever survey. “In case anybody suffers from COVID symptoms or just cold and cough, even after the fever survey, they could make a call to 08542-241165 to get advice and essentials at their doorstep besides testing them for the infection,” Minister for Excise, Sports and Culture V. Srinivas Goud said. A total of 1,89,319 houses would be visited by multi-disciplinary teams comprising health, revenue, ASHA, ANM and Anganwadi staff in five days as part of the fever survey. The teams were provided 40,000 home isolation kits initially and the health department was ready to provide another 60,000 kits, if needed. A special officer has been appointed for every mandal to supervise the fever survey so that tracing, testing and treatment were provided to those having cold, cough, or fever. On Friday, 60,762 households were covered. Only those with severe symptoms were being advised to go to public healthcare facilities at mandal, municipal, constituency or district level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/doctors-advice-medicines-just-a-phone-call-away/article64946451.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||Woman cured of fungal infection caused by accident||A long drawn treatment stretching over three months helped a 24-year-old woman from fungal infection. The woman received severe injuries around her hip when she met with an accident in October, last year. She developed post trauma mucor infection which, doctors said, is a rare occurrence among road accident cases. The patient was shifted to Aware Gleneagles Global Hospital from another health facility. Doctors at the private hospital performed debridement (removal of damaged tissues) to clean the injury. Considering the injury, doctors had anticipated that the woman was at the risk of fungal infection and started administering anti-fungal treatment immediately. Simultaneously, they sent samples for culture sensitivity. Dr Kalyan Chakravarthy, Consultant Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeon at the hospital, said that the results were positive for the fungal infection. “The patient was admitted to the hospital with a high degree of contamination due to dirt and dust, which could at times result into amputation. We performed multiple stages of debridement, along with administering specific high-powered drugs. Resurfacing of wound and rehabilitation happened over three months, and after a prolonged care, the victim has recovered, and is ready to return to her daily routine,” he said. She was discharged after around a month of hospitalization , followed by treatment at her home and follow-up consultations. All of this went on for around three months. Now, she is ready to get back to life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-cured-of-fungal-infection-due-to-accident/article38316621.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||Let BJP talk about Rs. 15L promise also apart from Ram Mandir: Jagga Reddy||Sangareddy MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy said the construction of Ram Mandir was important for the people, but it was equally important for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to fulfil its poll promise of depositing Rs. 15 lakh in every account. The majority of the Rs. 15 lakh beneficiaries would be from the socially disadvantaged sections like the SCs, STs and BCs apart from the poor from the upper castes, he said. “But the BJP’s silence on this is deafening while it makes a lot of noise on the Ram Mandir issue,” he said. Mr. Reddy, in an informal chat with the media here on Sunday, accused the BJP of suppressing the socially disadvantaged sections with its Hindutva slogan. Every time the BJP’s accountability in governance is raised it hides under the Hindutva slogan. “People want Ram Mandir but at the same time also want good governance, peace and fulfilment of poll promises.” The TPCC working president demanded that the BJP State president Bandi Sanjay speak up on the real issues of people rather than increasing communal tensions through his rabble-rousing speeches. Mr Sanjay or Mr. Amit Shah have plenty of time to visit temples but not the families from the downtrodden sections, he alleged. Mr. Reddy said Congress always stood for the unity of the people and the nation, and never believed in divisive politics for reaping political benefits. “Whether we are in power or in opposition, we always strive to follow the basic tenets of the Constitution, which professes equality to all irrespective of their caste or creed. Unfortunately, it is not seen in BJP’s governance,” he argued. The Congress MLA also accused Mr. Bandi Sanjay of ignoring the real issues of the people. When Congress takes up the farmers problems the BJP diverts the attention. “Mr. Sanjay doesn’t have any interest in farmers issues and he rakes up other issues when the Congress party fights on behalf of the farmers. His sincerity is in question now.” Stating that Congress stood for secularism, which is also the essence of Hinduism, Mr. Reddy said the country’s progress across all the sectors over the last seven decades was due to its strength in keeping the people together. BJP has nothing to show as their contribution to the country except raking up the Hindutva narrative and playing on people’s emotions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/let-bjp-talk-about-rs-15l-promise-also-apart-from-ram-mandir-jagga-reddy/article64946448.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||Two weeks on, police clueless in severed head case||Mystery continues to shroud the sensational murder of a Suryapet youth, whose severed head was placed at the feet of an idol in Chintapally police limits of Nalgonda earlier this month. Much to the shock of the people, the decapitated body was found at Turkayamjal, 50 km away from the first scene and only three days later. It has been two weeks since the occurrence of the unusual crime, but the police, except for finding the mortal remains, still remain clueless in its investigation. Identification The victim’s identification was based on the photos of the severed head the police circulated on social media on January 10, following which the family approached authorities and claimed it by showing the old photographs. Thirty-year-old Jahender Naik, who according to family members was mentally ill, lived on the streets and temple premises in the Turkayamjal limits. Based on clues about the location, the police after searching in and around Chintapally, the Nagarjunasagar highway, later found the body at an old and under-construction building, belonging to one Naik family at Turkayamjal.  According to the victim’s family members who spoke to The Hindu , its suspicions were around two theories: “make-believe act or human sacrifice”.  The construction of the building, where Naik’s trunk was found under a heap of bricks, as believed by the victim’s family, was stopped over sharing disputes between two wives, said its member Ashok Naik CCTV footage Vanasthalipuram police, in whose limits the building is located, however, said owners and related members of the property were questioned and preliminarily nothing was found doubtful. CCTV footage was also examined but it did not offer anything. Officials also believe the distance of 50 kms between the two linked crime scenes made the investigation extremely difficult. While they earlier said there were CCTV cameras at stages en route to Gollapalli village on the highway, and footage of the hours leading to the crime examined, no suspicious movements were observed. Devarakonda DSP Anand Reddy and Inspector of Nampally police station in the division who was appointed the investigating officer, maintained that there has been no progress in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-still-clueless-in-severed-head-case/article38316639.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:41 IST,TELANGANA||‘Broad-based platform of left, secular forces needed’||CPI (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury has stressed the need for evolving a broad-based and united platform of left, secular and democratic forces to counter the BJP which was resorting to “divisive and communal” policies with an aim to establish Hindu Rashtra in the country. Mr. Yechury underlined the need for forging unity among the Left forces to begin with, which could be expanded subsequently by taking together secular and democratic forces. Efforts should be made to build up and strengthen public movements against the “fascist” BJP-led Government which was bent on implementing the RSS agenda in the country. The CPI (M) general secretary virtually addressed the party’s state conference which got off here on Sunday. He recalled that the CPI (M) had in the past expressed concerns over the BJP’s moves toeing the RSS agenda and the same was coming true now. The BJP-led Government had accelerated corporatisation since it took the reins for the second time and was handing over the properties of the public sector undertakings to private sector. While the rights of working class were being usurped, the BJP government had “legalised political corruption”. The government at the same time brought forth issues like abrogation of Article 370, Citizenship Amendment Act and other draconian provisions as part of its communal agenda. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government had turned as junior partner to the United States and is mortgaging the interests of the country,” he said. The senior CPI (M) leader lamented that the BJP government had set its eyes on destroying the basic tenets of the Constitution like secularism and democracy as they were hindering its agenda of establishing a Hindu Rashtra. In the process, the government was trying to control constitutional institutions like Election Commission and Enforcement Directorate to further its pursuit in the process to suppress the opposition parties and those raising voices against its policies. He cited the manner in which the BJP took the reins in several states through horse trading while it was trying to influence voters in Uttar Pradesh through different means. Though complaints had been lodged with the Election Commission in this regard, no action had been initiated so far to remedy the situation. He exhorted the State Committee representatives to elaborately discuss different aspects and evolve an action plan to counter the BJP and its growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/broad-based-platform-of-left-secular-forces-needed/article38316642.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||Ten arrested in two separate stabbing cases||A total of 10 persons were arrested for their alleged involvement in two separate stabbing cases in Hyderabad city police’s North Zone stations of Chilkalguda and Begumpet on Sunday. The first case was reported at around 12.30 a.m., from Amber Nagar of Warasiguda, where one accused Mohammed Nawaz allegedly inflicted multiple stab injuries on M. Santosh Kumar. Police said Nawaz bore a grudge against Santosh three years ago when he had intervened and questioned him for beating children. The latter had moved to Keesara. On Saturday too, on seeing him walking by the roadside, Nawaz along with his two friends threatened him by driving his auto-rickshaw in a rash manner and negligent manner. Police said he had a history of offences in Nallakunta, Musheerabad and Chikkadpally police limits. In another incident reported at Rasoolpura of Begumpet, one V. Pradeep Kumar, 20, had sustained stab injuries. The incident took place at around 3.15 a.m. when Pradeep along with others were waiting for their friend near Ramalingeswara Swamy temple and reportedly, a group of drunken youths questioned their presence there. One Khaja Bahauddin Hameedi had used a knife to cause stab injuries on Pradeep and another Md. Omer assaulted his friend Hemanth. Police arrested seven persons in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ten-arrested-in-two-separate-stabbing-incidents-in-city/article38316636.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:41 IST,TELANGANA||‘Kisan Samman Yojana, a copy of TS scheme ’||Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao said Telangana was a model for Kisan Samman Yojana and the scheme was copied from the State’s Rytu Bandhu scheme. Speaking to reporters at Sangareddy after a review meeting on Dalit Bandhu at Collectorate on Sunday, Mr. Harish Rao said the Dalit Bandhu would be implemented for 100 beneficiaries in each constituency and the selection completed and schemes would be grounded before March first week. He asked the BJP leaders to answer for their comments that the scheme was confined to Huzurabad. Referring to the criticism by Bharatiya Janata Party state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar against the proposed English medium in schools, the Minister dared the BJP leader to tell these words by keeping his hand on the heart. Stating that 17 medical colleges were sanctioned in the State, the Minister asked BJP leaders why they were silent on getting IIM and Tribal University for the State. At a review meeting on Dalit Bandhu, he directed the officials of Sangareddy district to identify beneficiaries in all the Assembly constituencies in the district before February 5 and units have to be grounded before the first week of March. He said that selections of units should be based on the interest of the beneficiaries. The Minister said that the process should be from selection of beneficiary, getting their bank accounts opened in the name of Dalit Bandhu, selection of unit, imparting training to the beneficiary. Lok Sabha member B.B. Patil, zilla parishad chairperson P. Manjula Jaipal Reddy, MLAs T. Jayaprakash Reddy, Manick Rao, Chanti Kranthi Kiran, and M Bhupal Reddy were present||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kisan-samman-yojana-a-copy-of-ts-scheme/article64946438.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||Silver Jubilee batch of MANAGE-ABM get record pay packages||The 25th batch of Post-Graduate Diploma in Management (Agri-Business Management) course offered by National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE) has secured 100% placements this year too. According to Director General of MANAGE P. Chandra Shekar, the students of the institution have been able to get 100% placements every year. This year, a total of 66 students opted for placements and 27 companies have extended offers of employment to them with a highest package of Rs. 18 lakh per annum and the average package of Rs. 11.51 lakh. “The achievement is proof of the quality of students produced by the institution and the increasing trust of corporate companies in their talent”, Mr. Chandra Shekar said on the success of MANAGE students. The recruiters who visited MANAGE this time included 9 first-timers and were from several spheres in agribusiness space such as agri input, agri output, NBFCs, BFSIs, retail, animal feed and others. Major companies who recruited MANAGE PG Diploma holders include Godrej Agrovet, ITC, Adani Wilmar, PwC India, KPMG India, BASF, Coromandel International, UPL, PI Industries, BigBasket, Future Group, Noveltech feeds, IDFC Bank, HDFC Bank and Fullerton Credit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/manage-abm-students-get-record-pay-packages/article38316635.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||Robotic bariatric surgery on Somalian woman||Robotic bariatric surgery was performed on a Somalian patient. Advanced laparoscopy and robotic surgery specialists at Apollo Hospitals, Jubilee Hills, performed the procedure which was claimed as the first of its kind. “The procedure was performed using the state-of-the-art da Vinci xi Robotic System, the latest and best robotic surgical system in the world currently,” as per a press release. The 40-year-old patient weighing 180 kgs has consulted doctors at the hospital with complaints of breathlessness, joint pains, uncontrolled diabetes, gall bladder stones and an ventral hernia. Upon evaluating the patient’s condition, the specialists have advised a robotic procedure The procedure took over three hours. She lost about 15 kilos and is able to walk, breath without oxygen support. Dr Siva Charan Reddy, Senior Consultant, Surgical Gastroenterologist along with Dr Mallikarjun, Senior Consultant, Surgical Gastroenterologist, Dr Jagan Mohan Reddy, Consultant, Surgical Gastroenterologist, performed the procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/robotic-bariatric-surgery/article38316619.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||Tests and COVID cases drop in TS||After four consecutive days of recording over 4,000 COVID-19 cases, Telangana recorded 3,603 virus cases on Sunday. Over one lakh samples were tested daily for the last few days. However, 93,397 tests were conducted on Sunday. One more COVID patient died on Sunday. Meanwhile, hospital bed occupancy continued to increase though the cases have dropped. The number of patients in Intensive Care Units (ICU) has increased from 770 on Saturday to 800 on Sunday, and oxygen bed occupancy increased from 1,273 to 1,291. The 3,603 fresh COVID cases include 1,421 from GHMC, 308 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 262 from Rangareddy, 150 from Hanamkonda, 98 from Karimnagar, and 96 from Mahbubnagar. From March 2, 2020, to January 23 this year, a total of 3.13 crore samples were tested for COVID and 7,34,815 were detected with the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tests-and-covid-cases-drop-in-state/article38316620.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||Samantha’s brand now in kids wear too||Saaki, a brand owned by film star Samantha has recently launched ‘Saaki Girl’, a premium and modern Indian wear line for girls between 2 years and 8 years of age. The brand has curated styles ranging from statement evening and festive wear pieces to modern fusion wear inspired by traditional crafts of India. Now they have come up with cotton and silk-based artistic sarees, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/samanthas-brand-now-in-kids-wear-too/article38316634.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||Two killed in separate accidents||Two persons were killed in separate accidents in Hyderabad in the late hours of Saturday. A 25-year-old MBBS graduate Ch. Vishwa Kalyan was killed instantly after coming under the wheels of a tipper truck. Police said the accident took place near Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital at around 11.15 p.m., when he was proceeding in his motorcycle towards Karwan from Ameerpet. Both the motorcycle and the truck were in the same direction and reasons for the accident were not clear, the police said. Mr. Kalyan was preparing for a post-graduate entrance test. Another man in his 20s, E. Nagesh, a resident of Filmnagar in Banjara Hills police station limits, also breathed his last after he lost control over his motorcycle and fell down. Police said he had died from severe head injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-killed-in-separate-accidents/article38316638.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:41 IST,TELANGANA||MLA leaves meeting hall||In an embarrassment, a Congress MLA was forced to move out of the meeting hall. The incident took place at Sangareddy Collectorate on Sunday. Congress MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy participated in a review meeting on Dalit Bandhu at Sangareddy collectorate on Sunday. The meeting was presided over by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao. After meeting, the Minister and others came to another meeting hall. Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy also came to the hall. However, Mr. Harish Rao informed the MLA that they were going to address a press conference and hence the MLA should leave the meeting hall. With all humbleness, the MLA left the meeting hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mla-leaves-meeting-hall/article38316641.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||Toy shops raided by BIS||A search and seizure raid was conducted by Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) at Toy Kingdom and Just For U outlets at City Center Mall in Banjara Hills and at Hamleys in PVR Next Galleria Mall, Punjagutta for selling toys without Mark, which is a violation of Toys (Quality Control) Order, 2020. In a statement, the BIS said that materials like plastics, paints and fabric used in toys have more chemical concentration. Infants are fond of licking and chewing the toys which might lead to children consuming those chemicals present on toys. This can be avoided if the toys are quantitatively and qualitatively tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/toy-shops-raided-by-bis/article38316637.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:39 IST,TELANGANA||1,119 cases found during survey in Karimnagar||As many as 1,119 persons were detected with fever and other symptoms during the door-to-door fever survey conducted by a total of 710 teams, as part of measures to rein in the spread of coronavirus across the district, on Sunday. In all, a total of 42,478 houses were covered all over the district. Home isolation kits were handed over to those who were found suffering from fever and other symptoms. Rapid antigen tests were conducted on a total of 1,247 persons. Of these, as many as 104 persons tested positive for COVID-19. District Collector R.V. Karnan along with Additional Collector (local bodies) Garima Agarwal inspected the fever survey at Rekurthi, Chintakunta, Teegalaguttapalli and Butti Rajaram Colony in Karimnagar town on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1119-cases-found-in-karimnagar-survey/article38316613.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||English medium education: teachers ill-equipped for the job||The decision of the government to introduce English as the medium of instruction in all government schools from next academic year has thrown up a debate in education circles about the capability of teachers to meet the task.There are 1.02 lakh government teachers in the State, of whom only 10 per cent are educated in English medium while another 15 per cent learnt the language on their own. It effectively meant that 75 per cent of teachers who studied in Telugu medium needed training in English from resource persons to handle the job. As high level meetings were taking place in the Education department to train the teachers in spoken English, parallel consultations at lower levels disclosed that only a 13-day training programme was held in the past when English medium instruction was introduced in Success Schools. The teachers believed that the training programme should be at least for one month to equip them to carry out instructions with students back and forth in English during classroom lectures. Care of COVID orphans The government was in the process of framing guidelines to shift children who lost either or both their parents toCovidfrom the guardianship of their relatives to State-run social welfare hostels. There are 236 such children, most of whom lost their parents during the second wave ofCovidlast year, but only eleven of them were admitted to hostels. The identity of the children came to light during a special drive taken up by women and child welfare department. The government had recently asked the department to intensify the drive pending guidelines to shift them to the hostels depending on their financial status. Silence on summons The ruling TRS has left no opportunity to target the Centre whenever it came to tiff with the BJP on political grounds. But, the issue of summons to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy, Principal Home Secretary Ravi Gupta, Karimnagar Police Commissioner V. Satyanarayana and three other junior level police officers in connection with the complaint by BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar to the Privileges Committee of Lok Sabha does not seem to evoke the same response from TRS. It was said the TRS had decided not to react to the summons though the issue was debated in the party circles. The reasons for the silence were not known. Early polls ruled out Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy sought to put an end to speculation over the possibilities of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao advancing the elections to the State Assembly. The Chief Minister opted for early elections in the previous term too and the ruling party won with a landslide on the strength of the series of welfare schemes, particularly Rythu Bandhu, launched in the first term. With the government speeding up implementation of welfare schemes, opposition parties are sensing the likelihood of advancement of the elections. The Minister told reporters the other day that there would not be any advancement nor any postponement of polls. It has to be waited and seen whether this assertions would come true. N. Rahul and M. Rajeev||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/english-medium-education-teachers-ill-equipped-for-the-job/article64946450.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||Caution to the winds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/caution-to-the-winds/article64946449.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:40 IST,TELANGANA||Readers Mail||There are several speed breakers all over the city without zebra lines. And since there are no sign boards like ‘Speed breakers ahead. Go slow’, motorists, without noticing them, are meeting with accidents. I request the GHMC authorities to immediately arrange to draw zebra lines on all speed breakers and also put up sign boards on either side. G.V.N. Murthy Quthbullapur   GHMC has laid a road without installing speed breakers at Sainik Vihar (Road No 1-5), Neredmet Cross Roads. And for the last three years, it is in the same condition. Commuters are seen driving at high speed here resulting in several accidents. Children and the elderly are at maximum risk. I appeal to the GHMC Commissioner to kindly review and install speed breakers at the earliest. Robin Zaccheus Hyderabad   It is viral on Whatsapp that the government has taken a decision to remit pension on the last working day of the month. But my monthly pension for December 2021, which is generally paid promptly before the 5th of every month through Union Bank (erstwhile Andhra Bank) by the Pension Office, Barkatpura, Hyderabad, is not credited till date. Nobody from the PFO responds to my phone calls and I was not given any reason for this non-payment. I request the pension office to remit it and this meagre Rs. 1,000 plays a big role in my life. M. Radhakrishna Nallakunta     Online education is not giving the desired results. Students are facing several difficulties. So, I would suggest that offline classes be conducted with the following precautions: Divide every class into two equal halves; conduct classes for each group separately as morning session and afternoon session or on alternate days; reduce syllabus; and arrange for separate teachers for morning and evening sessions to avoid stress on them. Sahasra Nivriti Vishlesha Boudhanagar, Secunderabad (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-the hindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail/article38316618.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:12 IST,||Gujarat to depict British massacre of tribals||As the Centre and several States are trading allegations and counter-allegations over the tableaux to be displayed at the Republic Day parade in Delhi, the Gujarat government announced the theme of the State’s tableau over the weekend. It will be based on a incident of tribal massacre ‘worse than Jallianwala Bagh’ that occurred in the State around 100 years ago. “Around 100 years ago, in Pal and Dadhvaav villages of North Gujarat’s Sabarkantha district, the Britishers massacred 1,200 tribals, an incident worse than Jallianwala Bagh. This Republic Day, the Gujarat government, through a tableau, will present this untold story of bravery and sacrifice of the tribals,” a State government release said. According to the details, on March 7, 1922, Bhil tribal villagers in Sabarkantha district had gathered on the banks of Her river under the leadership of Motilal Tejawat, to protest against the land revenue system imposed by the British and the feudal lords. Soldiers from Mewad Bhil Corps arrived at the site and under direction from its officer, Major H.G. Saturn, fired on the tribals. In the unprovoked firing 1,200 innocent tribal were killed, the release added. “Like a battlefield, the entire area was filled with corpses. Two wells — Dhekhadiya and Dudhiya — were overflowing with the bodies of about 1,200 innocent tribals. Motilal Tejawat was shot twice, and his companions carried him away on a camel to the hill by the river,” stated the release. It is claimed that the horrific incident, which took place just three years after Jallianwala Bagh, was forgotten but as Chief Minister of Gujarat, Narendra Modi had “brought this crucial chapter of history before the world.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gujarat-to-depict-british-massacre-of-tribals/article64946507.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:12 IST,||BJP, TMC clash after stones hurled at MP||Clashes broke out between BJP and TMC supporters in Bhatpara near Kolkata on Sunday as stones were allegedly hurled at Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh when he was attending a programme to mark the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, police said. Two cars, including a police vehicle, were vandalised in the clashes in the hotbed of political unrest in North 24 Parganas district, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-tmc-clash-after-stones-hurled-at-mp/article38316513.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:12 IST,||Parkash Badal demands release of 1993 blast convict Bhullar||Former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal on Sunday sought immediate release of 1993 Delhi bomb blast convict Davinderpal Singh Bhullar in the “larger interest of consolidating peace and communal harmony” in Punjab. Bhullar was convicted in connection with the killing of nine people and injuring of 31 in the blast. Among those who survived the attack are former Youth Congress chief M.S. Bitta. In a statement here, Mr. Badal urged Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to not allow a “communal bias or political or electoral opportunism to dictate his decision and refusal to grant immediate clearance for Bhullar’s release”. “Bhullar must be released without even a moment’s delay as he has already served his full term in jail,” Mr. Badal said. “Punjab had suffered enough because of these petty communal and polarising political conspiracies by the Congress rulers in the past. Arvind Kejriwal must resist the temptation to walk the same path for the same petty reasons,” the Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch said. Bhullar was awarded the death penalty by a designated TADA court in August 2001 but his capital punishment was commuted to life sentence by the Supreme Court in 2014. The Centre in September 2019 had recommended special remission to eight Sikh prisoners, including Bhullar, to mark the 500th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. It has been alleged by some Sikh bodies that the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi has not given its clearance for Bhullar’s release. A few days ago, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee had also accused the Delhi government of obstructing Bhullar’s release. Health complications Mr. Badal drew Mr. Kejriwal’s attention to the serious health complications Bhullar is facing. He said, “Even the basic humanitarian concern, apart from just legal considerations, should compel you to act expeditiously and positively in this case.” The Akali stalwart said Bhullar’s release “will boost this sentiment of peace and brotherhood among communities in Punjab as it would help in mitigating the lingering sense of injustice against Bhullar.” “I really don’t know why the Delhi CM is not allowing justice to be delivered to Bhullar even after the latter has already suffered long years of laceration and served more time in jail than the full tenure of sentence,” he said. “I urge and request Kejriwal sahib to immediately accord the requisite permission and I see no reason why he wouldn’t heed my request and advice in this regard,” said Mr. Badal. Earlier in the day, in a recorded video message from a Ludhiana hospital, Mr. Badal thanked Punjabis for their good wishes after he tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/parkash-badal-demands-release-of-1993-blast-convict-bhullar/article64946505.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:12 IST,||‘Haryana govt. dismissing agitating anganwadi workers’||The Haryana Anganwadi Workers’ and Helpers’ Union general secretary, Shakuntala, on Sunday accused the State government of dismissing those on strike and registering false criminal cases against them to crush the agitation. She added that the undemocratic methods of the government reflected the exasperation of those in power and this would further strengthen the movement. Ms. Shakuntala was addressing the State convention of the union at the Karamchari Bhawan in Rohtak. More than 40,000 anganwadi workers and helpers are on strike since December 8. Their demands include implementation of several announcements made by the Union and the State governments regarding their wages, among other demands. Centre of Indian Trade Unions State general secretary Jai Bhagwan, vice-president Satvir Singh and Sarv Karamchari Sangh secretary Dharmabir Phogat also addressed the gathering. Stubborn attitude The leaders accused the government of having a stubborn attitude towards the genuine demands of thousands of women workers. The strike has crippled all the Integrated Child Development Scheme services across the State. They said the agitating women were seeking the implementation of the announcements made by the Union and the State governments. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced a hike of Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 750 to the honorarium of the workers and the helpers respectively in 2018, but the benefits were not being passed on to them by the State government, said the leaders. Also, Chief Minister Manohar Lal had made an announcement in the Assembly on March 6, 2018, to pay them at par with the semi-skilled and unskilled contractual workers as per the State government’s outsource policy and link it with the Dearness Allowance, but the government was now going back on its words, the leaders said. Meeting today The union leaders alleged that dozens of workers and helpers were dismissed in Karnal, Gurugram, Rewari and Narnaul. Also, cases were registered against them in Kaithal, Jind and Gurugram on false charges of obstructing public servants from discharge of their duties. The co-ordination committee will meet on January 24 to decide on the future course of action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/haryana-govt-dismissing-agitating-anganwadi-workers/article38316522.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:12 IST,||Ex-student leader injured in police firing in Assam||A former student leader, alleged by law enforcers to be a drug peddler, was injured in police firing in Assam’s Nagaon district, leading to the Opposition calling it an effect of the prevailing “jungle raj” and claiming that the present situation is worse than that during the “secret killings” of the 1990s. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has ordered a probe into the incident. Police claimed that former Nagaon College general secretary Kirti Kamal Bora was selling drugs and he was shot in the leg after he attacked law enforcers on Saturday, while AASU alleged that he had protested to drunk policemen beating up a youth, which irked them. The Chief Minister said that Additional Chief Secretary Paban Borthakur has been entrusted with conducting an inquiry. “Borthakur will go into the details and submit the report within seven days,” he said. Mr. Bora's mother and some students staged a demonstration in front of Nagaon police station demanding a judicial inquiry. Nagaon Superintendent of Police Anand Mishra said that he will personally investigate the matter to find out whether it was an act of “overdoing” by the police. “In the preliminary investigation, I found that police received information that some bikers were selling drugs. When two policemen in civil dress reached the spot, this particular youth asked them whether they were law enforcers. When they replied in affirmative, the accused hit one of them with his helmet and injured him. A backup police team placed nearby also reached the spot and tried to overpower him, but he continued attacking them. Left with no other option, police fired at his leg. Eight vials containing heroin were seized from his possession,” Mr. Mishra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ex-student-leader-injured-in-police-firing-in-assam-cm-orders-probe/article38316525.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:13 IST,||Protest over attacks on non-tribals||A couple on Sunday staged a sit-in in Meghalaya capital Shillong to “silently protest” 40 years of atrocities against non-tribal people in the north-eastern State. The demonstration at Khyndai Lad, a central landmark in the city, followed the January 20 assault by “unidentified miscreants” on eight non-tribal people, opposite a police station in the Lumdiengjri locality. Three of them, including two Muslims, had to be hospitalised. Sushit Kanti and Kalpana Choudhury were allowed to hold the protest by the the government for six hours on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/protest-over-attacks-on-non-tribals/article38316524.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:12 IST,||Six accidental death reports filed in fire case||The Mumbai police have registered six accidental death reports in connection with the fire that broke out in a residential building in Tardeo area of central Mumbai, which claimed six lives and left 23 others injured, an officer said on Sunday. The blaze had erupted on Saturday around at Sachinam Heights, a ground-plus-20-storey building located opposite Bhatia Hospital at Gowalia Tank. “As the fire claimed the lives of six persons, separate accidental death reports were registered at the Gamdevi police station on Saturday night,” the police officer said. The police are waiting for a report by the fire department to know the exact cause of fire, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/six-accidental-death-reports-filed-in-fire-case/article38316512.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:13 IST,||SC sets aside order directing T.N. govt. to compensate victims||The Supreme Court, in the interests of justice, has set aside a National Green Tribunal decision ordering the Tamil Nadu government to pay compensation to the families of those who were dead and injured in a blast at a firecrackers unit in Virudhunagar in February last year.  A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, on Friday, set aside the tribunal judgment of June 2021, suo motu directing the State to pay Rs. 20 lakh to the families of the dead and Rs. 15 lakh to the kin of the injured, saying the decision was made ex-parte.   The decision was based on an appeal by the Tamil Nadu Fireworks And Amorces Manufacturers Association (TANFAMA), which questioned the jurisdiction of the tribunal to initiate suo motu proceedings. “Even if the tribunal were to initiate suo motu action, it must put every person likely to be affected by its decision, to notice and give an opportunity of hearing before passing final orders. In the impugned judgment, it is noted that in spite of notice, the authorities and parties concerned did not enter appearance. In that sense, the matter proceeded ex parte against the parties concerned, including the appellants,” the top court noted in its order.  Disposing of the appeal, the court ordered “in the interest of justice, it is appropriate to set aside the judgment and order, and relegate the parties before the National Green Tribunal for reconsideration of the entire matter, after giving an opportunity to the parties concerned, including the appellants, and to pass appropriate orders in accordance with law.” The court asked the tribunal to take up the case again on February 14, 2022.  In the impugned judgment, it is noted that in spite of notice, the parties concerned did not enter appearance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sc-sets-aside-order-directing-state-to-compensate-victims/article64946580.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:11 IST,||New COVID-19 cases fall below 10K; TPR at 13.32%||New COVID-19 cases in the Capital fell below 10,000 cases a day for the first time since January 4 on Sunday. This comes 10 days after the current wave peaked on January 13 with 28,867 new cases being recorded in a single day, which was the highest number of cases recorded in a single day since the pandemic began. Over the past 24 hours, 9,197 new cases were recorded along with 34 deaths. The health bulletin released by the Delhi government said that 69,022 tests had been conducted with a positivity rate of 13.32%. 54,246 active cases There are 54,246 active cases in the Capital of which 42,438 are under home isolation. Out of those patients in hospital, 814 are currently on oxygen support while 164 are in need of a ventilator. Delhi on Saturday recorded 11,486 cases with a positivity rate of 16.36%. On Friday 10,756 cases were recorded, with a positivity rate of 18.04%. The Delhi government had sent a proposal to Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Friday to remove restrictions such as night curfew and odd-even opening of markets. But the proposal was rejected. The L-G had cleared the proposal to let private offices start working with 50% capacity, adding that he would seek the advice of experts on removing further restrictions. Education Minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday that since COVID numbers were declining and most of the students studying in higher classes had been vaccinated, a proposal may be placed before the Delhi Disaster Management Authority to reopen schools for higher classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/new-covid-19-cases-fall-below-10k-tpr-at-1332/article64946586.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:12 IST,||Police intensify anti-terror vigil in Delhi ahead of Republic Day||The Delhi police have intensified anti-terror measures ahead of Republic Day with over 20,000 security personnel being deployed for increased patrolling across the city to ward off any threat, Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana said on Sunday. Briefing mediapersons on the security arrangements undertaken so far, Mr. Asthana said, “In the last two months, we have intensified anti-terror measures across the Capital because like every year, Delhi is a target for any terrorist or anti-social element… This year too, our forces are alert with everything from vehicle checking, labour and tenant verification being undertaken”. The Commissioner said that over 20,000 security personnel were deployed constituting Delhi Police personnel, DCPs, ACPs, Sub-Inspectors, commandos, armed battalions, Central Armed Police Force jawans and their commandos. “In the last 15 days, we have increased checking at border points and counter drone technology will also be used in order to secure the airspace,” Mr. Asthana said. He added that the Delhi police have also been coordinating with other State police in order to chalk out a security strategy to guard Republic Day events. “Anti-sabotage checks are being carried out and a total of 200 teams are working on it… We have also been spreading awareness through our Social Media Monitoring Cell,” Mr. Asthana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-intensify-anti-terror-vigil-in-delhi-ahead-of-republic-day/article38316514.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:12 IST,||Framing policies is the domain of govt. and not courts: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has rejected a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking to constitute a special commission on environment to frame a policy on the principle of ‘one person one tree’, noting that framing policies is the domain of the government and not the courts. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh remarked that, “making a policy with respect to environmental protection and/or issuing guidelines thereunder is purely a matter of policy decision of the government and a very complex phenomenon”. “It is no longer res integra (points of the law which have not been decided) that a court will not interfere in policy making as the policies are framed based on expert knowledge of the persons concerned in the respective fields,” the Bench said. It added, “Courts are not equipped with the necessary expertise to substitute their own views and direct formulation of policies tailor-made to suit the requirements of the petitioner in a given case”. The High Court’s observation came while hearing a petition by one Rahul Bhardwaj, who sought direction to constitute a special commission on environment for bringing the policy on sustainable development including the ‘one person one tree’ scheme. Mr. Bhardwaj had argued that there should be penalty of not abiding the rules related to protection of environment. He also sought direction to the authorities to fix higher liability on Forest Departments of Union and all States so that penalty can be enforced on citizen who does not maintain a tree in his whole life. After hearing Mr. Bhardwaj, the Bench said, “It is a settled law that framing policies is the domain of the government and it is not for this court to direct framing of any policy”. The Bench further said that courts can certainly examine a policy or an action of the Executive, if it is unreasonable, unfair, arbitrary or unlawful or if it is unconstitutional, but cannot issue directions to frame a policy in a particular manner. Separation of power “There is a clear separation of power in the scheme of the Constitution of India and the duty to formulate policy is entrusted to the Executive. Predominant role of the court is to expound and interpret the law and not to legislate,” the Bench said. “In this view, prayers relating to formulation of the policy relating to environmental protection and directing that it be made on the principle of ‘one person one tree’, as suggested by the petitioner cannot be allowed,” the High Court said. It, however, said that Mr. Bhardwaj could make a comprehensive representation to the authorities towards protection of the environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/framing-policies-is-the-domain-of-govt-and-not-courts-delhi-hc/article64946583.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:11 IST,||HC seeks details on fake Aadhaar cardholders||The Delhi High Court has directed the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) to provide information on fake Aadhaar cards being allegedly issued to around 450 persons for civil defence training in Delhi. The case is based on a complaint by BJP leader Vijender Gupta in January 2020 at Delhi’s Anti Corruption Branch stating that the hiring process of marshals for Delhi Transport Corporation buses, which recruits civil defence volunteers, was “illegal and manipulated”. The complaint further said that Kuldeep Pakad, then District Magistrate (DM) of Shahdara, had issued fake certificates to over 400 people from his home state Rajasthan. The certificates validated them as Delhi residents so that they could enrol for Aadhaar cards. Mr. Pakad had compelled them to pay Rs. 2 lakh per head. UIDAI’s counsel said that authority was ready to share the information being sought.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-details-on-fake-aadhaar-cardholders/article38316508.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:11 IST,||27-year-old arrested in JNU molestation bid case||Days after a PhD student faced a molestation bid inside the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) campus on January 17 night, the Delhi police have arrested a 27-year-old man in connection with the incident, officers said on Sunday. The accused, identified as Akshay Dolai, lives with his wife and children in Munirka and worked at a mobile repair shop at Bhikaji Cama Place. “He knew all the routes of the campus as he worked as a ticketing agent till 2015 and used to frequent JNU’s ticketing campus daily,” DCP (South-West) Gaurav Sharma said. On the day of the incident, Dolai consumed liquor at his shop and went to JNU on his scooter. He entered the campus through the gate and when he saw a girl jogging in the area, he followed her and attempted to molest her. “After the girl raised an alarm and took out her phone to call the police, he snatched it and fled the spot,” the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/27-year-old-arrested-in-jnu-molestation-bid-case/article38316505.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:13 IST,||Man found dead after stabbing wife||A 32-year-old man was found dead after stabbing his wife with a surgical blade at her maternal home in west Delhi’s Khyala, police said on Sunday. DCP (West) Urvija Goel said that the woman has sustained severe neck and face injuries and is currently hospitalised. After police began to trace the accused, they found that he had fled to the house of his brother-in-law at Ambedkar Nagar in Loni. After reaching there, he was found dead, the DCP said. A case under attempt to murder has been lodged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-found-dead-after-stabbing-wife/article38316523.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:11 IST,||Wettest Jan. on record since 1901||Delhi experienced its wettest January on record since 1901 after another spell of heavy rain late on Saturday evening. A total of 88.2 mm of rain has been recorded so far this month, according to data shared by the India Meteorological Department. The month has had six rainy days so far, under the influence of back-to-back western disturbances, which have led to prolonged cold-day conditions. On Sunday, the Safdarjung weather station reported 19.7 mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Sunday and a maximum temperature of 14.9 degrees Celsius, which was six degrees below normal. The minimum temperature settled at 10.5 degrees Celsius, which was three degrees above normal. The IMD has forecast a partly cloudy sky with moderate fog in the morning on January 24 with cold day conditions in a few places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wettest-jan-on-record-since-1901/article38316509.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:12 IST,||White wash||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/white-wash/article64946506.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:13 IST,||Show time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/show-time/article64946579.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:48 IST,||Moscow may install proxies in Kiev: U.K.||Britain on Saturday alleged that it had information that Moscow was “looking to install a pro-Russian leader in Kiev” as fears of a Russian invasion of Ukraine grow. Tensions have soared in recent weeks as tens of thousands of Russian troops mass on Ukraine’s border, along with an arsenal of tanks, fighting vehicles, artillery and missiles. London said it had seen evidence that several former Ukrainian politicians had maintained links with Russian intelligence services, and that former MP Yevgen Murayev was being considered as a potential leader. Some of those in contact with Russian intelligence officers were “currently involved in the planning for an attack on Ukraine”, the Foreign Office said in a statement, though did not release details of the evidence. A U.S. official called the alleged plot “deeply concerning”. Moscow dismissed the claims as “disinformation”, and urged London to “stop spreading nonsense.” Mr. Murayev, the man named by London, lost his seat in the Ukrainian parliament when his party failed to win 5% of the vote in 2019 elections.  He is considered to be an owner of Ukrainian TV station Nash , which regulators have been seeking to shut down since last year, accusing it of airing pro-Russian propaganda.  The other four politicians named by the U.K. were Mykola Azarov, Sergiy Arbuzov, Andriy Kluyev and Volodymyr Sivkovich. “The information being released today shines a light on the extent of Russian activity designed to subvert Ukraine, and is an insight into Kremlin thinking,” British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said. “Russia must de-escalate, end its campaigns of aggression and disinformation, and pursue a path of diplomacy.” Ukraine said on Sunday it would continue countering pro-Russian individuals and entities aiming to destabilise Ukraine. “Our state will continue its policy of dismantling any oligarchic or political structures that could be working to destabilise Ukraine or aid the occupiers,” said Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to President Volodymyr Zelensky’s chief of staff. The term is often used by officials in Kiev to refer to Russia and its annexation of the Crimean peninsula in 2014. “For some time, Russia has seen its main strategy towards Ukraine to be the selection of specific individuals in oligarchic or political circles and the attempt to promote Russia’s interests through them,” Mr. Podolyak said. ‘Deeply concerning’ In Washington, U.S. National Security Council spokeswoman Emily Horne said: “This kind of plotting is deeply concerning.” The claims came hours after a senior U.K. defence source said that Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu had accepted an invitation to meet British counterpart, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace, to discuss the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-may-install-proxies-in-kiev-uk/article38316121.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:48 IST,||Beijing to test 2 mn ahead of Olympics||China’s capital, Beijing, will test more than two million residents as it deals with a new cluster of COVID-19 cases just two weeks before it hosts the Winter Olympics, city officials said on Sunday. Beijing’s Fengtai district, the centre of the latest outbreak, reported nine new cases on Sunday — a small number in most places but a break from normalcy in a city where a strict “zero-COVID” strategy has been in place — with the total number over the weekend nearing two dozen. Xu Hejian, a spokesperson for the Beijing government, said all of Fengtai’s two million residents would be tested in coming days. Under China’s “Zero-COVID” approach, the country still maintains tight restrictions on international travel, and carries out mass testing and quarantining of all close contacts in centralised facilities until cases are brought to zero. The approach has helped China avoid a major second wave and maintain normalcy at home for much of the past year, although it has come at the cost of continued international isolation. Beijing is particularly on edge ahead of the Winter Olympics, which President Xi Jinping will open on February 4. Russia’s Vladimir Putin and Pakistan’s Imran Khan are among foreign leaders expected to attend. “We must make every effort to stop the spread as quickly as possible by taking firm, strict and decisive measures,” said Mr. Xu of the Beijing government. Of the 43 cases in Beijing reported since January 15, six were of the more transmissible Omicron variant, while the rest were Delta. The Omicron variant has challenged the “Zero-COVID” approach still in place both on the Chinese mainland and in Hong Kong. On Sunday, Hong Kong reported 140 new cases, most tied to a housing estate, marking the highest daily number since July 2020. Thousands have been locked down in the housing estate while many close contacts have been sent to quarantine facilities, while mass testing is being carried out. Among the more extraordinary measures, more than 2,000 hamsters have been culled because of spread in a pet-shop, prompting anger from both pet owners and animal rights groups. While the “Zero-COVID” playbook helped quickly squash earlier clusters, microbiologist Yuen Kwok-yung of the University of Hong Kong warned the speed of the current spread suggested more cases “would continue to be uncovered” in the coming weeks.  “It may take around two to three months to calm down,” he was quoted as saying by the South China Morning Post . “We have to see if our existing measures are effective enough.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beijing-to-test-2-mn-ahead-of-olympics/article64946619.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:48 IST,||Taliban, Afghan civil society members begin Oslo talks||The first Taliban delegation to visit Europe since returning to power in Afghanistan began talks on Sunday in Oslo with Afghan civil society members focused on human rights, ahead of highly-anticipated meetings with Western officials. Headed by Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi, the delegation is to dedicate the first day of their three-day visit to talks with women activists and journalists, among others. The discussions, which are being facilitated by Norway and are to focus on human rights and the humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, are taking place behind closed doors. No country has yet recognised the Taliban government, and Norwegian Foreign Minister Anniken Huitfeldt stressed that the talks would “not represent a legitimisation or recognition of the Taliban”. Protests in Norway A handful of demonstrators protested outside the Norwegian foreign ministry on Saturday. On Monday, the Taliban will meet with representatives of the United States, France, Britain, Germany, Italy and the European Union, while Tuesday will be dedicated to bilateral talks with Norwegian officials. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said the hardline Islamists hoped the talks would help “transform the atmosphere of war... into a peaceful situation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-afghan-civil-society-members-begin-oslo-talks/article64946625.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:48 IST,||Peru declares environmental emergency following oil spill||Peru declared an environmental emergency Saturday to battle an oil spill caused by freak waves from a volcanic eruption in the South Pacific. The stunningly powerful eruption on last Saturday of an undersea volcano near Tonga unleashed tsunami waves around the Pacific and as far away as the United States. In Peru, the oil spill near Lima has fouled beaches, killed birds and harmed the fishing and tourism industries. With its 90-day decree, the government said it plans “sustainable management” of 21 beaches tarred by 6,000 barrels of oil that spilled from a tanker ship unloading at a refinery last Saturday. One aim of the decree is to better organise the various agencies and teams working in the aftermath of the disaster, the Environment Ministry said. $50 million losses Foreign Trade and Tourism Minister Roberto Sanchez estimated on Saturday that economic losses total more than $50 million, all sectors combined. The government is demanding payment of damages from the Spanish energy giant Repsol which owns the refinery. The environment ministry said 174 hectares — equivalent to 270 football fields — of sea, beaches and natural reserves were affected by the spill. Crews have been working for days to clean up the spill. But the Ministry said it issued the emergency decree because the crude still in the water was still spreading, reaching 40 kilometers from the spot of the original spill. The Environment Ministry said “the spill amounts to a sudden event of significant impact on the coastal marine ecosystem.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/peru-declares-environmental-emergency-following-oil-spill/article38316117.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:48 IST,||Fired over Muslim faith, alleges U.K. MP||A former Minister in Britain’s Conservative government says she was told her Muslim faith was a reason she was fired, a claim that has deepened the rifts roiling Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s governing party.  Former Transport Minister Nusrat Ghani told the Sunday Times that when she was demoted in 2020, a government whip said her “Muslimness” was “making colleagues uncomfortable.”  Ms. Ghani said she was told “there were concerns ‘that I wasn’t loyal to the party as I didn’t do enough to defend the party against Islamophobia allegations.’ “It was very clear to me that the whips and No. 10 (Downing St.) were holding me to a higher threshold of loyalty than others because of my background and faith,” Ms. Ghani said. Chief Whip Mark Spencer said he was the person Ms. Ghani was talking about, but strongly denied her allegation. “These accusations are completely false and I consider them to be defamatory,” Mr. Spencer wrote on Twitter. The Conservative Party whips’ office said Ms. Ghani’s claims “are categorically untrue.” The Prime Minister’s office said Mr. Johnson met with Ms. Ghani to discuss her concerns in 2020, and invited her to file a formal complaint, but that she didn’t do so. Several Conservative lawmakers, however, spoke up to support Ms. Ghani. Caroline Nokes, who heads Parliament’s Women and Equalities Committee, said Ms. Ghani’s treatment had been “appalling” and she was brave to speak out. Education Secretary Nadhim Zahawi tweeted that Ms. Ghani’s allegations must be “investigated properly & racism routed out.” Conservatives under fire Some people have accused the Conservative party of failing to stamp out anti-Muslim prejudice under Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who in 2018 compared women who wear face-covering veils to “letter boxes.” Ms. Ghani’s allegation comes after another Conservative legislator, William Wragg, accused party whips of intimidating and blackmailing members of Parliament to ensure they supported the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fired-over-muslim-faith-claims-uk-mp/article64946621.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:48 IST,||COVID: ‘Europe could be headed for endgame’||The Omicron variant has moved the COVID-19 pandemic into a new phase and could bring it to an end in Europe, the WHO Europe director said on Sunday.  “It’s plausible that the region is moving towards a kind of pandemic endgame,” Hans Kluge told AFP in an interview, adding that Omicron could infect 60% of Europeans by March.  Once the current surge of Omicron currently sweeping across Europe subsides, “there will be for quite some weeks and months a global immunity.” “So we anticipate that there will be a period of quiet before COVID-19 may come back towards the end of the year, but not necessarily the pandemic coming back,” Mr. Kluge said. “There is a lot of talk about endemic but endemic means ... that it is possible to predict what’s going to happen. This virus has surprised (us) more than once so we have to be very careful”, Mr. Kluge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/covid-europe-could-be-headed-for-endgame/article38316347.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:48 IST,||S. Korea says it has paid Iran’s UN dues||Using Iranian bank funds freed from American sanctions, South Korea has paid Iran’s $18 million in delinquent dues owed to the United Nations, Seoul said on Sunday. The step was apparently approved by Washington to restore Tehran’s suspended voting rights at the world body. The South Korean Foreign Ministry said Seoul paid the sum using Iranian assets frozen in the country after consulting with the United States Treasury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-korea-says-it-has-paid-irans-un-dues/article38316122.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:48 IST,||UAE bans drones for one month||The United Arab Emirates has banned the use of drones for one month, days after Yemen’s Houthi rebels launched a deadly drone and missile attack on Abu Dhabi.  “The Ministry of Interior is currently stopping all flying operations for owners, practitioners and enthusiasts of drones, including drones and light sports aircraft,” the official WAM news agency reported late on Saturday.  “Anyone performing these activities will be subject to legal liabilities,” it added, reporting the ban would last for one month. Without mentioning the recent deadly attack, the Ministry said the order was made after “misuse spotted recently” where users were “trespassing into areas where these types of activities are prohibited”. Those who need to fly drones for work must ask the authorities for the “necessary exceptions and permits”, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uae-bans-drones-for-a-month-after-attacks/article64946624.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:48 IST,||Water cannon, tear gas at COVID-19 protests in Brussels||Police fired water cannons and tear gas in Brussels on Sunday to disperse protesters marching against COVID-19 vaccinations and restrictions. The march followed demonstrations in other European capitals on Saturday that also drew thousands of people protesting vaccine passports and other requirements. In Brussels, demonstrators chanted “Liberty!” as they marched. White-helmeted police riot officers later sought to disperse protesters, who ignored instructions broadcast over loudspeakers that the demonstration was finished and that they should leave. Police water cannon trucks fired powerful jets at protesters, while thick clouds of smoke filled the air in the Belgian capital.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/water-cannon-tear-gas-at-covid-19-protests-in-brussels/article64946620.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:32 IST,||Budgeting for the education emergency||In the current Budget session, how much money the Central and State governments will allocate to education and for what purpose should be a matter of public concern and debate. Even before the pandemic, public spending on education in most States was below that of other middle-income countries. Most major States spent in the range of 2.5% to 3.1% of State income on education, according to the Ministry of Education’s Analysis of Budgeted Expenditure on Education. This compares with the 4.3% of GDP that lower-middle-income countries spent, as a group, between 2010-11 and 2018-19. Low-income countries increased their spending from 3.2% to 3.5% of GDP in the same period (World Bank, Education Finance Watch, 2021). Spending on education Faced with an unprecedented education emergency, this is the time to substantially ramp up public spending on education and make it more effective. Inexplicably, however, in the 2021-22 Budget, in the midst of the gravest education crisis, the trend was in the opposite direction for the Central government and many State governments. The Central government’s allocation for the Education Department was slashed compared to the previous year, even though the size of the overall budget increased. Of the major States and Delhi, eight either reduced or just about maintained their budget allocation for education departments in 2021-22 compared to 2020-21. Seven States marginally increased their allocation by 2%-5%. Only six States increased their allocation by more than 5%, though it remains to be seen how actual expenditures compare with budget allocation. The education system now needs not only an infusion of resources for multiple years, but also a strengthened focus on the needs of the poor and disadvantaged children. The vast majority of the 260 million children enrolled in preschool and school, especially in government schools, did not have meaningful structured learning opportunities during the 20 months of school closures. They have lost basic literacy and numeracy skills, and even the habit of learning. Millions have disengaged from education, due to lack of contact with teachers. Even when schools started re-opening in October, they were operating only at half schedule. Some States have still not opened primary schools. In anticipation of the Omicron wave, State governments rushed to close primary schools first in early January 2022, contrary to all international trends. Increased public spending alone is a necessary but not sufficient condition to address all these problems. What it is spent on and how effectively resources are used are important. It is clear what additional resources are required for. The needs include: back-to-school campaigns and re-enrolment drives; expanded nutrition programmes to address malnutrition; reorganisation of the curriculum to help children learn language and mathematics in particular, and support their socio-emotional development, especially in early grades; additional learning materials; teacher training and ongoing support; additional education programmes and increased instructional time during vacations and weekends; additional teachers and teaching aides, where required, in part to cope with transfer of students from private schools; and collection and analysis of data. Many State governments and the Central government have been spending public resources to use technology in education. This is a good time to ask how much of public resources was/is being spent on technology and how effective it was during the pandemic, when less than 20% of all students could access even prerecorded videos. How does expenditure on technology compare with the amounts spent on teacher training, which represents just 0.15% of total estimated expenditure on elementary education? Teachers are central to the quality of education, so why does India spend so little on teacher training? The disaster caused by the pandemic could be the opportunity to reverse the chronic under-funding of India’s public education system. UNESCO’s 2030 framework for action suggests public education spending levels of between 4% and 6% of GDP and 15%-20% of public expenditure. A recent World Bank study notes that India spent 14.1 % of its budget on education, compared to 18.5% in Vietnam and 20.6% in Indonesia, countries with similar levels of GDP. But since India has a higher share of population under the age of 19 years than these countries, it should actually be allocating a greater share of the budget than these countries. Opacity of data How does India’s public education expenditure “effort” compare with the UNESCO indicative benchmarks? The opacity of education finance data makes it difficult to comprehend this. For instance, the combined Central and State government spending on education was estimated to be 2.8% of GDP in 2018-19, according to the Economic Survey of 2020-21. This figure had remained at the same level since 2014-15. On the other hand, data from the Ministry of Education indicates that public spending on education had reached 4.3% of GDP in the same year, rising from 3.8% of GDP in 2011-12. The difference in the figures is due to the inclusion of expenditure on education by departments other than the Education Department. Including expenditure on education by, for example, the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (on Anganwadis, scholarships, etc.), the Ministry of Science and Technology (for higher education) is of course legitimate. But many of the other departments comprise a smorgasbord. No fewer than 43 Ministries and Departments of the Central government are supposed to be spending on education. Education expenditure by other departments has been rising faster than that by the Education Department, at both Central and State level. They constitute one-quarter of the education expenditure by the States in 2018-19, and half of the Centre’s expenditure on education. However, the composition of these expenditures is not readily available. Public expenditure on elementary education (about 1.8% of GDP) and for other levels of education are rough estimates. The reason is that other than the Education Ministry, education expenditures of departments are not shown by level. They are somewhat arbitrarily assigned to different levels of education and estimated by the Central government. The estimation of education expenditure by other departments of the State governments is even more crude, as they do not even provide separate expenditures on education. The ratio of education spending in other departments at the Central level is used to estimate this for each of the States. In an era of data deluge, it is astonishing that public expenditure data on the education sector are not easily available. But the questions for this Budget should be clear. How much additional funds are being allocated for different levels of education by the principal departments in 2021-22? Are the funds being spent on the specific measures required to address the education emergency facing the children who have been deprived of learning opportunities? Sajitha Bashir is former Education Manager and Adviser, World Bank, and core member of the National Coalition on the Education Emergency||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/budgeting-for-the-education-emergency/article64946631.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:32 IST,||A chance to support growth, fiscal consolidation||The National Statistical Office (NSO) released the first advance national accounts estimates for 2021-22 on January 7, 2022. India’s real GDP growth in 2021-22 is estimated at 9.2%, that is 30 basis points lower than the projection by the Reserve Bank of India and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) projection of 9.5%. In an earlier analysis ( The Hindu , December 18, 2021, “The challenge of achieving 9.5% growth rate”), we had considered some of the ongoing challenges to the 2021-22 growth forecast, indicating a possible decline. The adverse effect of the third wave of COVID-19, which is mainly affecting the last quarter of 2021-22, may call for a further downward adjustment in the growth rate to about 9%. The main sectors that have held back a more robust recovery are trade, transport, et al . on the output side and private final consumption expenditure (PFCE) on the demand side as their annual estimated 2021-22 magnitudes remain below the corresponding levels in 2019-20.  Growth prospects With respect to the prospects of 2022-23 growth, IMF and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) forecasts have indicated growth rates at 8.5% and 8.1%, respectively. However, these may prove to be optimistic as the base effects characterising 2021-22 may be limited. In fact, as per the NSO’s advance estimates, at the end of 2021-22, the magnitude of GDP in real terms is estimated at INRRs. 147.5-lakh crore that is only a shade higher than INRRs. 145.7-lakh crore in 2019-20. Thus, due to the three waves of COVID-19 that India has experienced, two years of real growth in economic activities have been wiped out. The economy has to now start on a clean slate. Growth in 2022-23 would depend on the basic determinants such as the saving and investment rates in the economy. As per the advance estimates, the gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) relative to GDP at current prices stands at 29.6% in 2021-22. Capacity utilisation in India continues to have considerable slack. Available quarterly data indicate a capacity utilisation ratio of only 60% at the end of the first quarter of 2021-22 and an average of 61.7% in the preceding four quarters. As such, a pick-up in private investment may take some time.  Private final consumption expenditure (PFCE) also shows a low growth of 6.9% in 2021-22. Any pick-up in demand would continue to be constrained by low-income growth in sectors characterised by a high marginal propensity to consume (MPC) such as the trade, transport, et al. sector and the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) sector more broadly. Growth in 2022-23 would also continue to be constrained by supply-side bottlenecks and high prices of global crude and primary products. It may thus be prudent to expect a real GDP growth in the range of 6%-7%. The implicit price deflator (IPD)-based inflation which was as high as 7.7% in 2021-22, may come down to about 5%-6%. Thus, we may expect a nominal GDP growth of about 12%-13% in 2022-23. It is the nominal magnitude which is crucial as far as the Budget is concerned.  It was due to the high IPD-based inflation that the nominal GDP growth in 2021-22 at 17.6% exceeded real GDP growth by a margin of 8.4% points. This high nominal growth combined with base effects resulted in the Centre’s gross tax revenue (GTR) growth of 50.3% during the first eight months of the current fiscal year. In the first six months of 2021-22, this growth was even higher at 64.2%. In October and November 2021, the average growth in the Centre’s GTR fell to about 17.4% as the base effect was weakening. We assess that the annual growth in the Centre’s GTR may be close to 35%, implying a buoyancy of nearly 2. With these buoyant tax revenues, the Government may be able to limit the 2021-22 fiscal deficit to its budgeted level of 6.8% of GDP although a marginal slippage may not be ruled out. There may be some slippage in disinvestment targets and supplementary expenditure demands have also to be accommodated. Going forward, since the base effects in the Centre’s GTR would have weakened, we may expect a lower annual GTR growth of about 15%-16% in 2022-23 which in combination with a nominal GDP growth of 13% implies a buoyancy of about 1.2. This would still compare well with the Centre’s GTR growth performance in the pre-COVID-19 years which averaged only 5.6% during 2017-18 to 2019-20. The major corporate income tax (CIT) reform undertaken in 2019-20 had provided, among other things, a concessional CIT rate of 15% for fresh investment in manufacturing by domestic companies provided their production took off on or before March 31, 2023. As nearly two years have been lost due to COVID-19, the Government may consider extending the time limit for availing this benefit. The GST compensation provision would also come to an end in June 2022. This would cause a major revenue shock at least for some States such as Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. While this matter may be considered by the GST Council, the compensation arrangement should be extended by two years in some modified form. Its impact on the Centre’s Budget should be provided for. With respect to non-tax receipts, the scope of the National Monetization Pipeline (NMP) may be extended to cover monetisation of government-owned land assets. Disinvestment initiatives may have to be accelerated. Expenditure priorities Expenditure prioritisation in 2022-23 should focus on reviving both consumption and investment demand. The National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) should be reassessed, and its path may be recast in order to make up for existing deficiencies in relation to the original targets — particularly in the health sector. In this regard, the infrastructure investment undertaken by State governments and the public sector should be realistically ascertained and shortfalls with respect to original targets may be identified and remedial measures initiated. Since consumption demand remains weak, some fiscal support in the form of an urban counterpart to Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) may be considered in addition to supporting some of the sectors which are directly impacted by COVID-19. Revival of the economy in 2022-23 would critically depend on containing the adverse economic impact of the third wave of COVID-19 — and subsequent waves — to a minimum. Return to fiscal consolidation It would be appropriate now to consider a graduated return to fiscal consolidation while using fiscal policy to lay the base for faster growth in the years to come. The Fifteenth Finance Commission had suggested a fiscal consolidation path where the Centre’s fiscal deficit was benchmarked at 5.5% of GDP for 2022-23. In their pessimistic scenario, it was kept at 6% of GDP. At this point, while supporting growth is critical, signalling a return to fiscal consolidation is also important. It may be prudent to limit the reduction in fiscal deficit-GDP ratio to about 1% point of GDP in 2022-23. This would imply a fiscal deficit in the range of 5.5%-6% of GDP. From here on, a stepwise reduction of 0.5% points per year would enable a level of about 4% of GDP by 2025-26. By this time, as suggested by the Fifteenth Finance Commission, a high-powered inter-governmental group should be constituted to re-examine the sustainability parameters of debt and fiscal deficit of the central and State governments in the light of new empirical realities, particularly taking into account the likely level of interest rate on government debt. C. Rangarajan is the Chairman, Madras School of Economics and a former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India. D.K. Srivastava is the Chief Policy Advisor, EY India and a former Director of the Madras School of Economics. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-chance-to-support-growth-fiscal-consolidation/article64946635.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:32 IST,||Decoding the 2022 elections and the script for 2024||Five States in India go to the polls in early 2022. And by the end of this year, Assembly elections will also be held in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh. Since Uttar Pradesh, the largest State in terms of the number of Lok Sabha seats, goes to the polls in early 2022 — along with Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur — this round of Assembly elections is being referred as the semi-final to the final (the Lok Sabha or the general election) which will be held in 2024. As in any match, winning the semi-final would guarantee a spot to play in the final, though it does not guarantee a victory in the final match. The electoral verdict in the seven States that go to the polls this year (2022) will give us an idea of which party has the larger support base in which State; but these results cannot be an indicator of what might happen in 2024. Many State elections will take place in 2023 which would be much closer to 2024. There have been phases in India’s elections when people have chosen the same party to run the State government as well as the Central government, but it is a trend that no longer holds in present-day politics. In the last five years, there have been several elections such as in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Bihar, when voters have voted very differently while casting their vote for the State government and during the Lok Sabha election. There is no evidence to suggest these patterns would have changed over the last few years. So, in my opinion, the verdict of the State Assembly elections will not be any indicator of what might happen in 2024. In fact, to repeat what I have said earlier, one should refrain from making judgments about the likely outcome of the 2024 Lok Sabha election based on the verdicts in these Assembly elections. In Uttar Pradesh But this does not suggest that the verdicts in these Assembly elections will not have any impact on how politics in India might take shape in the coming years. For instance, if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) emerges victorious in Uttar Pradesh, it would certainly boost the chances of the BJP for winning the 2024 Lok Sabha election; such a result would also boost the stature of incumbent Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath within the party. On the contrary, a loss for the BJP would dampen its prospects in 2024 and affect Mr. Adityanath. The verdicts in these Assembly elections would also have implications for the other political parties in the fray: namely, the Indian National Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the Trinamool Congress (TMC), the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party. Of the seven States which go to the polls, the Congress is the ruling party in Punjab but the main Opposition party in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Goa and Manipur. It would be important for the Congress to win in some of these States if it is to instill faith in its leadership and morale among its supporters to keep the party’s hopes up for the main battle in 2024. The best bet for the Congress to perform well would be in the States of Punjab (where it is defending its own government), and Uttarakhand and Goa where it is the main Opposition party. In Uttarakhand, the government has changed every five years ever since the State came into being. With the BJP in power there for the last five years, all eyes are on the Congress’s prospects. But elections are won by mobilising the support base and not by any set rules. Such rules have broken occasionally in the last few years, most recently in Kerala. AAP as a factor The Congress also has its task cut out in fighting the BJP as there is now the stronger presence of AAP in State politics; this is likely to help it gain some of the anti-BJP votes, in turn posing a threat to the prospects of the Congress. In Goa, the Congress has lost its shape ever since the last Assembly elections; a number of its MLAs have defected to other parties — mainly to the BJP and the TMC. Given this situation, the Congress is in for a tough fight in Goa. In the case of the elections in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh, and in the event of there being a bi-polar contest, the Congress stands a good chance of winning. But one must not forget that it would be facing a very strong political force, the BJP. The BJP would like to retain Gujarat at any cost, being the home State of both the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, and the Home Minister, Amit Shah. The question is does the Congress have its house in order to be able to defeat the BJP in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh? Given the State-specific scenarios, 2022 is certainly going to be a challenge for the Congress. AAP is also trying hard to expand its base in various States with an eye on trying to replace the Congress as the main Opposition party to the BJP at the national level if not fill the political vacuum being created by the decline of the Congress’s support base in many States. Much would depend on how AAP performs in Punjab and in other States. A victory in Punjab would certainly boost the party’s prospects and also provide a broader platform for its leader Arvind Kejriwal to emerge as a bigger player in national politics. The TMC too The other leader too who is looking forward to playing a bigger role in national politics is the West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC leader Mamata Banerjee. After the thumping victory of the TMC in the West Bengal Assembly elections last year, the TMC is also another party trying hard to expand its base in other States. The party has been successful in drawing in various leaders from other political parties — from Congress, former Goa Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro, Mahila Congress President Sushmita Dev, Kirti Azad (Bihar), former Haryana Congress president Ashok Tanwar (Haryana), and Uttar Pradesh Congress leaders Rajesh Pati Tripathi and Lalitesh Pati Tripathi. There have also been other political jumps — by former Finance Minister in the BJP government Yashwant Sinha, former Union Minister and BJP MP Babul Suprio, BJP leader Mukul Roy along with his son Subhrangshu and former Janata Dal (United) MP Pavan K. Varma. These defections to the TMC are an indication of which way the wind seems to be blowing. But the TMC would need to make its presence felt in some of the States in these Assembly elections if Ms. Banerjee is to stake a claim (even if informal) as the leader who should be the consensus candidate from among the Opposition parties to challenge the BJP in 2024. The TMC is working hard in Goa to pose a challenge to the two established political parties, namely the BJP and the Congress. But one needs to wait and see what kind of an impact the TMC can make in these elections in Goa. The stage for the 2022 Assembly elections and what its impact on Indian politics may be is wide open. We need to wait and watch to see how things unfold in the coming months and over the next two years before the final match in 2024. Sanjay Kumar is a Professor with the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) and a political analyst. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/decoding-the-2022-elections-and-the-script-for-2024/article64946636.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:32 IST,||Solving the Sterlite problem||Sterlite Copper of Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu has become a moral issue after the police firing on protesters resulted in the deaths of 13 people in May 2018. Over some 20 years of plant operation, the company had violated many pollution regulations and faced at least two major allegations of excessive emissions. It also faced consistent protests against pollution from the plant. It had been ordered shut many times only to reopen and expand capacity. Complaints against the plant Residents around Sterlite say that when the plant was operating, there would be release of gas at 3 a.m. every day. They would wake up short of breath and to a foul smell. Even cattle were refusing to drink groundwater since it was contaminated by Sterlite effluents, they say. Now, the air is cleaner, they contend. The business community complains that Sterlite did not employ enough local people and did not give enough contracts for local businessmen. It was a high-handed management that talked down to them. Though Sterlite has constructed toilets, water tanks and community centers, it has not invested much in serving the educational or health needs of the local population. Distrust of Sterlite is so much that many people now credit good rains in the last few years to the shuttering of the plant. During the 2018 protests, WhatsApp videos of a grieving widow of a cancer patient demanding shutting of Sterlite went viral. There has not been any study to link cancer with Sterlite emissions. But people were only eager to believe the talk. Sterlite representatives have faulted protesters for spreading rumours and serving hostile vested interests. But the company’s record has not been above board. Sterlite’s product, copper, is a strategic metal. Important applications are energy, electrical equipment and electronics. Nations are switching more and more to wind and solar due to global warming constraints. This means new projects and transmission lines. There is a push for electrical vehicles. Globally, and in India, copper demand is only set to ramp up. Imports can cause supply bottlenecks. End consumers such as electrical equipment manufacturers sometimes pay a high premium as a result. There are more than 120 copper smelters across the world. All major copper-consuming countries have copper smelters within their country. Copper production provides strategic balance and price stability. The shuttering of the Sterlite plant quickly made India, a copper exporter, an importer. Domestic copper price is typically higher than the landed price of imported copper, increasing forex outgo. India now imports copper at the rate of 3 lakh of tonnes a year and the figure is only likely to grow. Volatile global copper prices are now at least 50% more than what they were when the plant shut. A copper smelter would serve India well. The only other major smelter in India is Hindalco. Thousands of jobs were lost when Sterlite shut. Real estate and local businesses serving the employees were hit. Imports through the Thoothukudi port fell by 25% the year Sterlite was shut and have only slid further since then. The port lost some 120 calls of vessels every year carrying copper concentrate. Port dues, berth charges, wharfage, etc. took a hit. In 2018-19, the operating income of the port fell by 15% and operating surplus reduced by 20% compared to the previous year. Without Sterlite’s copper exports, the port’s container terminal has been struggling. The business of some 20 stevedores and 100 clearing and forwarding agents came to zero. On average, 5,000 lorry trips were needed to transport the concentrate import from each ship to the plant. A whole lorry ecosystem had developed in Thoothukudi sustaining thousands of families. In 2020, the Madras High Court, while upholding the 2018 State government order closing the plant, said, “when economy is pitted against the environment, environment will reign supreme.” Sterlite has gone on appeal to the Supreme Court. An opportunity While the economic and national interest case for a copper smelter is proven, the trust deficit between Vedanta and the people of Thoothukudi needs to be bridged if the smelter has to restart. The framework for a solution could focus on adherence to norms and creating harmony between the company, government and the people. Sterlite presents an opportunity for the people of Thoothukudi to move forward in national and local economic interest. It is an opportunity for a corporate group to act responsibly and take people along while conducting its business. The process, however, needs someone who can help bridge the trust deficit. An assurance from him, her or an agency should guarantee any settlement. And it’s not something governments can do. M. Kalyanaraman is founding editor of inmathi.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/solving-the-sterlite-problem/article64946630.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:32 IST,||False dichotomy||The Supreme Court has once again addressed the ‘merit versus reservation’ debate, a misleading binary that has engaged public and judicial discourse for years. While ruling in favour of extending reservation to OBCs in the all-India quota (AIQ) of seats in admission to under-graduate and post-graduate medical and dental courses, the Court has concluded that the binary has become superfluous. The courts have now come to recognise the idea of ‘substantive equality’, which sees affirmative action not as an exception to the equality rule, but as a facet of the equality norm. ‘Formal equality’, or the principle that everyone competes on an equal footing, is inadequate to address social inequalities and the inherent disadvantages of the less advanced sections, necessitating provisions that help them compete with the advanced classes. The competitive examination may be necessary for distribution of educational opportunities, but it does not enable equal opportunity for those competing without the aid of social and cultural capital, inherited skills and early access to quality schooling. Good performance in an examination does reflect hard work, but does not always reflect “merit” solely of one’s own making. “The rhetoric surrounding merit obscures the way in which family, schooling, fortune and a gift of talents that the society currently values aids in one’s advancement,” writes Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, and raises the relevant question whether marks are the best gauge of individual merit. Seen in this light, reservation ensures that backward classes are able to avail of opportunities that “typically evade them because of structural barriers”. The provision of 27% reservation for OBCs within the AIQ was introduced only in July 2021. Implemented from 1986, the AIQ was envisaged as a domicile-free quota to access medical education in all colleges in the country. It comprises 15% of undergraduate medical and dental seats and 50% of post-graduate seats surrendered by the States for admission through a central pool. For two decades, there was no reservation in this segment. In 2007, the Court allowed the introduction of 15% reservation for SCs and 7.5% for STs. Even when the OBC quota was introduced in Central government institutions alone, there was none in State colleges. The decision to end this discrimination now has judicial imprimatur. The Court has also rejected the argument that there was no need for reservation in post-graduate medical education. The impact of backwardness, it has said, does not simply disappear because a candidate has a graduate qualification and does not create parity between advanced classes and backward classes. The latest judgment marks another notable addition to the body of affirmative action jurisprudence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/false-dichotomy/article38316108.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:31 IST,||A stellar fallacy||A move by the Union Environment Ministry to implement a ‘star-rating system’ has sparked controversy after one of its official communiqués became public. Under this scheme, State-level environment committees that appraise industrial projects on their potential environmental risk would be incentivised with points for “transparency, efficiency and accountability”. This idea followed a Union Cabinet meeting this month to facilitate the Government’s broader commitment to ‘Ease of Doing Business’. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is one of the cornerstones of ensuring that the ecological costs of infrastructure development are minimal. Prospective projects above a certain size and with a potential to significantly alter the natural environment must be first approved by the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) comprising State officers and independent experts. Projects that are even bigger or involve forest land — category A — must be cleared by an expert committee formed by the Centre. SEIAA projects make up the bulk of projects for approval including building and construction, small mining, small industry projects, and are considered ‘less polluting’.  The star rating system proposed is to “rank” and “incentivise” States on how quickly and “efficiently” they can accord environmental clearances. It spells out seven criteria to rate SEIAAs on “transparency, efficiency and accountability”. On a scale of 7, an SEIAA, for instance, gets more points for granting a clearance in less than 80 days than for within 105 days and no marks for more. A score of seven or more would be rated ‘five star’. However, a reading of the order gives the impression that States, in the quest for more stars, would logically vie for speedily clearing projects rather than ensure a thorough appraisal. The Environment Ministry, has said, in response to criticism, that the intention is not to hasten clearances but accelerate the pace of decision making. Rather than files being sent back for every query, all objections must be compiled and addressed at one go, it contends. While quicker decision-making benefits everyone, State committees are currently hampered by having too few independent experts and decision-making being left to bureaucrats than to environment specialists. Both industrialists and States gain from projects and, therefore, the tendency is always to elide environmental concerns. In many instances, site visits are critical to understand the potential environmental challenges. Calculating the risks and the benefits of industrial projects vis-à-vis their environmental impact is understandably hard. The way forward is to take steps to increase trust in the system and ensure that all States have competent experts who can conduct appraisals without fear or favour. A list of empty rankings is the least advisable way to bring about this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-stellar-fallacy/article38316102.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:32 IST,||Battery-operated TV sets||Ahmedabad, Jan. 23: The Electronics Systems Division (E.S.D.), Ahmedabad, set up by the Atomic Energy Commission, under the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has developed "solid state television receiver," the latest in transistorised television sets. The solid-state receiver replacing valves with transistors, will make television a more effective means of national development. The E.S.D. Director, Dr. B.S. Rao, said these television sets could operate both on electricity and battery or any other source of power. They would be useful for TV programmes to reach most backward villages in the country which might not have electricity. It was essential, Dr. Rao said, to use a TV set that could be operated on batteries at the minimum maintenance cost to serve these remote areas. The importance of developing such TV sets became obvious, when it was noted that only less than 20 per cent of villages were electrified, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/battery-operated-tv-sets/article38316111.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:32 IST,||Letters||‘Obliteration of a memory’ is the phrase that comes to one’s mind after reading the report, “Amar Jawan Jyoti now merged with National War Memorial flame, says Government” (January 22). Applying the same strange logic, why don’t we ‘merge’ all the statues of political leaders too? Already, the obliteration of history is a work in progress. One wonders what the next casualty will be. The Independence Day address from a Mughal-era fort? R. Thomas Paul, Bengaluru  Surely, both flames could have co-existed as the stand-alone icons of our glorious past, signifying the grit and the valour of our veer jawans across different time frames. For many veterans like me, and even to our millennials, the Amar Jawan Jyoti memorial, with an eternal flame, has always held deep memories of of our past, colonial included. To subsume articles of immense value is quite unheard of in the annals of Indian history. Arguably, the Government could have also elicited our views.  G. Ramasubramanyam, Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh  Many travellers to the national capital make it a point to visit the solemn place to derive inspiration and to absorb national pride. The jyoti gave significance, an identity, a purpose and a charm to the iconic place and has, so far, not posed any hindrance to any segment of society. The Government could have left it untouched.  V. Johan Dhanakumar, Chennai Belittling, distorting, erasing history and carving new narratives to suit its political and religious ideology are tools the ruling party is employing to polarise the electorate for narrow political gains. The exuberance shown in appointing a committee to ‘examine’ ancient history, observing a Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, the Central Vista Project, renaming of public monuments, cities, towns, educational institutions and even dropping Mahatma Gandhi’s favourite hymn from this year’s Beating Retreat ceremony are all examples of a well-crafted, despicable plan with a quest for a new history to drive a future politics. It is time for the people of this great country to see through these political ploys. Dr. Biju C. Mathew, Thiruvananthapuram   I am shocked and surprised that the Government has decided to drop the Mahatma’s favourite hymn, ‘Abide with me’, from this year’s Beating Retreat ceremony, and played every year since 1950. Who is the brain behind this unwarranted move? Will it not touch the nation to the quick? It is a stark fact that the younger generation today is oblivious of the yeoman services rendered by Gandhiji. Now, to drop his favourite hymn will only make this even worse. Mani Nataraajan, Coonoor, The Nilgiris    Subhas Bhowmick was famed as a ‘bulldozer’ in the football maidan of his generation. He shook the opponent’s defence with his dribbling skills. Remarkable too was his switchover to coaching. His contributions will always be linked to the rise of Indian football.  Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee, Faridabad, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/letters/article64946633.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:07 IST,||ASK US||Q.I am a 60 year old housewife. I have a LIC policy of Rs. 5 lakh which will be maturing at the end of this year. Can you suggest good investment plans that can give me Rs. 10,000 per month without risk? Kamal Dake We regret to tell you that your return expectations are very unrealistic. Today, the safe fixed income options in the market such as government bonds, deposits with leading banks and government-backed small savings schemes pay out interest of about 5.5-7.5% per annum (pa). But for an investment of Rs. 5 lakh to fetch Rs. 10,000 per month, the effective return would have to be about 24% pa Even if you were to look for instruments that offer half this return, you’d be putting your capital to considerable risk in today’s interest rate environment. Given your age and life stage, we would suggest that you prioritise capital safety over returns and invest this lumpsum in government-backed schemes, even if it means settling for lower returns. The monthly income schemes that offer relatively high returns with such government backing are the Post Office Senior Citizens Savings Scheme (SCSS), Post Office Monthly Income Account and LIC’s Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana. The SCSS is a deposit scheme that you can invest in via India Post or leading banks. It’s a five-year scheme which offers quarterly interest. The interest is changed by the government at the beginning of every quarter but the current rate (valid for deposits upto March 31 2022) is 7.4 per cent per annum. The Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana is a scheme from LIC where you make an upfront payment and receive monthly pension at the rate of 7.4% p.a. To get a pension of Rs. 9,250 per month from this scheme you need to make an upfront payment of almost Rs. 15 lakh. This scheme carries a 10 year lock in period. The Post Office Monthly Income Account pays you monthly income against an upfront deposit of up to Rs. 4.5 lakh. The scheme carries a 5-year lock in period and currently offers an interest rate of 6.6 % p.a. QI am a 18-year-old student. I have started SIPs in smallcap funds from Axis, ICICI Pru and Kotak with monthly contributions of Rs. 700. I also invested Rs. 500 in Quant ELSS Fund. Is this the right track? What else I can do to improve my investing strategy? . Tanmay Adhikari It is admirable that you are thinking of saving and investing at such a young age. ButYou need to take a more planned and systematic approach to investing, so that your investments help you meet your goals without subjecting you to undue risks. Before you choose funds to invest in or start SIPs, it will be good to put some thought into why you’d like to invest in the first place. The target sum you’d like to save up, the time horizon over which you’re hoping to get to this target and the risks you’re willing to take along the way - all will have a bearing on which instruments you choose and the kind of products you decide to invest in. This earlier article we published has details on how you can go about taking a planned approach to your investment journey. Having said this, we have three comments on your fund choices currently. One, small-cap equity funds today have the highest past returns but you should be aware that such funds, because they invest in the less established, emerging companies in the listed universe, usually carry very high risks. While small-cap funds, if run well, can deliver very high returns beating all other categories of funds in bull markets, they can also lose money equally fast during a correction or in a bear market. Therefore, you should invest in small-cap funds only if you will not panic or lose sleep over a 40-50% drop in your investment value in a corrective phase. While small-cap funds do have high wealth creation potential especially for young investors like you, such potential works in your favour only if you can hold on for a really long period (say 7-10 years) and will not exit your investments midway, either because you need the money or are hit by losses or poor returns. If you don’t have such a risk appetite, index funds that invest in broader markets like Nifty 500 funds or BSE 500 funds or a combination of a Nifty50 and Nifty Next50 fund would be a better bet for SIPs. Two, it is never a good idea to invest all your savings in a single fund category or even in an asset class. As a beginner, we’d typically advice you to split your money between safe investments (like the PPF) and risky investments like equity MFs. Even within equity MFs, you should ideally invest in a multicap/flexicap fund or diversify across large, mid and small-cap funds rather than concentrate your SIP money in three small-cap funds. Three, ELSS funds are usually meant for individuals who earn a taxable income and would like to avail of the Rs. 1.5 lakh a year tax exemption under section 80C. As a student, there’s no specific reason why you should prefer an ELSS fund over a plain vanilla multicap or flexicap fund. While there’s no harm in investing in an ELSS fund even without looking for tax breaks, you need to be aware that ELSS funds carry a 3-year lock in period for each of your SIP instalments, whereas open end flexicap/multicap funds do not have any such lock-in requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article64946344.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:07 IST,||Sindhu ends title jinx in style against Malvika||P. V. Sindhu won the title with expected ease, by doing just enough to end her title drought. Excitement was at a premium on the final day of the $150,000 Syed Modi India International badminton that produced one-sided matches. As expected, World No. 7 Sindhu ended the spectacular run of Malvika Bansod 21-13, 21-16 for her first World Tour title since the 2018 BWF World Tour Finals. The all-France men’s final was a non-starter after Arnaud Merkle tested positive for Covid. Since the other finalist, compatriot Lucas Claerbout was also his roommate, he was also withdrawn from the final for being a primary contact of Merkle. As per the BWF guidelines, the final was declared a ‘No match’. “The finalists will get the ranking points and the prize-money assigned for reaching the final,” as per a technical official. Sindhu, without a BWF title since the world crown in 2019, indeed broke the title-jinx but given the poor quality of field, she will be far from elated. After a spate of withdrawals owing to injuries and Covid positive tests, Sindhu was expected to go all the way and she did. Defensive abilities Against the young, left-handed Malvika, Sindhu was never under any pressure after establishing leads of 7-0 in the first game and 17-8 in the second. At the same time, a lot of credit is due to young Malvika for winning some very fine points, mainly because of her defensive abilities. There were times when Malvika surprised Sindhu with her retrieving abilities and play at the net but overall, the champion was comfortably ahead during the 35-minute final. Assured of the mixed doubles title, India lost the men’s doubles and women’s doubles finals to Malaysia’s lower-ranked pairs.  The results (final, Indians unless stated): Men: Arnaud Merkle (Fra) versus Lucas Claerbout (Fra) - No match.   Doubles: Man Wei Chong & Kai Wun Tee (Mas) bt Krishna Prasad & Vishnuvardhan Goud 21-18, 21-15.   Women: P. V. Sindhu bt Malvika Bansod 21-13, 21-16.   Doubles: Anna Ching Yik Cheong & Teoh Mei Xing (Mas) bt Treesa Jolly & P. Gayatri 21-12, 21-13.    Mixed doubles: Ishan Bhatnagar & Tanisha Crasto bt Nagendra Babu & G. Srivedya 21-16, 21-12 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-ends-title-jinx-in-style-against-malvika/article64946345.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,||South Africa keeps its nerve to win a thriller, completes sweep||India failed to avoid a series whitewash against a South African team in transition despite Deepak Chahar's scintillating 34-ball 54, losing the third ODI by four runs here on Sunday to end a disastrous tour of the Rainbow Nation. Asked to take first strike, South Africa scored 287, thanks to Quinton de Kock's aggressive hundred and Rassie van der Dussen’s fluent half-century. In reply, India was all out for 283 in 49.2 overs after needing just 10 runs in three overs with three wickets in hand. Having taken two wickets with the ball, Chahar blazed away with the bat, smashing five fours and two sixes. In a rush of blood, he went after Lungi Ngidi off the first ball of the 48th over and ended up skiing the ball. Jasprit Bumrah tried to go for glory and hit straight to South Africa captain Demba Bavuma at mid-off off Andile Phehlukwayo before Yuzvendra Chahal fell to Dwaine Pretorius off the second ball of the final over. India made four changes, bringing in Suryakumar Yadav, Jayant Yadav, Deepak Chahar and Prasidh Krishna for Venkatesh Iyer, Shardul Thakur, R. Ashwin and Bhuvneshwar Kumar. Suryakumar batted well before being dismissed for 39 off 32 balls. Opener Shikhar Dhawan struck a 73-ball 61 while Kohli made an 84-ball 65 after skipper K.L. Rahul went cheaply again. Earlier, India rallied to bowl out South Africa under 300 after de Kock and van der Dussen's knocks. De Kock struck 124 off 130 balls and added 144 for the fourth wicket with van der Dussen before India applied the brakes. de Kock’s sixth ODI century against India pulled him level with A.B. de Villiers. David Miller contributed a 38-ball 39 and 287 proved to be just enough.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-keeps-its-nerve-to-win-a-thriller-completes-sweep/article64946279.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,||Shapovalov has Zverev’s number||Rafael Nadal survived an epic 28-minute tie-break to seal his spot in the quarterfinals of the Australian Open and women’s top seed Ashleigh Barty joined him with victory over giant-killer Amanda Anisimova here on Sunday. Nadal will now face Canada’s 14th seed Denis Shapovalov who stunned third seed and Olympic champion Alexander Zverev. Pushed all the way Nadal, who is chasing a men’s record 21st Grand Slam title, was pushed all the way by Adrian Mannarino in an 81-minute first set before breaking the Frenchman’s resolve in a 7-6(14), 6-2, 6-2 victory. The 22-year-old Shapovalov — who caught COVID before the Slam and was not even sure he would play in Melbourne — left Zverev still searching for a first Major title after convincingly beating him 6-3, 7-6(5), 6-3. The German smashed his racquet and afterwards failed to find any positives. “Today, in my opinion, was just awful from my side,” he said. Flashy French 17th seed Gael Monfils warned that “I’m not quite finished yet” after he surged past Miomir Kecmanovic of Serbia to set up an encounter with Italian seventh seed Matteo Berrettini. The 35-year-old Monfils is yet to drop a set in Melbourne. Big-serving Berrettini sent down 28 aces to blow away Spain’s Pablo Carreno Busta in three sets. In the women’s draw, home hope and World No. 1 Barty thrilled the crowd by defeating 60th-ranked Anisimova 6-4, 6-3. The Australian faces another American, Jessica Pegula, in the last eight. The 20-year-old Anisimova beat Olympic champion Belinda Bencic and was fresh from knocking out defending champion Naomi Osaka. But she came up against a Barty who looks in irresistible form as she chases her first Australian Open crown. The 21st-seeded Pegula, who revealed earlier this week she has been relaxing by spending every night at the casino, was a surprise winner over fifth seed Maria Sakkari of Greece. Also into the last eight is French Open champion Barbora Krejcikova, who looks in ominous touch. She blew away former two-time Melbourne champion Victoria Azarenka, who had a neck problem, to set up a meeting with unseeded American Madison Keys. Keys stuns Badosa Fourth seed Krejcikova of the Czech Republic powered through 6-2, 6-2 against the Belarusian, who won the title in 2012 and 2013. Keys raced past Spain’s Paula Badosa, seeded eight, 6-3, 6-1. Keys, who beat 2020 champion Sofia Kenin in the first round, said she had brought a fresh perspective into 2022 after struggling with the COVID-enforced bubble life on tour last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shapovalov-has-zverevs-number-nadal-through/article38316191.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:11 IST,||‘Bat according to the situation’||India women’s ODI captain Mithali Raj downplayed the importance of strike rate, calling on her teammates to bat according to the match situation instead. The veteran batter has faced criticism in recent times for her low strike rate. “I think too much importance is given to strike rate by you all. In the Australia [ODI] series, the decider that Australia won, Beth Mooney scored her 50 in 80-odd balls, but went on to play a match-winning innings for the team (125 n.o. off 133 balls). I believe that cricket is a game played according to the situation on the ground,” Mithali said at a media interaction on Sunday. The Indian team will travel to New Zealand to compete in a bilateral series, which commences with a one-off T20I on February 9. A month later, the side will feature in the Women’s ODI World Cup. “When we have to score 250-270, we need to have a healthy strike rate, but having said that, we will not only entirely focus on strike rate. It’s important to play an innings to win and build partnerships, and that happens not because of strike rate but because you apply and play according to the situation on the ground,” Mithali said. The 39-year-old stated that she is yet to take a call on her future. “Let’s see how things go there (in the World Cup). Right now, my focus is on these two months. I am looking to put all my focus and energy into the NZ series and World Cup,” Mithali said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bat-according-to-the-situation/article64946276.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:09 IST,||East Bengal faces the Hyderabad challenge||Bolstered by the first win of the current Indian Super League season a rejuvenated SC East Bengal will be looking to amass more points when it takes on Hyderabad FC in second phase match at Tilak Maidan Stadium on Monday. Handicapped by the absence of most of its foreign recruits owing to suspension, injury and poor form, the Kolkata giant did well by managing with its committed Indian roster to a good effect. Most of the points that East Bengal earned so far has resulted from the efforts of its domestic players. It was Naorem Mahesh Singh whose two goals fetched East Bengal its first win. New Spanish coach Mario Rivera would be hoping that his team is able to keep the shape and continue the winning momentum. Rivera will have more to choose from with the availability of Croatian winger Antonio Perosevic, who is returning from five-match suspension, and the new Brazilian recruit Marcelo Ribeiro, who replaces the Nigerian forward Chima Chukwu. On the other hand Hyderabad FC has been win-less in the last three games and head coach Manolo Marquez will hope that his team gets the act together to pick up the full points against East Bengal, which is currently lying in the 10th spot with just nine points in its kitty. Despite having lost some points in the last few rounds, Hyderabad is in the fourth spot with 17 points from 11 matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/east-bengal-faces-the-hyderabad-challenge/article38316497.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:06 IST,||COVID-19 outbreak scuttles India’s chances||A COVID-19 outbreak in the team forced host India to withdraw from its second group match of the AFC Women’s Asian Cup against Chinese Taipei on Sunday at the DY Patil stadium. With several members of the team testing positive, India failed to adhere to the AFC guidelines of having a minimum of 13 players — 11 starters and two reserves — to continue a game. “Following several positive cases of COVID-19, India failed to name the required minimum of 13 players for the Group A match against Chinese Taipei. In accordance with Article 4.1 of the ‘Special Rules Applicable to AFC Competitions during the COVID-19 pandemic’ (Special Rules), India was therefore unable to participate in the match and the full provisions of Article 4.1 will apply,” the AFC said in a statement. According to Article 4.1 in the AFC special rules for the competition during pandemic, “If a participating team / participating club has less than 13 participating players (including one goalkeeper) available for a match for any reason (whether or not relating to COVID-19), the relevant participating team / participating club shall not be able to participate in the match. “Such participating team / participating club shall be held responsible for the match not taking place and shall be considered to have withdrawn from the relevant competition. “The relevant participating team / participating club and its affiliated member association shall be subject to the provisions of the relevant Competition regulations regarding the consequences of withdrawal, as applicable.” The matter will now be referred to the relevant AFC Committee(s) in accordance with the applicable regulations. This virtually rules out India’s chances of making the knockouts of the continental championship and also casts a doubt over India’s final group game against China on Wednesday. Even though the match officials and the members of the Chinese Taipei team took the field almost an hour before the scheduled start time and warmed up, there was no sign of the Indian team. All India Football Federation (AIFF) president Praful Patel said, “The team is heartbroken. Unfortunately, this happened to us despite the best measures out in place. It is sheer bad luck.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/covid-19-outbreak-scuttles-indias-chances/article64946352.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,||Would be great if the Indian pacers develop attitude too, says Shoaib||His muscular frame speeding up to the wicket, his hair falling all over the place, and releasing those thunderbolts from hell: it was beastly, yet beautiful to behold. Shoaib Akhtar in full flight was one of cricket’s most exhilarating sights in the decades either side of the millennium. At 46, he is of course no longer the incredibly quick bowler that would get the better of the best batters of the time. Remember those swinging yorkers that cleaned up Rahul Dravid and Sachin Tendulkar, off successive balls, in the Kolkata Test of 1999? The skills are still there; and they were on display in the opening match of the Legends League Cricket. The attitude and the swagger are very much there, too.  “I was born to be a star,” Shoaib tells The Hindu , while talking about the huge popularity of his YouTube channel (it has attracted 31 lakh subscribers within two years of its launch). “I do it for my pleasure (and those videos) become hits. I know I have lots of followers in India and Pakistan. And I am the most loved guy in the sub-continent.”  He says he is delighted that the sub-continent continues to produce quality pace bowlers. And he is mighty impressed with the current crop of Indian quicks. “All the Indian pacers are good; I love Umesh Yadav, I love Jasprit Bumrah,” says Shoaib. “I think Mohammed Shami is great. I feel it would be great if they could develop attitude too, like that of their Pakistani counterparts.” As for his own experience of bowling for Asia Lions against India Maharajas in the opening match of the Legends League Cricket, he says he enjoyed it, though it was painful. He took one for 21 in four overs. “I hurt myself,” he says. “But I loved it.” Going by the crowd’s reaction, they loved it too. (The writer is in Muscat at the invitation of Legends League Cricket)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/would-be-great-if-the-indian-pacers-develop-attitude-too-says-shoaib/article64946282.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:06 IST,||I am here to give all I know and learn too: Wolochin||He has coached stars like Bruno Lima and Martin Ramos who helped Argentina shock defending champion Brazil and win the Tokyo Olympics bronze. Ruben Wolochin has nearly 30 years coaching experience and played lead roles in leagues in Spain, Hungary, Germany, Denmark and Finland. New strategies The Argentine is the only foreign coach in the RuPay Prime Volleyball League, which begins in Hyderabad on February 5, and many feel he could produce new strategies and style and give Hyderabad Black Hawks a huge advantage. But the 51-year-old explained that things don’t go that way.  “I don’t want to say anything about a different style because I’m from the same planet earth like everybody else. Perhaps, due to my profession, I’ve been in contact with different coaches all over the world which allows me to learn a few different things but that doesn’t make me different or special,” said Wolochin in a chat with The Hindu on Sunday.  “The disadvantage is that I don’t know the players, I don’t know the league. The local coaches perhaps have a little less international experience but they know a lot better about players, areas and reactions. I’m here to give all that I know and I’m also here to learn as much as possible to become a better coach.” Points system And he has to settle down to the PVL’s unique 15-point system. “The points system is a new challenge for me. We need to adapt to that in training. I find the super point extremely interesting and the ace which offers two points. These are rules the FIVB should consider to make the game more attractive,” he said. The Indians have impressed him. “I’ve been following Asian volleyball because I’m always looking for players that I can bring to Europe. I’ve been following Indian volleyball too and I’ve seen Tom Joseph (former international, Hyderabad’s assistant coach) at a pre-Olympic tournament and have good memories of the Indian team. “There are a lot of good players, Of course, they need more contact with international volleyball, also to learn new trends. Definitely, the players are very skilful, physically good and tall. They have all what you need to play at a good level.” “Two years ago, I was in contact with five Indian players to bring to Europe. They have the ability to succeed in a higher level but somehow, they were not able to go to Europe.”  There are a lot of good players (in India)... they need more contact with international volleyball to learn new trends||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-am-here-to-give-all-i-know-and-learn-too-wolochin/article64946346.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:06 IST,||Madras Race Club’s annual auction sale on January 27||The Madras Race Club (MRC) is all set to host its annual auction sale later this week. Inclement weather and the pandemic played havoc with the original plans of holding the same over the Pongal weekend and despite everything thrown at it, the club must be complimented for the resilience that it has shown in managing to go ahead with the auction. It couldn’t have been easy, first having to postpone the Derby and other graded races, reworking the race prospectus, and then having to shift the date of the sales as well. But where there’s a will there’s a way, and on the evening of January 27, over 60 two-year-olds (foaled in 2020) will come under the hammer. Exclusive lots One of the highlights of the auction this year will be the fact that the auction catalogue will include 13 ‘exclusive lots’ that have been accommodated in ‘Blue Pages’. These 13 select offerings from some of the leading farms in the country will definitely be the high point in what promises to be a great evening. Breeders from across the country have come forward in wholehearted support of the sale and prospective buyers can check out the two-year-olds at the club when they are rolled out each day in the morning and evening from Monday, January 24. With the Coromandel Gromor South India Derby scheduled for the next day, it promises to be a great Thursday and Friday at the Madras Race Club.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/madras-race-clubs-annual-auction-sale-on-january-27/article38316377.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:08 IST,||Denim and Sonal given top billing||Denim Yadav and Sonal Patil were seeded No. 1 in the boys and girls’ sections respectively in the ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament, to be played at the Indore Tennis Club from Monday. Despite rain, the organisers were able to complete three rounds of the qualifying event over two days and the main draw should be a happy hunting ground for precious ITF points for India’s second string juniors.  The results (third and final qualifying round): Boys: Tarun Korwar bt Sarth Bansode 6-2, 6-4; Arnav Paparkar bt Dreek Saha 6-2, 6-1; Debasis Sahoo bt Fateh Singh 6-4, 6-1; Anshul Satav bt Arjun Abhyankar 6-2, 6-0.   Girls: Maithili Mothe bt Hriti Ahuja 6-1, 4-6, [10-7]; Mrunmayee Joshi bt Rushika Doifode 6-1, 6-2; Harshini Nagaraj bt Anannya Bhatia 6-3, 6-3; Priyanka Rana (USA) bt Kaavya Nayyar 7-6(5), 6-2.   The seedings: Boys: 1. Denim Yadav, 2. Saheb Sodhi, 3. Daksh Agarwal, 4. Vineeth Mutyala, 5. Deep Unim, 6. Akarsh Gaonkar, 7. Kriish Tyagi, 8. Ansh Kundu.   Girls: 1. Sonal Patil, 2. Kashish Bote, 3. Chahana Budhbhatti, 4. Nandini Dixit, 5. Niyati Kukreti, 6. Gauri Mangaonkar, 7. Radhika Mahajan, 8. Milee Chug .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/denim-and-sonal-given-top-billing/article38316496.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:06 IST,||My experience can make a difference: says Chris Walker||England’s Chris Walker, the newly-appointed foreign coach of the Indian senior squash team, strongly feels he can make a difference, thanks to his experience as a top-class singles and doubles player (he was World No. 4 in singles in 1996 and a two-time Commonwealth Games doubles medallist) and as a former coach with the USA men’s team for nearly eight years.  “India is a great talent with wonderful players. They have good experience in singles and doubles. Along with my experience in singles and doubles (1997 World men’s doubles & mixed doubles champion and bronze medals in men’s doubles and mixed doubles in 1998 & 2002 Commonwealth Games respectively), medal opportunities await India in the World doubles championships, CWG and Asian Games,” Walker told The Hindu on Sunday from New York.  Visit in April Walker said he is contemplating visiting Chennai after the World doubles championships (Glasgow, April 5 to 9) to be with the Indian squad for the National camp. “I am really excited. My major task will be to get the players on the same page, get them play their best squash and make them all fired-up for the big events. “And of course, guide them on the technical and tactical parts of their game,” said the 54-year-old, whose contract will end after the 2002 Asian Games in September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/my-experience-can-make-a-difference-says-chris-walker/article64946348.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:06 IST,||van Foreest hands Vidit a first loss||Vidit Gujrathi suffered his first loss while R. Praggnanandhaa surrendered to World champion and new leader Magnus Carlsen in the seventh round of the Masters section of the Tata Steel chess tournament at Wijk aan Zee, near Amsterdam, on Saturday. Joint leader after six rounds, Vidit (4 points) faltered against defending champion Jorden van Foreest in 43 moves to be tied for third spot. Praggnanandhaa (2.5 points), playing his first classical time-format game against Carlsen (5), lost in 34 moves. But the talking point of the day was Daniil Dubov’s decision to give a walkover to Anish Giri after being asked by the organisers to play with his mask on. The Russian maintained that since he had tested negative for COVID before the round, he was not required to wear the mask during play. In the Challengers’ section, leader Arjun Erigaisi (6 points) drew with second seed Rinat Jumabayev (Kazakshtan) in 84 moves to lead the field by a point.  Seventh-round results (Indians unless stated):   Masters: Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 3.5) bt Vidit Gujrathi (4); R. Praggnanandhaa (2.5) lost to Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 5); Richard Rapport (Hun, 4) drew with Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze, 4.5); Anish Giri (Ned, 4) w/o Daniil Dubov (Rus, 2.5); Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 4) drew with Sam Shankland (USA, 3); Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 3) lost to Fabiano Caruana (USA, 3.5); Nils Grandelius (Swe, 2) drew with Sergey Karjakin (Rus, 3.5).   Challengers (involving Indians): Rinat Jumabayev (Kaz, 4.5) drew with Arjun Erigaisi (6); Surya Shekhar Ganguly (4) drew with Volodar Murzin (Rus, 4) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/van-foreest-hands-vidit-a-first-loss/article38316379.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:06 IST,||West Indies thrashes England||Jason Holder did the bulk of the damage as England’s latest batting collapse paved the way for West Indies’ nine-wicket win in the first T20Il here on Saturday. Towering paceman Holder twice struck off successive deliveries on his Kensington Oval home ground during a format-best return of four for seven as England was dismissed for just 103. West Indies then cruised to the target with 17 balls to spare, opener Brandon King finishing on 52 not out as the hosts went 1-0 up in this five-match series. It was heartening result for the West Indies, fresh from a 2-1 One-Day International series loss at home to Ireland. After Sheldon Cottrell removed opener Jason Roy, who made a hundred in England’s lone warm-up match, fellow paceman Holder struck twice off consecutive balls to dismiss Tom Banton and Moeen Ali. Holder ensured England was bowled out in 19.4 overs as he removed Saqib Mahmood and Adil Rashid off successive deliveries. England went past its record low T20 total of 80 thanks mainly to an eighth-wicket stand of 36 between Chris Jordan (28) and Rashid (22).  The scores:   England 103 in 19.4 overs (Chri Jordan 28; Jason Holder 4/7) lost to West Indies 104/1 in 17.1 overs (Brandon King 52 n.o., Nichola Pooran 27 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-indies-thrashes-england/article64946351.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:57 IST,||Ashok Kumar is now head coach at Chandra TT Academy||M.S. Ashok Kumar has officially taken charge of SDAT-Chandra TT Academy situated at Mogappair here. The 54-year-old will be the managing trustee and head coach of the academy. After the demise of V. Chandrasekar, a former International table tennis star and director of the academy, in May 2021, a lot of paperwork had to be done. Now with nearly all the important works completed, Ashok, an engineer by qualification and elder brother of M.S. Mythili, a two-time National women’s singles champion, is looking forward to guiding his wards and making them perform at National and International level. Ashok, a former Indian team coach, said he is expecting to renew the lease agreement with the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT), which expired at the time of Chandra’s death. “With the blessings of Mrs. Mala Chandrasekhar, wife of late Chandrasekar, I have taken charge. We are looking forward to renew the lease agreement with SDAT. Once that is done, we will start approaching sponsors,” said Ashok, who assisted Chandra in coaching for 17 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashok-kumar-is-now-head-coach-at-chandra-tt-academy/article64946609.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,||BFC-Goa in 1-1 deadlock||Bengaluru FC and FC Goa were involved in a 1-1 draw in their return leg match of the Indian Super League at Bambolim on Sunday. Goa went ahead late in the opening half through Dylan Fox before Sunil Chhetri helped Bengaluru pull level midway through the second period. The first session was entertaining as BFC pinned Goa to its own half for a major part. However, it couldn’t utilise its chances and it was Goa which went ahead in the 41st minute when Fox nodded home. Off a corner, Jorge Ortiz played the ball to Alberto Noguera who sent it back to the former who was unmarked on the left. Ortiz, one of the most skilful players in the Goa ranks, sent a superb cross to Fox who made no mistake. BFC returned with more purpose after the break, launching a flurry of attacks. The Goa defence held firm till the hour-mark before BFC skipper Chhetri breached the defence. The goal ended a 11-match barren run for the India captain and took him to the top of the ISL goal-scoring chart with 48, the same as Ferran Corominas, former Spanish striker of Goa. Congolese forward Prince Ibara played a part in BFC’s goal, sending an accurate cross to Chhetri positioned on top of the box. The India skipper’s powerful header gave Goa goalkeeper Dheeraj Singh no chance.  The results: BFC 1 (Chhetri 61) drew with FC Goa 1 (Fox 41); ATK MB 0 drew with Odisha 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-goa-in-1-1-deadlock/article38316193.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 04:59 IST,||Theon lives up to his billing in Indian St. Leger||Trainer Pesi Shroff’s Theon (P.S. Chouhan astride) won the Villoo C. Poonawalla Indian St. Leger (Gr. 1), the classic attraction of Sunday’s (Jan. 23) races here. The winner is owned by Miss. Ameeta Mehra & Mrs. Liane M. Luthria. Jockey P. Trevor hogged the limelight by riding four winners on the day. 1. PLAY.RWITC.COM PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: RODRIGO (Trevor) 1, Brilliant Light (Shealr) 2, Chastity (Aniket) 3 and Fortune Cookie (Ayyar) 4. 5-1/4, Lnk and 2. 1m, 11.60s. Rs. 16 (w), 12, 68 and 28 (p). SHP: 323, FP: 570, Q: 501, Tanala: 4,259 and 2,434. Favourite: Rodrigo. Owners: Mr. Cyrus S. Poonawalla, Mr. Adar C. Poonawalla & Mrs. Natasha A. Poonawalla rep. Villoo C. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd, M/s. Saleem Fazelbhoy, Munchi P. Shroff & Dinsha P. Shroff. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  2. NOBLE PRINCE PLATE (2,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: KEY TO THE MINT (Trevor) 1, Irrepressible (Neeraj) 2, Power Of Thor (Kaviraj) 3 and Brazos (Parmar) 4. Not run: Princess Of Naples. 3/4, 3-1/2 and Sh. 2m, 4.03s. Rs. 36 (w), 13, 13 and 23 (p). SHP: 49, FP: 174, Q: 63, Tanala: 543 and 427. Owners: Mr. Cyrus S. Poonawalla, Mr. Adar C. Poonawalla & Mrs. Natasha A. Poonawalla rep. Villoo Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Saleem Fazelbhoy, Solomon F. Sopher, Kairus Dadachanji & Hoshang J. Nazir. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  Note: Dalasan (M. Ayyar up) refused to raise a gallop after the start and did not participate  3. Y.M. CHAUDHRY MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: JOAQUIN (Zeeshan) 1, Sharareh (Peter) 2, Aegon (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Hidden Gold (P. Vinod) 4. 3-1/2, 1 and 3. 58.36s. Rs. 13 (w), 10 and 19 (p). SHP: 51, FP: 53, Q: 241, Tanala: 126 and 30. Favourite: Joaquin. Owners: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Ashish Kiran Kapadia. Trainer: Shazaan Shah.  4. JEHANGIR P. DUBASH TROPHY (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: EVANGELINE (Zervan) 1, Winter Storm (Peter) 2, Dreams (Parmar) 3 and On Va Danser (Kaviraj) 4. 4-1/4, 1-1/2 and 1. 1m, 25.01s. Rs. 21 (w), 15, 15 and 15 (p). SHP: 57, FP: 170, Q: 75, Tanala: 314 and 107. Favourite: Evangeline. Owner: Mr. Balam Mohla. Trainer: Vishal Gaikwad.  5. CHANGE OF LUCK PLATE (1,000m) (Terms), 3-y-o only: DIVINE THOUGHTS (Trevor) 1, Brave Beauty (Zervan) 2, Balenciaga (Sandesh) 3 and Flashing Famous (Bhawani) 4. 3-1/2, 1-1/4 and 3/4. 59.19s. Rs. 20 (w), 12 and 38 (p). SHP: 42, FP: 208, Q: 125, Tanala: 296 and 81. Favourite: Balenciaga. Owners: Mr. Ashok Ranpise, Mr. Prakash Babu, M/s. Kishore M. Dingra, Vhishwajeet Sood & Altaf Hussain. Trainer: Altaf Hussain.  6. SONNY BRAR TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: THE BAWAJI (Neeraj) 1, Mandeville (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Treasure Gold (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Sun Gold (Kirtish) 4. 3/4, 3/4 and 1. 2m, 05.18s. Rs. 35 (w), 18, 14 and 27 (p). SHP: 49, FP: 131, Q: 172, Tanala: 1,520 and 724. Favourite: Flaming Lamborgini. Owners: Equs Racing (PF) & Mr. Berjis Minoo Desai. Trainer: P. Shroff.  7. VILLOO C. POONAWALLA INDIAN ST. LEGER (Gr. 1) (2,800m), (Terms) 5-y-o only: THEON (Multidimensional-Fontainebleau) (P.S. Chouhan) 1 , LAGARDE (Kingda Ka-La Terrasse) (Trevor) 2, APSARA STAR (Win Legend-Actuate) (S.A. Gray) 3 and MARLBORO MAN (Royal Gladiator-Moneypenny) (T.S. Jodha) 4. 5-1/4, 13-1/4 and 18-1/4. 2m, 59.19s. Rs. 15 (w), 10 and 10 (p). SHP: 18, FP: 18, Q: 11, Tanala: 15 and 17. Favourite: Theon. Owners: Miss. Ameeta Mehra & Mrs. Liane M. Luthria. Trainer: P. Shroff.  8. JEHANGIR P. DUBASH TROPHY (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: RAMBLER (Kaviraj) 1, Ron (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Fleur De Lys (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Chancellor (Sandesh) 4. 4-3/4, 4-1/2 and 2-3/4. 1m, 23.68s. Rs. 23 (w), 13, 23 and 36 (p). SHP: 74, FP: 220, Q: 256, Tanala: 2,682 & 2,011. Favourite: Rambler. Owner: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Shazaan Shah.  9. PLAY.RWITC.COM PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: EXCLUSIVE (Trevor) 1, Remy Red (Dashrath) 2, Myrcella (Kaviraj) 3 and Royal Crown (Aniket) 4. 3/4, 2-1/2 and 1-3/4. 1m, 11.99s. Rs. 19 (w), 14, 16 and 15 (p). SHP: 36, FP: 59, Q: 36, Tanala: 77 and 42. Favourite: Exclusive.  Owners: Mr. Cyrus S. Poonawalla, Mr. Adar C. Poonawalla & Mrs. Natasha A. Poonawalla rep. Villoo Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Saleem Fazelbhoy, Dinsha P. Shroff & Munchi P. Shroff. Trainer: Altaf Hussain. Jackpot: (i) 70%: Rs. 3,068 (8 tkts.) & 30%: 178 (59 tkts.); (ii) 70%: 2,035 (82 tkts.) & 30%: 421 (170 tkts.). Treble: (i) 258 (37 tkts.), (ii) 258 (44 tkts.), (iii) 160 (95 tkts.). Super Jackpot: 70%: 1,982 (11 tkts.), 30%: 467 (20 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/theon-lives-up-to-his-billing-in-indian-st-leger/article64946519.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:59 IST,||State units against Ranji cancellation||Multiple member associations have informally reached out to Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) office-bearers as a possible pressure tactic against cancelling the Ranji Trophy.  Ever since The Hindu reported on January 20 that the BCCI was set to cancel the Ranji Trophy for the second successive season, dozens of domestic cricketers have reached out to their associations asking them to take a stand against the decision.  As a result, more than a dozen State association officials have been on the phone with the BCCI hierarchy seeking clarity on the issue. So far, no association has formally written to the BCCI. A couple of major State units are likely to do so in the next couple of days, it is learnt. None of the associations were, however, willing to speak on record. “What most of us feel is that none of the BCCI office-bearers is willing to commit on hosting the tournament. It’s the most important tournament in Indian domestic cricket, but so far I doubt if they have thought of any concrete alternative,” a State association secretary said. Priority for IPL “It’s sad, but all that the BCCI seems to be focused on is the IPL. While there have been four IPLs, including a split edition in two countries, in 18 months, no one seems to be bothered about the Ranji Trophy,” said a veteran domestic cricketer. “Not only will our careers be over but even our households will continue to suffer with the Ranji not happening for two years in a row,” he lamented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-units-against-ranji-cancellation/article38316342.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:11 IST,||‘Series an eye-opener’||India head coach Rahul Dravid termed the 0-3 loss in the ODI series an “eye-opener.” “This series has certainly been an eye-opener for us. I think it's going to be a good opportunity for us to reflect and learn, and look to keep improving and getting better. We will get better and we will improve... no doubt about it,” said Dravid. He identified the middle overs as an area that needed to be worked with, both in batting and bowling. “We could do better with the batting in the middle overs. I think some of the guys who help us balance the squad and give us those all-round options at six seven and eight are not here. Hopefully, when they come back, it will give us a little more depth and allow us to play in a slightly different style,” said Dravid. About the poor performance by the spinners, he said: “Without just singling out the spinners, we need to improve our wicket-taking options in the middle overs. The spinners play a big role in that, but so can the quicks. We do understand that it is an area where we have been behind a little bit. “We need to keep getting better and get the personnel that we are probably lacking to be able to do it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/series-an-eye-opener/article38316354.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:11 IST,||Chelsea stays in the hunt||Chelsea kept alive its remote Premier League title chances with a 2-0 win over London rival Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday, set on its way by an exquisite strike from Hakim Ziyech which was quickly followed up by a Thiago Silva header. In LaLiga, Real Madrid needed a stoppage-time goal by Eder Militao to salvage a 2-2 draw against Elche. On Saturday, Atletico Madrid dramatically defeated Valencia 3-2 after overcoming a two-goal deficit.  The results: Premier League: Arsenal 0 drew with Burnley 0; Crystal Palace 1 (Edouard 55) lost to Liverpool 3 (Van Dijk 8, Oxlade-Chamberlain 32, Fabinho 89-pen); Leicester 1 (Daka 46) drew with Brighton 1 (Welbeck 82); Chelsea 2 (Ziyech 47, Silva 55) bt Tottenham 0.   LaLiga: Real Madrid 2 (Modric 82-pen, Militao 90+2) drew with Elche 2 (Boye 42, Milla 76).   Serie A: Napoli 4 (Juna Jesus 17, Mertens 45+4-pen, Rahmani 47, Insigne 53-pen) bt Salernitana 1 (Bonazzoli 33).   On Saturday:   LaLiga: Sevilla 2 (Gomez 71, Torres 74) drew with Celta Vigo 2 (Cervi 37, Aspas 40); Atletico Madrid 3 (Cunha 64, Correa 90, Hermoso 90+3) bt Valencia 2 (Musah 24, Duro Perales 44).   Serie A: Inter Milan 2 (Barella 40, Dzeko 90) bt Venezia 1 (Henry 19); Lazio 0 drew with Atalanta 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/man-city-salvages-draw/article38316198.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:06 IST,||Sensibility for Godolphin Barb Million||The bottom-weighted Sensibility, who ran close second in her last start to Ballerina, should make amends in the Godolphin Barb Million, the feature event of Monday’s (Jan. 24) races here. BRAVE HUNTER PLATE (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 12.40 p.m: 1. AYR (9) Kuldeep Singh 56, 2. Canterbury (2) Md. Ismail 56, 3. Desert Sultan (3) B.R. Kumar 56, 4. Fast Track (6) Kiran Naidu 56, 5. The Akhanda (4) Ashad Asbar 56, 6. True Icon (1) B. Nikhil 56, 7. Black Opal (8) G. Naresh 54.5, 8. Crimson Rose (5) Akshay Kumar 54.5 and 9. This Is Me (7) Mukesh Kumar 54.5.  1. AYR, 2. CRIMSON ROSE, 3. BLACK OPAL AGOSTINI PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 1.15: 1. DRD (7) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Rapid Fire (3) Surya Prakash 60, 3. Curcumin (8) Mukesh Kumar 58.5, 4. Sandown Park (2) Santosh Raj 58, 5. Dharasana (10) N.B. Kuldeep 57.5, 6. Appenzelle (6) A.A. Vikrant 56.5, 7. Sacred Lamp (9) Abhay Singh 55, 8. N R I Heights (1) Rafique Sk. 54, 9. Sea Wolf (4) B. Nikhil 51 and 10. Loch Stella (5) Nakhat Singh 50.5.  1. DRD, 2. SACRED LAMP, 3. APPENZELLE AGOSTINI PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 1.50: 1. Apollo (5) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Mind Reader (1) R.S. Jodha 60, 3. Lockhart (7) Nakhat Singh 59, 4. City Of Blossom (11) Mukesh Kumar 57.5, 5. Royal Grace (8) Afroz Khan 57.5, 6. Multimoment (4) R. Ajinkya 56.5, 7. Nearest (9) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 8. Flamingo Fame (10) Santosh Raj 54.5, 9. Thunder Road (3) Akshay Kumar 52.5, 10. Aibak (2) B.R. Kumar 51.5 and 11. Dead Centre (6) Khurshad Alam 51.  1. MIND READER, 2. FLAMINGO FAME, 3. MULTIMOMENT AGOSTINI PLATE (Div. III) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.25: 1. Max (5) N.B. Kuldeep 60, 2. N R I Magic (9) Mukesh Kumar 59.5, 3. Once More (8) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 4. Monarchos (2) S.J. Sunil 57, 5. Star Dancer (10) Santosh Raj 57, 6. Hashtag (3) Gaurav Singh 55.5, 7. Top In Class (1) Akshay Kumar 55, 8. Golden Forza (6) Surya Prakash 53.5, 9. California Beauty (7) B.R. Kumar 51 and 10. Ayur Tej (4) Afroz Khan 50.5.  1. HASHTAG, 2. TOP IN CLASS, 3. MONARCHOS 1 EME CENTRE ROLLING TROPHY (2,000m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 60 to 85, 3.00: 1. Premier Action (4) Kiran Naidu 61, 2. Scramjet (5) T.S. Jodha 56, 3. Ashwa Yashobali (7) Gaurav Singh 55, 4. Kesariya Balam (2) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 5. Skipton (1) Santosh Raj 54, 6. Staridar (6) Abhay Singh 52.5 and 7. Summer Night (3) Ajeeth Kumar 50.  1. KESARIYA BALAM, 2. SCRAMJET, 3. SUMMER NIGHT ASTONISH PLATE (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 3.35: 1. Maximum Glamour (2) A.A. Vikrant 60, 2. Lamha (11) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 3. Just Incredible (3) B.R. Kumar 56, 4. In Contention (5) R. Ajinkya 55.5, 5. Miss Marvellous (10) N.B. Kuldeep 55, 6. Moringa (8) Surya Prakash 55, 7. November Rain (4) Mukesh Kumar 55, 8. Mark My Word (9) P. Gaddam 54, 9. Super Angel (1) B. Nikhil 54, 10. Bandit King (6) Santosh Raj 53.5 and 11. Committed Warrior (7) Md. Ismail 53.  1. MAXIMUM GLAMOUR, 2. IN CONTENTION, 3. LAMHA GODOLPHIN BARB MILLION (1,400m) (Terms), 3-y-o only, 4.10: 1. Essential (3) Mukesh Kumar 56, 2. London Bell (2) Nakhat Singh 52, 3. Soorya Vahan (4) T.S. Jodha 52, 4. Survivor (6) Kuldeep Singh 52, 5. Arabian Queen (1) Akshay Kumar 50.5, 6. Ella Eldingar (7) B.R. Kumar 50.5 and 7. Sensibility (5) Ajeeth Kumar 50.5.  1. SENSIBILITY, 2. ESSENTIAL, 3. SURVIVOR .  MOUNT EVEREST PLATE (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.45: 1. Angelita (5) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 2. N R I Touch (1) Akshay Kumar 58.5, 3. Cosmico (9) Kuldeep Singh 57.5, 4. Paladino (7) Afroz Khan 56, 5. Furious Fun (4) Kiran Naidu 55, 6. Sheldon (11) Rafique Sk. 53, 7. Its On (12) T.S. Jodha 52.5, 8. Exotic Dancer (10) G. Naresh 52, 9. Moderator (6) Nakhat Singh 52, 10. Coming Home (8) Rupal Singh 51, 11. Royal Support (3) B. Nikhil 51, 12. Smolensk (2) Santosh Raj 51 and 13. Theo’s Choice (13) Gaurav Singh 51.  1. ANGELITA, 2. N R I TOUCH, 3. EXOTIC DANCER  Day’s Best: KESARIYA BALAM Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8; Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 3, 4 & 5. (iii) 6, 7 & 8; Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sensibility-for-godolphin-barb-million/article38316373.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,||Shubhankar sizzles, finishes T2||Shubhankar Sharma produced an impressive show in a star-studded field but came up one stroke short of what would have been the biggest victory of his career at the Abu Dhabi championship on Sunday. The Indian finished tied second, along with Spaniard Rafa Cabrera-Bello, with a nine-under after starting the day tied fourth. Belgian Thomas Pieters kept his nerve to win the title. “I am very happy with the way I played today and I am delighted with my finish,” said Shubhankar. “This gives me a lot of confidence going forward in the season. Some of the top players in the world were here this week, and I know I can compete with them.” Four-time Major winner Rory McIlroy finished T12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shubhankar-sizzles-finishes-t2/article38316353.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:06 IST,||Sports anthem to be released today||A sports anthem featuring 18 achievers from the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics will be launched on Monday, the 72nd anniversary of the adoption of Jana Gana Mana as the National Anthem.   Five Olympic medallists — javelin star Neeraj Chopra, wrestler Ravi Dahiya, weightlifter Mirabai Chanu, boxer Lovlina Borgohain, and hockey star P.R. Sreejesh — would be the main attraction of the video titled Mann me hai maidan (Playground is in the heart).  They will be joined by 13 top Paralympians including Tokyo gold medallists Sumit Antil, Manish Narwal, Pramod Bhagat and Devendra Jhajharia. Planning, exeecution The anthem has been planned and executed by the Indian Institute of Sports Management (IISS), an institution founded by former India cricketer Nilesh Kulkarni and his wife Rasika. IISM, which was conferred with the Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puraskar by the Government of India in 2020, had earlier conceptualised a video of the National Anthem featuring top sportspersons including Sunil Gavaskar, Sania Mirza, Gagan Narang, Dhanraj Pillay, Bhaichung Bhutia and Sachin Tendulkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sports-anthem-to-be-released-today/article38316370.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:11 IST,||Steelers edge out Yoddha||Haryana Steelers registered a thrilling 36-35 victory over UP Yoddha in a ProKabaddi League Season 8 match here on Sunday. Vinay scored a bonus point in the last few seconds to clinch it for Steelers. In the 36th minute, Yoddha inflicted an All Out, but Steelers still led 32-31. Three minutes later, Yoddha came up with a Super Raid and levelled the score at 35 before Vinay stepped in. Bengaluru Bulls then defeated Telugu Titans 36-31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/steelers-edge-out-yoddha/article38316341.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:10 IST,||Japan shock for India||Defending champion India was stunned 0-2 by reigning Asian Games gold medallist Japan in its second Pool A match of the women’s Asia Cup hockey tournament on Sunday. Japan scored through Naga Yuri (second minute) and Saki Tanaka (42nd). Yuri took full advantage of a sloppy Indian defence to slam home from the top of the circle. Stung by the reverse, the Indians attacked in numbers and got two penalty corners. However, both were wasted. Japan’s tight defence ensured that India, despite creating numerous chances, couldn’t break through. Though India dominated the proceedings in the second period too, it was Japan which doubled the lead through Tanaka. India will play Singapore in its final pool match on Monday.  The result: Japan 2 (Yuri 2, Tanaka 42) bt India 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/japan-shock-for-india/article38316352.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 06:06 IST,||Rizwan and Beaumont are ICC T20 Cricketers of the Year||Pakistan wicketkeeper-batter Mohammad Rizwan and England’s Tammy Beaumont were on Sunday named the ICC men’s and women’s T20 Player of the Year respectively, following a prolific run in 2021. Rizwan ruled the roost in 2021 when it came to the shortest format in the men’s game, while Beaumont finished the year as the third-highest run-getter in women’s T20Is. Aggregating a staggering 1,326 runs in only 29 matches, Rizwan struck at an average of 73.66. South Africa opener Janneman Malan and Pakistan pacer Fatima Sana were named the Emerging Cricketers of the Year 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rizwan-and-beaumont-are-icc-t20-cricketers-of-the-year/article38316376.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:45 IST,||Mary heads to Manipur for training||Wary of the COVID-19 threat and the relentless cold weather in Delhi due to which “sunshine has become a novelty”, six-time world champion M.C. Mary Kom has made her home state Manipur her training base for the coming few weeks as she gears up for a busy season ahead. The 38-year-old, who is the most decorated Indian boxer with multiple Asian gold medals and an Olympic bronze medal in 2012 to her credit, is gearing up for the World Championships (May), the Commonwealth Games (July-August) and the Asian Games (September) this year.  "Yes I have begun training in Manipur a couple of days back after taking due permission from the Boxing Federation of India and the Sports Authority of India because COVID cases in Delhi are very high right now and also it is very, very cold," Mary Kom told PTI from Imphal.  and I remember how terrifying it was in 2020. So, I am thankful to the national federation, the SAI and TOPS committee for being considerate," she added. "I expect to be in Manipur for the next two-three weeks." Mary Kom, who competes in 51kg at multi-sports competition and prefers to be in 48kg for World Championships, has been joined by her coach Chhote Lal Yadav along with her support staff in Imphal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mary-heads-to-manipur-for-training/article38316691.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:59 IST,||India crushes Uganda||Angkrish Raghuvanshi and Raj Bawa smashed centuries as four-time champion India recorded a thumping 326-run win over Uganda to top Group B in the Under-19 World Cup here on Saturday. The victory was India’s largest win in tournament history. Bangladesh beat the UAE by nine wickets to enter the quarterfinals, while Pakistan beat Papua New Guinea by nine wickets and Afghanistan beat Zimbabwe by 109 runs.  The scores: India 405/5 in 50 overs (Angkrish Raghuvanshi 144, Raj Bawa 162 n.o.; Pascal Murungi 3/72) bt Uganda 79 in 19.4 overs (Pascal Murungi 34; Nishant Sindhu 4/19).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-crushes-uganda/article38316344.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:55 IST,||Sakthivel stars in YMCA CA’s win||S. Sakthivel’s unbeaten 121 was the highlight of YMCA CA’s nine-wicket win over VB CA in the final of the YMCA Madurai under-16 inter-academy tournament (boys and girls), organised by Future Cricketers Academy, here on Saturday.  The scores: VB 207/7 in 50 overs (R.R. Vishal 73, Pranav Ramachandran 46, Kiruthick Aadhavan 42) lost to YMCA 208/1 in 43 overs (S. Sakthivel 121 n.o., S. Bhavan Harish 62 n.o.).   Special awards: Best batter: B. Jason Alfred (MKUC); Best bowler: K. Naga Eswar (YMCA); Player-of-the-final: S. Sakthivel (YMCA); Player-of-the-tournament: G. Dominic Kishor (YMCA) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sakthivel-stars-in-ymca-cas-win/article64946407.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 12:05 IST,||Profound and simple||Tirumoolar is so versatile that he has put across the esoteric and metaphysical concepts of Siddhanta and Vedanta in the most comprehensive manner. He has explained the whole gamut of the agamas, the purana stories, mantra, tantra and yantra sastras, yoga sastra, the types of Saivism, the paths of sariyai, kiriyai, yoga and jnana, and so on. No doubt his work is formidable in terms of volume and depth of philosophical import, and hence more of academic appeal to those pursuing theology or sastra study. But his greater specialty is that he presents the essence of God realisation in a most practicable and applicable format through many apparently simple quotes, pointed out Sri C. Balu in a discourse. He has very clearly conveyed in his hymns the significance of God's experience as far higher than all other worldly experiences which are fleeting. The Supreme Lord Siva is pure who abides eternally in the soul dear to Him which pays obeisance to Him. He is peerless and there is none to equal His glory. The immortal phrase ‘Anbe Sivam’ asserts that God and Love are not different. He is the essence of compassion, mercy and love. In the stanza of a mere four lines, ‘yavarukku mam,’ Tirumoolar has expressed that man’s primary duty in this world is to be considerate to all beings. He shows how simple acts of dharma are to be practised in daily life by all. God can be worshiped easily with a bilva leaf, and one can give a mouthful of grass to the cow, a handful of grains to the birds, and give food to the hungry. If these are not possible, one is advised to speak sweet words and not hurt others. Through yet another simple slogan ‘Onre Kulam, Oruvane Deivam,’ he declares unambiguously that the ultimate God is one; all beings in this entire creation belong to Him as one family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/profound-and-simple/article38316168.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:31 IST,||3. Suez Canal crisis||MARCH: On March 23, 2021, a mega container ship Ever Given got stuck diagonally across the narrow Suez Canal in Egypt amid high winds, blocking trade for six days. The stranded 400-metre-long and 200,000-tonne cargo ship led to the hold up of trade worth $9.6 billion, affecting countless businesses and supply chains globally. Over 300 ships carrying tonnes of cargo got stranded on either side of the canal, which connects the Mediterranean Sea to the Red Sea and provides the shortest sea link between Asia and Europe. According to reports, about 15% of global trade passes through the canal. Ever Given, operated by Taiwanese transport company Evergreen Marine, was finally freed on March 29 with the help of over a dozen tugboats. The 25-member crew on board the ship were all Indians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/3-suez-canal-crisis/article64946644.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:31 IST,||4. The Taliban takeover||AUGUST: On August 15, the Taliban captured Kabul, capital of Afghanistan, soon after President Ashraf Ghani had fled the country for the UAE. The Islamic fundamentalist group seized power in Afghanistan just weeks before U.S. troops were set to exit the country. Afghanistan was under the Taliban control from 1996 to 2001, before the latter was driven out by U.S. troops as part of its campaign against terrorism following the 9/11 attacks. In 2020, former U.S. President Donald Trump had agreed to a deal with the Taliban to withdraw U.S. troops from Afghanistan by May 1, 2021, and stuck to the pact by gradually reducing the troop levels. Meanwhile, many regions came under attack by the Taliban. Though new President Joe Biden delayed that deadline, he eventually ordered the complete withdrawal of U.S. soldiers from the country by August 31. Ever since gaining power, the Taliban has re-imposed various restrictions on women such as barring them from most jobs and prohibiting them from travelling without a male escort. Fearing repression by the Taliban, thousands of Afghans surged near the Kabul airport to flee the country. On August 30, the U.S. withdrew its last remaining troops from Kabul, ending 20 years of operations in Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/4-the-taliban-takeover/article64946643.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:31 IST,||8. Newest republic||NOVEMBER: Barbados finallybecame free on November 30, 2021, when Queen Elizabeth II was removed as its head of state, marking the end of monarchy on the Caribbean island nation. Barbados remained a British colony for nearly four centuries ever since the English ships arrived at the Caribbean in 1625. Barbados gained independence from the United Kingdom in November 1966, centuries after the English settlers turned the island into a wealthy sugar colony thanks to the hard work of thousands of African slaves. Since independence, the country has tried to revive its economy by moving away from agriculture to tourism and industry. The country of nearly 3 lakh people celebrated its 55th Independence Day on November 30, and Sandra Mason, 72, lawyer, diplomat and the last governor-general, was sworn in as the new republic's first president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/8-newest-republic/article38316094.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:31 IST,||9. End of the Merkel era||DECEMBER: The Angela Merkel era in Germany came to an end in December 2021. A familiar face, the 67-year-old Merkel served as the Chancellor of Germany for 16 years from 2005. One of the longest-serving heads of government in the EU, Merkel bid goodbye to politics after a fond send-off from colleagues. Her era saw Germany emerge as the fourth-largest economy, next only to Japan, China and the U.S. Her popularity soared during the pandemic, making her the country's best-liked politician. Merkel endeared herself to many across the world with her sheer optimism, when she opened the country’s doors to migrants during the Syrian refugee crisis. After serving four terms, she refused to seek a fifth term as Chancellor in the 2021 federal election, paving the way for Olaf Scholz to become Germany's new chancellor. On December 8, she officially handed over the reins to Scholz who took oath in the Bundestag (the German federal parliament).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/9-end-of-the-merkel-era/article64946638.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:31 IST,||2. Myanmar coup||FEBRUARY: To the horror of the world, Myanmar’s powerful military on the morning of February 1 ousted the democratically elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi from power in a swift coup d'etat (a sudden, violent seizure of power from an existing government) and took control of the Southeast Asian country. The chief of the military junta General Min Aung Hlaing announced a year-long emergency before declaring himself the prime minister of the country. Several members of the ruling party, including Suu Kyi, were detained by the junta which sparked protests across the country, resulting in the deaths of over 1,000 people. Suu Kyi was later sentenced to a two-year term of detention in an undisclosed location. (Early this year, the ousted leader was sentenced to four more years in prison.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/2-myanmar-coup/article64946645.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:31 IST,||5. The AUKUS deal||SEPTEMBER: A trilateral security partnership called AUKUS was formed on September 15, to counter the influence of China in the Indo-Pacific region. Under the deal, jointly announced by U.S. President Joe Biden, U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, the U.S. and the U.K. pledged to help Australia acquire nuclear-powered submarines for deployment in the region. A nuclear-powered submarine enables a navy to reach far out into the ocean and launch attacks. The deal upset China, which is getting increasingly aggressive in the Pacific region, especially in and around the South China Sea. In this context, it is significant to note that the U.S., Australia, India and Japan are also members of a strategic security dialogue known as “the Quad."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/5-the-aukus-deal/article64946642.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:31 IST,||6. 100th PM of Japan||OCTOBER: Fumio Kishida, former Japanese Foreign Minister, was elected as the nation's 100th prime minister on October 4. The 64 year old succeeded Yoshihide Suga, who was criticised for his inept handling of the pandemic. Suga after being just a year in office refused to run for the leadership, thereby paving the way for Kishida to head the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). In the Japanese general election held on October 31, Kishida and the LDP along with its coalition partner Komeito, retained a majority government. Kishida has vowed to combat the spread of COVID-19, reduce the income gap worsened by the pandemic, cut emissions, promote science and innovation, and create a stronger Self-Defense Force to protect the country amid growing threats from China and North Korea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/6-100th-pm-of-japan/article64946641.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:31 IST,||7. COP26 meet||OCTOBER-NOVEMBER: COP26 was the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties, which took place in Glasgow, Scotland, from October 31 to November 12. Leaders from across the world came together and deliberated upon several issues, with setting an emission target for each country remaining the prominent topic. The summit called for a phasing down of coal-based power generation. It targeted global warming not to exceed 1.5 degrees C and got about 140 countries to announce target dates for bringing down emissions to net zero. India announced its net zero target by 2070 (net zero is a state in which a country’s emissions are compensated by absorption and removal of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere) and also urged developed countries to deliver on their promise of climate financing. With the U.S. having rejoined the Paris Deal in 2021, it unveiled a surprise climate pact with China to accelerate climate action this decade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/7-cop26-meet/article64946640.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:31 IST,||1. Joe Biden sworn in||JANUARY: Seventy-nine-year-old Joe Biden was inaugurated as the 46th President of the United States of America on January 20 at a swearing-in ceremony at Capitol Hill, Washington DC, following his victory in the 2020 presidential election over Republican incumbent Donald Trump. A Democrat who earlier served as the Vice-President under Barack Obama, Biden was sworn in as the President by Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts. On the same day, Kamala Harris, the first woman and the first Asian American Vice-President, was inaugurated. The ceremony included performances by Lady Gaga and Jennifer Lopez. Upon assuming office, Biden brought the U.S. back into the fold of the Paris Climate Accord and the World Health Organisation, and suspended construction of the U.S.-Mexico border wall. Earlier on January 6, a furious mob of Donald Trump supporters stormed Capitol Hill, hoping to block Congress’ certification of Biden's win and overturn the mandate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/1-joe-biden-sworn-in/article64946646.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:48 IST,||Rethinking online education||Why have we been mostly unsuccessful in helping children meet learning outcomes? A common theory is that it is due to a lack of money. If we offer more money and attract more talented people to teaching, will we be done? While some countries like India don’t spend enough on education, even big spenders do not see meaningful improvements. The real reason education fails in its purpose is that education practice today is not based on cognitive research. Over the past decades, learning science has taught us about how the brain learns. What teachers think causes learning and what students feel causes learning often is not true. Our education practice is not learning science-based; it still relies on obsolete practices such as lectures to “transmit” information and a carrot-and-stick policy to motivate children. Trying to improve education without addressing this root problem means that we are investing in scaling an architecture that is fundamentally wrong and therefore creating even more inertia to moving towards a learning science-based education model. Impact on education Here are three ways in which learning science can impact education. Spiralling curriculum: Today’s curricula are mostly linear like checklists. Each topic is done and then we move to the next. When exams come, students don’t remember important ideas because they’ve been done just once. But learning science shows that, when we revisit important ideas multiple times, children understand and remember them much better. This is called spiralling curriculum and implements “spaced repetition” of key ideas. By using technology to redesign the curriculum, we can now integrate more such models quickly and track their impact.  Mastery learning model: Today, we budget a fixed amount of time for a topic and move on to the next, whether learning has been accomplished or not. This is a timetable-based approach. But the reality is that students will have gaps in their understanding that accumulate and lead to loss of interest in later classes as they move to more advanced topics. Learning science offers the mastery learning model, which allows the teacher to understand the accumulating gaps and put in place a structure to help fill them. One way is by having separate online spaces for synchronous and asynchronous learning. The coach becomes more like a facilitator who observes the child in both the spaces, identifies the gaps and spends time with each to bridge those.  Teaching to learn: Today, we tell students that their job is to learn but we don’t teach them how learning works. For example, most people don’t know that reading a storybook requires a different techniques from reading a textbook. They don’t know how the muscle of long-term memory is built or how to improve concentration over time. This lack of understanding is why many children tend to cram, practise rote learning and fail to apply concepts in the real world.  Over the last decade, online education has mainly tried to package self-study content for the same old school syllabus or tried to provide foundation test-prep content for competitive exams. But, in the coming decade, we will be using technology not to replicate offline experiences online but to redesign learning experiences from the first principles of cognitive research and provide up-to-date knowledge, social skills, and learning mindsets. If we succeed, in the next 10 years, we will build an education system that the next generation can truly be grateful for. The writer is the Founder and CEO, StayQrious.  Learning science research shows that, when we revisit important ideas multiple times, children understand and remember them much better||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/rethinking-online-education/article64946629.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 03:48 IST,||A question of focus||I am in the first year of B.Sc. Hons Horticulture. I am confused about finding my passion. I want to be an IAS officer but am interested in other things also. How can I find my calling? – Harshita Dear Harshita,  Read Ikigai: The Japanese Secret to a Long and Happy Life and then find a competent career counsellor. Get a personality and career profiling done to identify what you are good at. This will help you set realistic goals and find your passion. It is also okay to have a few (varied) hobbies and interests besides your academic education and pursuits.  My dream from childhood has been to take the CSE but I am afraid of facing an audience in class (both online and offline) and in competitions. How can I overcome it? – Nandhana Dear Nandhana, Meet a good counselling psychologist and work on your fear. You need to find a healthy mechanism to overcome it and it is possible and doable. We all get nervous from time to time while facing an audience (online/offline) but that doesn’t stop us from doing our thing. You will greatly benefit from Cognitive Behaviour Therapy. I live in Deoghar, a small town in Jharkhand, but studied in Ranchi. I completed my B.Com. last year. I got a job as Assistant Marketing Manager but was paid justRs. 5000 as salary. I quit in June and am currently at home. I want to do something that adds value to society and makes me financially independent. How can I find out which job suits me? – Yashaswee Dear Yashaswee, While Rs. 5000 is a low salary, could you not have worked to enhance your skillsets at the job and then moved on? You can still do a Master’s in Social Work. But check the requirements. Does it work for you? If not, get in touch with a career counsellor to identify your areas of excellence. Also identify if you need start working right away or can take time to study. I am pursuing my graduation in Agriculture in Uttar Pradesh. I wish to do my post-graduation but my parents cannot afford it. Should I work for a year or find some way of continuing my education? Also, is it better to do my PG in India or abroad? I dream of becoming a researcher. – Anugraha Dear Anugraha, Put in all efforts to sign up for your post-graduation. There are many options to raise funds for the fees in addition to a bank loan. If you choose to work, use the gap year to work in the field to understand the nuances better and shortlist your area of interest while you arrange funds. Whether you study in India or abroad depends on the money you are able to get. You can realise your dream of being a world-class researcher. Disclaimer: This column provides advice and suggestions on education and careers. It is merely a guiding voice. The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. Send your questions to eduplus.thehindu@ gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/a-question-of-focus/article64946628.ece
24 January 2022||January 24 2022 05:09 IST,||’The days of baap ka badla are over’||“I am not a man who lives in the past. I like to remain in today and prepare for the future,” says Subhash Ghai. At 76, with the Hindi film, 36 Farmhouse , the producer-director is “consciously trying to break his image of a filmmaker who creates only larger than life images”.   Directed by his protege, Ram Ramesh Sharma, the film marks Ghai’s OTT debut. “I want to grapple with the issues and conflicts of today. The days of baap ka badla [avenging one’s father] are over,” says the filmmaker, who delivered a series of blockbusters in the 1980s and 1990s when revenge was a common theme.   Inspired by the movement of migrants during the pandemic, Ghai has not only written and produced the comedy but also composed the music. “I have a background in theatre. I spent my university days acting and directing plays before I got admission to the Film and Television Institute of India [FTII, Pune] where I came across art and world cinema,” he says, adding that if he has made blockbusters such as Karma and Saudagar , he has also written small-budget films like Joggers’ Park and Black & White .  The grammar of storytelling As someone who survived the video parlour wave of the 1980s, Ghai believes that if filmmakers make visually- and aurally-compelling content, they will find an audience. “I am a storyteller and the grammar of writing is the same, whether it is poetry or OTT. You just have to make little changes to suit the medium. Like, how the concept of interval in theatres forced us to write a peak point just after the intermission.” The focus, in the OTT format, is on pace and characterisation. What he’d like to change though, is the overkill of sex and violence in the garb of a thriller — he wants OTT to become an avenue for family entertainment. In36 Farmhouse, Sanjay Mishra and Vijay Raaz play the protagonists — actors who would have played supporting parts or ‘character’ roles in Ghai’s universe of the 1980s. “Even stars ask for scripts these days because in today’s time the hero is a character,” he shares, underlining that he refrained from the star culture back in his heyday and preferred to create new ‘stars’, referring to Jackie Shroff, Anil Kapoor, and Madhuri Dixit. He calls the film a creative outcome of “work from home”. With an ensemble cast led by Mishra, it is the tale of a migrant worker who seeks shelter in a farmhouse. “During the lockdown, I often wondered why so many people are being compelled to leave the city of dreams [Mumbai]. The story is dotted with two kinds of characters: those who steal for need and those who steal for greed.” Off-screen, what does he think about the government’s recent intervention — to merge existing bodies such as the National Film Archives of India, Children Film Society of India, and Directorate of Film Festival with the National Film Development Corporation? Or the directive to censor content on OTT platforms? Ghai, who has been the voice of the film fraternity in the past, is diplomatic. “Whenever there is a flood of new technology, the government tries to streamline it. All governments try to look after the morality of people when it feels freedom is being misused. It is not about a particular party, it is about the role of government in our lives.” Some of the film bodies, he adds, have indeed “lost their relevance” and it should not be turned into “an ego issue”.  Meanwhile, the director is actively considering turning his musical blockbusters Karz and Taal into Broadway plays. “There was a proposal from the RPG group, but the pandemic has stalled our endeavours. We will soon make an announcement,” he concludes.   36 Farmhouse is currently streaming on Zee 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-days-of-baap-ka-badla-are-over/article64946516.ece
