25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||Pakistan sends India a plea by Hindu body for air pilgrimage||Despite a complete standstill in trade and travel between India and Pakistan, a new proposal by the Pakistan Hindu Council to allow Hindu, Muslim and Sikh pilgrims to travel by air has been forwarded by the government in Islamabad to authorities in New Delhi. According to sources, the proposal was sent to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) by the Pakistan High Commission in Delhi on behalf of the Pakistan Hindu Council (PHC) chief patron, Ramesh Vankwani, asking that two chartered flights of Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) carrying pilgrims be allowed to fly from Lahore and Karachi to destinations in India this Saturday. However, the sources struck a cautious note, saying that the proposal, which was only received on Monday, had still to receive many clearances in New Delhi. The MEA did not respond to enquiries about whether permissions were likely within the next few days, or at all. A senior official of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) also said “no request has been received from the airline at present”. Officials also pointed to the fact that Pakistan denied overflight permission to Srinagar-Sharjah flights that began last November, and India refused to allow PIA flights to take Indian pilgrims to Pakistan in December, to stress that the proposal would need a political push on both sides. Only land route now If clearances are received, this would be the first PIA flight to travel to India since operations were suspended in 2019, and the first ever such flight carrying pilgrims from either side since 1947. At present, groups of Indian and Pakistani pilgrims who still visit each other’s countries under a 1974 protocol exchange agreement, travel by road over the Wagah-Atari border. In all, nearly 170 pilgrims, mostly Muslim, and 20 Hindu pilgrims would be facilitated by the PHC, that signed an MoU with PIA in December 2021 to organise a number of “faith tourism initiatives”. Among the early initiatives, the council said it had facilitated two groups of Hindu pilgrims from the U.K., the UAE, Spain and other countries in the past few weeks, who were flown to Peshawar via PIA charters to visit the Shri Paramhans Maharaj Mandir in the remote Khyber Pakhtunkhwa district of Teri. The Indian pilgrims crossed over at Wagah by foot and then flew to Peshawar from Lahore.  “I am very hopeful we can conduct this reciprocal visit by air for Pakistanis wishing to travel to the Ajmer Sharif, Nizamuddin Auliya Dargah and other shrines, and take the first such flight myself,” Mr. Vankwani told The Hindu in a telephone interview, saying that he had received many enquiries from pilgrims eager to take the chartered flights.  Four-day tour According to the programme drawn up, the pilgrims would take a tour to India from January 29 to February 1, including visits to Jaipur, Ajmer, Delhi, Agra and Haridwar. Mr. Vankwani, who is also a legislator from the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf party, said he had discussed with Pakistani officials the possibility of allowing Air India flights from India. If permitted by both sides, these flights would carry Indian Hindu pilgrims to Peshawar for the Paramhans Mandir and to Karachi for the Hinglaj Mata Mandir. The erstwhile “Indian Airlines” last flew to Pakistan in March 2008. “Someone needs to break the deadlock [between India and Pakistan],” Mr. Vankwani said. “Looking at how other such conflicts in the world were resolved, we hope to make a start with faith tourism, and go on to more tourism, and then even trade and [regular] travel.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pakistan-sends-india-a-plea-by-hindu-body-for-air-pilgrimage/article64945916.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:02 IST,||Modi praises grit of city girl in pursuing her passion||Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised the grit of Mangaluru-based 17-year-old Bharatanatyam dancer Remona Evette Pereira and the support of her mother despite many odds and said it was nothing but tapasya (penance).  In his virtual five-minute interaction, after presenting the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2022, to mark the National Girl Child Day, Mr. Modi said youth like Ms. Pereira are the future of the country. When the Prime Minister said the family must have struggled a lot to support her, Ms. Pereira revealed that she lost her father early. She and her brother Ronaldo Rockson Pereira were brought up by mother Gladis Periera with great difficulty. Hearing this, Mr. Modi said he salutes her mother. The Prime Minister said he had heard Ms. Pereira was pursuing Bharatanatyam since the age of 3 and asked how she developed an interest in the art form. She replied it was her mother’s passion to make her a great dancer. “I owe a lot to my mother and my family,” the girl told Mr. Modi adding she would strive to spread the richness of Indian culture across the world. The Union Ministry of Women and Child Development informed the Dakshina Kannada district administration on Friday of Ms. Remona being chosen for the national award and asked it to arrange a virtual interaction on Monday at 11 a.m. The interaction was arranged at the zilla panchayat office. Ms. Pereira is a student of Sourabha Sangeetha Nrithya Kala Parishath and Sandesha Foundation of Arts and Culture. She also learns Western dance, folk dance and other dance forms and pursues I PU at Padua PU College, Mangaluru. Her name figures in the India Book of Records, Bharat Book of World Records and Golden Book of World Record-London. She is a winner of Bal Gourav Prashasthi 2021 at the State level and Asadharana Pratibha Puraskara 2017 at the district level. She has performed Bharatanatyam in 16 States across India and received more than 20 awards. After the interaction with the Prime Minister, Mr. Kumara felicitated the Pereira family on behalf of the district administration.  Ms. Remona told The Hindu she intends to obtain a doctoral degree in Bharatanatyam while her dream is to enter the Guinness Book of World Records. “I am keen on spreading the culture of Bharatanatyam and teach kids, particularly those from economically weaker sections,” she said.  Having lost her husband Everest Pereira just before the birth of Ms. Remona, Ms. Gladis Periera brought up the children doing tailoring work and the support of her family members. Mr. Ronaldo is in final year of hotel management undergraduate course, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-praises-grit-of-city-girl-in-pursuing-her-passion/article64946136.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:04 IST,||Capital first in Category C, more curbs to be in place||As COVID-19 transmission becomes intense in the State, with hospitalisations rising proportionately, the government has decided to kick in the categorisation of districts as ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ on the basis of hospitalisation statistics from Tuesday. Thiruvananthapuram, which reported over 10,000 cases the other day and where COVID hospital admissions have reached 25% of the total hospital admission of the district (threshold 3), has become the first district to be put in Category C, where more restrictions in civil life will be introduced to reduce disease transmission. At a COVID review meeting here on Monday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who chaired the meeting, directed that more attention be given to control measures in the capital district and to strengthen all COVID-related activities by coordinating all local self-government bodies. The meeting also decided to close down schools and colleges for two weeks, if the attendance of students in a particular institution remained less than 40% for three consecutive days. Bed occupancy data Mr. Vijayan directed that all hospitals in the private sector be asked to provide data update on hospital bed occupancy and oxygen utilisation in the e-jagratha portal on a regular basis. He asked the district administrations to talk to those private hospitals which were not admitting COVID patients. Regarding COVID testing, the meeting suggested that it might be better to depend on labs for testing services and home tests were found to be giving erroneous results. Awareness campaign The Health department would conduct a special campaign to generate public awareness on the intense phase of disease transmission that the State was going through now. An online training programme would be held on January 26, in which the department would provide all directives on how home care of COVID patients could be managed effectively. All local bodies and residents’ associations should take part in this programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-first-in-category-c-more-curbs-to-be-in-place/article38322259.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||NDA firms up alliance in Punjab; BJP gets most seats||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) on Monday announced its seat-sharing arrangement for the Punjab Assembly election, with the BJP to contest 65 seats, the Punjab Lok Congress, led by Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.), 37 and the Akali Dal (Sanyukt), led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, 15. The Assembly has 117 seats. Making the announcement along with Capt. Singh, Mr. Dhindsa and Union Jal Shakti Minister and the BJP’s Punjab election in-charge Gajendra Shekhawat, BJP president J.P. Nadda said the pact could be adjusted for a seat or two within the broad contour. ‘Aim is stable govt.’ “We are coming together in this alliance not just with the aim of changing the government in Punjab but to provide a stable government for the security of the State and of the country. Punjab shares a 600-km border with Pakistan which has used the border to smuggle in drugs, arms and ammunition and now via drones too,” he said. He spoke at length about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s interventions with regard to long-pending issues of the Sikh community and his “special bond” with Punjab.  “It is Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government that not only removed the blacklist on certain persons but also worked for the Kartarpur Sahib corridor. He respected the valour and sacrifice of the two young Sahibzadas , sons of Guru Gobind Singhji, terming December 26th as Vir Bal Diwas. He also granted the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 clearance for Harmandir Sahib, and exempted langars [community kitchens in gurdwaras] from the Goods and Services Tax (GST),” Mr. Nadda said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nda-firms-up-alliance-for-punjab-poll/article64945917.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:47 IST,||Despite COVID-19, KIA sees rise in domestic passenger traffic||The second wave of the pandemic in 2021 had an impact on the volume of international passengers at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). Travel restrictions across the world saw international traffic drop by 15.5%, from 1.12 million in 2020 to 0.94 million in 2021. On the other hand, domestic passenger traffic recorded a double-digit growth of 22%. As per data released by Bangalore International Airport Ltd (BIAL), which manages KIA, domestic passenger traffic increased from 12.39 million in 2020 to 15.12 million last year. KIA registered a footfall of 16.07 million passengers in the year 2021. In a press release, BIAL claimed the airport has been able to recover 48% of the pre-COVID level traffic of 33.65 million passengers handled in 2019. “The positive environment in 2021 ignited hopes for a better 2022 in terms of recovery. However, the recent outbreak of the new Omicron variant followed by a rapid surge in COVID-19 cases across the country is expected to suppress growth further,” said MD and CEO of BIAL, Hari Marar. He added that the pace of recovery will depend on factors such as favourable policies by regulators and easing of travel restrictions across the country and globe among others. As per the recent decision of Directorate General of Civil Aviation, ban on scheduled or regular international flights has been extended till February 28. New domestic destinations Last year, KIA handled 1,53,212 air traffic movements (ATM). The highest single-day ATM was 590, registered on December 19, 2021. The average ATM for 2021 was 420 per day. In 2021, 14 new routes were introduced from Bengaluru to Agra, Bareilly, Dibrugarh, Dimapur, Nashik, Silchar, Jamnagar, and Kanpur, among others. The top domestic routes are Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Hyderabad, and Goa, with these sectors contributing 40% to the traffic. On the international front, Dubai, Male, Doha, London, and Frankfurt were the top cities, contributing 70.0% to the traffic. The release adds that United Airlines and American Airlines are expected to commence operations in 2022 to San Francisco and Seattle, respectively. The airport handled 4,06,688 metric tonnes of cargo and achieved a growth of 28.6 %. “International cargo recorded a 32.8% growth, 2,65,873 MT processed, as compared to 2,00,209 MT in 2020. Domestic cargo grew at 21.3%, 1,40,815 MT processed versus 1,16,096 MT in 2020. The United States of America and Europe continue to be the top trade lanes from Bengaluru airport,” stated the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/despite-covid-19-kia-sees-rise-in-domestic-passenger-traffic/article64946082.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:13 IST,||Back to school||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/back-to-school/article64945999.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||No Bollywood numbers in Beating Retreat||To mark 75 years of Independence, 26 Indian tunes will be played at this year’s Beating Retreat ceremony, part of the Republic Day celebrations, on January 29. However, there are no Bollywood numbers, officials clarified after a video of a practice session put out by the MyGovIndia handle on Twitter two days ago created a stir.  The video, which featured the Navy band, showed the contingent dancing to the tune of the retro Bollywood song Monika and instantly generated a lot of debate that it was probably part of the Republic Day parade this year, which is a military ceremony.  “What a sight! This video will definitely give you goosebumps! Are you ready to witness the grand 73rd Republic Day celebrations with us? Register now and book your e-seat today!” the message in the tweet, along with the video, said. Officials clarify However, defence officials clarified that the video which showed personnel dancing to the popular tune while holding their rifles, was only on a lighter note during a warm-up in the winter morning before the start of the practice session. “The personnel wake up at 4 a.m. or so and reach Rajpath by 5.30-6 a.m. for practice in the peak winter chill. So they need to warm up and be prepared for the long, stringent practice session of several hours,” a defence official explained. This year, there are 44 buglers, 16 trumpeters and 75 drummers. In 2021 there were 60 buglers, 17 trumpeters and 60 drummers. The Principal Conductor of the BTR this year is Cdr Vijay Charles Dcurz. Talking of the tunes, another defence official said some tunes continue year on year while a few tunes are always changed. “It is a continuous process and over last several years there has been an attempt to bring in more Indian tunes,” the official stated. It is for this reason that the hymn ‘Abide with me’, a favourite of Mahatma Gandhi, was dropped especially this year being 75th year of Independence and all Indian tunes were chosen, officials had stated.  Instead the tune ‘ Ae mera watan ke logon ’, composed by C. Ramachandra and lyrics by Kavi Pradeep has been included as it has a far wider connect with the people of India and is also easily recognized, officials said.  “It is contextually far more appropriate to celebrate the valour and gallantry of the armed forces of India as compared to ‘Abide with Me’ and the song also evokes a strong sense of patriotism with all Indians,” a Government source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-bollywood-numbers-in-beating-retreat/article38321959.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:13 IST,||Will give LPG cylinder for Rs. 500: Cong.||The Congress launched its campaign for the Uttarakhand poll with four promises — capping the price of a gas cylinder for consumers at Rs. 500, income support of Rs. 40,000 annually for the poorest families, doorstep medical facilities and four lakh jobs. The party’s campaign theme of “Char Dham, Char Kaam - Uttarakhandi Swabhimaan” was launched in Dehradun by senior leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-give-lpg-cylinder-for-rs-500-cong/article38322132.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:02 IST,||COVID-19: Six deaths, 1,332 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported three COVID-19 deaths and 655 new cases on Monday. Following the discharge of 825 patients, the active cases stood at 5,455. The test positivity rate was at 10.91 %. Udupi reported three deaths and 677 new cases. After 1,502 patients were discharged following treatment the active cases were at 5,718. The test positivity rate was at 16.44%. Of the deceased, two were women from Udupi taluk and another woman from Karkala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-six-deaths-1332-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article38322384.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:17 IST,||Govt. staff serve notice for strike from February 7||The PRC Struggle Committee served a strike notice to Principal Secretary (HR) Sashi Bhushan Kumar at the Secretariat on Monday. The government employees will go on an indefinite strike from February 7. The steering committee members could not serve the notice to the Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma as he was not in the town. The committee members claimed that from the staff side, the employees’ associations had tried their best to impress and convince the government to strive for an amicable settlement of the demands but could not get the desired result due to the government’s ‘adamant attitude’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-staff-serve-notice-for-strike-from-february-7/article38321957.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:02 IST,||3,540 kl more kerosene allocated to fishermen||The Union Petroleum Ministry on Monday ordered release of 3,540 kilolitres of non-subsidised kerosene to Karnataka for supplying the same to coastal Karnataka traditional fishers in addition to the already allocated 7,080 kl. Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shobha Karandlaje released the allocation letter to the media wherein it was said the Food and Civil Supplies Department of Karnataka had sought additional kerosene allocation for the fishers on November 6 last. In all, 10,620 kl kerosene was being allocated to Karnataka in 2021-22, the letter said. A statement from Ms. Karandlaje’s office said the fishers’ federation of Udupi had urged the Minister to use her good offices for timely allocation and distribution of kerosene to traditional fishers. The allocated fuel was not being released promptly, the federation had told the Minister. Traditional fishing It said over 60,000 fishers with more than 10,000 traditional boats depend upon traditional fishing using kerosene as fuel for their boats. Ms. Karandlaje had brought the issue to the notice of the Union Petroleum Minister and got the additional quota released, the statement said. The additional allocation would be provided to traditional fishers through the public distribution system, the Minister said, and thanked the Union Government for the allocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3540-kl-more-kerosene-allocated-to-fishermen/article38322385.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||G.O. on new districts likely to be issued||The Government of Andhra Pradesh has given the nod for creation of smaller districts in the State, on the lines of Telangana. A G.O. is likely to be issued on Tuesday or Wednesday. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has given the nod, fulfilling the promise made in the election manifesto. The government has taken the decision to create smaller districts to ensure better administrative control and dispensation of welfare schemes, sources said. Could be 19 or 25 There are 13 districts in the State now, and they can be divided into either 19 or 25 to ensure that each Lok Sabha constituency is made into a district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/go-on-new-districts-likely-to-be-issued/article38321958.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:07 IST,||Rules outlined for semester exams||The Higher Education Department has given a 17-point guideline to colleges on the online conduct of the November 2021 end-semester examinations, which will be held from the first week of February. It said students should be advised to “strictly write all the answers within 40 pages” on A4 sheets. Colleges should make the question papers available from 9.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. for the morning exams scheduled to be held from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Similarly, for afternoon exams held from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m., the question papers should be made available from 1.30 p.m. to 2.30 p.m. Principals have been advised to appoint nodal officers for each course. The nodal officers must create WhatsApp groups for students and inform them about the contacts of the nodal officers by SMS. Higher Education Secretary D. Karthikeyan, in his letter to the Directors of Technical and College Education, instructed the principals and chief superintendents of colleges to make internet facilities available for students to write the tests. After downloading the question papers, students must text ‘downloaded’ through SMS or WhatsApp to the nodal officer. Based on this, the nodal officer would mark the absentee list. Students may scan their answer sheets and upload them within an hour of completion of the exam,” the Any delay beyond an hour for online submission will result in the students being marked as absent. Students must send the hard copies of their answer sheets within a week or may hand them in at their college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rules-outlined-for-semester-exams-for-arts-and-science-students/article38322060.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:02 IST,||Hand over phone used to shoot girl’s video: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed that the mobile phone used to record a video of a Thanjavur schoolgirl, who recently died by suicide, be handed over to the investi- gating officer on Tuesday, to be sent for forensic analysis the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hand-over-phone-used-to-shoot-girls-video-hc/article38322024.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:47 IST,||Transport operator’s body found; police suspect suicide||The family members of K.V. Prakash, owner of Prakash Travels, who was found dead in Sharavathi River near Hosanagar on Monday morning, have complained to the police that he was facing difficulty in getting money from a person, to whom he had sold a bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/transport-operators-body-found-police-suspect-suicide/article38322178.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:19 IST,||BJP took bullets for Ram temple: Fadnavis||Hitting back at the Shiv Sena following a row over Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s comments on Hindutva, State BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Monday said the leaders of the Sena were busy giving speeches while workers of the BJP faced bullets for the Ram temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-took-bullets-for-ram-temple-fadnavis/article38322395.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:10 IST,||‘Anti-CAA stir sites were chosen near mosques’||Opposing former JNU student Umar Khalid’s bail plea in the north-east Delhi riots “larger conspiracy” case, the prosecution on Monday said all the 25 anti-CAA protest sites were intentionally given “secular names” but were chosen in close proximity to mosques. The prosecution will continue its arguments in the next hearing on January 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anti-caa-stir-sites-were-chosen-near-mosques/article38322105.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:10 IST,||Tripura plea on probe is ‘whataboutery’: Bhushan||Advocate Prashant Bhushan told the Supreme Court on Monday that it was “totally unbecoming” of the Tripura government to indulge in “whataboutery” by asking why the same petitioners seeking an independent probe on violence in the State were silent about violence of a larger scale in West Bengal. The Tripura government, in its reply to the apex court, had criticised the “selective outrage” of “public spirited” citizens behind the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tripura-plea-on-probe-is-whataboutery-bhushan/article64946210.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:19 IST,||Tripura plea for probe is ‘whataboutery’: Bhushan||Advocate Prashant Bhushan told the Supreme Court on Monday that it was “totally unbecoming” of the Tripura government to indulge in “whataboutery” by asking why the same petitioners seeking an independent probe on violence in the State were silent about violence of a larger scale in West Bengal. The Tripura government, in its reply to the apex court, had criticised the “selective outrage” of “public spirited” citizens behind the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tripura-plea-for-probe-is-whataboutery-bhushan/article64946121.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:47 IST,||CM reshuffles district in-charge Ministers||Just ahead of the government completing six months, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has reshuffled the district and COVID in-charge Ministers. According to the new list announced on Monday, the Chief Minister retained Bengaluru Urban district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-reshuffles-district-in-charge-ministers/article38322179.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:47 IST,||Bengaluru accounts for 95% of Omicron cases||Of the total 931 Omicron cases reported in the State as of Monday, Bengaluru alone accounts for 94.5% (880). While no death has been reported so far, 650 persons have recovered taking the recovery rate of Omicron cases to 69.8%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengaluru-accounts-for-95-of-omicron-cases/article64946081.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:45 IST,||‘Can’t look at marital rape from microscopic angle’||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that the issue of criminalisation of marital rape involves “family issues” as well as the dignity of a woman and cannot be looked at from a “microscopic angle”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cant-look-at-marital-rape-from-microscopic-angle/article38322329.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:45 IST,||Tripura plea for probe is ‘whataboutery’: Bhushan||Advocate Prashant Bhushan told the Supreme Court on Monday that it was “totally unbecoming” of the Tripura government to indulge in “whataboutery” by asking why the same petitioners seeking an independent probe on violence in the State were silent about violence of a larger scale in West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tripura-plea-for-probe-is-whataboutery-bhushan/article64946146.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:07 IST,||‘Can’t look at marital rape from microscopic angle’||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that the issue of criminalisation of marital rape involves “family issues” as well as the dignity of a woman and cannot be looked at from a “microscopic angle”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cant-look-at-marital-rape-from-microscopic-angle/article38322396.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:52 IST,||Cabinet expansion likely only after 5 State polls||The last week has seen renewed activity from ministerial aspirants trying to mount pressure on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to expand/reshuffle his Cabinet. However, even consultations for this will likely begin only after completion of five State polls, BJP sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-expansion-likely-only-after-5-state-polls/article38321989.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:45 IST,||BJP took bullets for Ram temple: Fadnavis||Hitting back at the Shiv Sena following a row over Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s comments on Hindutva, State BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Monday said the leaders of the Sena were busy giving speeches while workers of the BJP faced bullets for the Ram temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-took-bullets-for-ram-temple-fadnavis/article38322328.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,||India’s total case tally reaches 3.95 crore||The country recorded 2,34,650 COVID-19 cases on Monday. The total number of infections has reached 3.95 crore and the active cases have crossed the 22.4–lakh mark. The figures are based on the State bulletins released until 10 p.m. on Monday. However, Ladakh, Haryana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Lakshadweep had not yet released data for the day. Karnataka recorded 46,426 infections followed by Tamil Nadu (30,215) and Maharashtra (28,286). Total toll On Monday, 397 deaths were recorded, considerably higher than the average levels recorded in the last week. The number of recorded fatalities has reached 4,89,903. Tamil Nadu reported the most deaths (46) followed by Punjab (39) and West Bengal (37). On Sunday, 14.7 lakh tests were conducted (the results of which were made available on Monday). The test positivity rate (the number of cases detected per 100 tests) was 15.9%. As of Monday, 91.5% of the eligible population has been vaccinated with at least one dose while 67.6% have received both doses. In the 15-17 age cohort, 57.6% have received their first dose. Altogether, 93,20,86,639 first doses, 68,83,08,215 second doses, and 84,17,101 booster doses have been administered across India. Andhra Pradesh has again witnessed the pandemic’s highest daily test positivity rate of 36.09% as 14,532 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in the 24-hours ending Monday morning. Only 40,266 samples were tested in the past day. During the same period, seven deaths were reported. The highest daily test positivity rate in the second wave was only 25.81% when about 45,000 samples were tested. When the second wave hit the peak of 24,000 infections a day, the daily test positivity rate was around 25% with over one lakh samples tested every day. However, since the third wave began in the last week of December, the daily test positivity rate increased exponentially from a mere 0.3% to 36% in about 30 days. Mumbai on Monday registered around 90% drop in daily positive COVID-19 cases in the last two weeks with only 1857 cases being reported. Testing drops According to the data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the city had registered 20,971 positive cases on January 7, highest in the third wave. The number of tests then was 72,442 and six deaths were recorded. The percentage of beds occupied from the available lot was 18.3%. On Monday, the city recorded only 1,857 cases from 34,301 tests and 11 deaths. The percentage of beds occupied by stands at 10.2%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-total-tally-reaches-395-crore/article64945886.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||Budget should focus on income gap, says Cong.||Ahead of the Union Budget, the Congress on Monday cited a report to argue that the gap in the incomes of the poor and the rich widened during the COVID-19 pandemic and urged the Narendra Modi government to work on bridging it. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter and alleged that the poor and the middle class faced an “economic epidemic” because of the Modi government’s policies. Sharing a news report on the findings of a survey on the Indian Consumer Economy done by the People’s Research on India’s Consumer Economy (PRICE), Mr. Gandhi tweeted, “The entire country suffered during the COVID pandemic, but the poor and the middle class are also victims of the ‘economic epidemic’ of the Modi government. The credit for digging this widening gap between the rich and the poor goes to the Central government.” The findings of PRICE claimed widening disparity in annual household incomes compared with 2016 data, with the poorest 20% of the population witnessing 52.6% decline in their incomes and the lower middle class comprising 20% facing a decline of 32.4%. But the richest 20% saw a 39% rise in their incomes. At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said the Modi government was working only for the benefit of the rich and the powerful. “We categorically and assertively insist that the Union Budget must focus on bridging this divide.... It should only focus on increasing money in the hands of the poor. It should pay attention on how urban poverty is going up many fold and rural poverty in comparison has gone up,” Ms. Shrinate said. Taking a dig at the government’s economic management, she said: “The government should institute a gross economic mismanagement index to know how badly mismanaged the Indian economy is.” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that the “Modi government is only for the rich.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/budget-should-focus-on-income-gap-says-cong/article64945908.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||Jailed Azam joins son in Rampur contest||Senior Samajwadi Party leader and Rampur Lok Sabha MP Mohammad Azam Khan, who is lodged in jail, will contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election from the Rampur Sadar seat. His son Abdullah Khan, who was recently released from jail, will contest from Suar in the same district in the Rohilkhand region. Mr. Abdullah had won from Suar in 2017 but the Allahabad High Court in 2019 declared his election null and void on grounds that he was not of the valid age of 25 when he filed nomination. The BJP’s ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) has fielded Haider Ali Khan, of the erstwhile Rampur Nawab royalty, in Suar. In 2017, Mr. Abdullah defeated Mr. Haider’s father and sitting MLA Kazim Ali Khan. This time, Mr. Kazim will contest from Rampur Sadar on Congress ticket and take on Mr. Azam Khan, his long-time rival who was booked by the State police on several charges including encroachment of land. Consolidated list The SP on Monday released a consolidated list of 159 candidates across the State, including several fresh names. Party president Akhilesh Yadav, who is contesting from Karhal in Mainpuri, was on the top of the list, while his uncle Shivpal Yadav, who had formed his own party Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), will contest on the “cycle” symbol from his traditional seat Jaswant Nagar. The SP has fielded some heavyweight OBC and Dalit candidates, including Rajya Sabha member Vishambhar Prasad Nishad from Ayahshah in Fatehpur, former BSP Minister Daddu Prasad from Naraini in Banda, former BSP MLA Yogesh Verma from Hastinapur in Meerut and former BSP State president R.S. Kushwaha from Nighasan in Lakhimpur Kheri. The site of the Tikonia incident in which eight persons, including four farmers, were killed in October, 2021, falls under Nighasan. Mr. Nishad is one of the SP’s tallest faces from the community, while Mr. Prasad and Mr. Verma are Jatav Dalits of considerable influence in western Uttar Pradesh and Bundelkhand, respectively. Kairana MLA The SP list also has around 30 Muslim names, including six in Moradabad district. Nahid Hasan, sitting MLA in Kairana, Shamli, who was recently arrested under the Gangster Act, has been fielded again. The SP has also given ticket to BJP rebels who switched ranks recently following Swami Prasad Maurya. While Bilhaur sitting MLA Bhagwati Sagar, a Dalit, will now contest from Ghatampur in Kanpur, Brajesh Prajapati will defend Tindwari in Banda and Tilhar (Shahjahanpur) MLA Roshan Lal Verma will contest from the same seat. Pandit Radha Krishan Sharma, who had won from Bilsi in Budaun on the BJP symbol in 2017, will now contest on the SP symbol from Aonla in Bareilly. Former Bareilly Mayor Supriya Aron, who quit the Congress and joined the SP along with her husband and former MP Praveen Singh Aron, is the SP’s candidate from Bareilly Cantonment. MLAs continued to change parties as voting day gets near. While Jitendra Verma (a Nishad), BJP MLA from Agra, joined the SP, Subash Rai (a Bhumihar), SP MLA from Ambedkar Nagar who won in a bypoll in 2019, switched over to the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jailed-azam-joins-son-in-contest-in-rampur/article64945898.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||Tripura plea on probe is ‘whataboutery’: Bhushan||Advocate Prashant Bhushan told the Supreme Court on Monday that it was “totally unbecoming” of the Tripura government to indulge in “whataboutery” by asking why the same petitioners seeking an independent probe on violence in the State were silent about violence of a larger scale in West Bengal. “I just have to say this... what the State government said amounts to whataboutery. It does not show the State government in a good light. Whataboutery is totally unbecoming of a State government,” Mr. Bhushan addressed a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud. The Tripura government, in its reply to the Supreme Court, had criticised the “selective outrage” of “public spirited” citizens behind the petition represented by Mr. Bhushan. The Tripura government had urged the apex court to dismiss the petition filed by advocate Ehtesham Hashmi, saying the court was being used for an oblique purpose in the name of public interest. Tripura argued that the petitioners did not move a few months back when communal violence hit West Bengal, and suddenly their public sprit was aroused due to some instances in a small State like Tripura. “It is pointed out that such a selective outrage of the petitioner is not presented before this court as a defence but to satisfy this court that under the garb of public interest, the august forum of this court is used for apparently oblique purposes,” an affidavit filed by the State government had said. “It is not a question of one petition or the other but the majesty and sanctity of the proceedings before the highest court of the country. No individual or group of individuals professionally functioning as public spirited persons/groups can selectively invoke the extraordinary jurisdiction of the court to achieve some apparent but undisclosed motive,” the affidavit has stated. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta was not present in the hearing. The court scheduled the case for Monday next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tripura-plea-on-probe-is-whataboutery-bhushan/article64945909.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,||100 terrorists waiting across border: BSF||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Monday said more than 100 terrorists were present at launch pads across the border, waiting to infiltrate into Jammu and Kashmir. However, it added that the overall situation along the Line of Control has been peaceful since the ceasefire agreement between India and Pakistan in 2021. “Overall peaceful scenario was observed along the LoC in J&K post the ceasefire agreement between India and Pakistan in 2021. However, there are reports that around 104 to 135 terrorist are present at launching pads waiting to infiltrate [into J&K],” Inspector-General of BSF, Kashmir, Raja Babu Singh said in Srinagar. He said a heightened vigil was being maintained after a few local guides crossed the LoC. “We have the numbers of the guides who have crossed the LoC. We are maintaining a vigil on them and their families. The job of these guides is to bring groups of militants along. We have seen how our alert troops spot them and neutralise, as one such infiltrator was killed on January 2 [in north Kashmir],” Mr. Babu said. He said infiltration along the LoC was showing a downward trend. “From 130 infiltration bids in 2019, it came down to 36 bids in 2020 and 31 in 2021,” the BSF officer said. However, he added that there were inputs that 138-145 youth were last year indoctrinated to join militant outfits. “Last year, we managed to foil three infiltration bids and pushed back around 21 infiltrators,” he added. The BSF is manning 343.9 km of the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir. “Out of 343 km, 96 km is being guarded exclusively by the BSF. Also, 52 companies were being deputed in Kashmir Valley,” he added. He said the security forces were having “successful results” due to the new synergy between the security agencies in Kashmir. Stating that drones were a “real threat”, the BSF officer said, “We are procuring our own drones to counter the drone threat. Besides, a series of measures are in place to deal with drone threats.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/100-terrorists-waiting-across-border-bsf/article64945885.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||Congress promises LPG price cap in Uttarakhand||The Congress on Monday launched its campaign for the Uttarakhand Assembly election with four promises of capping the price of a gas cylinder for consumers at Rs. 500, income support of Rs. 40,000 annually for the poorest of families, doorstep medical facilities and four lakh jobs.  The party’s campaign theme of Char Dham, Char Kaam - Uttarakhandi Swabhimaan was launched in Dehradun by Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, former Uttarakhand Chief Minister Harish Rawat, Congress national spokesperson Gourav Vallabh and other party leaders.  Mr. Rawat said the party’s Uttarakhand manifesto would send a message regarding what the Congress manifesto for the country would be. The party also launched theme songs and video vans.  Later, speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Vallabh said the four promises, which were decided after a six-month process, would form the central theme of the party’s manifesto, which would be more detailed. Ahead of the February 14 poll, the party would also release a white paper on the defence sector on January 28, he added.  Announcing the promises, Mr. Baghel said gas cylinder prices had gone from Rs. 400-Rs. 450 to Rs. 900 during the tenure of the Narendra Modi government. He said the Congress had decided that consumers would not pay more than Rs. 500 and the State government would pay the difference in the form of subsidy. Mr. Vallabh said the price of gas cylinder in Dehradun was Rs. 918.50 currently, meaning that a Congress government would pay a subsidy of Rs. 418.50. He said the cost to the State would be Rs. 627.75 crore or 1.1% of the current Budget. The party would provide Rs. 40,000 as income support to five lakh of the poorest families in the State, which would lead to an expenditure of Rs. 2,000 crore annually. Being a hill State, access to medical services was a challenge for many, Mr. Baghel said, adding that the doorstep delivery of services, including use of drones, would be implemented by a Congress government. Mr. Vallabh later said bike ambulances would cover 60%-70% of the terrain and drones fitted with cameras would service the rest of the area. The drones would also be used to deliver medicines, he said. The Congress’ promise of four lakh jobs would be realised through inviting employment-creating industries to the State and providing them with a subsidy, Mr. Vallabh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-promises-lpg-cylinder-for-rs-500-poor-to-get-rs-40000/article64945901.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,||Marital rape: Centre seeks time in HC||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that the issue of criminalisation of marital rape involves “family issues” and the dignity of a woman and cannot be looked at from a “microscopic angle”. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, urged the High Court to allow a “reasonable time” to place the position of the government after consultation with the stakeholders. “Your lordships are not just deciding the statutory or constitutional validity of a provision. It may not be looked at from that microscopic angle…Here, the dignity of a woman is at stake. There are family issues. There would be several considerations which would weigh with the government to take a position,” the Solicitor-General said. “It would not be possible for the Centre to respond immediately, particularly when there is no imminent threat that something is going to happen to someone. I would reiterate my request that we would need a reasonable time.” A Bench of Justice Rajiv Shakdher and Justice C Hari Shankar, hearing a batch of petitions challenging the provision in law that makes an exception for marital rape, said this issue cannot be kept hanging. “For some people and here, there is a live case [of one of the petitioners], every day matters for a simple reason that some say this abuse is happening, maybe not reported but this is happening. Now it can’t be our answer that listen it has been there for 100 years now what is the urgency,” the court said. Striking down exception In India, marital rape is not defined in any statute or law. The NGOs RIT Foundation and All India Democratic Women’s Association a man and a woman are seeking striking down of the exception granted to husbands. The exception says sexual intercourse by a man with his wife aged 15 years or above is not rape even if it is without her consent. In October 2017, the Supreme Court increased it to 18 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/marital-rape-centre-seeks-time-in-hc/article64945888.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,||Rumblings in AI as Tatas assign grooming supervisors||The Tatas are set to take over Air India later this week and have kick-started efforts to improve the quality of service at the airline. But employees are not happy. Two unions representing cabin crew are up in arms after the airline’s in-flight services department issued a circular informing flight attendants that their turnout and body weight would be recorded by “grooming supervisors” at the airport. Takeover date The tiff comes days before the airline is likely to be handed over to the Tatas on January 27, according to an internal message sent by the airline’s head of finance.  A government official told The Hindu, “efforts are on to meet the January 31 deadline for the handover.”  “Grooming supervisors have been assigned the task of recording observations on the BMI management/ grooming/ uniform/ turnout of cabin crew when they report for a flight. These observations will be compiled and sent to the office of the undersigned,” reads a circular dated January 20 from Vasudha Chandna, Executive Director, In-flight Services. DGCA rules Following the circular, the Air India Cabin Crew Association (AICCA) and Air India Employee’s Union (AIECU) have shot off two letters in protest taking umbrage under DGCA regulation, “settlements” in the past as well as the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. “The DGCA mandates the conduct of any BMI medical checks only by medical practitioners. This conduct of such BMI checks at airports by non-medical “grooming associates” also breaches DGCA’s Civil Aviation Regulation, apart from violating settled service conditions & Court orders,” said the joint letter from the two unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rumblings-in-ai-as-tatas-assign-grooming-supervisors/article64945892.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||HC rejects petition on Bengal tableau||The Calcutta High Court on Monday dismissed a petition seeking a direction to the Central government to permit the West Bengal tableau of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in the Republic Day parade. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj rejected the petition on grounds that the petitioner had “belatedly approached this court”. No effective direction “As the Republic Day celebration is day after tomorrow, therefore, at this stage, no effective direction can be issued. Hence, no case for interference in the present writ petition is made out which is accordingly dismissed,” the order said. The court pointed out that Additional Solicitor General had submitted that “Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose was ignored by the earlier governments but the present government is treating Netaji as an icon and recognising his contribution to hastening the process of Independence”. “ He had also submitted that a hologram of Netaji had been put up at India Gate and it would be replaced by a statue of Netaji in August. So far as reasons for rejection were concerned, if the State wanted, “the same can be duly supplied and that the decision to exclude a Tableau is taken as per the rules which exist and reasons for rejection must be existing”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-petition-on-bengal-tableau/article38321736.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||Bihar Minister’s son, 6 others charged over firing incident||A day after a Bihar Minister’s son allegedly opened fire at some children playing cricket in his orchard and was later thrashed by villagers, an FIR was lodged against him and six others on Monday at the town police station in Bettiah of West Champaran district. The Minister and his son, though, denied that he had opened fire, which resulted in a village youth sustaining injuries. Bablu Kumar, son of Narayan Prasad Sah, Tourism Minister and BJP MLA from Nautan in West Champaran district, allegedly opened fire on Sunday to scare away some children playing cricket in his orchard at Hardiya-Koeritola village in the district. Mr. Bablu Kumar had reached the orchard along with his uncle, Harendra Prasad Sah, and five others. On hearing the gunshot, villagers gathered at the spot and chased away the Minister’s son and others. They then caught hold of him and some others, snatched the gun, seized their vehicle and thrashed them.  “An FIR was lodged at the town police station against seven persons, including Mr. Bablu Kumar,” a senior police official in Patna told The Hindu . Reena Devi, mother of Janardan Kumar, who was injured in the incident, had filed a complaint against them, the police officer said.  ‘False accusations’ Mr. Narayan Prasad Sah, however, told journalists that all accusations against his son and others were “false and fabricated”. “My son along with others had gone to the orchard after being informed about encroachment, but the villagers at the spot chased them away and threw bricks at them, leaving them injured. A village youth got injured when the bricks were thrown by the villagers,” he said. ‘Political conspiracy’ Mr. Narayan Prasad Sah refuted allegations that his son had opened fired and beaten people there. “It was a political conspiracy to defame me,” the Minister said. Mr. Bablu Kumar, too, denied that he had fired the gun or beaten anyone with the butt of the weapon as claimed by the injured youth’s mother. “These are all false accusations against me and the others,” he said. However, Ms. Devi reiterated that her son was beaten by Mr. Bablu Kumar with the butt of the gun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-ministers-son-6-others-charged-over-firing-incident/article38321886.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||G-23 leaders among Cong. star campaigners||Releasing its list of 30 star campaigners for the first phase of the Assembly election in Utar Pradesh, the Congress on Monday named former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former party chief Rahul Gandhi, new entrant Kanhaiya Kumar and some of the G-23 leaders. Among the group of 23 (G-23) leaders who had demanded an overhaul of the Congress organisational structures in August 2020, former Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and former Rajya Sabha member Raj Babbar figure in the list. Sachin Pilot Former Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, who had revolted against against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, also finds a place. AICC general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Mr. Gehlot and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel are among the star campaigners. The list also includes State party chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, former Union Ministers Salman Khurshid and R.P.N. Singh and former Rajya Sabha members Pramod Tiwari and P.L. Punia Young turks Young turks of the party such as Deepinder Singh Hooda, Supriya Shrinate, Imran Pratapgarhi and Kanhaiya Kumar also figure in the list. On February 10, polling will be held in 58 Assembly seats across 11 districts like Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Mathura and Agra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/g-23-leaders-among-cong-star-campaigners-in-up/article64945900.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||BJP took bullets for Ram temple: Fadnavis||A war of word has erupted, yet again, over Hindutva between former partners the Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), with each claiming to be the real saviour of Hindutva. On Sunday, on the occasion of birth anniversary of Sena founder Bal Thackeray, Maharashtra Chief Minister and son Uddhav Thackeray accused the BJP of using Hindutva as per its political convenience. “BJP doesn’t mean Hindutva. I stand by my comment that Shiv Sena had wasted 25 years in alliance with the BJP,” he said. On Monday, former Chief Minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis claimed that it was the BJP which took bullets for the Ram temple in Ayodhya while the leaders of the Sena were busy giving speeches. Leaders of both parties indulged in bickering with Sena Rajya Sabha member Priyanka Chaturvedi taunting the BJP that, one statement from the Sena chief exposed the BJP’s ethic-less Hindutva politics. BJP state president Chandrakant Patil said that it was Sena’s failure in the local body elections that had angered Mr. Thackeray. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and State Minister Nawab Malik said Mr. Fadnavis had tried to finish off the Sena with the help from Delhi but since the latter retaliated, the BJP had gone berserk. “Allahabad has been renamed as Prayagraj. But you can’t even change Aurangabad to Sambhajinagar,” Mr. Fadnavis taunted the Chief Minister. Commenting on Mr. Thackeray’s comment on 25 years of alliance, the BJP leader said, “You are now allied with the Congress and the NCP. Did Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi post at least one tweet on the anniversary of Balasaheb Thackeray?” “We supported the BJP wholeheartedly to enable them to fulfil their national ambitions. The understanding was they will go national while we will lead in Maharashtra. But we were betrayed and attempts were made to destroy us in our home. So we had to hit back,” Mr. Thackeray said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-took-bullets-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-says-former-cm-fadnavis/article64945912.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||Bengal BJP issues show-cause notice to leaders; actors quit party||West Bengal unit of Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday suspended two of party’s former vice presidents only a day after issuing show cause notice to the leaders. The State unit suspended Joy Prakash Majumdar and Ritesh Tiwari for the time being till the disciplinary proceeding against the leaders are not complete. On Sunday the party had issued show cause notice to both BJP leaders. The two former vice presidents of the party’s state unit of were dropped from their respective posts in the recent organisational reshuffle after Sukanta Majumdar assumed the charge of president of West Bengal BJP. These two senior BJP leaders had held meetings with Matua leader and Bongaon MP Santanu Thakur on different occasions. Reacting to developments Ritesh Tiwari said that the never in the history of the party a leader was suspended only a day after show cause letters were issued and being denied any opportunity to reply to the notice. Both these leaders are well known faces of the State BJP and had served as spokesperson of the party in the State. Santanu Thakur who holds the portfolio of Union Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways said that he will continue to have meetings with BJP leaders and such show-cause notices will not make any difference. In another development, two actors from the Bengali film and television industry — Bonny Sengupta and Sohail Dutta— announced that they had quit the BJP. Both of them had joined the party before the West Bengal Assembly election in 2021. A number of actors had joined BJP before the poll and have parted ways after the party lost to the Trinamool Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-bjp-issues-showcause-notice-to-leaders-actors-quit-party/article38321742.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||Sidhu’s tall claims on fighting mafia have fallen flat: Amarinder||Former Punjab Chief Minister and Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) chief Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.) on Monday hit out at Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu for his “tall claims” of fighting the sand mafia. Capt. Amarinder said Mr. Sidhu’s credentials in the matter were dubious as many of the Congress MLAs he had led in rebellion against him had direct or indirect interest or share in the sand mafia. “This, coupled with the fact that the PPCC enjoyed hobnobbing with anti-nationals elements, including his close friends in the Pakistan leadership that had even lobbied for his induction to the State Cabinet, had exposed his self-interest and his completely apathy to Punjab’s interests,” he stated. Capt. Amarinder rejected Mr. Sidhu’s allegation that he had failed to take action against the sand mafia during his tenure as the Chief Minister. The PLC leader said that not only he had taken all possible administrative steps to check illegal mining, he had also specifically asked the Congress president for directives on acting against the Congress leaders and members involved in the racket. “What is shocking is that instead of taking action against these MLAs, who had the support of Mr. Sidhu, the Congress’s top leadership had chosen to sack me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhus-tall-claims-have-fallen-flat-says-amarinder/article38321882.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||PM urges children to follow Netaji’s example||Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with the winners of the National Child Award, 2022, and extolled the valour and sacrifice of the four martyred sons of Guru Gobind Singh. He also urged them to follow Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose’s motto of “nation first”. Twenty-nine children were given the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar for their exceptional achievements in innovation, social science, education, sports, arts and culture and for demonstrating bravery. They were given digital certificates using blockchain technology and a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh at an event held online.  Mr. Modi said, “In our country, we have the example of Guru Gobind Singh’s four sons, sahibzaade, who sacrificed their lives at a very young age. Their sacrifice for Indian civilisation, culture, faith and religion is incomparable.”  Netaji’s contribution He reminded the children of the contribution of Netaji a day after his digital statue was set up at India Gate. “You must have seen that we have set up a digital statue of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. Netaji inspires us to believe in duty and [the principle of] nation first,” he stated.  The Prime Minister told the awardees that they were being honoured on a special occasion, when the country was celebrating Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav to mark 75 years of Independence. This was an occasion to not only be motivated by the achievements of the past, but to honour the pledges made in the present and to dream and set goals for the future, he stressed.   He urged the children to take the message of “Vocal for Local” campaign far and wide. “Make a list of all the items you use in a day and identify those that are not made in India. You must insist that your family members buy only those products that are made in India. When you buy such products, their production will increase. This will result in increase in employment opportunities and help you become self-sufficient [ atmanirbhar ]. That is why our atmanirbhar campaign is linked to the youth of,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-urges-children-to-follow-netajis-example/article64945910.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||Former CM Harish Rawat to contest from Ramnagar||The Congress on Monday announced candidates for 11 seats in the Uttarakhand Assembly election, including former Chief Minister Harish Rawat and the daughter-in-law of Harak Singh Rawat, a former BJP Minister who re-joined the Congress recently. Mr. Harish Rawat was fielded from the Ramnagar constituency, and Anukriti Gusain Rawat, from Lansdowne. Mr. Harak Singh Rawat had left the Congress to join the BJP in 2016. He and Ms. Gusain Rawat joined the Congress last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-cm-harish-rawat-to-contest-from-ramnagar/article38321950.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||AAP’s CM face chosen in fake campaign: Sidhu||Days after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) announced Bhagwant Mann as its chief ministerial candidate in Punjab based on “public opinion”, the Congress on Monday termed the campaign as fake. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu said the AAP leaders had misled the public. “AAP launched a private number to host the fake contest to elect their CM candidate by popular vote. A private line was launched to receive and record responses. AAP announced the CM candidate by popular vote of 21,59,475 responses received within a span of 4 days whereas the population of Punjab is over 2 crores. That does not even make their candidate any viable option. Further, to even believe they received such responses, the math of it doesn’t add up. In general circumstances, a toll-free number can still hold some load, however, there is no way a private number can hold so many responses.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aaps-cm-face-chosen-in-fake-campaign-sidhu/article38321880.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||‘Governor should initiate action against Channi’||As the issue of Enforcement Directorate raids on Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s relative and illegal sand mining gains momentum ahead of Assembly elections in Punjab, Aam Aadmi Party leaders on Monday met Punjab Governor Banwari Lal Purohit, demanding action against the Chief Minister. AAP’s Punjab unit has demanded the Governor to file a criminal case against Mr. Channi in the matter surrounding sand mining. A delegation of AAP led by the party’s Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha met the Governor and submitted a memorandum in this regard. Mr. Chadha said in the memorandum, AAP have informed the Governor about the ED raids and demanded that a legal case against Chief Minister Channi should be filed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/governor-should-initiate-action-against-channi/article38321750.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:14 IST,||HC questions delay in DGP appointment||The Bombay High Court on Monday asked why the Maharashtra government cannot accept the recommendations of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) in appointing a permanent Director General of Police (DGP). A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M.S. Karnik was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) plea filed by advocate Datta Mane seeking direction to the government to appoint a permanent DGP as per the UPSC recommendation. The PIL pla sought the government to place records in connection with the “inordinate delay” in not following the Supreme Court’s directions which had said the appointment of a permanent DGP should be made from a list of three officers recommended by the UPSC. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, representing the UPSC, said the panel had recommended names of Hemant Nagrale, Rajnish Seth, Venkatesan and acting DGP Sanjay Pandey’s name was not in the list of recommendations. The court said, “We find that there was a meeting of the panel in November 2021 and the then Chief Secretary [Sitaram Kunte] was party to the committee and if he had then agreed to the three recommendations, can he later on say the Commission was not right in discarding certain names of an aspirant?” Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said there cannot be any doubt that the post will be filled on a permanent basis. The court then said it was not proper on the part of the then Chief Secretary to say the Commission had erred one week after signing the papers. The State government cannot now say its recommendations can be considered by the UPSC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-questions-delay-in-dgp-appointment/article38321740.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||NDA firms up alliance in Punjab; BJP gets 65 seats||“Punjab needs special attention now. Despite being a progressive State, it is under Rs. 3 lakh crore debt and to take forward the State is our responsibility. It will be our aim to bring back Punjab on track. The Centre-State relations are important for stability and security,” Mr. Nadda said. Infiltration concerns Capt. Singh took this theme of Punjab being a sensitive border State with attempted infiltration from Pakistan being a continuous problem by claiming that he was sent a message through an intermediary of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan requesting him to accommodate Navjot Singh Sidhu in his Cabinet after the latter had been sacked. He also lauded the Central government for extending the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) to 50 km inside the borders of a State, stating that the new technology of drones and their reach had made this an advisable step. “Drones can now penetrate 32 km from the border to drop arms, drugs, ammunition, we need this new jurisdiction to deal with this new threat,” he said. “The amount of weaponry that had been caught just in my four-and-a-half year tenure as Chief Minister was around 1,000 rifles, 500 small pistols, RDX, ammunition and drones,” he said. “We need a stable government in Punjab that is sensitive to all these issues,” he said, adding that the NDA would give such a government. Farm law withdrawal  Mr. Dhindsa on his part said the alliance with the NDA came about because “the situation in Punjab is quite bad, farmers are under debt, industry isn’t there and in every election, there are issues of Hindu-Sikh or Hindu-Muslim, so we decided that we need to fight together to ensure our bhaichara [brotherhood].”  He expressed his gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for withdrawing the three contentious farm laws and declaring December 26 as Vir Bal Diwas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nda-firms-up-alliance-in-punjab-bjp-gets-65-seats/article38321741.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,||Delhi HC to hear plea on PM’s security on April 30||The Delhi High Court on Monday posted for hearing a petition on issue of safety and security of the Prime Minister on April 30, noting that the Supreme Court is already seized of the issue. At the outset of the hearing, a Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said petitioner Ashish Kumar could submit a representation with the Central government on the issue. The Bench noted that the top court was awaiting the report of the committee appointed by it. Mr. Kumar has sought a declaration that all authorities, civil or military, shall act under the supervision of the Special Protection Group (SPG) in matters of security of the Prime Minister and his immediate family members. Lawyer V. Govinda Ramanan, representing Mr. Kumar, said the plea was on a limited point of law that the SPG should have the power of superintendence in respect of the Prime Minister’s safety. Mr. Kumar stated that he filed the petition after going through media reports on a security breach during Prime Minister Modi’s recent visit to Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-to-hear-plea-on-pms-security-on-april-30/article38321893.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||No Bollywood numbers in Beating Retreat||However, defence officials clarified that the video that showed personnel dancing to the popular tune holding their rifles, was only on a lighter note during warm-up in the winter morning before the practice session started. “The personnel wake up at 4 a.m. or so and reach Rajpath by 5.30-6 a.m. for practice in the peak winter chill. So they need to warm up and be prepared for the long, stringent practice session of several hours,” a defence official explained. This year, there are 44 buglers, 16 trumpeters and 75 drummers. In 2021 there were 60 buglers, 17 trumpeters and 60 drummers. The Principal Conductor of the Beating Retreat this year is Cdr. Vijay Charles Dcurz. Another defence official said some tunes continue year on year while a few tunes are always changed. “It is a continuous process and over last several years there has been an attempt to bring in more Indian tunes,” the official said. It is for this reason that the hymn ‘Abide with me’, a favourite of Mahatma Gandhi, was dropped and all Indian tunes were chosen, officials had said.  Instead the tune ‘ Ae mere watan ke logon ’, composed by C. Ramachandra and lyrics by Kavi Pradeep has been included as it has a far wider connect with the people of India and is also easily recognised, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-bollywood-numbers-in-beating-retreat/article38321726.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||DD plans ‘360-degree’ coverage of parade||The public broadcaster Doordarshan is bracing itself for the Republic Day parade ramping up its technical abilities which will see 59 cameras and over 160 personnel telecast the parade live this time. This is the highest number of cameras and personnel deployed for the coverage till date. “We began our preparations as early as November 2021 to ensure 360 degree impeccable coverage of all aspects of every event on Republic Day,” Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati said. Visuals from two 360-degree cameras will be continuously live-streamed through two separate streams on DD National YouTube channel. To mark the 75 years of India’s Independence, the Air Force will be using 75 aircraft, the largest fleet ever to be used for a Republic fly past. These planes will be flying in different formations and the closing act will be flying in the form of 75.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dd-plans-360-degree-coverage-of-parade/article38321948.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||Pakistan sends plea by Hindu body for flights||Mr. Vankwani, who is also a legislator from the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf party, said he had discussed with Pakistani officials the possibility of allowing Air India flights from India. If permitted by both sides, these flights would carry Indian Hindu pilgrims to Peshawar for the Paramhans Mandir and to Karachi for the Hinglaj Mata Mandir. The erstwhile “Indian Airlines” last flew to Pakistan in March 2008. “Someone needs to break the deadlock [between India and Pakistan],” Mr. Vankwani said. “Looking at how other such conflicts in the world were resolved, we hope to make a start with faith tourism, and go on to more tourism, and then even trade and [regular] travel.” Trade between India and Pakistan has been suspended since August 2019, after the Pakistani government took a number of retaliatory actions to protest New Delhi’s amendment of Article 370 and other measures in Jammu and Kashmir. Even an Indian request to send 500,000 MT of wheat as humanitarian aid to Afghanistan via the Wagah border has been awaiting Pakistani clearances for several months, although reports suggest this could come through within the next week. The religious pilgrimage exchanges, which now also include the opening of the Kartarpur corridor for Sikh pilgrims, are among the few India-Pakistan confidence-building measures (CBMs) that continue to exist, with hundreds of visas issued by both sides each year for groups of Hindu, Sikh and Muslim pilgrims. The other CBMs that are still maintained include an agreement to exchange lists of prisoners held by both sides of each other’s citizens, and lists of nuclear installations that are handed over on New Year’s day every year. However, the two countries have no direct travel or trade relations, and their missions in Delhi and Islamabad, which have been significantly downsized, do not have High Commissioners at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pakistan-sends-plea-by-hindu-body-for-flights/article38321727.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,||Greatness of Sita, Bharata||The Ramayana is the story of Sita, says Valmiki. Sita spurned Ravana’s offers, and ignored his threats. And Ravana was no ordinary man, elaborated V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. He had performed a homa for Lord Siva and Siva had given him a boon. If any of Ravana’s heads were cut, it would keep sprouting back. Ravana then prostrated at Siva’s feet. But he made sure that five of his heads touched Siva’s right foot, but the remaining five did not touch Siva’s left foot. Parvathi asked Siva why Ravana had done something so strange. Siva replied that it was because the left side of his (Siva’s) body was taken up by Parvathi, Siva being Ardhanari. Ravana had avoided Siva’s left foot, for Ravana never honoured women. Parvathi then cursed Ravana and said he would die because of a woman. Such a Ravana, who had refused to pay respects to Parvathi or for that matter to any woman, begged Sita for Her favours, but was turned away by Her. Sita’s resolve and faith in Rama stand out in the Ramayana. The Ramayana is equally the story of Bharata, Rama’s brother. Bharata’s sacrifices are also impressive. Rama had donned garments made of tree bark when He went to forest. His hair was matted. Bharata had no need to dress like Rama for, he was in Ayodhya. Anyone else in his place would have enjoyed all the royal comforts. But Bharata chose to shun all the royal riches. Like Rama, he dressed in the bark of trees and kept his hair matted. Kalidasa describes the scene where Sita descends from the Pushpaka vimana. Bharata bows at Sita’s feet and his head makes contact with Her feet. Kalidasa wonders if Bharata’s head acquired merit because of contact with Sita’s feet, or whether Sita’s feet acquired merit due to contact with Bharata’s head.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/greatness-of-sita-bharata/article38321889.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:20 IST,||How a Chola-era bronze idol was retrieved from the U.K.||Thirty years ago, the return of a bronze idol of Lord Nataraja, belonging to the 12th Century CE, from London, after a protracted legal battle created a sensation in Tamil Nadu. It was the first time that a State had won a case in a foreign court. It was in this case that veteran archaeologist R. Nagaswamy, who died in Chennai on Sunday, appeared as a special witness before the High Court in London.  His testimony was one of the factors that led the Court in April 1989 to conclude that the idol from the Chola era was stolen from the Kasi Viswanatha temple at Pathur in Thanjavur district. The trial judge, Ian Kennedy, also went on to describe Nagaswamy as “an unequalled expert in his subject” and “an acknowledged expert in the field of Chola bronzes,” according to The Hindu’ s archives.  The idol, which was smuggled from the country in 1976, was found with a Canadian company which, according to an order of the Court of Appeal (Civil Division) of England and Wales in February 1991, bought the idol in “good faith” from a dealer in June 1982. Subsequently, the Scotland Yard had seized the idol from the company. From then on, the legal battle began with the private company suing the Scotland Yard and charging it with illegal seizure of the idol. It was left to the British police agency in association with the Government of India and the Tamil Nadu Government to establish the origin of the idol as Pathur. After the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal by the Canadian firm, the matter went to the House of Lords, the highest court of appeal in Britain. In May 1991, the House too refused the company leave to appeal against the judgment. Later, Bhaskar Gorphade, a London-based barrister who fought the case on behalf of India, had even declared that the people of India should now claim other such objects lying in Britain. In August 1991, the statue was formally handed over by then High Commissioner of India to the United Kingdom L.M. Singhvi to then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa at Fort St. George. The barrister, Nagaswamy, Gorphade, and Pakkiriswamy Chandra Sekharan, then Director of Forensic Sciences, were among those who were honoured on the occasion. Speaking at the function, Singhvi, a leading jurist and the occupant of the post of High Commissioner during 1991-97, pointed out that the litigation represented the “composite culture of India” — it was instituted at a time when a Muslim (V.A. Seyid Muhammad) was the High Commissioner (1980-84) and nurtured subsequently by a Christian (P.C. Alexander - 1985-87), apart from himself (a Hindu).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/how-a-chola-era-bronze-idol-was-retrieved-from-the-uk/article38322332.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,||Revamped CGHS website, app launched||Aimed at benefiting more than 40 lakh beneficiaries (both in-service and retired personnel) with real-time information from the convenience of their homes, the Health Ministry has revamped the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) website ( www.cghs.gov.in ) and mobile app, “MyCGHS”.  Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya digitally launched the revamped website on Monday. “The launch of the revamped CGHS website linked with a mobile app is an important and timely step towards catering to India’s increasing digital penetration,’’ said the Ministry. The Minister said the facility will enable delivery of healthcare services without venturing out and is an innovative step during the ongoing pandemic. It is an important and timely step powered by India’s increasing digital penetration, he said. He said the basket of services is enlarged with the revamped website. With the newly provided feature of tele–consultation, the CGHS beneficiaries can seek expert advice directly through teleconsultation, he said. With these improved facilities, the CGHS aims to further increase its outreach to beneficiaries with ease of providing various facilities. Disabled-friendly The website has been developed in accordance with Guidelines for Indian Government Websites and has user friendly features including aid for visually impaired persons like audio play of the text and option to increase the font size etc. The website also has a link to beneficiary login for accessing online facilities such as tracking of medical claims, grievances, status and downloading of CGHS card, accessing history of medicines, online appointment system and various other facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/revamped-cghs-website-and-mobile-app-launched/article64945889.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||Parliament to function in two shifts||Parliament will function in two shifts during the upcoming Budget Session, with the Rajya Sabha functioning from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. and the Lok Sabha from 4 p.m. till 9 p.m. At least two Parliament sessions in the past two years have been held this way as part of the COVID-19 protocol. The restrictions were partially removed after the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic when the number of cases started waning. But now in the view of spiralling Omicron cases, the protocol has returned. 875 test positive The two Houses are sitting in shifts to enable the members to be seated across both chambers of Parliament to ensure social distancing. On Sunday, Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu tested positive for COVID-19. As per figures released till Sunday, 875 personnel working at the Parliament complex have tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parliament-to-function-in-two-shifts/article38321737.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,||India, Israel mark a major milestone||India and Israel started a series of events to celebrate three decades of diplomatic relations, which began in 1992. The Monday event launched the logo for the 30th anniversary featuring the Star of David and the Ashoka Chakra — symbols that appear on the flags of the two countries. The 30th anniversary will be marked with a series of events and high level visits spread across the year. A visit from Prime Minister Naftali Bennett was expected in January but it is likely to take place later this year because of the pandemic situation in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-israel-mark-a-major-milestone/article38321954.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:14 IST,||NPP releases list of Manipur candidates||National People’s Party president Conrad K. Sangma released on Monday a list of 20 candidates for the Manipur Assembly election, which will be held on February 27 and March 3. There are two women candidates in the list. Most of the candidates, except those who got elected in the 2016 election, are new faces. Yumnam Joykumar, deputy Chief Minister and chairman of the State election management committee, and former Health Minister L. Jayentakumar are among the candidates. Mr. Sangma, who is said to be COVID-19 positive, could not come to Imphal and released the list through the virtual mode. Party sources said the NPP may field about 40 candidates in the 60-seat Assembly election. The list will be released in three phases. Mr. Joykumar said there would be no pre-poll alliance. However, there is possibility of post poll-alliances since no party is likely to secure a clear-cut majority, he said. The NPP shall play a big role in the formation of the next Ministry, he added. The NPP is the second party to have come out with the first list of candidates. The opposition Congress had released its first phase candidates, to which there were angry reactions from aspirants. One politician, A. Dwijamani, resigned from the Congress after burning the party flags and banners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/npp-releases-list-of-manipur-candidates/article38321745.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||HC dismisses anticipatory bail plea of Majithia||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday dismissed the anticipatory bail application of former Minister and senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a case related to illicit drugs smuggling and harbouring offenders involved in the drugs trade. Mr. Majithia counsel, Asrhdeep Singh Cheema, saida request was submitted to extend the interim protection for seven days for moving the Supreme Court. The detailed order was awaited, he added. The court had earlier granted Mr. Majithia interim anticipatory bail and directed him to join the investigation. NDPS Act Sections The Punjab Police have registered an FIR under Sections 25 (allowing premises to be used for commission of an offence), 27A (financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) and 29 (abetment and criminal conspiracy) of the Narcotic Drugs And Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985 against Mr. Majithia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-dismisses-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-majithia/article38321881.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:15 IST,||‘J&K medical colleges losing autonomy’||The local doctors’ association in the Kashmir Valley on Monday is up in arms against the Union Territory administration’s move to dilute the autonomy of the government medical colleges (GMCs), truncate powers of principals and delegate more powers to the bureaucrats, in “first such precedent” in the country. The J&K Health and Medical Education Department has proposed to empower administrators, personal officers and administrative officers from the bureaucracy to look into matters pertaining to government medical colleges’ employees, annual performance reports, departmental enquiries, vigilance cases, public grievances, service records, outsourcing, budget and planning matters. Terming the move a “clear infringement on the rights and jurisdiction of the executive heads of the medical institutions”, the Medical Faculty Association said: “The Association strongly feels that the draft-proposal amounts to degrading the chair of the principals and deans of the GMCs”. Describing the proposal as “demoralising to the faculty members”, the doctors said they would have no objection if the arrangement were part of a national scheme applicable to all such institutions. “No such example is available from any medical institutions in any of the States or Union Territories.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-medical-colleges-losing-autonomy/article38321890.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||ED attaches assets worth Rs. 69.14 crore||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 69.14 crore of businessman Dhanraj Kochar and his family members in connection with a cheating case involving over Rs. 100 crore. The agency had conducted searches on the premises linked to the accused in September last and seized cash and jewellery. According to the ED, he was one of the directors of D. R. Foundations & Estates Private Limited, that was into real estate business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-6914-crore/article38321729.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:26 IST,||Court asks CBI to reply to Indrani’s application saying Sheena is alive||A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Monday accepted an application filed by former media executive Indrani Mukerjea stating that her daughter Sheena Bora is alive and directed the CBI to file a reply. Advocate Sana Raees Khan filed an application on behalf of Ms. Mukerjea, lodged at the Byculla women’s prison since October 2012 for allegedly killing her daughter Sheena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-asks-cbi-to-reply-to-indranis-application-saying-sheena-is-alive/article64945905.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||Pakistan to hand over 20 Indian fishermen to India at Wagah||Twenty Indian fishermen arrested by Pakistan for allegedly entering into the country’s territorial waters are set to be handed over to India through the Wagah border crossing on Monday, according to a senior jail official. The fishermen, kept in Karachi's Landhi Jail, were released on Sunday on humanitarian grounds. Deputy Superintendent of Police Azeem Thebo said that with the release of these 20 Indian fishermen as a goodwill gesture, there are now 568 Indian fishermen left in the jail, the Dawn newspaper reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pakistan-to-hand-over-20-indian-fishermen-to-india-at-wagah/article38321725.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:59 IST,TAMIL NADU||Foxconn V-P calls on CM||Foxconn Executive Vice-President Andrew Liou called on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat here on Monday. Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu and Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu were also present. The meeting assumes significance since Foxconn’s plant at Sriperumbudur in Kancheepuram district reopened earlier this month after it was shut down briefly. The unit which manufactures Apple’s iPhones was shut down in December last year after protests triggered by reports of over 100 women workers becoming sick because of food poisoning. “The meeting was essentially sought by them to thank the Chief Minister and the government for resolving the issue amicably. They were explaining various measures that are either being taken are to be undertaken for welfare of their employees,” a source said.  The State government has asked Foxconn to consider its investments or expansion plans in Tamil Nadu. Another source told The Hindu : “They [Foxconn] are fully committed to their investments in Tamil Nadu and will be expanding their presence in the State in newer areas as well. They thanked the State government for support and indicated that a team will come later in the year to discuss further opportunities.”  Earlier, Apple had placed the plant on probation and Foxconn apologised for the incident, even as it assured corrective action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foxconn-v-p-calls-on-cm/article64946141.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||Parts of T.N. may get light to moderate rain||Coastal parts of the State and interior Tamil Nadu may experience isolated light to moderate rain till January 28, according to the Meteorological Department. While coastal areas, Puducherry and Karaikal may receive light to moderate rain in one or two places till Wednesday, rainfall activity may also cover interior districts, such as Ariyalur and Tiruchi, till Friday. On Monday, rain gauges in areas, such as Meenambakkam, West Tambaram, Poonamallee and Villivakkam in Chennai and other places, including Cuddalore, Thanjavur and Chidambaram recorded light rain till 5.30 p.m. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Monday, Chennai Airport, Tirur in Tiruvallur district and Kattapakkam in Kancheepuram district registered 2cm of rainfall each, which was the highest amount of rain recorded in the State for the day. A few weather stations, including Mamallapuram, too received light rain. S.Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai said a trough from Karnataka passing through interior parts of Tamil Nadu was one of the reasons for the wet weather. However, most of the other parts might have only dry weather. Interaction of easterlies from the ocean and westerly winds from the land would also trigger rainfall, particularly over coastal region, he said. Chennai will continue to experience cloudy sky and light rain may occur in some areas till Wednesday. The maximum temperature may be slightly below normal at 29 degree Celsius. On Monday too, the weather stations at Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a day temperature of 29.7 degree Celsius and 29.1 degree Celsius respectively. However, cloudy conditions may keep the nights relatively warm as minimum temperature is likely to be around 24 degree Celsius, said officials. Rainfall over Chennai Nungambakkam has far exceeded its monthly share. This January, Nungambakkam has so far received 9 cm, which is nearly 7 cm more than its monthly quota. Similarly, Meenambakkam has recorded 5.3 cm of rain, which is 2.7 cm more than monthly average, according to IMD data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parts-of-tn-may-get-light-to-moderate-rain/article64946092.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||State will fully cooperate on NHAI projects: CM to Gadkari||Expressing surprise at Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari’s observation that his Ministry was facing “major problems in Tamil Nadu,” Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday assured him that the State government will extend its full cooperation to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to expedite all projects. He also flagged several issues for necessary action.  Referring to Mr. Gadkari’s remarks during The Hindu BusinessLine event, ‘Countdown to Budget 2022’, he said, “Many of the current issues causing project delays are legacy issues of the past decade, and my teams of officers under the Chief Secretary are putting in their best efforts to sort them out at the earliest.”  Recalling the Union Minister’s previous letter to him on the issue, and his detailed response to it, Mr. Stalin said some corrective measures had to be taken by the NHAI, too, on some issues, which had resulted in project delays. “The system of approval of land valuation for acquisition under the National Highways Act needs to be streamlined.In some cases, the NHAI has not agreed to the valuation fixed by the Competent Authority for Land Acquisition (CALA) or the arbitration awards given by the District Collectors, putting the process in limbo,” he pointed out. Incomplete documents In many cases, applications for ‘borrow earth permission’ were being submitted without the requisite documents, and in some instances, applications were submitted for sites which were not feasible due to stagnation of water in ponds/tanks or because they fell under eco-sensitive zones, he said. “Such applications need to be scrutinised before submission,” he added. As for ‘borrow earth permission’ in government lands, which are being given for three months since Tamil Nadu has two spells of monsoon and tanks/ponds are usually under water for six months, the CM said, “Considering the request made by the NHAI, action is being taken to amend the mining rules to give permits for longer periods in government lands also.” For private lands, permission is already being given for nine months or more, he said. Detailing the efforts being made by the State in implementing NHAI projects, Mr. Stalin recalled a meeting between the Minister for Public Works and the Union Minister in Delhi on October 12 last year, and a joint meeting on December 16 last year, attended by District Collectors, the NHAI General Manager and other officials. “All the issues and the action taken on them were discussed during this full-day [December 16] meeting, and it was noted that about 80% of the NHAI’s issues had been resolved,” he said. “With all these steps, it is clear that the State government has put its best foot forward to support NHAI projects in Tamil Nadu, and this has helped resolve many long-pending issues,” the Chief Minister said. “Considering the efforts made by the State government and the resultant progress in the field, your statement, made during the above-mentioned event, has been a bit surprising to me. Nevertheless, I, once again, would like to assure you that my government will provide its full cooperation to the NHAI to expedite all the works,” the Chief Minister said in his letter to the Union Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-will-fully-cooperate-on-nhai-projects-cm-to-gadkari/article64945975.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Land-grabbers will face severe action’||Commissioner of Police, Tambaram, and Additional Director-General of Police M. Ravi said the organisedgangs behind landgrab would be dealt with severely as per law.  In an interview with The Hindu , Mr. Ravi said: "Landgrab cases are recorded in Tambaram, Selaiyur, Pallikaranai,Gudvanchery, Otteri and Thalambur (in Tambaram Police Commissionerate jurisdiction). Already (those) cases are under investigation and that will be pursued vigorously. The organised gangs behind such landgrab will be dealt with severely as per law."  From January 1, the office of Tambaram Police Commissionerate has been functioning from Sholinganallur withjurisdiction over two police districts of Tambaram and Pallikaranai with 20 police stations and over 4,000 police personnel. Kannagi Nagar, Semmancheri, Thalambur, Kanathur, Kelambakkam, Perumbakkam, Chitlapakkam, Selaiyur,Pallikaranai, Tambaram, Chrompet, Pallavaram, Kundrathur, Peerkankaranai, Gudvanchery, Otteri, Maraimalai Nagar, Manimangalam, Somangalam and Sankar Nagar police stations that come under the Tambaram Police Commissionerate. Mr. Ravi has been organisingspecial units and visitingpolice stations in his jurisdiction. He says formation of a new commissionerate is a good step towards intensive policing and hitherto untouched areas will receive attention and the public will be able to get their grievances redressed quickly. Asked about the challenges he faced, Mr. Ravi said: “Administrative and field challenges are aplenty which are to be addressed immediately. We have to start from the scratch and organise special units, consisting of executive and ministerial staff, allocation of duties and responsibilities, fixing right persons for right jobs, budget allocation, transfer of cases from other units. In the process of transition, we have to ensure continuity of policing for which we are getting all the support from the concerned.” About new initiatives he has been contemplating, the Commissioner of Police said Tamil Nadu Police had taken many steps. “If we follow up on those initiatives that would suffice. Therefore, in the course of our action, we will come up with new initiatives which are need based that will improve the delivery of police services and the public will be ultimate beneficiaries.” Spelling out his strategy on crime control and prevention, Mr. Ravi said, "Crime-prone areas are being mapped. We are identifying the blackspots, classifying the anti-social and criminal elements. Special parties are being formed to catch the absconding criminals and they will be dealt with as per law to ensure conviction. Certainly conviction is the deterrence to prevent crimes. We are planning to rehabilitate youth from certain vulnerable areas by creating employment opportunities in industries so that they will not indulge in crimes. Drug menace will be eliminated and the rippling effect will not be allowed. “For the traffic improvement, we are studying the traffic pattern and conducting traffic surveys and accordingly, in course of time, we will ease traffic snarls and improve the traffic flow on highways. All the residential apartment associations will be roped in for community policing,” said Mr. Ravi. The Commissioner said, “The public are welcome to prefer complaints through phone for which we have given two numbers — one for traffic related issues and other for general issues including crime and law and order 8525007100 and 9585860100. We have social media accounts Twitter and Facebook and are planning to create a dynamic website to interact with the citizens.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/land-grabbers-will-face-severe-action/article64946230.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Body of student who drowned in the Philippines brought to T.N.||The body of a student from Tamil Nadu who drowned in the Philippines, where he was pursuing medical education, arrived here in the early hours of Monday. As a special case, the Tamil Nadu Government paid the expenses to fly the body down from the Philippines. B. Sashti Kumar, a native of Bodinayakkanur in Theni drowned at a water fall in the Philippines on January 15. Former Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam requested Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to bring the body of the student from the foreign country to his native place, an official release said. On the advice of the Chief Minister, efforts were taken through the Commissionerate of Rehabilitation and Welfare of Non-Resident Tamils, the Union External Affairs Ministry and the Embassy of India in the Philippines. The body was brought to the Chennai airport at 2.15 a.m. on Monday and was handed over to the family members. Considering it a special case, expenses to the tune of Rs. 4 lakh was borne by the State government to bring the body to Tamil Nadu. A free ambulance service has been arranged to take the body to the victim’s home town in Theni. Mr. Stalin extended his condolences to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-student-who-drowned-in-the-philippines-brought-to-tn/article64945981.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||State reports 30,215 fresh COVID-19 infections||A total of 30,215 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday, taking the overall tally to 31,64,205. As on date 2,06,484 patients are under treatment. Except Mayiladuthurai, which reported 88 new infections, all other districts had a high caseload, with hundreds of people testing positive. In Chennai, the number of new infections continued to fall, with 6,296 people testing positive on Monday. The district also recorded 17 deaths. A total of 6,98,616 people have tested positive till date, and 52,742 are under treatment either at home or in healthcare facilities. Several districts reported fresh cases in their thousands. In Coimbatore, 3,786 new infections were reported, while in Chengalpattu, 1,742 people tested positive. Erode, Kanniyakumari, Salem, Thanjavur and Tiruppur also reported over 1,000 fresh cases each. All the 46 deaths reported on Monday were due to pre-existing health conditions. A total of 25 deaths were recorded in private hospitals and the rest in government facilities. A 91-year-old woman from Chennai, who had diabetes and hypertension, tested positive for COVID-19 on January 22 and died a few hours later. She had been admitted on January 12 to the Southern Railway Headquarters Hospital, Perambur, with complaints of fever and cough. The hospital recorded her death as having occurred due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 24,639 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the total figure to 29,20,457. Vaccine uptake In 3,565 sessions held to provide Covishield and Covaxin shots, 2,164 health workers and 2,739 frontline workers received the jabs. As many as 8,961 beneficiaries in the 15 to 17 age group and 78,176 people in the 18 to 44 age group also benefited. Among those aged 45 to 59, 1,37,245 were administered the vaccines. A total of 25,400 senior citizens also got the shots. This took the total number of people having been vaccinated so far to 9,06,14,884.  Several districts reported fresh cases in their thousands. In Coimbatore, 3,786 new infections were reported, while in Chengalpattu, 1,742 people tested positive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-30215-fresh-covid-19-infections/article64945980.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Five-tier security for Republic Day||Over 6,800 police personnel will be deployed as part of five-tier security arrangement around Kamarajar Salai for the Republic Day celebrations. On Wednesday, Governor R.N. Ravi will unfurl the National Flag near the Gandhi Square on Kamarajar Salai. On the orders of Chennai City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal, under the supervision of Additional Commissioners- T.Senthil Kumar, N.Kannan and Kapilkumar C.Saratkar- the city police has been making elaborate bandobust arrangements. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal has ordered that the vigil should be tightened and intensive checks were being done with the deployment of additional forces at airport, railway stations, bus stations, beaches, shopping malls and places of worship. Checks have been conducted at lodges and hotels and the representatives of those premises have been asked to pass on information about any suspicious person. The city police said patrolling too has been intensified all across the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-tier-security-for-republic-day/article64946227.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Clarify doubts on Police Commission’||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the State government to clarify the provision of law under which it constituted a Police Commission on January 19 under the chairmanship of retired High Court judge C.T. Selvam to recommend measures aimed at police reforms. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu told Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram that they had reserved orders on January 12 on a couple of writ petitions that challenged certain provisions of Tamil Nadu Police (Reforms) Act, 2013. The litigants, who included advocate Saravanan Dakshinamurthy and retired police officer A.G. Mourya of Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), had insisted that State Level Police Complaints Authority must be headed by a retired High Court judge and not the Home Secretary, as contemplated under the 2013 Act. Matter adjourned However, after reserving judgment in these two cases, the judges came across news reports of the State government having constituted the police commission. Therefore, the judges listed the two cases ‘for clarification’ on Monday and wanted to know the provision of law under which the commission was constituted. The A-G replied that the commission appeared to have been constituted on the basis of a direction issued by Justices N. Kirubakaran (since retired) and B. Pugalendhi last year. He also sought time to get further instructions on the issue from the government. Accepting his request, the judges adjourned the matter to January 31. The two litigants before the court had pointed out that the 2013 Act specifically states that it had been enacted to carry out the directions issued by the Supreme Court on September 22, 2006, in Prakash Singh’s case related to large scale police reforms across the country. However, ironically, some crucial provisions of the Act were directly in contravention of the Supreme Court directives, they complained. Complaints Authority The top court insisted upon the State level Police Complaints Authority to inquire into complaints against top police officers. Similarly, the court wanted district level police complaints authorities to be headed by retired district judges. On the contrary, the 2013 Act provided for constituting the state level authority under the chairmanship of Home Secretary and district level authorities led by Collectors, they complained. They had urged the court to strike down the legal provisions that were in direct contravention to the Supreme Court verdict.  The A-G informed the Bench that the panel appears to have been formed on the basis of a court order||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clarify-doubts-on-police-commission/article38322053.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Wellness Webinar on cancer, from care to cure||GEM Hospital will present The Hindu Wellness Series’ webinar on ‘Bridge the gap in Cancer from Care to Cure’ on January 26 at 11 a.m.  The webinar will touch upon cancer screening- new tools for early diagnosis in the Indian scenario. The panellists will discuss cancer cure, technologies such as Lap, robot and cancer survival post surgery. ‘Provide overview’ The webinar will also discuss the importance of patient education about cancer and provide an overview.  The panellists include C. Palanivelu, Gastroenterology and cancer surgeon, who is the chairman of GEM Hospitals; P Senthilnathan, head, HBP, Minimal Access Surgery and Liver Transplantation; R. Parthasarathi, Upper GI and Minimal Access Surgery, COO; R. Vinoth Kumar, head, Medical Gastroenterology, from the hospital. The session would be moderated by R Sujatha, Deputy Editor – Reporting, The Hindu .To register for the webinar visit: https://bit.ly/GEMTHE4 or scan the QR Code||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-wellness-webinar-on-cancer-from-care-to-cure/article64945969.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Probe ordered into complaint of ‘hijacking’ of 108 ambulances||The Madras High Court on Monday ordered an inquiry into a complaint of 108 ambulances being ‘hijacked’ to private hospitals after taking motor accident victims to government hospitals just for the purpose of recording the accident. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh directed a Special Investigation Team (SIT), the establishment of which was ordered in February 2021 for probing numerous fake motor accident insurance claims in the State, to also inquire into the complaint against the 108 ambulance service. The judge directed the police personnel attached to the SIT to obtain statements of officials of the Tamil Nadu Accident and Emergency Care Initiative (TAEI) in this regard and initiate follow-up action, besides filing a report before the court on April 4. The orders were passed after advocate N. Vijayaraghavan told the court that the State government had come up with a commendable scheme of bearing the expenses of emergency care for all motor accident victims during the first 48 hours. Such treatment could be given at the state-of-the-art trauma care centres established under TAEI on all important highways in the State. However, there appeared to be a cartel which ‘hijacks’ the 108 ambulances to the private hospitals, he lamented. On the basis of his other submissions, the judge ordered an inquiry by the Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority (TNSLSA) into as many as 84 motor accident claims, worth Rs. 11.70 crore, which had been withdrawn from a tribunal in Hosur after the court ordered an SIT probe. The judge directed the TNSLSA to summon the claimants and find out whether their lawyers had withdrawn the claim petitions with their consent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-ordered-into-complaint-of-hijacking-of-108-ambulances/article38322036.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four candidates top the medical general merit list with 710 marks in NEET 2021||Four students with a score of 710 have topped the State merit list for MBBS/BDS admission released on Monday. The toppers ranked on the basis of the qualifying National Eligibility cum Entrance Test 2021 score are: Geethanjali S. A. and Pravin M. from Namakkal; S. K. Prasenjithan from Tiruvallur and Arvind R. from Thanjavur. Among the candidates who have applied for management quota seats is R. R. Kavinesh of Tiruppur, also with 710 marks. The second rank has gone to a girl Hamda Rahman of Kerala with 701 marks. All applicants under management/NRI quota seats are from the Central Board of Secondary Education stream schools. Of the 15,259 candidates who applied under the category, 14,913 were declared eligible for counselling. I. Siva of Pudukottai with a score of 514 marks is the topper in the 7.5% seats reserved for government school students, followed by Prakash Raj S. of Tiruvannamalai who has scored 512 marks. As many as four of the 10 toppers are girls. They are among the 1,806 candidates eligible for admission. For the academic year 2021-2022, the Directorate of Medical Education received 25,593 applications of which 24,949 were found eligible. As many as 15,082 of the applicants had not taken any coaching to appear for the test. Of these, 14,618 candidates are eligible to participate in the counselling. Among the applicants 10,318 candidates are from the 2021 academic year (9,976 were found eligible) while 15,275 are from earlier batches (NEET repeaters) of which 14,973 are eligible for counselling. Of the 2,147 candidates from Tamil medium who have applied, 2,094 will be allowed to participate in the counselling process. The State has 7,825 MBBS seats in government colleges of which 6,999 seats are available for the State pool. There are also 1,930 dental seats available under counselling in the State. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian who released the merit list for the various categories said the DME had also released a video to help students understand the online counselling process for the general category applicants slated to begin on January 30. For special category candidates, including differently abled persons, wards of ex-servicemen and sports quota applicants, in-person counselling begins on January 27 on Government Omandurar Medical College premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-candidates-top-the-medical-general-merit-list-with-710-marks-in-neet-2021/article38322035.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||Anna University issues instructions for exams||Anna University has issued a detailed brochure for the upcoming November/December 2021 end-semester examinations to be held shortly. The three-hour exams will be taken by students from home and the question paper pattern will be the same as that of the one followed prior to the COVID-19 pandemic — offline, pen and paper. Candidates must have an active internet facility to download the question paper and upload the scanned (pdf version) answer script post-exam. They shall use only 15 sheets (30 pages) to write the answers. Candidates must write in blue/black ink on A4 sheets. Students may download hall tickets from the Controller of Examination web portal. The question papers will be distributed by the college during the exam session only through the platform given by the college. Candidates must dispatch the answer scripts in a cloth-lined cover by speed post/registered post/courier, addressed to the Principal of the respective institution. Students are not allowed to visit the institutions to hand over their answer scripts. Colleges must provide online platform facilities to send question papers and receive scanned copies of the answer scripts. The Controller of Examinations of Anna University has also provided the name of the contact person of each college in the student log-in of the portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-university-issues-instructions-for-exams/article38322085.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||CBI books fruits processing firm for cheating banks||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked a city-based fruits processing firm on charges of cheating three banks to the tune of Rs. 217.16 crore. Acting on a complaint lodged by a consortium of banks led by the State Bank of India, the CBI’s Economic Offences Wing registered a case against M/s Oceanic Tropical Fruits Private Limited, its directors A. Joseb Raj, Vimala Joseb and James Walter for entering into a criminal conspiracy to cheat the SBI, ICICI and the Central Bank of India. The agency said in its first information report (FIR) that the directors of the company diverted loan funds, falsified/fabricated Books of Accounts and misused the borrowed funds. After the company approached the banks for funding, the SBI (then State Bank of Travancore), ICICI and the Central Bank of India sanctioned Rs. 178.45 crore, Rs. 75.88 crore and Rs. 20 crore respectively. After the banks brought the company’s loan accounts under the non-performing asset category, an external audit firm was assigned the task of investigating the fraud angle. It was found during the inquiry that the transactions in the bank statement were not traceable in the company’s book of accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-books-fruits-processing-firm-for-cheating-banks/article38322162.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||How a Chola era bronze idol was retrieved from the U.K.||Thirty years ago, the return of a bronze idol of Lord Nataraja, belonging to the 12th Century CE, from London, after a protracted legal battle created a sensation in Tamil Nadu. It was the first time that a State had won a case in a foreign court. It was in this case that veteran archaeologist R. Nagaswamy, who died in Chennai on Sunday, appeared as a special witness before the High Court in London.  His testimony was one of the factors that led the Court in April 1989 to conclude that the idol from the Chola era was stolen from the Kasi Viswanatha temple at Pathur in Thanjavur district. The trial judge, Ian Kennedy, also went on to describe Nagaswamy as “an unequalled expert in his subject” and “an acknowledged expert in the field of Chola bronzes,” according to The Hindu’ s archives.  The idol, which was smuggled from the country in 1976, was found with a Canadian company which, according to an order of the Court of Appeal (Civil Division) of England and Wales in February 1991, bought the idol in “good faith” from a dealer in June 1982. Subsequently, the Scotland Yard had seized the idol from the company. From then on, the legal battle began with the private company suing the Scotland Yard and charging it with illegal seizure of the idol. It was left to the British police agency in association with the Government of India and the Tamil Nadu Government to establish the origin of the idol as Pathur. After the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal by the Canadian firm, the matter went to the House of Lords, the highest court of appeal in Britain. In May 1991, the House too refused the company leave to appeal against the judgment. Later, Bhaskar Gorphade, a London-based barrister who fought the case on behalf of India, had even declared that the people of India should now claim other such objects lying in Britain. In August 1991, the statue was formally handed over by then High Commissioner of India to the United Kingdom L.M. Singhvi to then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa at Fort St. George. The barrister, Nagaswamy, Gorphade, and Pakkiriswamy Chandra Sekharan, then Director of Forensic Sciences, were among those who were honoured on the occasion. Speaking at the function, Singhvi, a leading jurist and the occupant of the post of High Commissioner during 1991-97, pointed out that the litigation represented the “composite culture of India” — it was instituted at a time when a Muslim (V.A. Seyid Muhammad) was the High Commissioner (1980-84) and nurtured subsequently by a Christian (P.C. Alexander - 1985-87), apart from himself (a Hindu). Unimpeachable proof In December 1991, Singhvi, while receiving the honorary degree of D. Litt at the Tamil University, Thanjavur, said not only scholars of the art history but also termites made an unforgettable contribution to the success of the case. The insects had used soil from Pathur to build their nests at the bottom of the idol. The evidence provided by the termites in the British court was unimpeachable and established the origin and identity of the idol.  The idol, which was smuggled from India in 1976, was found with a Canadian company which bought the idol in “good faith” from a dealer in June 1982||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-a-chola-era-bronze-idol-was-retrieved-from-the-uk/article38322037.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Housing is important in rehabilitating mentally ill people’||The importance of shifting the approach from institutional care towards providing housing to mentally ill persons for better recovery and rehabilitation was stressed by the panelists who spoke at the Sundram Fasteners Lecture Series on ‘Preventing homelessness among persons with severe mental health issues.’ Speaking on the second day of the lecture series on Sunday, Deborah K. Padgett, Professor of Social Work, Public Health and Psychiatry, New York University, termed the approach of putting the mentally ill in shelters as a “stair case approach” where they kept falling down the stairs as the dropout from shelters was very high. Citing her research, she said that providing permanent housing clearly showed better outcomes for mentally ill persons than shelters, provided they received adequate support services. She acknowledged the challenges in implementing such an approach, particularly in the global south that already struggled to provide affordable housing to low-income and the homeless people. Roberto Mezzina, Chair, International Mental Health Collaborating Network, who worked in the development of the progressive Trieste model of providing mental healthcare in Italy, shared his experience in shifting from institutional care to providing housing and care. He attributed the success of the model mainly to a number of factors, including the availability of a network of community centres with trained professionals, to provide the required care at the homes where the mentally ill people lived and the government’s ability to provide housing. He said that in the long run, the approach proved to be cost-effective. Pallavi Rohatgi, executive director, The Banyan, shared the experience from the organisation’s ‘Home Again’ project that followed a similar approach to mental health care. Highlighting that the organisation is now in the middle of a significant scaling up of the project in a number of States and in Sri Lanka, she said the present phase of the project had been largely successful. K.T. Ravindran, Senior Academic Advisor, RICS School of Built Environment, and Chairman of Architecture Heritage Advisory Committee, INTACH, highlighted the poor condition of the houses given free of cost to the poor. She spoke on the things to be taken care of architecturally while providing housing to the mentally ill persons. Mrinalini Ravi, Co-Lead, Sundram Fasteners Centre for Social Action and Research, moderated the discussion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/housing-is-important-in-rehabilitating-mentally-ill-people/article38322054.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||BHOG certification for prasadam comes in for praise by Chief Minister||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin on Monday appreciated the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department for obtaining BHOG certification for prasadam (offering to deities) and food distributed as part of Annadhanam scheme at 314 temples in the State.  As a token of appreciation, he met the executive officers of 15 temples at an event at the Secretariat and handed over the Blissful Hygienic Offering to God (BHOG) certificates issued by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India.  A total of 754 temples provide food to around 75,000 persons daily under the Annadhanam scheme, for which Rs. 90 crore is spent per year. On an average six lakh devotees visit the 36,000-odd temples under the purview of the department daily and many of them are provided prasadam in some form.  Minister for HR&CE P. K. Sekarbabu said that the process of certification for 440 more temples was under way. “We wanted this to be an example of how food can be prepared in a hygienic manner and provided free to a large number of people. The certification is a continuous process and not a one-time thing,” he added. Minister for Health M. Subramanian and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhog-certification-for-prasadam-comes-in-for-praise-by-chief-minister/article38322063.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||FourKites donates $50,000 to UNICEF||FourKites, a global supply chain visibility platform has announced a donation of $50,000 to UNICEF. The funds will be used towards improving the lives of children in need. “We are pleased to be a part of the UNICEF’s groundbreaking work, helping children across the globe. The last two years have been tough on all of us and during this time, our employees and their families remained committed to supporting their community and co-workers,” said Mr. Mathew Elenjickal, founder and CEO of FourKites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fourkites-donates-50000-to-unicef/article38322443.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Residents seek better MTC bus service on Koyambedu-Medavakkam route||The residents in and around Medavakkam are facing hardship because of inadequate buses and the discontinuation of direct service to Mylapore. The MTC bus (Route no. 76) operated between Medavakkam and Dr. MGR Bus Terminus, Koyambedu, had good patronage. Regular commuters such as office-goers and traders going to the vegetable market in Koyambedu complained that the bus service remained inadequate during evening rush hours. As a result, they had to change two buses. The residents of Medavakkam also want the reintroduction of Route No. M15 between Medavakkam and Mylapore. S. Raghunathan, a resident of Sowbhagya Nagar near Perumbakkam, said the stoppage of the direct bus service to Mylapore has resulted in residents of several localities, comprising Perumbakkam, Medavakkam, Seethalapakkam and Pallikaranai, being forced to take two buses. A senior official of the MTC denying that there was inadequate service on Route no. 76 said that more than 12 services were operated. Regarding the M15 bus service, the official said the MTC has been operating more than 14 numbers of Route 14M Extension from Medavakkam to Saidapet and Broadway, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-seek-better-mtc-bus-service-on-koyambedu-medavakkam-route/article38322055.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rumoursabound about sale of Crowne Plaza||With talks of sale of a prime hotel property in the city doing the rounds on Monday, Ceebros Managing Director C. Subba Reddy said they were in talks with the group that owned the property. The property in question is the Hotel Crowne Plaza, formerly known in the city as Adyar Park, Park Sheraton and Adyar Gate hotel. “Yes, we are in talks. We are looking at developing a high-end residential project there,” he said. “Since this place is right next to the Boat Club Road, Ceebros intends to build a high end property here,” said a source who was aware of the development. Sources close to the holding company, Adyar Gate Hotel Ltd., said they had not signed any deal with anyone so far. The hotel was being managed by the Intercontinental Hotels Group. Sources at the hotel did not confirm news of the sale. In fact, allaying fears among guests about the running of the hotel, they said hotel operations would not be affected in any manner due to these talks in the market. The hotel, whose Dakshin restaurant is famous for its South Indian fare, is a favourite among the Indian Cricket team and also IPL team managers. The hotel had hosted 33 AIADMK MLAs after the demise of former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran, recalled a former party leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rumoursabound-about-sale-of-crowne-plaza/article38322029.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Pay ex-gratia to Amaravathi drowning victims’ kin’||The AIADMK coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, on Monday demanded the payment of ex-gratia of Rs. 25 lakh each to the families of six boys, who drowned while bathing in the Amaravathi at Dharapuram in Tiruppur a week ago. In a statement, he alleged that illicit river sand mining was the cause of the drownings, and the ruling party and the administration were trying to suppress this aspect. Mr. Panneerselvam also said that one member from each affected family should be awarded a government service post. Separately, in a series of tweets, AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran wondered whether it was proper on the part of the Central and the State governments to remain lax even after the Sri Lankan Government was taking steps to auction off the impounded boats of fishermen from Tamil Nadu, who were allegedly facing attacks not only from the Sri Lanka’s authorities but also pirates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-ex-gratia-to-amaravathi-drowning-victims-kin/article38322034.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chennai-based firm to roll out e-bikes this year||City-based Raptee Energy, a start-up that is developing electric motorcycles, will launch its first set of vehicles in the market by July and is also in the process of raising its next round of funding. “We have been testing our prototype on roads for over a year now. The public trials will start later this month. This vehicle will compete against the 250cc and 500cc vehicles,” Dinesh Arjun, CEO and co-founder of Raptee Energy, said. The firm is working on another vehicle, which will scheduled to be out in market in 2024, competing with the 150cc motorcycles. Raptee Energy was the first start-up to be incubated at the Atal Incubation Centre – Anna University in 2020. Until July 2020, the start-up was completely bootstrapped. The team (Keerthivasan Ravi, co-founder and CTO, Phunith Kumar, COO, and Karthikeyan A., the electronics lead) then raised a pre-seed amount of $700,000 (roughly Rs. 5.5 crore) from individual angels and firms. They are now looking to raise $11 million (over Rs. 81 crore) and are in talks with various people. The funds will be used for road and lab testing and for the first batch of motorcycles. The firm has its R&D happening at Ekkattuthangal and has a small manufacturing unit at the Thirumazhisai SIDCO Industrial Estate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-based-firm-to-roll-out-e-bikes-this-year/article38322163.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||VCK to push for law against superstition||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder and Chidambaram MP Thol. Thirumavalavan on Monday said there should be a debate about enacting a law against superstitions in Tamil Nadu. He was participating in a panel discussion on the occasion of commemorating those who sacrificed their lives in anti-Hindi agitations. Mr. Thirumavalavan said when neighbouring states such as Karnataka have passed a law against superstitions, Tamil Nadu also needed one. “We say that Tamil Nadu is the land of Periyar but we don’t have a law against superstition. VCK will raise this issue in the State Assembly and we will request Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in person and urge him to pass a law,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-to-push-for-law-against-superstition/article38322058.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||Raj Bhavan postpones event||In view of the pandemic, the Raj Bhavan has decided to postpone the ‘At Home Reception’ on the Republic Day on January 26. “However, the reception will be hosted in due course once the situation improves,” an official release said. It also said that the Governor has urged the people to follow the COVID-19 protocol for the safety of all the citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raj-bhavan-event-put-off/article38322059.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||Office assistant at Secretariat held for job fraud||The Chennai police have arrested a 52- year-old man, an office assistant at the Secretariat, for allegedly cheating job aspirants by promising to get them government jobs. Police identified the accused as E. Nixon of Mangalapuram, Chetpet. He was arrested by Fort Police based on a complaint from E. Rajamurugababu, 50, of Villivakkam. Job scam Rajamurugababu had paid Rs. 14.05 lakh to Nixon for arranging jobs for five aspirants. Judicial custody After receiving the money, he failed to get the jobs as promised and did not return the cash. He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/office-assistant-at-secretariat-held-for-fraud/article38322056.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||Experts study drug delivery in four States||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras and Krea University have recommended that States stagger their procurement orders instead of batching to boost their medical deliveries. Their study of drug procurement and delivery in four States, for Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Odisha and Punjab, showed that the fill-rates could rise to 53% as compared to an average of 30.95% by following their recommendations. These States procure essential medicines through State-level medical service corporations. Some states such as Kerala follow a centralised system while others such as Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Odisha follow a decentralised system. The researchers conducted a study of medicine procurement data between 2015 and 2019 to arrive at their findings. R.P. Sundarraj, professor in the Department of Management Studies, IIT-Madras and Vijaya C. Subramanian, professor, Department of Operations Management, IFMR-GSB, Krea University found that timing the order was important to meet the demands. The States must consider staggering their orders instead of batching.  The researchers relied on data available in the public domain and advice from policymakers to develop their model. Their study findings were published in the journal Social Science and Medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/experts-study-drug-procurement-and-delivery-in-four-states/article38322057.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||Buggie services to run at three Metro stations||To make commuting easier, the Metro Rail plans to run battery-operated buggie services in four stations — Wimco Nagar, Chennai Airport, Vadapalani and Chennai Central. The initiative will benefit thousands of passengers at Wimco Nagar and Chennai Airport. Every day hundreds of commuters switch between the Wimco Nagar suburban railway and Metro stations. But it has always been an arduous task for passengers to travel from one mode to another as they have to walk or take an autorickshaw. Similarly, at the Chennai Airport, many passengers or aiport staff have been asking for a buggie service between the terminals and the station. According to officials of the Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), there will be two eight-seater vehicles in each of the stations, which will be operated throughout the day. “We will finalise the contractor shortly, and these vehicles will be available in six months,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buggie-services-to-run-at-three-metro-stations/article38322161.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:58 IST,TAMIL NADU||Arumughaswamy panel gets extension||The State government on Monday extended till June 24 the tenure of Justice A. Arumughaswamy Commission of Inquiry constituted to probe the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. The panel’s tenure was to expire on January 24. The panel had sought extension to examine witnesses in the wake of the Supreme Court order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arumughaswamy-panel-gets-extension/article38322025.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation demolishes 40 houses in Ukkadam||Coimbatore Corporation on Monday demolished 40 houses in CMC Colony, Ukkadam, to facilitate the construction of the Ukkadam-Athupalayam flyover. Sources said a team led by Assistant Town Planning Officer A. Babu demolished the houses that were mostly tile or asbestos sheet roofed and were several decades old. The Monday’s demolition comes a couple of weeks after the Corporation demolished houses in the dhobi kana in Ukkadam. The Corporation, with help from the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (formerly Slum Clearance Board), had issued the evicted families tokens, making them eligible to get houses the Board was building in Ukkadam Pillukadu. Until the Board completed the houses, the families would be staying in the temporary structures that the Highways Department had erected in Pillukadu, the sources said and added that such an arrangement was in place to ensure timely completion of the flyover project. The Corporation had so far demolished 304 of the 729 houses identified to be removed from Ukkadam for the flyover project. After disconnecting power supply a few days ago, the Corporation on Monday deployed earth movers to demolish the houses and lorries to transport the debris. It had also sought the help of the Coimbatore City Police to prevent untoward incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-demolishes-40-houses-in-ukkadam/article64946221.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power loom weavers demand payment of revised wages, stage protest||Hundreds of power loom weavers in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts, who do job work for master weavers, staged a protest on Monday demanding payment of revised wages by the master weavers. The job working weavers and many of their family members took part in the protest at Karanampettai in the district. The job working power loom weavers are demanding payment of wages that were revised in November last year. After talks held by Ministers and officials in November, the master weavers were asked to implement 20 % to 23 % hike in wages paid to the job working units, depending on the variety of fabric woven. The new wages were to come into effect from December 1 last year. However, the master weavers had not implemented the new wages and the job working units went on strike from January 9. “Nearly 2.5 lakh looms are remaining idle in the two districts, resulting in production loss of Rs. 50 crore to Rs. 60 crore a day. We are asking for revised wages after eight years. We will not resume operation till the new wages are implemented,” said a job working weaver at Somanur. Officials of the Labour Department held three rounds of talks since last month with the job working weavers and master weavers and the issue is yet to be settled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-loom-weavers-demand-payment-of-revised-wages-stage-protest/article64946189.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two men deface St. Sebastian’s statue in Coimbatore church||Two unidentified men vandalised a statue of St. Sebastian on the premises of a church in Coimbatore late on Sunday. The police said the statue of St. Sebastian located at the entrance of the Holy Trinity Church was defaced by two men. According to the church administration, the incident happened around 10 p.m. Two men came to the entrance of the church on a two-wheeler and one of them scaled the gate. The intruder broke the glass plane of the shrine in the church compound with a brick and then vandalised the statue. The duo managed to escape before a security guard could secure them. The security guard alerted the priests of the church, who informed the Ramanathapuram police. The police registered a case against the two men based on the complaint lodged by Fr. Bastin Joseph, assistant vicar of the church. Though the church is situated on the busy Ramanathapuram junction, there was minimal movement of vehicles and people due to the total lockdown, which was in effect on Sunday. The police said they had collected surveillance camera footage from the spot and were on the lookout for the men. The Holy Trinity Church functions under the Ramanathapuram eparchy of the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, which is based in Kerala. A group of devotees staged a demonstration at the entrance of the church on Monday, condemning the vandalism of the shrine and the statue of St. Sebastian. They wanted the police to arrest those involved at the earliest. The Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) condemned the defacing of the statue. TMMK district president E. Ahammed Kabir urged the police to take immediate action against the offenders and ensure protection to places of worship of religious minorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-men-deface-st-sebastians-statue-in-coimbatore-church/article64945974.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||DVAC searches residence of AIADMK functionary||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), on Monday, searched the residence of K.V.N. Jayaraman, an AIADMK functionary and former chairman of No. 4 Veerapandi town panchayat in Coimbatore district, three days after it registered a case against him and his wife for allegedly amassing wealth disproportionate to their known sources of income. DVAC sources said that a five-member team headed by an Inspector searched the residence of Jayaraman (47). The search lasted for several hours. As per the First Information Report (FIR) registered against Jayaraman and his wife J. Keerthi (36) on January 21, they were in possession of pecuniary resources and properties to the tune of Rs. 1.45 crore disproportionate to their known sources of income from 2011 to 2016, while he served as the chairman of the town panchayat. According to the DVAC, Jayaraman had served as the chairman of No.4 Veerapandi town panchayat for three consecutive terms from 2001 to 2016. The DVAC’s preliminary inquiry found that most of the acquisitive activities had taken place from October 25, 2011 to October 24, 2016. Case registered Based on the findings, a case was registered against Jayaraman and Keerthi for offences under Sections 13(2) read with 13(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The FIR said that Jayaraman had committed the offence of criminal misconduct by intentionally enriching himself illicitly during the period and his wife had abetted him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-searches-residence-of-aiadmk-functionary/article38322086.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Multi-layer security in Coimbatore city in view of Republic Day||The police have arranged multi-layer security in Coimbatore city in view of the Republic Day on Wednesday. The city police will use a facial recognition application to cross check the whereabouts of persons who are found in suspicious circumstances during vehicle checks and patrols. A release issued by the police said that 1,200 police personnel including senior officers would be deployed across Coimbatore city for security. The police planned for enhanced security atplaceslike VOC Grounds, Central government institutions, airport, six railway stations and seven bus stands. To check vehicles that enter Coimbatore city, the 11 border check postswith surveillance cameraswould function round the clock.In addition to this, the police would set up 12 temporary check posts and 30 temporary isolation/barricading points for vehicle checks. Personnel, who were on duty at these places, would have facial recognition application and ‘Vahan’ application in their mobile phones. A total of 44 two-wheeler patrols and 23 four-wheeler patrols would be conducted within the limits of the 15 police stations in Coimbatore city. Two rapid action forces would be stationed at important locations to deal with law and order issues. The bomb detection and disposal squad and the dog squad of the city police had been directed to be ready to quickly respond to emergency situations such as bomb threats. Special teams from all police sub-divisions in the city would conduct searches in lodges and hotels as a precautionary measure.Foot patrols would be conducted on railway lines in the city jointly with the help of village assistants from the Revenue Department. Statues of national leaders would have round-the-clock security, the police release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/multi-layer-security-in-coimbatore-city-in-view-of-republic-day/article64946218.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||3,612 EVMs to be used for polls in Coimbatore||Coimbatore Corporation would be using 3,612 electronic voting machines for the ensuing local body polls, for which preparations have begun. Sources said that the civic body would use 3,612 machines and 1,548 ballot control units in 1,290 polling booths. But it would not use the voter verified paper audit trail machines. The Corporation had finalised the locations where it would set up the booths and identified 169 of the 1,290 booths to be sensitive. At each of the 169 sensitive booths, the civic body would install closed circuit television cameras to livestream the conduct of elections. At present the civic body was in the process of correlating the voters list with streets and wards to ensure that no voter was left out of the polling process. As on January 24, the Corporation had 15.61 lakh voters – 7.80 lakh men, 7.81 lakh women and 297 third gender voters. Once the Corporation completed the correlation process, it would send the voters’ list to the State Election Commission, the sources said. The Corporation would designate an officer as assistant returning officer to receive nomination for five wards. The Corporation was also engaged in earmarking rooms to be used at the counting centre being established at the Government College of Technology on Thadagam Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3612-evms-to-be-used-for-polls-in-coimbatore/article38322091.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:08 IST,TAMIL NADU||TPDK stages protest||Around 50 members of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam and a few other organisations staged a protest in front of the Coimbatore South taluk office on Monday condemning the Central government for “rejecting” State government’s tableau in the ensuing Republic Day parade. Led by district secretary E.M. Sajith, the protesters raised slogans condemning the Centre. Mr. Sajith said the Centre “rejecting” the tableau with images of V.O. Chidambaranar, Velu Nachiyar and Marudhu brothers and the purported comments made for the rejection were condemnable. In fact, the government had rejected not only Tamil Nadu’s tableau, but also the tableaux of Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and other southern states barring Karnataka, he added. The Coimbatore City Police personnel removed the protesters and registered a case against them for protesting without permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tpdk-stages-protest/article38322092.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||Row over PM’s portrait: BJP man arrested||The Alandurai police in Coimbatore district arrested a BJP functionary in connection with the incident wherein a group of party workers barged into Pooluvapatti town panchayat office and installed the portrait of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. The police said M. Baskaran, a former councillor and the district secretary of BJP-allied trade unions, was arrested late on Sunday. According to the police, Baskaran led a group of BJP workers and installed the portrait of the Prime Minister in the panchayat office on Saturday. Rangasamy, executive officer of the town panchayat, lodged a complaint with the police on Sunday based on which a case was registered against Baskaran, Murugesan of Alandurai and 10 others for offences under Sections448 (punishment for house-trespass), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (1) (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. Further to the investigations, Baskaran was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-cadre-held-in-row-over-installing-pms-portrait/article38322066.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Celebrations as per COVID-19 protocol||The district administration would celebrate the Republic Day on Wednesday at the V.O.C. Park Ground by following the COVID-19 safety guideline, said a release. Collector G.S. Sameeran would hoist the tricolour at 8.05 a.m. and accept the guard of honour. He will also felicitate the frontline workers. The officials would honour freedom fighters at their home, the release said and added that the Collector had tasked the tahsildars concerned with the job. The administration would livestream the celebration on the Collector’s social media page and handles, the release said. Tiruppur In Tiruppur, the celebrations would be held at Chikkanna Government Arts College. No cultural programmes by school students would be organised. The public would not be allowed to witness the celebrations, sources said. Felicitation of freedom fighters would be done at their residences by the tahsildars concerned. Collector S. Vineeth will hoist the national flag at 8.05 a.m. and accept the guard of honour. He will felicitate officials from various departments for their role during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/celebrations-as-per-covid-19-protocol/article38322074.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police pick up man for illegal possession of sandalwood logs||Batlagundu police have picked up Jayaraj (50) of G. Thummalampatti for illegal possession of sandalwood logs on Monday. Acting on a tip-off, a team of police raided the house of Jayaraj and found over 30 kg of sandalwood logs. Pattiveeranpatti Inspector of Police P. Sankareshwaran, who holds additional charge of Batlagundu station, said that the police found the sandalwood logs packed inside two gunny bags. The police suspected that the accused was trying to smuggle the logs. The initial probe revealed that Jayaraj had cut a sandalwood tree from a nearby mutt. The police handed over the accused, along with the logs, to the officials of Forest Department for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-with-sandalwood-logs/article64945990.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||Work on temporary bus stand at Solar moves at snail’s pace||The Corporation’s move to establish a temporary bus stand at Solar Punjai Lakkapuram is moving at a snail’s pace, as work is in progress to raise the height of the land. Under the Smart Cities project, development works were taken up at Rs. 39.5 crore in the existing bus terminus in the city in September, 2021. To ensure uninterrupted work, it was decided to establish a temporary bus stand at Solar for buses heading to Karur, Tiruchi, Madurai, Tirunelveli and other south-bound districts. The civic body owns 51.4 acre at Solar and the work to establish the temporary bus stand began at the place where the sewage treatment plant once functioned. Since it is located 50 metres away from the bypass road, it was decided to establish the bus stand along the road so that commuters did not face hardship. The change of spot delayed the work and the bus stand could not be established as planned. Works were halted for a few months and there was no progress. Officials said that it would take another three to five months to complete the works after which buses heading to south-bound districts would be operated. Officials said that a project to establish a permanent bus stand at the vacant land has been taken up with designing work in the final stage. They said that cost would be worked out after finalising the design.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-temporary-bus-stand-at-solar-moves-at-snails-pace/article64946191.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dumping of solid waste along road remains unchecked in Erode||Indiscriminate dumping of solid waste along the roadside here is a concern for local people and motorists as the perennial issue remains unchecked. Heaps of garbage, mostly plastic waste and used areca plates, are dumped at many places along the Outer Ring Road that connects Kokkarayanpettai with Thindal. Most of the garbage is dumped by hoteliers, workers from marriage halls and by motorists. “The illegal dumping not only affects people and the environment, but also the domestic animals,” said P. Bhuvanesh of Solar Pudur. Since dustbins were removed in residential areas and solid waste was not collected regularly, residents packed the waste in plastic covers and threw it along the road, he added. Motorists said waste from marriage halls and hotels were dumped regularly and set on fire by the workers. Since households were not located near the dumping areas, garbage was dumped regularly even by the panchayat workers, said a motorist. The garbage was set on fire frequently causing pollution. Since the local body was not initiating action against the dumpers, the problem was widely affecting people, said a shopkeeper in the vicinity. He said garbage was dumped round the clock as there was no one to monitor it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dumping-of-solid-waste-along-road-remains-unchecked-in-erode/article64946179.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 1,119 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Monday reported 1,119 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,18,607. While 631 persons were discharged, 6,848 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 722. Salem district reported 1,089 positive cases and one death. According to health officials, 1,073 cases were indigenous and 519 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 791 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Krishnagiri recorded 983 cases, while 493 persons got discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 5,068 as of Monday. A total of 51,968 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri recorded 424 fresh cases, while 183 persons got discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 2,378. As of date, a total 32,539 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-1119-new-covid-19-cases/article38322170.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level drops in Bhavanisagar dam||Water level at the Bhavanisagar dam dropped below 99 feet and stood at 98.25 feet against the FRL of 105 feet on Monday. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 332 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project canal, 700 cusecs into Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs into River Bhavani for drinking water purpose. The storage was 27.93 tmc ft against the capacity of 32.80 tmc ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-drops-in-bhavanisagar-dam/article38322175.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Residents oppose demolition of houses||The residents of Bharathi Nagar in Soolai have urged the district administration to postpone the demolition of their houses for road widening works, until they were provided alternative accommodation. In their petition to the Collector, which they dropped in the petition box, the people said that there were 100 houses in their area in which those belonging to Adi Dravidar and Dalit communities have been residing for over 50 years. The State Highways Department had served a notice recently asking them to vacate their houses for road widening project. Most of the people were daily wage earners. If their houses were demolished, they have no place to live and would be forced to take shelter along the road. The petition wanted the administration to allot them houses under government schemes and until that their houses should not be demolished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-oppose-demolition-of-houses/article38322171.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed in elephant attack||A 35- year-old woman was killed in an elephant attack at Denkanikottai on Monday. The body of the deceased Sankaramma was found near Sriniasapuram lake. Denkanikottai police was alerted and Sankaramma’s body was retrieved and sent for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-killed-in-elephant-attack/article38322176.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Start-up grant of Rs. 6.75 lakh disbursed in Krishnagiri||Start-up grant of Rs. .6.75 lakh was disbursed under the Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project by Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy at the Collectorate. The Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project envisions promotion of rural enterprises in farm, farm ancillary and non-farm sectors through start-up assistance that would cover raw material procurement and working capital. In Krishnagiri, the project is being implemented in three blocks of Kaveripattinam, Bargur and Krishagiri. The Collector disbursed funds of Rs. .75,000 each to nine groups amounting to a cumulative disbursement of Rs. .6.75 lakh. The funds will be used by the enterprise groups towards raw material procurement, working capital etc. The beneficiary groups are involved in a range of production activities, including palm jaggery production, broom stick production, copra trading, coconut thatched roof weaving and mango cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/start-up-grant-of-rs-675-lakh-disbursed-in-krishnagiri/article38322174.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Expedite appointment of Presiding Officers in DRTs’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the Centre to take steps to expedite the process of appointment of Presiding Officers in Debts Recovery Tribunals. Till then the additional charge assigned to Presiding Officers in other DRTs should be extended, the court said. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and S. Srimathy directed the Centre to expedite the process and fill the vacancies in the Debts Recovery Tribunals in two weeks. The Centre submitted that the approval for the appointments made was awaited. The court was hearing a petition filed by Madurai Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) Bar Association that sought direction to the government to take steps to fill the vacancies in the post of Presiding Officer and other positions in DRT Madurai. Secretary of the Bar Association M. Senthilkumar said the Madurai Debts Recovery Tribunal was constituted in 2007 and was one of the largest DRTs. It had jurisdiction over 10 districts and had around 4,000 cases. However, from the day of its constitution, the Madurai DRT had not been able to discharge the functions properly in full as the presiding officer had been assigned additional charge of other DRTs. As a result, the pendency of cases had increased, he said. The total sanctioned posts in DRT Madurai included the Presiding Officer, Registrar, Two Recovery Officers and Assistant Registrar. Out of a total 27 posts, 10 posts were vacant. The post of Presiding Officer in DRT Madurai was vacant, the petitioner said. The Presiding Officer in Coimbatore was given additional charge till December 31, 2021. No notification was issued to extend the additional charge. Therefore, steps must be taken to fill the vacant post and till then the additional charge should be extended, he said. The hearing was adjourned by two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-appointment-of-presiding-officers-in-drts/article38322374.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Privatisation in civic body flayed||Various trade unions staged a protest on Madurai Corporation premises here on Monday against its “privatisation policy which would lead to reduction in number of regular employees and reduction in wages of workers.” The protesters also demanded that Rs. 15,000 incentive announced for frontline workers should be immediately paid to the sanitary workers. The trade unions wanted the State government to give the benefits of 7th Pay Commission recommendations to the permanent sanitary workers and employees of engineering department. The government should ensure that minimum wages were paid to the daily wagers and contract employees of various departments as per the Minimum Wages Act. The permanent employees whose services were regularised after 2006 should be included in the old pension scheme and the provident fund money which was deducted from them should be given immediately. Madurai Corporation should immediately regularise the services of daily wage sanitary workers as per the direction of Madurai Bench of Madras High Court. All workers should be given safety gear for work, two sets of uniforms along with tailoring charges. The Corporation should repair the tricycles and battery-operated vehicles immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/privatisation-in-civic-body-flayed/article64946138.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC sets aside conviction, sentence of man with paranoid schizophrenia||Taking into account the fact that a man convicted and sentenced by a trial court in Tiruchi for the offence of murdering his father was suffering from paranoid schizophrenia, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday set aside the conviction. The man, an engineering graduate from Tiruchi, was unemployed and living with his parents following a matrimonial dispute with his wife. He used to frequently quarrel with his father as he was reprimanded for sitting idle at home. In 2015, following a quarrel, the man threw a grinding stone on his father and left home. The other family members found the man’s father dead. Tiruchi Principal Sessions Judge sentenced him to life imprisonment for murder. He filed an appeal. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran took note of the fact that the man was suffering from paranoid and persecutory delusions since 2004 as per medical records. He was also receiving treatment for the same. The judges said that the man was suffering from paranoid schizophrenia at the time of the occurrence and even according to the prosecution, he had not fled or absconded, but was sleeping in a bus stand. When he was arrested, he was not in a right orientation of mind. Under Section 328 (1) of CrPC, the Judicial Magistrate ought to have conducted an inquiry regarding the mental health of the accused person and pending inquiry the accused could have been treated in accordance with the provisions of Section 330 of CrPC. From the case records, neither the Judicial Magistrate nor the trial court had followed this procedure in letter and spirit. The trial court for want of supporting documents disbelieved that the man was suffering from paranoid schizophrenia. In terms of Section 105 (Burden of proving that case of accused comes within exceptions) of the Indian Evidence Act, the accused clearly discharged his onus through medical evidence to avail the benefit of Section 84 (Act of a person of unsound mind) of IPC, the court said. The court said that the man was entitled for protection under Section 84 of IPC and set aside the conviction and sentence. The counsel for the appellant told the court that the man’s wife was providing care and support to him. The court said that in the light of Section 335 of CrPC, the custody of the appellant shall be given to the wife.  The accused clearly discharged his onus through medical evidence to avail the benefit of Section 84 of IPC Division Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-sets-aside-conviction-sentence-of-man-with-paranoid-schizophrenia/article38322093.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Protest staged against compulsory vaccination||People’s Federation against Compulsory Vaccination staged a demonstration here on Monday protesting against the government forcing people to compulsorily get COVID vaccine. Citing the affidavit filed by the Centre in the Supreme Court which said that the government was not forcing anyone to get themselves compulsorily vaccinated, the federation said that the union government should give up its policy on vaccination which was against the Constitution of India. Students should not be forced to get the jab which was against the rights of an individual. The government cannot snatch the basic rights in the name of compulsory vaccination. Vaccination should not be made mandatory for visiting public places, government offices, places of worship, theatres, using domestic flights and trains. Vaccination should not be made compulsory based on various diseases.The government should not create a ‘modern untouchability’ by discriminating against people who have not vaccinated. Compensation must be given for side effects caused by vaccines, like loss of life and damage to human organs. Other forms of medicine should be given equal opportunity in treating COVID-19 patients, the forum said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-staged-against-compulsory-vaccination/article64945992.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Toor dal being procured at regulated markets||Following the government direction to procure toor dal at Rs. 63 per kg, farmers in Madurai district can sell their dried and cleaned produce at the regulated markets at Tirumangalam, Vadipatti and Usilampatti. In a statement, Madurai District Collector, S. Aneesh Sekhar, said that farmers should bring copies of ‘chitta,’ ‘adangal,’ Aadhaar card, Aadhaar-linked bank passbook and register their names, or they can register while bringing the toor dal. But registration is mandatory for procurement. The toor dal will be checked for moisture content, and whether other grains got mixed, or for damaged or shrunken grains, before procurement. After procurement, the money will be credited to the bank accounts of the farmers. Since the procurement exercise is being done from January 15 to March 15, farmers in Madurai district are advised to make use of the opportunity swiftly, said Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar in a press release. For more details, farmers can contact 90251 52075 (Tirumangalam), 7010280754 (Usilampatti) and 9600802823 (Vadipatti). Details can also be had from the officials of Department of Agriculture in the respective region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toor-dal-being-procured-at-regulated-markets/article38322376.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Postpone NEET PG exam: MP||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has appealed to Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya to postpone the NEET post-graduate examination 2022. In a memorandum, the MP has said that the online stray vacancy round, for the All India Quota/Central and Deemed/ PG Diplomate of National Board (DNB) seats counselling, has been slated for March 11 to 16. An inordinate delay in the completion of 2021 counselling is no fault of the candidates. In this situation, the date for the NEET PG 2022 examination has been announced, and it is scheduled for March 12 - even before the conclusion of NEET PG counselling 2021. Many candidates who are attending counselling on the said dates after the NEET PG 2022 fear they may have to waste one year because of the clash in dates. Stating that it was unfair, and the decision to conduct the examination before the end of counselling for the previous year was taken without any application of mind, the MP said the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has sought the intervention of the Union Minister for the postponement of the NEET PG examination by at least one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postpone-neet-pg-exam-mp/article38322153.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Thewaterlevelon Monday in Periyar dam stood at 136.25 feet (maximum permissiblelevelis 142 ft.) with an inflow of 182 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, thewaterlevelstood at 69.67 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 608 cusecs and a discharge of 719 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,505 mcft. There was no rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article64946137.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 1,130 fresh COVID cases, 2 deaths||The Union Territory recorded two COVID-19 deaths and 1,130 fresh cases from 2,585 tests on Monday. Both deaths were reported in Puducherry, taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,908. Puducherry logged 1,490 of the total deaths, followed by 255 in Karaikal, 109 in Yanam and 54 in Mahe. Of the fresh infections, Puducherry accounted for 906, Karaikal 167, Yanam 40 and Mahe 17. The test positivity rate was 43.71%, the case fatality rate 1.24% and the recovery rate 88.55%. With 1,172 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases stood at 15,652, of which 185 were in hospitals and 15,467 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,53,343 cases and 1,35,783 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 21.33 lakh tests done till date, over 17.96 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 715 people took the COVID-19 vaccine on Monday. A total of 15,22,003 doses have been administered so far. Other districts Meanwhile, in Cuddalore district, 416 fresh cases and one death were reported on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 70,041. The official toll stood at 882. Villupuram district recorded one death and 517 fresh infections, which took the total tally of cases to 50,486. The overall toll stood at 362. Kallakurichi recorded 225 cases, which took the total number of cases in the district to 34,225.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-1130-fresh-covid-cases-2-deaths/article64945970.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||PWD move to set up panel of consultants for infra projects||In an effort to speed up the implementation of infrastructure projects, the Puducherry Public Works Department (PWD) has decided to create a separate body of consultants/architects, drawn from various walks of life, to formalise proposals and prepare detailed project reports (DPRs) . The aim of constituting the panel of experts, including civil/structural engineers and design consultants, is at ensuring that the PWD has an arm under its disposal to prepare the ground for taking up minor and major infrastructure projects in all four regions of the Union Territory.  “Presently, the project conceptualisation and preparation of reports for certain projects are done by our own staff, and for major projects, we invite applications from agencies to prepare DPRs. When our staff is deputed entirely for project preparation, we face further depletion in the workforce to carry out routine work. And, inviting applications every time for project preparation, is time-consuming and involves additional expenditure. So, the government has decided to select an empanelled group of experts, who will work as project consultants,” a senior PWD official told The Hindu . The selection process has already started, the official said, adding that the department was planning to constitute the group by the end of February or early March.  Applications invited “Applications have already been invited from interested persons for short-listing. Even firms that have experience in preparing project reports can participate. It will definitely help in the speedy implementation of development work and better utilisation of our staff for regular work,” the official said. Several infrastructure projects, including the construction of check dams, bridges in rural areas, irrigation works and drinking water projects, are lined up for implementation, he added.  Several infrastructure projects, including the construction of check dams, bridges in rural areas, irrigation works and drinking water projects, are lined up for implementation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-move-to-set-up-panel-of-consultants-for-infra-projects/article38322446.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide mid-day meal during school closure’||The Pondicherry Science Forum (PSF) has urged Chief Minister N. Rangasamy to sustain the mid-day meal programme for children during the period where schools remain shut due to the third wave of COVID-19. In a memorandum, Maran. C, PSF executive member, said closing the schools would result in nutritional loss apart from affecting learning. In government institutions, a large number of students are from poor socio-economic background and they solely rely on the mid-day meal programme as a key source of their daily nutrition. Missing out on meals due to extended closure of schools has already created a jeopardising condition during the pandemic’s second wave, driving many children away from education to becoming child labourers, the PSF said. "The condition of adolescent girls is even worse, since they lose their iron supplements, which they cannot afford from their families, but only from the schools," the memorandum said. Highlighting that during the previous closure of schools, the government had made arrangements to distribute 'take home rations' in the place of mid-day meals, the PSF said this was a poor substitute for freshly cooked nutritional meals. ‘Continue noon-meals’ In this situation, the PSF urged the government to continue the mid-day meal programme by providing freshly cooked meals to the students through schools and anganwadi centres during closures. This can be an incentive for the most vulnerable children, preventing nutritional loss in and dropout among them, the PSF said. Digital divide About the adverse impact on learning, the PSF said as per data from United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), India, only 24% of Indian households have internet facilities to access remote learning. In Puducherry, there is a digital divide prevailing among government and private school students. The low income families are unable to provide internet at home, resources/devices and parental support for online learning, thus leading to an uncertainty. The PSF urged the government to devise a policy for an inclusive online learning programme and recommended launching an educational broadcasting television channel through which many children will be covered by distance learning, when schools are closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-cm-to-provide-mid-day-meal-during-school-closure/article38322445.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK known for doublespeak on all major issues: Anbalagan||The Puducherry unit of the AIADMK has criticised the DMK for seeking immediate conduct of local body polls after approaching the court on the issue of reservation for Backward Classes (BC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST). Schedule annoounced AIADMK secretary, east, A. Anbalagan said the State Election Commission (SEC) had announced the schedule for local body polls in the Union Territory, from October 21. After the SEC notification on the polls arrived, the Opposition leader and DMK convenor R. Siva, approached the Madras High Court, seeking a direction to the SEC for conducting the polls only after deciding the quota for BC and ST candidates. “Now, after the court intervention, a Commission is in the process of deciding the quota for the two communities. The DMK has got no right to ask the government to conduct the polls immediately when the quota issue was being settled,” he added. The local leadership of the DMK went to the court knowing very well that the civic body elections in Tamil Nadu were conducted without providing reservation for BC and ST. The DMK was known for doublespeak on all major issues, he alleged.  The DMK has got no right to ask the government to conduct the polls immediately when the quota issue was being settled A. Anbalagan AIADAM Secretary (east)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-known-for-doublespeak-on-all-major-issues-anbalagan/article64945966.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Teacher booked||Police have registered a case against a government primary school teacher after she allegedly damaged property at the Block Education Office at Manamelkudi recently. The action against the school teacher, E. Thailammai, 53,came on Sunday on a complaint preferred by Tamilarasi, superintendent in the Block Education Office. Police and SchoolEducation department sources said the teacher was irregular in her duty and remained absent due to which she was apparently not paid salary for a couple of months. Irked by this, she came to the Block Education Office a few days ago and allegedly damaged a printer and a central processing unit. Thailammai is also said to have abused the superintendent and obstructed her from discharging her official duty. She was placed under suspension on January 21. Police booked her under IPC sections including 427 (mischief causing damage) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). The teacher was not arrested, said police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-booked/article38322135.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested||Pudukottai Town Police have arrestedtwo persons on charges of rape and murder of a 68-year-old woman on old government hospital campus here a few days ago. A police press release identified the accused as R. Veerarasu, 37, and P. Siva aliasJeevanandham, 46, both hailing from Thanjavur district. The victimworked as a temporary worker in the District Health Department Employees Cooperative Credit and Thrift Society. Pudukottai Town police had registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested/article38322379.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen threaten to give up citizenship||Ramanathapuram district fishermen have threatened to submit all documents relating to their Indian citizenship to the Collector on February 2, if the Centre failed to secure the release of all the fishermen from Tamil Nadu lodged in Sri Lankan jails. At a meeting of the All Mechanised Boats Fishermen Associations, led by its secretary, P. Sesuraja, held on Monday, the fishers expressed their anguish against the Sri Lankan government’s announcement of auctioning the boats of Tamil Nadu fishermen that were seized by the Sri Lankan Navy between 2015 and 2018. “Every boat has been created by the blood and sweat of fishermen and it is the basis of our livelihoods,” the resolution said. The boats belong to the Indian government and Sri Lanka should not unilaterally auction the confiscated boats. The fishermen demanded that the Centre immediately intervene and stop the auctioning. Recalling that the Tamil Nadu government had announced compensation for the boats seized by the Sri Lankan navy, the fishermen wanted the Centre to also announce a similar relief measure for the fishermen. Besides, the Centre should take efforts to release the fishermen languishing in Sri Lankan jails along with their boats. The Central government should also give permission for salvaging a fishing boat from Thangachimadam that was recently forced to sink in the high seas by the Sri Lankan Navy. If these demands were not met before February 2, the fishermen would go on strike on February 2 and give up all their documents of Indian citizenship, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramanathapuram-fishermen-threaten-to-give-up-citizenship/article64945988.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Security stepped up at Salem Railway junction ahead of R-Day||Security has been stepped up at the Salem Railway junction ahead of Republic Day. On Monday, the Railway Protection Force and the Government Railway Police checked the baggages of passengers who arrived at the station. Bomb Detection and Disposal Squads were also deployed as part of the security measures. The checks would continue even after the Republic Day celebrations, senior Railway Protection Force officials said. RPF officials said that escort has been extended to passenger trains. R.V.Rathee Babu, Assistant Security Commissioner of Salem Railway Division, said that checks would be conducted at all the railway stations under the division over the next few days as part of the precautionary measures. Official sources said that tracks are also being inspected by engineering departments and police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-stepped-up-at-salem-railway-junction-ahead-of-r-day/article64946176.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||CPI condemns Centre for rejecting State’s R- Day tableau||Communist Party of India on Monday condemned the Centre for rejecting Tamil Nadu’s tableau during the Republic Day parade in New Delhi. protested infront of Salem Collectorate on Monday condemning the Centre for rejecting Tamil Nadu’s float from Republic Day’s parade. Staging a protest in front of the Collectorate, the party cadre accused the Union government for disrespecting the freedom fighters from the State. The State’s tableau was designed based on the theme ‘Tamil Nadu in the freedom struggle’. The tableau depicted freedom fighters V.O. Chidambaranar, Poet Subramania Bharathi, Rani Velu Nachiyar and Marudhupandiyar brothers. The tableau is expected to be showcased during Republic Day celebrations in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-condemns-centre-for-rejecting-states-r-day-tableau/article38322166.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cash stolen from grocery shop||Unidentified persons broke the shutters of a grocery shop near Nethimedu and took away Rs. 6.45 lakh during the early hours of Monday. According to police, the burglary was noticed when the staff of the grocery shop returned on Monday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-stolen-from-grocery-shop/article38322167.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:23 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP, Hindu Munnani stage protest||Members of the Hindu Munnani and Bharatiya Janata Party staged a protest in front of the Salem Collectorate here on Monday demanding further investigation into the death by suicide of a school girl from Ariyalur district. The protesters condemned the State government and raised slogans against it. They sought a fair probe into the allegation of attempted religious conversion. Alleging that the local police investigation was not satisfactory, they demanded inquiry by Central Bureau of Investigation. The protesters also demanded the State government to pay a compensation of Rs. 1 crore to the student’s family and a government job for one of the family members. Similar protest was held in Tiruchengode. Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-hindu-munnani-stage-protest/article38322159.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man alleges police assault caused lung injury||S. Ganesan, 42, of Thenkarai, has complained that he had suffered fracture in his rib cage and his lung got punctured due to a brutal attack by Allinagaram police on January 17. His wife Vairamani has lodged a complaint with Theni Superintendent of Police Dongare Pravin Umesh on Monday seeking action against the erring Sub-Inspector of Police and others. Stating that an inquiry by an official in the rank of Additional Superintendent of Police has been ordered into the complaint, the SP said that action would be initiated based on the report. In her petition, Vairamani said that Ganesan had tried to escape on his motorcycle from a police vehicle check at Annanji junction on January 17 since he had two bottles of liquor with him. However, the Sub inspector chased him down and allegedly attacked him with a helmet on his chest. Later, Ganesan was taken to Allinagaram police station. “Though my husband pleaded with them to spare him and cried for help due to excruciating pain in the chest, the police ignored him and threatened him saying he was pretending to escape from police action,” Vairamani said. Subsequently, after he was let off late in the night after being booked for drunken riding, Ganesan went for medical check-up at a private clinic. Since the pain did not subside, he took a CT Scan at the Government Hospital in Periyakulam where injury in his left lung was revealed. Consequently, Ganesan was admitted to Theni Medical College Hospital where he underwent a surgery, Vairamani said. She added that the family had four minor children, including twins. Ganesan was the sole breadwinner for the family, which takes up all types of manual work. Now he has been cautioned against taking up any arduous work for the next one year due to the lung injury, she said. Citing medical report, the SP said that the body did not have any external injury. However, he promised to take action based on the ADSP’s inquiry report.  The SI chased him down and attacked him with a helmet on his chest Victim’s wife||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-complains-of-lung-injury-after-attack-by-theni-police/article38322154.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman seeks closure of charcoal-making unit||Demanding the permanent closure of a charcoal-making unit allegedly causing health hazards to Kumarapuram residents, a woman staged a dharna on the Collectorate premises. When V. Beulah Mary of Kumarapuram near Sawyerpuram came to the Collectorate on Monday to submit the petition, the policemen asked her to drop her petition in the box drop kept at the main entrance. However, she started running towards the main building of the Collectorate raising slogans against a charcoal-making unit near her house. As the officials and the policewomen intercepted her, Mary started rolling on the portico of the main building.After consoling her for a while, she was taken to the officials to submit her petition. She alleged that the charcoal-making unit was causing health hazards to the entire village for several years despite repeated petitions to the officials seeking its closure. Meanwhile, condemning the attack on the Arunthathiyar community people in Veeralur village in Thiruvannamalai district by the members of ‘upper caste’, members of Aathi Thamizhar Peravai staged demonstration in front of the Collectoarte. They said due compensation and protection should be given to the victims. When five Hindu Desiya Katchi cadre tried to distribute ‘halwa’ to the public, saying that the ruling DMK was cheating the people by not fulfilling its poll promises, the police arrested them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-seeks-closure-of-charcoal-making-unit/article64945983.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Justice Aruna Jegadeesan panel begins 35th sitting||The Additional Commissioner of Police, Chennai City Traffic and then Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Kapil Kumar Saratkar, on Monday appeared before the Justice Aruna Jegadeesan Commission probing the police firing in anti-Sterlite protest that killed 13 persons in May 2018. As the commission, which has planned to submit its report before March-end, commenced its 35th sitting here on Monday, Mr. Kapil Kumar Saratkar started tendering his evidence at 10 a.m. and recorded his statements in the afternoon also. Then Inspector General of Police (Intelligence) K.N. Sathyamurthy, then IG, South Zone, Shailaesh Kumar Yadav and then Superintendent of Police Mahendran are expected to appear before the commission during the current sitting. As many as 1,037 witnesses, including former Collectors Venkatesh and Sandeep Nanduri and former Superintendent of Police Murali Ramba recorded their statements and 1,483 documents had been marked in the past 34 sittings of the commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/justice-aruna-jegadeesan-panel-begins-35th-sitting/article38322152.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Construction of wellness centres under Central scheme begins||Tiruchi Corporation plans to complete construction of 32 wellness centres and two laboratories within six months. Collector S. Sivarasu on Monday inaugurated the construction of a wellness centre at Karumandapam. He was accompanied by Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman. The facility is among the 32 wellness centres and two laboratories sanctioned by National Urban Health Mission (NUHM) for Tiruchi city, which has 18 Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHC). Each UPHC will be attached with two wellness centres and led by the Chief Medical Officer of the UPHC. The initiative is aimed at enabling patients to get first-level emergency and trauma care in addition to alternative medicinal therapies and yoga. According to Mr. Rahuman, sites have been allotted for all wellness centres based on density of population and availability of space. Each centre will cost Rs. 25 lakh. Similarly, Rs. 22 lakh will be spent for each laboratory. NUHM has sanctioned Rs. 9.44 crore for the project. Work orders have been issued for construction of 31 wellness centres and the process of awarding contract for the remaining one will be completed soon. Instructions have been given to contractors to complete the works within six months and it has been planned to open the facilities in July or August. The centres will have a built-up area of 844 sq. ft. with three rooms, waiting hall for patients, yoga hall and sanitary facilities. They will focus on extending alternative medicinal practices and therapies to patients such as exposure to yoga practices, breathing techniques and natural ways of healing. The posts of medical officers, nurses and attendants are yet to be known. All of them will be appointed on a temporary basis and the NUHM has committed to providing salary to them, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-of-wellness-centres-under-central-scheme-begins/article38322139.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||42-bedded triage centre to serve as out-patient clinic at Tiruchi GH||The newly set-up triage centre at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital has been turned into a make-shift outpatient ward for patients suffering from COVID-19 symptoms. Forty-two beds have been provided with facility for power and oxygen supply. The centre will be the first stop for people suffering from fever, cold and other such symptoms. Depending upon their test results, it will be decided if they require admission or can be sent home to be quarantained. The centre was set up to provide immediate medical attention, including oxygenation, to patients arriving at the hospital with COVID-19. “During the peak of the second wave, we had to call up doctors at various COVID-19 wards to check for vacancy of beds and patients were forced to wait. In this triage ward, they can lie down and even get oxygen from the PSA plant while waiting for a bed,” K. Vanitha, Dean, said. Sockets, along with metal structures to hold portable oxygen tanks, have been arranged adjacent to each bed. Oxygen concentrators and ventilators are all in sufficient supply and can be mobilised when required. Two teams of doctors and staff nurses have been stationed at the outpatient ward, and people suffering from symptoms can get tested there. "We have rapid antigen test kits where we can test a patient and get results within 15 minutes. Depending upon the results and their health status, they are referred to the specific wards," a nurse said. The medical team will also assess the patient’s health by examining their co-morbid conditions and treatment protocol will be followed based on the outcome. If a patient over the age of 60 reports positive with comorbid conditions, which need to be monitored, they will be taken to the COVID-19 in-patient ward at the hospital. If the infection is mild or moderate, and the patient is young with no other pre-existing medical condition, they will be either referred to COVID Care Centres or be sent to home quarantine. Tiruchi Corporation and ‘108 ambulance' service will transport the patient to COVID Care Centres, the medical officers said. A staff nurse deputed to the centre says they have observed severe COVID-19 infection only in people who have not been vaccinated. "Many of us were afraid to take the vaccination too. However, after seeing that it has such a marked influence on recovery, we rushed to take it. I recommend that anyone who has missed out also take the vaccine.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/42-bedded-triage-centre-to-serve-as-out-patient-clinic-at-tiruchi-gh/article64946000.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Samba harvest begins in some parts of Tiruchi||Harvest of samba paddy crop has begun in a few parts of Tiruchi district on a positive note.   According to sources in the Agriculture Department, paddy has been raised on about 52,000 hectares during the current season. The coverage was 7,000 hectares more than the samba season in 2020-21. The abundant storage in Mettur dam and the extended spells of rain during the northeast monsoon helped farmers to bring as many acres as possible under paddy cultivation.  As per the field data collected by the department, paddy raised on about 5,200 hectares, which is 10% of the total coverage, has so far been harvested. The farmers, who completed plantation in the first week of October, have begun harvest. A large number of paddy harvesters from Erode, Namakkal and Dharmapuri have arrived in Manikandam, Thiruverumbur, Musiri and Thottiyam, where harvest is taking place on a brisk note. According to initial reports, production is near normal in several places, except those affected by inundation for more than two weeks.  The field reports suggest that the farmers are getting a good harvest barring a few pockets affected by inundation. A below-normal production is reported in a few pockets in Thiruverumbur. However, a clear picture will be known in a week. The harvest is expected to reach its peak in the first or second week of February, M. Murugesan, Joint Director of Agriculture, told The Hindu .  The farmers in Lalgudi, Valadi, Thalakudi and Pullampadi, where paddy transplantation was completed in the first week of November, are expected to begin harvest in the last week of February. “We had to replant the paddy crop in patches, which were rotten by inundation. We expect the harvest in the third or fourth week of February,” said T. Muthamilselvan of Valadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/samba-harvest-begins-in-some-parts-of-tiruchi/article64946007.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic effect: pilgrimage tour operators hit by rising costs||With COVID-19 putting the squeeze on travel and hospitality sectors for nearly two years now, private operators of Islamic pilgrimage tours in the city are facing a tough season.  As per the Islamic lunar calendar, the annual Haj pilgrimage to the cities of Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia is expected to start in July. Haj is considered to be one of the five basic tenets of Islam and mandatory for Muslims at least once in their lifetime to be undertaken in the month of Dhul Hijjah.  The Umrah , or ‘lesser pilgrimage’, on the other hand, can be performed through the year and for any number of times.  The Centre digitised the application and selection of prospective pilgrims since November last through the portal of the Haj Committee of India that functions under the Ministry of Minority Affairs. The deadline for application is January 31. Among the new norms for Haj 2022, besides compulsory double dose vaccination and age limit, is the reduction of Indian embarkation points from 21 to 10 cities. Significantly, Chennai has been left out from the list, which could entail an extra trip to points such as Kochi or Bengaluru for pilgrims from Tamil Nadu.  “Demand for Haj tours will be limited this year because the application process has shifted online. The government’s 40-day package tour costs around Rs. 3,70,000. But even then, I feel around 90% of pilgrims from Tamil Nadu will find it difficult to perform Haj this year due to the high cost,” K.M.K Habeebur Rahman, proprietor of Ar-Rahman Haj Service, told The Hindu .   Private tour companies in the State will know whether they will be allowed to cater to Haj traffic by March. However, even the demand for Umrah has been dull due to the economic slowdown, said travel executives in the city.   “Before lockdown, we were offering 15-day Umrah packages at Rs. 60,000, and sending 50-80 pilgrims per month. Now we have zero bookings because the same packages cost upwards of Rs. 1,15,000 this year,” Mr. Rahman said.  Since the travel is not leisure-oriented, many pilgrimage companies have downed shutters during lockdown. “We had customers for a brief while when the flights resumed, but with the new lockdown this year, this business too has gone. I have closed my office and sent my staff away,” said a travel company owner in Tiruchi.  “It has been 22 months since this sector was fully functional. Earlier there was no age limit, but this time people below 18 and above 65 years of age will not be eligible. We are planning to send our first batch of Umrah pilgrims in March,” said Badrudeen Ahmed, of Dolphin Air Services.  Mr. Ahmed says prices could stabilise later this year. “Most of the inflation has been due to high air ticket prices. A round trip to Saudi Arabia used to cost around Rs. 30,000. It has gone up to Rs. 60,000 in the past two years. We are expecting the fares to come down once air travel opens up. This will automatically bring other costs down.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-effect-pilgrimage-tour-operators-hit-by-rising-costs/article64946002.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man sells his two-month-old baby to lender to settle Rs. 80,000 debt||Woraiyur Police on Monday arrested a 38-year-old man on the charge of selling his two-month-old male baby. Two others, including a 46-year-old man to whom the child was allegedly sold, were also arrested. They were identified as K. Abdul Salam, father of the baby, of Keezha Pandamangalam in Woraiyur, K. Santhanakumar of Thottiyam and P. Arockiaraj of Anna Nagar in Thennur. Police sources said Abdul Salam, who worked in a shop at Gandhi Market, had five children including the sold baby. He was an alcoholic and indulged in gambling as well. He is said to have borrowed money in installments from Santhanakumar and could not repay the amount, which accumulated over a period of time to Rs. 80,000. Santhakumar apparently wanted to adopt a male child as his minor son had died earlier and expressed his desire to Arockiaraj who was known to him. The sources said Arokiaraj approached Abdul Salam and allegedly asked him to give his son to Santhanakumar instead of repaying the borrowed amount. Abdul Salam allegedly handed over his child to Santhanakumar through Arockiaraj a few days ago. Abdul Salam’s wife Kairunisha, 30, lodged a complaint with Woraiyur police with a plea to get her child back. After investigation, Woraiyur Police arrested Abdul Salam, Santhanakumar and Arockiaraj and booked a case against them under Section 81 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act (Sale and procurement of children for any purpose). The arrested persons were later remanded. The child was rescued and sent to a home for care and protection, the sources said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/38-year-old-man-held-for-selling-his-two-month-old-baby/article38322094.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 3,000 cases in central region||The central districts registered 3,163 fresh cases and six deaths on Monday. Three of the victims hailed from Thanjavur and one each from Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi, according to a bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Thanjavur continued to report a significantly high number of COVID-19 cases.A total of 1,117 patients reported positive in the district, while Tiruchi reported 742 cases, making up one-third of the total number of cases recorded in the region. Karur reported 246 cases, Nagapattinam 232 and Tiruvarur 223. In Pudukottai, 219 fresh cases were reported and in Ariyalur 189. In Perambalur, 107 cases were registered and it was 88 in Mayiladuthurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-3000-cases-in-central-region/article38322142.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||Foreign currencies seized||Officials of the Customs Air Intelligence Unit have seized foreign currencies equivalent to Rs. 13.30 lakh in Indian Rupees from a Dubai-bound male passenger at the international airport here. Based on information, the officials intercepted the passenger, who was to fly by an Air India Express flight, at the Customs area in the departure hall on Saturday. On examination of his hand luggage, they found 50,000 SaudiArabian Riyals and $5,000 without valid documents. The foreign currencies were seized from the passenger under the Customs Act, 1962.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foreign-currencies-seized/article38322147.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:15 IST,TAMIL NADU||Congress cadre protest against rejection of Tamil Nadu tableau||Protesting the rejection of Tamil Nadu’s tableau in the Republic Day celebrations to be held in New Delhi, the Congress cadre staged a dharna in front of their party office at Kokkirakulam here on Monday. Led by party’s Tirunelveli city district president K. Sankarapandian, the cadre condemned the Centre’s decision and termed the decision as “biased.” The cadre dressed like martyrs V.O. Chidambaram, Marudhu Brothers and Velu Nachiyar and national poet Subramaniya Bharathi and sat on the dais. The protesters performed ‘paatha puja’ (washing the feet of the ‘martyrs’ and showering flower petals on their feet) and raised slogans praising the supreme sacrifice of the freedom fighters. Former Union Minister R. Dhanushkodi Athithan participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-cadre-protest-against-rejection-of-tamil-nadu-tableau/article64945994.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collectors win EC’s awards||The steps taken by Collector V. Vishnu ahead of the Assembly polls held this year to ensure free and fair elections and increase voter turnout won the Election Commission of India’s laurels as his initiatives were approved as ‘Best Electoral Practices’. Of the 23 awards announced by the Election Commission of India, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts have bagged 3 awards which go to Mr. Vishnu, Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthil Raj and the then Returning Officer of Ambasamudram Assembly segment Pratik Tayal. While Mr. Vishnu has won the award for his Information Technology initiatives employed during Assembly polls, Dr. Senthil Raj, a physician and alumni of Tirunelveli Medical College, has been awarded for his tireless election awareness programmes. Mr. Pratik Tayal has won the award for Election Management (Rationalization of polling materials). The winners will receive the awards during the Voters’ Awareness Day celebrations to be held in New Delhi on Tuesday (January 25). A risk analyst once Mr. Vishnu, a risk analyst trained in the US, prepared a GIS-based mobile app, which came in handy for the voters to locate their polling booths. At the same time, this app helped the polling personnel a lot in monitoring real-time polling and law and order situation prevailing in and around all 1,924 polling station since Tirunelveli is a highly volatile district wherein situation might go out of control within a few minutes, especially during elections. With the help of the National Informatics Centre, Mr. Vishnu, an alumni of National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, prepared this GIS-based app, christened ‘Vaakuchaavadi Vazhikaatti’ (polling booth guide), which guided with ease the voters to their polling booths from their residences. Moreover, the app gave 360 degree visuals of each polling booth through webcasting till the end of the polling process. Hence, everyone – right from the voter to the top brass of the Election Commission of India – could see what is happening in every polling booth in Tirunelveli district during the last Assembly elections. Mr. Vishnu also constituted committees to monitor electioneering, hate speech, if any, during canvassing of votes, distribution of cash or gift to the voters to lure them, campaigning through social media platforms etc. which played effective role in preventing poll code violations. Even before the Assembly poll was notified, Mr. Vishnu launched voter awareness programmes – mostly cultural events and screening of documentaries – to appeal to the electorate to come to the booth without fail to exercise their franchise on the day of polling. Against inducement Dr. Senthil Raj has won the ECI’s award for organising traditional voter awareness cultural events in every nook and corner of the district to encouraging the children to write letters to their parents and grandparents appealing to them to cast their voters without any inducement on the day of polling.  Vishnu has won the award for his IT initiatives during polls, and Senthil Raj for his election awareness programmes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-win-ecs-awards/article64945986.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||State’s decision to outsource sanitary works condemned||Condemning the State Government’s decision to outsource sanitary works in local bodies, the sanitary workers struck work and staged a demonstration here on Monday. They said the Government Orders that paved way for outsourcing of sanitary operations should be annulled to ensure better quality of work in keeping the residential areas and the public places clean. The workers of all urban civic bodies should be given the minimum wages of Rs. 700 a day. Besides regularising their services serving on ‘daily wages basis,’ the government should appoint sufficient number of workers in the civic bodies. The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation contribution being deducted from the wages of the sanitary workers should be properly paid in their accounts. Sanitary workers say they should not be compelled to segregate degradable and non-degradable waste. However, they demanded free uniform and all safety gadgets. Sanitary workers affected by COVID-19 should be given full wages. The incentive of Rs. 15,000, announced by the Tamil Nadu government for frontline workers, should be extended to sanitary workers also. District president of CITU’s Tirunelveli District Rural Development Employees’ Union Mohan led the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-decision-to-outsource-sanitary-works-condemned/article64945987.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam Dam on Monday stood at 125 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 294.10 cusecs and 904.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar Dam stood at 115 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 45 cusecs and 380 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article64945984.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two labourers injured in leopard attack near Avinashi||The Forest Department has stepped up vigil near Avinashi in Tiruppur district, after two men were attacked by a leopard on Monday. An anti-poaching watcher was also attacked by the big cat later in the day. According to the police, Varadharaj (60) and Maran (65), both daily wage labourers, went to a maize farm at Pappankulam village near Cheyur around 7 a.m. They returned with injuries and claimed to their family members that they were attacked by a leopard. While Maran’s lower lip was severely injured, Varadharaj suffered a minor cut injury on his left shoulder. The two injured men were rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruppur shortly after the incident. Their health condition was stable and no other resident in the village was injured, the Cheyur police said.  S.N. Thejasvi, Deputy Director of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (Udumalpet) and District Forest Officer, visited the spot around noon on Monday. He told The Hindu that the Forest Department has set up 12 camera traps in the area where the suspected leopard attack took place. The location, which comprises a coconut grove along with the maize farm, was also surveyed using a drone camera.  Mr. Thejasvi said, based on statements from the injured men and other eyewitnesses around 60 Forest Department personnel were deployed at the Pappankulam village. Samples from the injuries of the two men will also be sent for forensic analysis for further confirmation, Mr. Thejasvi said. After nearly six hours since the operation commenced, the leopard emerged out of the maize farm twice around 5.30 p.m., the Forest Department officials said. During the first time, it attacked an anti-poaching watcher Manikandan and went back into hiding. He suffered minor injuries on his right leg and was back on the field after first aid, officials said. Shortly after this attack, the leopard was spotted for the second time. Following this, the Forest Department personnel swung into action and placed two cages at two different locations with meat to lure the leopard. Nets were also placed to trap the carnivore, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-labourers-injured-in-leopard-attack-near-avinashi/article64946187.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur to get 20 health and wellness centers||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan on Monday inaugurated the construction works for 20 urban health and wellness centers (UHWC) that were sanctioned under the National Health Mission (NHM) – Tamil Nadu. A release said the 20 UHWCs would be constructed at Rs. 5 crore and each would be worth Rs. 25 lakh. These centers would come up at 17 wards of the Tiruppur Corporation alongside the existing 17 urban primary health centers. Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati and other officials were present at the inaugural event, the release added. An official said two UHWCs would be set up per urban PHC in the Corporation limits. Of the 34 UHWCs that had been sanctioned by the NHM – Tamil Nadu, construction works for 20 started on Monday and works for the remaining 14 centers would begin soon. The guidelines for appointing healthcare personnel for these new UHWCs were yet to be communicated, the official said. Each of these UHWCs will be around 900 sq. ft. and will complement the existing urban PHCs to increase the access to healthcare in the Corporation limits, according to the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-to-get-20-health-and-wellness-centers/article38322075.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||DVAC arrests Tangedco AE on graft charges||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Monday arrested an Assistant Engineer of Tangedco on charges of accepting a bribe of Rs. 15,000 at Kunnathur in Tiruppur district. In a press release, the DVAC said the AE, Suresh, and a foreman demanded the bribe to provide electricity supply under the free power supply scheme for farmers from a Kunnathur resident. Based on his complaint, the DVAC sleuths laid a trap on Monday and caught the AE red-handed while accepting the bribe. The accusedwas remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-arrests-tangedco-ae-on-graft-charges/article38322081.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Youth arrested for attacking constable||The Avinashi police on Sunday arrested a youth on charges of attacking a police constable at Thekkalur in Tiruppur district. According to the police, Vairamuthu (21) was picked up by Velmurugan, a Grade-I constable attached to Avinashi police station, on Saturday during night patrol for inquiry. During the inquiry, the youth allegedly verbally abused the constable and attacked him with a stone, the police said. Based on Mr. Velmurugan’s complaint, the Avinashi police registered a case against the accused and remanded him in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-arrested-for-attacking-constable/article38322084.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:07 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rare Nilgiri marten spotted in Udhagamandalam town||The rarely spotted Nilgiri marten ( Martes gwatkinsii ), listed by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) as “vulnerable,” was spotted in Udhagamandalam town recently.  Native to regions of the Western Ghats in Southern India, researchers and wildlife biologists, attempting to study the species to ensure its long-term survival believe that its population, presumed to be around 1,000 individuals, might be recovering in certain areas and expanding from protected forests into areas having a high interface between wildlife and people. ‘A number of threats’ Dr. T.T. Shameer, a wildlife biologist from the Nilgiris, who is part of a team studying the “distribution and conservation status of Nilgiri marten,” whose paper has been accepted and is to be published in an international journal shortly, said the team believes that “the habitat of the Nilgiri marten has expanded towards unprotected areas, which brings with it a number of threats.” “The destruction and fragmentation of its habitat, as well as poaching, is a major obstacle that needs to be overcome for ensuring the survival of the species. Anthropogenic climate change and other factors have already led to habitats of the species being altered in many areas,” said Dr. Shameer. “The recent landslip at Pettimudy, Idukki, is an example of one such event. Even though it occurred outside the protected area of Eravikulam National Park, the fact that the marten was recorded in close proximity to the site of the landslip is alarming. The species’ elusive nature means that the complete habitat occupancy is still unknown, while recognised areas are already under distress,” he added. Dr. Shameer and his team of researchers plan a long-term study of the species across the Nilgiris landscape, to better understand the species, its population and the threats it faces. “We believe such a population can only be conserved through community-based conservation strategies,” he added. The species, which is extremely hard to study due to its reclusive nature, has in the recent past been photographed in tea estates, bordering Shola forests in the Nilgiris. Researchers said it has mainly been recorded in evergreen and montane forest-grassland mosaics, with a few records being made in altered habitats such as tea, acacia, coffee and cardamom plantations, generally within three kilometers of protected forest areas. A few years ago, a dead Nilgiri marten specimen was found near the district SP office in Udhagamandalam town, with wildlife photographers also recording individuals in Shola forests bordering Udhagamandalam, in the recent past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rare-nilgiri-marten-spotted-in-udhagamandalam-town/article64946214.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Case against land owner for using explosives||The Nilgiris district police have registered a case against the owner of a property in Koli Pannai, near Udhagamandalam town, for using explosives to break apart boulders which he then used to lay a walking path on his property. The district administration identified the individual as K. Gopal. Boulder He is said to have owned a 3.88 hectare plot of land. He had used explosives to break apart a boulder which was partly on his property as well as partly on land belonging to the Revenue Department. He had broken apart the boulder into more than 2,500 smaller pieces which he used to lay a path inside his property, measuring around 220 meters in length. Complaint Following an investigation, the Revenue Department filed a complaint against the individual. Police registered a case under sections of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act of 1957. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-land-owner-for-using-explosives/article38322078.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||3 fishers from Nagapattinam face pirate attack||Three fishers of Pushpavanam village in Nagapattinam district, were reportedly attacked mid-sea in darkness, and robbed of their nets and catch by suspected sea pirates during the intervening night of Sunday-Monday. According to the fishers, a group of pirates attacked them indiscriminately before fleeing. They were admitted to the Vedaranyam Government Hospital for treatment of internal injuries. There was no danger to their lives, sources said. Fishers are being advised by elders in the coastal hamlets to venture into sea in large groups, due to apprehensions that the problem of sea piracy will become a recurring phenomenon due to the economic problems in the island nation of Sri Lanka. The Vedaranyam Marine Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-fishers-face-pirate-attack/article38322099.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:18 IST,TAMIL NADU||Legislator, Collector test positive||Member of Legislative Asembly (MLA) of Mailam Assembly constituency, C. Sivakumar, from the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), and Cuddalore Collector K. Balasubramaniam, have tested positive for COVID-19 and are under home quarantine. Sources said Mr. Sivakumar underwent an RT-PCR test at the Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital (GVMCH) two days ago. His test results returned positive on Monday. Mr. Sivakumar has advised persons who were in close contact with him, to get tested and isolate themselves. Mr. Balasubramaniam, who had experienced fever for the past few days, took the test in Cuddalore Government General Hospital, an official said. His chamber will be closed and sanitised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mailam-mla-cuddalore-collector-test-positive/article38322444.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:10 IST,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar girl gets award||A Virudhunagar girl, N.C. Vishalini, received Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, at a function held through video conference mode, at the Collectorate here on Monday. The award carries a citation and a purse of Rs. 1 lakh. The girl, daughter of M. Naresh Kumar and R. Chithrakala, has been selected for the award given to children aged under 18, for her invention - automatic functional life rescue flood house. She is a student of Delhi School of Excellence, Attapur, Hyderabad. Her invention, a floating house contraption, can be used to save the lives of vulnerable section of people such as children, pregnant women, aged and the physically challenged, pets and important objects during flood. During flood this pop-up house with seating arrangement and seat belt will start floating. The floating house, with a zippered top, has provisions to keep oxygen cylinder, a bag of food, water and first aid kit. Besides, it also has equipment to gauge temperature and humidity, GPS and GSM facilities, UPS for use of emergency electrical appliances and solar panel. The union government has given a child patent for the invention. Collector J. Meghanatha Reddy and District Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Officer Indra were present at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-girl-gets-award-from-modi-for-her-invention/article64946006.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 3,786 new COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district on Monday reported 3,786 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 2,142 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 24,792 active cases. An 80-year-old man from the district died of COVID-19 on January 22, taking the toll to 2,546. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 28.1 % on Sunday when it reported 3,912 cases. Tiruppur district on Monday reported 1,504 new cases. The Health Department did not report any new deaths and the district’s toll remained at 1,035. There were7,311 active cases and 784 patients recovered on Monday. The total positivity rate of Tiruppur district as per Sunday’s data was 27.7% In the Nilgiris, 416 persons tested positive, bringing the total number of cases recorded in the district so far to 38,416. The toll stood at 223, while 2,150 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-3786-new-covid-19-cases/article38322070.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Adithya School of Business Management: ‘Lead Talks 2022: CEO Meet’, 8.30 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Pledge taking Ceremony for National Voter's Day, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article38322071.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||25-01-22 - City Cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA ANUSHAM ARTS ACADEMY- 98841 90454 Today R.R.Sabha Hall-2 Mylapore. B/N 4.30 p.m. Swetha Sridhar Guru Rhadha, 5.45 p.m. Madhumitha Suresh Guru Tapas Mahalakshmi, 7.15 p.m. Samvidha Guru Kalaimamani Binesh Mahadevan. All are Welcome.https://livewebcast.in/anusham. Kartik Fine Arts 24997788 NATYA DARSHAN MINI DANCE FESTIVAL today at Narada Gana Sabha Mini Hall in association with Saba Foundation (in memory of Shri L. Sabaretnam, Former Chairman, KFA 06.00 p.m. Aparna Jayaram 07.30 p.m. Sruthika P. Nair (Disp. of M. Lakshmi Priya Raja). All are welcome. Covid 19 SOPs to be followed. Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha (Regd) Vani Mahal. Ph: 28152166 Vanimahal@gmail.com 32ND BHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 32ND BHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 at Sri P. Obul Reddy Hall Today 04.00 p.m. Bharathanatyam by Ms. Amritha Kadhirvelu Guru: Smt. Vijayalakshmi Eswaran. 06.30 p.m. Bharathanatyam by Ms. K.S. Kavi Bharathi Guru: Smt. Deepa Sadasivam. Tomorrow: 06.30 p.m. Bharathanatyam by Students of Kalaasindhu School of Bharathanatyam Guru: Smt. Sindhu Shyam. Entry as per Govt. SOP Guidelines. The Mylapore Fine Arts Club (Regd.) Phone: 24997755/ 42607755 26.01.2022 SRI THIAGARAJA ARADHANA CELEBRATIONS - From the Endowment of Sri. P. Obul Reddy and Mrs. P. Gnanamba - 9.30 A.M. Ghana Raga Pancharatnam - Group Singing of Pancharathna Krithis by Eminent Vidwans & Vidhushis. 6.00 P.M. ANAHITA APOORVA - B. Ananthakrishnan - N.C. Bharadwaj - Sai Subramaniam. ALL ARE WELCOME.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-01-22-city-cinema/article64946228.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:50 IST,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru accounts for nearly 95% of Omicron cases||Of the total 931 Omicron cases reported in the State as of Monday, Bengaluru alone accounts for 94.5% (880). While no death has been reported so far, 650 persons have recovered taking the recovery rate of Omicron cases to 69.8%. Over 93% of the total recoveries are from Bengaluru. While 251 of the active cases are in home isolation, only 30 are getting treatment in hospitals. According to data from the State Health Department, 141 of the 931 cases have an international travel history while 136 have a history of domestic travel. As many as 673 of the confirmed Omicron cases were fully vaccinated while 60 were partially vaccinated. While only ten were unvaccinated and 59 were not eligible, the vaccination status of 129 persons is not known, data shows. Rate of hospitalisation A comparative analysis by the Health Department found that COVID-19 hospitalisation in the State stood at 21% during the peak of the second wave while it was 16% during the corresponding period in the first wave. In the third wave, so far, the rate of hospitalisation has not gone beyond 5%. During the first and second waves, the highest number of active cases was recorded on October 10, 2020, (1,20,929) and May 15, 2021, (6,05,494) respectively. In the third wave, the State has 3,62,487 active cases as of January 24 whereas the highest number of cases - 50,210 - was reported on January 23. A total of 25,992 COVID-19 patients died during the second wave while the first claimed 12,331 lives. In the third, 281 fatalities have been recorded till now. While the highest single-day case count in the first wave was 9,047 (reported on October 7, 2020), it jumped to 50,112 on May 5, 2021, during the second wave. In the third wave, the maximum daily cases (50,210) were seen on January 23. In terms of test positivity rate (TPR), while the overall TPR remained at 5.22% during the first wave, it was slightly higher at 5.68% during the second wave. In the third wave, so far the seven-day running average TPR has touched 12.45%. Yardstick for restrictions With hardly any demand for hospital beds, oxygen and ICU facilities despite the surge in the State, experts now say that the rate of hospitalisation should be the yardstick for imposing restrictions and not the weekly test positivity rate (WTPR). M.K. Sudarshan, chairman of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) said,“In my opinion, we should do away with WTPR and initiate public health restrictions if the rate of hospitalisation crosses 5% (any beds and not just oxygenated) in the current wave. The existing indicators of WTPR above 10% and 40% utilisation of oxygenated beds do not hold good now as hospitalisation has been negligible so far,” he said. Due to the low virulence of Omicron - that is largely driving the third wave - the infection is only in the upper respiratory system and very little in the lungs. “Hence, a majority of people are getting mild infections and the actual disease manifestation is in very few people,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, who is also part of the Clinical Experts Committee, said hospitalisations, especially ICU admissions and mortality rate are very low as of now despite TPR being high. “In this scenario, only TPR may not be a reliable indicator. The rate of hospitalisation should be taken into consideration for imposing restrictions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-accounts-for-nearly-95-of-omicron-cases/article64946075.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:50 IST,KARNATAKA||‘ACB needs to be scrapped and its powers restored to Lokayukta’||Justice P. Vishwanatha Shetty completes his five-year tenure as the Karnataka Lokayukta on January 27. His tenure came shortly after a deep crisis in the institution. His predecessor Bhaskar Rao was embroiled in a corruption scandal himself and the chair lay vacant for two years after his exit. The State Government created the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), taking away powers from the Lokayukta police to investigate under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.  Mr. Shetty maintained a low profile through his tenure and championed several causes, including lakes and encroachment of government lands among other issues. Excerpts from a conversation with The Hindu .  You took over Lokayukta when the institution was in a crisis. Five years later, how do you look back? My foremost priority through my tenure was to strengthen the institution, rather than glorify myself. After the Government formed the ACB, there has been a general feeling that the institution has been weakened. But I think following a crisis, I have tried my best to restore the credibility of the institution. I was also attacked by a person with a knife in my office in 2018. That was a bitter incident, but I soon overcame that and continued with my work. I am happy and content with my work. I toured the State once after I took charge and wanted to go on another tour, which did not happen due to the pandemic, but all of us are helpless. Do you think formation of the ACB was a wise move? It is true that the institution has lost some bite after the Government formed the ACB taking away the investigation powers of Lokayukta police under Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. This had already happened before I was appointed Lokayukta and the matter was pending before the Karnataka High Court. After studying the case, I formed a view that I could impress upon the court to resolve the matter either way at the earliest, in which I miserably failed as the matter is still pending.As an institution and in my personal opinion too, the Government Order forming the ACB has to be scrapped and those functions have to be brought back under the Karnataka Lokayukta. We have filed an affidavit to this effect before the court. I hope the issue is resolved soon. How has this affected your work?  The institution can do more if ACB is abolished and those powers and functions are restored back to the Karnataka Lokayukta. But that is just one part of the institution and actually it never comes under the direct purview of the Lokayukta.There is a lot of work on public grievance redressal against maladministration that can be done, which we concentrated on. During my tenure, I have initiated 304 suo motu proceedings pertaining to maladministration, mostly based on media reports ranging from encroachments, providing protective gear to pourakarmikas, to protecting lakes.  How has the State Government responded to the recommendations you have made? The State saw four Chief Ministers from all three prominent political parties during my tenure. No Government was better than the other, most have ignored recommendations made by the institution for action against errant officials. The situation is so bad that an anti-corruption activist has filed a PIL in the High Court seeking directions to the State Government to implement our recommendations. We supported the petition and it is still pending in the court. Lokayukta has always been a recommendatory body and the Governments need to take its recommendations seriously and submit Action Taken Reports within the stipulated time to make the administration people friendly.  My foremost priority through my tenure was to strengthen the institution, rather than glorify myself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/acb-needs-to-be-scrapped-and-its-powers-restored-to-lokayukta/article64946070.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||State prepares for low-key Republic Day celebrations||The Republic Day Parade at Manekshaw Parade Ground on Wednesday will be a low-key affair due to the ongoing third wave of the pandemic. This will be the first time the incumbent governor Thaawarchand Gehlot will preside over the Republic Day parade, unfurl the national flag and address the State. Mr. Gehlot took over as Governor in July 2021. While no members of the public will be allowed to attend the parade this year, restrictions are also in place for invitees. The district administration has also limited invitees, including public representatives and senior bureaucrats, to 200, apart from those participating in the parade and media representatives, said Chief Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Monday. “We have organised seating arrangements to ensure social distancing; wearing masks is mandatory. We request all those attending to cooperate with marshals who will be deployed to ensure COVID-19 Appropriate Behaviour,” he said. The event will be telecast on Doordarshan and streamed live online. City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said the Governor will receive a Guard of Honour from a total of 21 teams from the Karnataka State Reserve Police, Border Security Force, Karnataka State Industrial Security Force, Dog Squad, Traffic Wardens, Home Guards, Fire and Emergency Services, among others. “There has been a new practice introduced recently where police teams from other States participate in the R-Day parade. This year Andhra Pradesh Police will be part of our parade,” he said. The Parade Grounds will turn into a security fortress. A total of 1,400 security personnel from KSRP, CAR and Garuda forces will be deployed to secure the event. Police have made traffic diversions during the event and advised commuters to avoid Infantry Road and Cubbon Road during the first half of Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-prepares-for-low-key-republic-day-celebrations/article64946235.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||CM reshuffles district in-charge Ministers||Just ahead of the government completing six months, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has reshuffled the district and COVID in-charge Ministers. According to the new list announced on Monday, the Chief Minister retained Bengaluru Urban district, which was being eyed by several senior Ministers from Bengaluru, including R. Ashok and V. Somanna. The highlight of the reshuffle is that most of the Ministers have not been given their native districts. There were expectations of the in-charge responsibility for Bengaluru being passed on to a prominent Minister in the wake of the impending elections to the BBMP. The lack of change is being attributed to the lack of consensus among senior Ministers on who should hold this responsibility. Mr. Ashok, who is Revenue Minister, and Law & Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy have not been given responsibility of any district. This has triggered speculations that they may get some other responsibility. Senior Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, who was in-charge of his home district Shivamogga, has now been made in-charge of Chikkamagaluru. Anand Singh’s efforts to become in-charge Minister of his native district has not yielded results. He has been made in-charge of Koppal district. Sriramulu has been made in-charge of his native district Ballari. Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan continues to hold charge of Ramanagaram district. This has assumed importance in the wake of him publicly taking on prominent Congress leaders D.K. Shivakumar and his brother D.K. Suresh on their home turf. Some of the Ministers, including Gopalaiah and B.C. Patil, have been given the charge of two districts. The reshuffle is being seen as an effort to shake up the administrative machinery ahead of a series of polls, including the zilla and taluk panchayat polls and the 2023 Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-reshuffles-district-in-charge-ministers/article64946066.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Boards and corporations: Bommai puts onus of appointments on party||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai sought to put the onus of preparing the ground for appointments to boards and corporations on the party organisation. “The appointments to boards and corporations would depend on discussions by the BJP organisation,” he told reporters in Bengaluru on Monday while responding to the statement of BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel that appointments would be made next week. He said the party would submit a report based on the outcome of its discussions. The Chief Minister’s statement is being seen as an effort to send a message to aspirants that it is the party which will take care of such issues. This is in contrast with the functioning style of his predecessor B.S. Yediyurappa, who had been accused of making unilateral appointments to boards and corporations without consulting the party towards the fag end of his chief ministerial tenure. Party circles are also seeing this as a clever move as aspirants would not blame the Chief Minister for the delay. State Budget Mr. Bommai, who holds the finance portfolio, said he had already begun preparations for State Budget. He said a set of instructions had been given to some of the departments in December regarding the measures to be taken to achieve targeted revenue collection. Meeting on revenue However, another round of meetings would be held with the Finance Department on Tuesday to take stock of the revenue collection scenario as Karnataka has been hit by the COVID-19 pandemic since December-end, he said.  The appointments to boards and corporations would depend on discussions by the BJP organisation.Basavaraj BommaiChief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/board-and-corporation-appointments-bommai-puts-onus-on-party-leadership/article38322014.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||HC hikes compensation for youth who lost marriage prospects due to accident||The High Court of Karnataka has awarded a compensation higher than what was sought by a youth, who at the age of 14 suffered irreversible permanent disability to sexual organs and pelvic bone in a road accident. “The disabilities suffered by the claimant is irreversible that destroyed his marriage prospects. Even if married, the claimant is not in a position to perform certain conjugal obligations. The claimant is deprived of conjugal bliss, and he cannot have children of his own,” the court observed while awarding him a total compensation of Rs. 17.68 lakh under different heads. A Division Bench comprising Justice S.G. Pandit and Justice Anant Ramanath Hegde passed the order on an appeal filed by Basavaraj of Ranebennur in Haveri district. The motor accident claims tribunal in 2016 had awarded him a compensation of only Rs. 3.73 lakh as against his demand for Rs. 11.75 lakh for the losses he suffered due to road accident occurred in 2011. A lorry had hit him from behind when he was walking on the roadside along with his father. The court noted from the medical certificate, issued by a reputed hospital where he underwent multiple surgeries after the accident that he will be ‘unable to copulate in future.’ “Since the marriage prospects of the claimant are wiped out, the claimant is deprived of all pleasures and benefits of married life. The loss is so huge and is incapable of evaluation in terms of money,” the Bench observed. Given the kind of disability suffered by the claimant, the Bench said, “The mental trauma which the claimant has to undergo for the rest of the life is much more painful than the physical pain that he has suffered immediately after the accident. The mental trauma of having to remain single, and answering the curious questions posed by the people around throughout the life, for not getting married, are some of the things not easy to cope with.” Noticing that the claimant hails from an impoverished background, the Bench has awarded Rs. 10 lakh compensation under the head ‘loss of amenities and enjoyment in life’ as against Rs. 50,000 awarded by the tribunal. While awarding higher compensation than sought by the claimant, the Bench said that the courts and tribunals will have to award ‘just and fair compensation’ to the victims of motor vehicle accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-hikes-compensation-for-youth-who-lost-marriage-prospects-due-to-accident/article38322020.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Jaywalkers to be fined in special drive on pedestrian safety||The Traffic Department has launched a special drive across the city to create awareness on the dangers of jaywalking, which they said accounts for the highest number of road accident deaths. In order to raise awareness among pedestrians, police will conduct drives at specific locations, and violators will be fined Rs. 10. On Monday, traffic officials held a meeting with Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike officials and submitted a proposal to construct high-rise pedestrian crossings across the city on a priority basis. “Officials, who conducted a survey, prepared a list of 240 locations where high-rise pedestrian crossings can be built. BBMP officials agreed to construct 50 on a priority basis and the rest will be completed in a phased manner,” said B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic), who chaired the meeting. This is not the first time that the traffic police have approached civic agencies on the need for better infrastructure for pedestrians. The traffic police also discussed the existing situation of skywalks and underpasses. “BBMP and traffic police will deploy security personnel at the underpasses to ensure the safety of citizens,” Mr. Gowda said. ‘No pedestrian facilities’ However, citizens and activists are up in arms over this drive, arguing that they have no choice but to walk on roads due to the absence of pedestrian facilities. “You cannot penalise people for jaywalking unless the city has walkable footpaths, pedestrian crossings and skywalks,” said an activist. Last week, Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy conducted a survey of just five wards and found that pedestrian facilities are abysmally dismal. Varthur ward for instance scored zero, while Sanjaynagar, in North Bengaluru scored two. An analysis of pedestrian accidents conducted by the traffic police revealed that over 70% of pedestrian deaths in and around the city occurred while crossing the roads, Mr. Gowda said. Data in the last three years showed that a total number of 598 pedestrians were killed in accidents: 278 pedestrians died in 2019. During the pandemic years, with movement restricted, the number of deaths dropped to 64 in 2020 and 161 in the year 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jaywalkers-to-be-fined-in-special-drive-on-pedestrian-safety/article64946236.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Realtor from Pune arrested for duping job aspirants||The Sampigehalli police on Monday arrested a 34-year-old realtor from Pune who allegedly posed as an HR manager and cheated software engineers and job aspirants by offering them non-existent positions in IBM. He even gave them offer letters after taking money from them, said the police. The accused Sanjeev Gangaram Ghurkha Chinchwad from Pune was caught based on a complaint from the multinational giant after four people walked into the IBM India’s offices at Manyata Tech Park with offer letters. “It is suspected that he has cheated as many as 40 persons in the last few months,” said Anup A. Shetty, DCP (North East). The probe so far has revealed that Sanjeev is a B. Com. graduate who had worked at a call centre that offered support to IBM. “He decided to start a real-estate business but needed money. So he chalked out a plan to cheat people looking for employment,” said a police officer. Took security deposit Sanjeev interviewed many aspirants and charged them anywhere between Rs. 25,000-Rs. 80,000. He claimed the fee was a security deposit for laptops that they would be issued at the time of joining. “He opened at least eight bank accounts and asked people to deposit the money online,” Mr. Shetty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/realtor-from-pune-arrested-for-duping-job-aspirants/article38322007.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Delivery executive run over by speeding bus||Three people were killed in two road accidents since Sunday night. A 45-year-old food delivery executive was killed when a speeding bus knocked down his motorcycle in Malleswaram on Monday morning. The deceased Suresh Babu, a resident of Lakshmidevi Nagar, was on his way to work when the incident took place on 17th Cross Road. According to the police, the bus was coming from Nelamangala and heading towards Majestic. Babu who was severely injured was rushed to KC General Hospital where doctors declared him as brought dead. The Malleswaram police have registered a case. In another incident, two labourers were killed when they lost control over the scooter they were riding and collided with a goods vehicle near Dr. Rajkumar memorial on Sunday night. The deceased have been identified as Kumar Limbo, 24, and Sunil Chetri , 24, who hailed from Assam and worked as painters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/delivery-executive-run-over-by-speeding-bus/article38322000.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||CCB nabs two for planning hit on Kannada producer||Officials with the Organised Crime Wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Sunday arrested two members of a gang in connection with the alleged plot to murder Kannada film producer Umapathy Srinivas. The accused had been absconding for over a year after their associates were nabbed. “The gang operates by taking suparis, and the plan was hatched in December 2020,” said a police officer. The south division police had caught the gang armed with lethal weapons while they were waiting for the producer to return home on his usual route . However two persons, Darshan and Sanjay, managed to escape and were on the run for more than a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-nabs-two-for-planning-hit-on-kannada-producer/article38321995.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:50 IST,KARNATAKA||State reports 46,426 new cases, 32 deaths||Active COVID-19 cases in Karnataka stabilized as discharges increased significantly on Monday. As many as 41,703 persons were discharged on the day, taking the total recoveries to 31,62,977. The State now has 3,62,487 active patients. The State on Monday reported 46,426 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 35,64,108. Of the new cases, Bengaluru Urban alone reported 21,569 cases. With 32 deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,614. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. While the positivity rate for the day touched 32.95%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 0.06%. As many as 1,40,884 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,20,161 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 6,06,95,857.  COVID-19 in Karnataka on January 24||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-46426-new-cases-32-deaths/article38322203.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||State to complete smart city projects ahead of deadline||Work on seven smart cities in Karnataka will be completed by March 2023, ahead of the Centre’s deadline of July 2023, according to Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj. The Minister told mediapersons here on Monday, after reviewing the progress of work, that the projects were on track despite the COVID-19 pandemic. Cost escalation The project had not even reported cost escalation despite the pandemic induced labour shortage and other problems, the Minister said. The smart city works are being taken up in Bengaluru, Shivamogga, Mangaluru, Tumakuru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Davangere and Belagavi. A total of Rs. 855 crore had been spent on smart city projects in Karnataka till February 2020. In this period, Rs. 2,646 crore had been spent, he explained. The government had written to the Centre seeking inclusion of Kalaburagi, Mysuru, Ballari and Vijayapura in the list of smart cities. Mr. Basavaraj had personally held consultations with Union Urban Affairs Minister Hardip Singh Puri during his recent visit to Lucknow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-complete-smart-city-projects-ahead-of-deadline/article38322017.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Labourer killed||A 26-year-old labourer who climbed a coconut tree, while reportedly inebriated, died when he slipped and fell from a height of 20ft. The incident took place at a junk-yard near the BMTC depot on Mysuru Road in Kengeri where he was working. The deceased has been identified as Gowtham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labourer-killed/article38322006.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||‘We have recommended amendments to curb corruption’||Lokayukta Justice P. Vishwanatha Shetty, addressing mediapersons here on Monday, said that during his tenure, they had recommended amendments to certain State laws to effectively curb corruption. Lokayukta has recommended amendments to the Karnataka Municipalities Act, 1964, and the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, to penalise members of these bodies by suspending their membership, barring them from contesting for six years, if convicted in a corruption case. Taking note of several government servants escaping punitive action after retirement, Lokayukta has recommended amendments to Karnataka Civil Services (Conduct) Rules to hold such officers accountable, Mr. Shetty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-have-recommended-amendments-to-curb-corruption/article38322012.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:51 IST,KARNATAKA||Book on achievement||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who completes six months in office on January 28, has said that a book comprising the achievements of his Government would be brought out to mark the occasion. He told reporters that details regarding his plans for the remaining term of the Government would be made known soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-on-achievement/article38322013.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:54 IST,KARNATAKA||3 win Rashtriya Bal Puraskar award, interact with Modi||Three students from Bengaluru and Mangaluru were awarded the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar and interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in virtual sessions on Monday. One of the awardees, 17-year-old Bharatanatyam dancer Remona Evette Pereira from Mangaluru, had recently lost her father. She and her brother were brought up by their mother with great difficulty. Hearing this, Mr. Modi said he saluted her mother. The Prime Minister said he had heard Ms. Pereira had been pursuing Bharatanatyam since the age of three and asked how she developed an interest in the art form. Ms. Pereira attributed it to her mother’s passion. Another student to receive the Bal Puraskar was Syed Fateen Ahmed, 13, a child prodigy in Western classical music. He started learning from the age of three, and has won several international awards playing the piano. “I felt proud that my work in representing the country in Western classical music was recognised by the Prime Minister,” he said. Abhinav Kumar Choudhary, 16, a Class XII student of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Bengaluru, started an e-commerce website to buy and sell second hand textbooks for students during the pandemic. “During the lockdown in 2020, I went back to my hometown and was stuck without textbooks as I used to refer to them from my school library. I had no money to buy new textbooks, so I designed this website,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-win-rashtriya-bal-puraskar-award-interact-with-modi/article64946239.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:50 IST,KARNATAKA||Transport operator’s body found; police suspect suicide||The family members of K.V. Prakash, owner of Prakash Travels, who was found dead in Sharavathi river near Hosanagar on Monday morning, have complained to the police that he was facing difficulty in getting money from a person, to whom he had sold a bus. The police investigating the case are said to have taken Nagaraj, a businessman, into custody for further investigation. It is said that Prakash who operated many buses suffered a huge loss as the operations came to halt following the COVID-19 pandemic. In order to manage the loss, he surrendered a few routes to the RTO and sold some vehicles. Nagaraj, who bought the bus, did not pay the money. Prakash had met Nagaraj several times on this matter. Prakash’s elder brother Gangaraju, who filed the complaint with Sagar Town Police, named Nagaraj responsible for his death. Prakash, 48, went missing on Friday after he had left his home in Sagar. He had told his family members that he was going to Hosanagar. However, he did not return. When the family members searched for him his car was found abandoned at Pataguppe Bridge built across the Sharavathi river near Hosanagar. The police and Fire and Emergency Services staff made search efforts around the bridge and the river. Finally, his mortal remains was found around 7 a.m. on Monday. The district administration had arranged expert divers from Gokarna for the search operation on Monday. However, before they could start their work, his body was found. He is survived by wife and two children.  The police suspect it to be a case of suicide. B.M. Laxmi Prasad, Superintendent of Police of Shivamogga, told The Hindu that a post-mortem had been conducted and the police were waiting for the formal report. “His brother has filed a complaint against Nagaraj, a businessman, alleging that he did not pay the money. We are investigating the case. This might turn into a case of abetment to suicide if Nagaraj’s involvement was found in the investigation”, the SP said.  Prakash, a native of Hassan, went to Sagar in the 1990s and started his career as a driver. He started his business as a transport operator with one bus along with his brother Gangaraju. Gradually he added more buses and operated many routes. He gave jobs to many people in Sagar. (Those in distress and facing suicidal thoughts can contact the State’s helpline 104 for counseling)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transport-operators-body-found-police-suspect-suicide/article38322205.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:50 IST,KARNATAKA||Students complain to DC against coach of Sports Hostel||Many students of the Sports Hostel in Shivamogga and representatives of Shivamogga district unit of the Youth Congress, on Monday, complained to Deputy Commissioner Selvamani R. and demanded suspension of an athletics coach accusing him of sexually harassing students. The students alleged that the coach of the Department of Sports and Youth Empowerment harassed many girls. Many students and their parents had brought the issue to the notice of senior officers. However, despite repeated appeals, the department had not taken action against him, they said. They demanded that the department suspend him and initiate legal action against him. District Congress General Secretary K. Ranganath, Distrct Youth Congress president H.P. Girish and students of the hostels were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-complain-to-dc-against-coach-of-sports-hostel/article38322204.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:50 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Virus has weakened’||Dhananjay Sarji, child specialist and member of Shivamogga district level experts’ panel on COVID-19, has said parents need not worry about their children as the virus has weakened in the third wave of the pandemic. He spoke in a press conference of the experts’ panel at the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Shivamogga on Monday. Anti-bodies have already developed in a majority of children. Chances of affecting children would be less. The infection that spread through children could help in creating herd immunity, bringing down the impact of the virus. Children, even if infected, would get symptoms like fever, cold and cough. They would become normal after a couple of days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/virus-has-weakened/article38322408.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:26 IST,KARNATAKA||Nirani has no role in third peetha, says seer||Amid allegations about Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani being the brains behind the move to establish the third Panchamasali Peetha at Jamakhandi, Sanganabasava Shivacharya Swami of Managuli Hiremath has clarified on Monday that the Minister has no role in it. Addressing presspersons in Vijayapura on Monday, the seer said that Mr. Nirani had no role whatsoever in the decision to establish the third peetha of the Lingayat Panchamasali community and one should not hurt the Minister by dragging his name into the issue. The seer said that the anointment ceremony of the first seer of the third Panchamasali Peetha would be held on February 14 in the presence of Vachanananda Swami of Panchamasali Peetha at Harihar, seers of Kanaka Petha, Valmiki Peetha, Madar Channayya Peetha, Bhovi Peetha, and Raddi Peetha. On the allegation by Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami of Panchamasali Peetha at Kudalangama that the new peetha was aimed at nurturing the political ambitions of Mr. Nirani, the seer said that the new peetha was not aimed at making Mr. Nirani the Chief Minister. He said that earlier Mr. Nirani had made lot of efforts to bring the Kudalasangama and the Harihar Peethas of Panchamasali community together. “He (Mr. Nirani) has never tried to divide the community. The people and politicians should understand this. The third peetha will not try to divide the community,” he said. The seer said that Mr. Nirani had already clarified that he was not in touch with the seers establishing the third peetha. Replying to queries, Sanganabasava Shivacharya Swami said that the previous seer of Harihar Peetha Mahantha Shivacharya Swami had emphasised the need for more ‘peethas’ through his writings and few others had endorsed it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nirani-has-no-role-in-third-peetha-says-seer/article38322193.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:26 IST,KARNATAKA||Movement on Mahadayi project in the works: Congress||Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah has said that a plan on launching a movement over Mahadayi river project would be chalked out soon. The issue has been discussed within the party . Speaking to mediapersons in Hubballi on January 24, Mr. Siddaramaiah sought to know what had happened to former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa's promise on implementing Mahadayi project. “He had announced that he would give in writing in blood that his party would implement the project within 24 hours of coming to power. What happened? Did north Karnataka get Mahadayi water?” The former Chief Minister said that Congress would be launching an agitation over Krishna irrigation projects and implementation of Article 371J in Kalyana Karnataka in the coming days. On the weekend curfew, he said that it was implemented with the sole purpose of putting hurdles in the path of the Congress, which had planned a padayatra seeking implementation of the Mekedatu project. "There was no need for weekend curfew at a time when people were facing hardships due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It was implemented to obstruct the Congress protest. The Covid-19 pandemic did not spread due to the padayatra. Did Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Ministers R. Ashok and S.T. Somaahekhar get COVID-19 due to Congress padayatra?"||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/movement-on-mahadayi-project-in-the-works-congress/article38322198.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:52 IST,KARNATAKA||ESI recruitment: Now, exams in Kannada too||Following intervention of the Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi, the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESI) has modified its recruitment notification to allow candidates from Karnataka to write the preliminary and main examinations in Kannada medium. The ESI Corporation had issued a notification dated December 27, 2021, for recruitment to the posts of Upper Division Clerk (UDC), stenographer (Steno) and Multi-Tasking Staff (MTS) in different regions and offices spread across the country. The recruitment is through two phases namely preliminary examination (qualifying in nature) and main examination. However, in the December notification Kannada was not mentioned as medium of examination even for the lower-level posts, which meant that candidates from Karnataka had to write examinations either in English or Hindi to become eligible. As the recruitment is being conducted across thecountry, the candidates are free to apply for posts in a State of their choice. Following the development, various Kannada organisations had raised objection, alleging that the Centre was meting out injustice to Kannada-speaking candidates by not allowing them to write examination in Kannada. The MTS posts are categorised as Group-C posts. Following criticism and allegation of step-motherly treatment towards Kannadigas by the Union Government, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar had requested Mr. Joshi to take up the issue with the Minister concerned at the Centre. Consequently, Mr. Joshi had taken up the issue with Union Minister for Labour and Employment Bhupender Yadav. Corrigendum Now, the ESI Corporation has issued a corrigendum to the recruitment notification dated December 27, 2021 revising the medium of instruction for the examination for the posts of MTS. With the corrigendum, Karnataka candidates can now write in Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/esi-recruitment-now-exams-in-kannada-too/article38322019.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:26 IST,KARNATAKA||Anand Singh’s supporters protest in Hosapete||Just as the Government notification replacing Tourism Minister B.S. Anand Singh with Muzrai, Haj and Wakf Minister Jolle Shashikala Annasaheb as Vijayanagara In-charge Minister and making him the Koppal in-charge Minister was out, supporters of Mr. Singh protested in Hosapete condemning the decision. The protest disrupted traffic movement for a while in the city as the agitators blocked roads and burnt tires at Puneet Rajkumar Circle. The protesters held that Mr. Singh was the man behind the formation of the Vijayanagara district and his removal as district In-charge Minister would hamper the development initiatives that he had enthusiastically taken up. “Mr. Singh has relentlessly fought for the formation of Vijayanagara district. He has taken up a number of initiatives to make the new district one of the top districts in the State. It is very painful that he is removed as Vijayanagara In charge. The decision will adversely affect the party in the next Assembly election,” an protester said. As the protest was going on, Mr.. Singh rushed to the spot and spoke to the protesters. “I cannot reveal everything that has happened in the last few days. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has taken the decision after discussing it with me and taking my consent,” he said. Speaking to presspersons later, Mr. Singh repeated that the decision to replace him was taken with his consent. “I have to follow the order of my captain [Mr. Bommai]. It is my duty. Some of my supporters got hurt and protested. I have requested them to maintain peace,” Mr. Singh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anand-singhs-supporters-protest-in-hosapete/article38322192.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:26 IST,KARNATAKA||PDS rice seized in Kalaburagi||The Kalaburagi police, on Monday, arrested a lorry driver and seized 850 quintals of Public Distribution System (PDS) rice which was being illegally transported in Afzalpur town in Kalaburagi district. Based on reliable information from sources, the police officials attached to Afzalpur police station stopped the lorry near Chowk Bazaar in Afzalpur town. After checking the lorry, the police found 850 quintals of rice meant for PDS being illegally transported. The police seized the vehicle and arrested the lorry driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pds-rice-seized-in-kalaburagi/article38322191.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:26 IST,KARNATAKA||Gambling: Three arrested||Acting on a tip-off, police raided Royal Fort Hotel in Ballari city and arrested three people on the charge of gambling and seized Rs. 25,000 in cash late on Sunday. The arrested were identified as Somanatha, Sharanabasava, and Palakshi Gowda. A case was registered in Cowl Bazar police station against seven persons including the owner of the hotel. As per the information provided by the police, four people were absconding and efforts were on to nab them. Prasad, a police constable attached to Cowl Bazar Police Station, was put under suspension pending enquiry for not informing his senior officers about the gambling. “The constable was aware of the illegal activity. He failed to discharge his duty,” Saidulu Adavath, Superintendent of Police, Ballari, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gambling-three-arrested/article38322196.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:26 IST,KARNATAKA||Low-key Veerabhadreshwar Jatra||The Bidar district administration has decided to have a low-key Veerabhadreshwar Jatra Mahotsava at Humnabad taluk of Bidar district on January 26. Humnabad MLA Rajashekar Patil addressing presspersons said that the elected representatives and officials held a meeting and decided to restrict the entry of devotees to the temple during the seven-day annual car festival of the Veerabhadreshwar temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/low-key-veerabhadreshwar-jatra/article38322197.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:04 IST,KARNATAKA||Udupi man creates another record||Amid the rough condition of the Arabian Sea, 66-year-old swimmer Gangadhar G. Kadekar of Udupi entered the Golden Book of World Records by swimming 3.5 km with his legs and hands shackled in Udupi on Monday. He swam from St Mary’s Island to Padukare covering the distance in five hours and 35 minutes. Mr. Kadekar wore handcuffs and leg shackles during his feat. Many enthusiasts supported Mr. Kadekar during his swim. He entered the sea in Padukare at 7.50 a.m. and completed his feat at 1.25 p.m. Speaking to presspersons after his feat, Mr. Kadekar said that he swam like a dolphin as both his hands and legs had been tied. As the sea was very rough he had to struggle a lot, but he did not lose his self confidence. “I created this record to make children draw inspiration as I have been training many children in swimming. I have to prove something to children and I am happy.” He had made it to the India Book of Records by swimming 1.4 km in 73.7 minutes by chaining his legs in the ‘Padmasana’ pose at Padukare on January 24 in 2021. Mr. Kadekar swam breaststroke against the wind and reached the flag on the east side of the shore. Being a former employee of the Transport Department, he took to swimming when he was 50 years old. Concerned about many youngsters drowning in the sea, he has since been training youth for the last two years under the Jai Durga Swimming Club. Mr. Kadekar has won gold, silver, and bronze medals at the State-level and national-level swimming competitions for seniors. He had bagged the Udupi district-level Karnataka Rajyothsava Award last year. Swimmer Gopal Kharvi from Udupi district had a similar attempt in 2013 as he swam 3.07 km from St. Mary’s Island to Malpe beach wearing handcuffs and leg shackles and had successfully entered the Guinness Book of World Record. On December 18, 2020, government school teacher Nagaraj Kharvi made it to India Book of Records by swimming 1 km in 25 minutes and 16.63 seconds by chaining his legs in the ‘Padmasana’ pose in the sea in Mangaluru. He accomplished this feat at Tannirbhavi beach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-man-creates-another-record/article38322386.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:04 IST,KARNATAKA||Railways to examine new proposals||The Southern Railway has said that it will examine proposals to operate new passenger trains from Mangaluru Central, including one to popular pilgrim centre Tirupati, to include them in the Inter Railway Timetable Committee (IRTTC) 2022 meeting. During the meeting of MPs from Palakkad Division with Southern Railway’s General Manager last week, Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel’s proposals to introduce new trains from Mangaluru to Tirupati via Hassan; Ahmedabad via Madgaon and Miraj via Hassan and Arsikere, were discussed. General Manager (in-charge) B.G. Mallya responded saying that the feasibility of introduction of the suggested trains will be carefully examined for inclusion in the next IRTTC meeting. Several rail patrons and passenger associations in the region had urged the MP to get a direct train facility to Tirupati as thousands travel to the destination using other tedious modes of transport. Similarly, the Mahalakshmi Express to Miraj that was running before gauge conversion was not reintroduced after gauge conversion. As per the Railway policy, all trains running before gauge conversion should be reintroduced after completion of the work, the MP had noted and said that the train connected North Karnataka and Coastal Karnataka. Meanwhile, responding to questions from other MPs of the division, including E.T. Mohammed Basheer from Ponnani, M.P. Abdussamad Samadai from Malappuram, M.K. Raghavan from Kozhikode and Rajmohan Unnithan from Kasargod, the General Manager said that the zone is awaiting clearance of timetable for the proposed Mangaluru Central-Rameswaram bi-weekly express via Podanur, Pollachi and Madurai. Though the train was sanctioned about four years ago, the board is yet to clear the timetable. Pitline work To another question from Mr. Kateel on the delay in the completion of the new pitline and platform works at Mangaluru Central, the General Manager said that construction of the pitline, work on which was awarded on November 19, 2020, got delayed because of funds crunch as no funds were made available in 2021-22. COVID-19 situation too contributed to the delay. However, sufficient funds were available at present and the pitline work will be completed by next month-end. As works on additional platforms at Mangaluru Central can be taken up only after the pitline gets ready, they will be taken up in the 2022-23 financial year, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railways-to-examine-new-proposals/article38322391.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:04 IST,KARNATAKA||Commemorative coin in memory of Kavi Muddana released||Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, released a commemorative coin of Rs. 150 denomination brought out by the Union Finance Ministry in memory of Kannada poet late Muddana in Mangaluru on Monday. N. Lakshminarayanappa, who is popularly known as Kavi Muddana, lived in Nandalike village, Karkala taluk, Udupi district. The coin was brought out on the occasion of the poet’s 150th birth anniversary. Kavi Muddana who was born on January 24, 1870 and died early, at the age of 31.  He is the author of highly acclaimed Yakshagana works and epic poems. His works in Kannada and in Sanskrit are known for their lyrical quality. Some of his major works include Ratnavathi Kalyana , Kumara Vijaya , Sri Rama Pattabhisheka , Sri Ramashwamedha, and Adbhuta Ramayana . According to a January 19 notification issued by the Union Ministry of Finance for the release of the coin, its metal composition is silver (50%), copper (40%), nickel (5%) and zinc (5%). Its circular diameter is 44 milimetres.   The face of the coin has the lion of the Ashoka Pillar in the centre, with Satyameva Jayate (written in Hindi) inscribed below, flanked on the left by Bharat in Devanagari script and on the right with the word Inida in English. It also had the rupee symbol and denomination value ‘150’ below the lion symbol.   The reverse side of the coin has the image of Kavi Muddana in the centre. The inscription Kavi Muddana Ki 150th Jayanthi in Hindi is depicted on the upper periphery of the coin and the inscription 150th birth anniversary of Kavi Muddana in English is depicted on the lower periphery of the coin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coin-released/article64946132.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:04 IST,KARNATAKA||Margoli Govinda Sherigar passes away||Senior Yakshagana artiste Margoli Govinda Sherigar passed away at his residence in Kundapur, Udupi district on Sunday night. He was 96, and is survived by two sons and two daughters. A well-known ‘stree veshadhari’ (one who dons the roles of women) of Badagu Thittu school of Yakshagana, Mr. Sherigar’s last rites were performed on Monday. He began his career in the Mandarthi Durgaparameshwari Dashavatari Yakshagana Mela. Later, he performed in Soukuru Mela, Amruteshwari Mela, Kudlu Mela, Idagunji Mela and in Maranakatte Mela, in which he performed for 26 years. After retiring from professional performance in melas (touring Yakshagana troupes), he taught Yakshagana to women at his residence for about eight years and made them perform on stage. He had his own fans for his roles of Mohini, Prabhavathi, Chitrangade, Shashiprabhe, Meenakshi, Damayanthi, Subhadre, Madanakshi, Taravai and Devi. He was the recipient of the then Karnataka Janapada and Yakshagana Academy Award in 2004, and Karnataka Rajyotsava Award in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/margoli-govinda-sherigar-passes-away/article38322388.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:50 IST,KARNATAKA||Schools reopen for physical classes||Schools in Mysuru city reopened for physical classes on Monday following an order from the Deputy Commissioner, who had directed for closure of schools for LKG to Class 9 from January 12 as a precaution over a spike in COVID-19 cases. Barring physical classes for Class 10, the schools had been running online classes for other classes since January 12. Acting on the DC’s order, physical classes in the government schools and also in most private schools got off to a start. Some private schools are yet to commence physical classes and have continued with running classes online this entire week. The Deputy Commissioner has asked the schools to take all necessary precautions while running physical classes. However, some parents who had come to drop off their children to a government school here said the district administration should have allowed online classes for some more days with cases yet to subside in Mysuru city. The children were thermal scanned when they arrived at the school to attend physical classes at a school in Saraswathipuram. Teachers said all precautions are in place with children wearing masks. The classrooms were sanitized.  Deputy Director of Public Instruction Ramachandra Raje Urs told The Hindu that the schools in Mysuru North and South and rural reopened for physical classes. As many as 61 per cent of children attended the classes on day one of reopening, he said, adding that the attendance percentage is expected to improve in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-reopen-for-physical-classes/article64946078.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:50 IST,KARNATAKA||Steam-era water column on display at rail museum||With a view to adding value to the Rail Museum here, the South Western Railway on Monday said a steam-era water column has been restored to its full functional order. Many railway stations during the steam era had a water column for filling water into the water tank in the tender trailing the steam locomotive, which also had an enclosure for the fuel for locomotives, such as coal, wood or oil. Water consumption “Water was one of the most important elements used by a steam locomotive. When heated, the water turns to an invisible vapour known as steam. The volume of water expands as it turns into steam inside the boiler of the locomotive, thereby creating high pressure. The expansion of steam pushes the pistons connected to the driving wheels, thus operating the locomotive,” according to the railways. In standard operating conditions, steam locomotives consume about 110-115 litres of water for travelling a distance of one mile (1.6 km). A Meter Gauge YP Class steam locomotive which was in use for hauling passenger-carrying trains could hold 3,000 gallons of water and 9.5 metric tonnes of coal in its tender. Other tank steam locomotives had water tanks ranging from 300 to 1,750 gallons. Some tenders of Broad Gauge locomotives were designed to carry 15 tonnes of coal and 6,000 gallons of water but the water capacity was later reduced to 5,500 gallons to keep the axle load under 18.5-tonne limit, a release said. Significant limitation Water was perhaps the most significant limitation with most steam locomotives hauling loaded trains at express speeds necessitating refilling every 100 miles (160 km). Nine tonnes of coal gave about 350 miles (560 km) range, the release added. Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, South Western Railway, Mysuru Divisionhas said that the Rail Museum visitors would be happy tosee the fully functional 1964-built water column and appreciate the critical role of this rustic system-equipment of the Railways during the long years of steam traction in all parts of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steam-era-water-column-on-display-at-rail-museum/article64946073.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:50 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Only BJP Govt. will take up Mekedatu project’||Seeking to dispel doubts over the Mekedatu project, Housing Minister V. Somanna on Monday asserted that the project will not be taken up by anybody other than the BJP Government. “If the Mekedatu project has to happen, it will be us (BJP Government) under Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who will have to take it up”, Mr. Somanna said while adding that the BJP was in power at Centre as well as in the State. Mr. Somanna’s claims come in the backdrop of the campaign taken up by the Congress for implementation of the project. Mr. Somanna also ruled out the possibility of a change of guard in the State and said Mr. Bommai will continue as the Chief Minister till 2023. The party’s central leaders had already made it clear that the party will fight the next elections under his leadership, he added. With regard to the demand for expansion of the State Cabinet, Mr. Somanna said the State was presently facing a huge health challenge in the form a COVID-19, which was the State Government’s “priority”. However, the issue relating to Cabinet expansion is left to the party high command, he said while adding that Mr. Bommai will handle the matter. Mr. Bommai will be completing six months in office as Chief Minister on January 28 and the various achievements of the State under his leadership will be made public on the occasion. ‘Loopholes’ Holding the “loopholes” created by the erstwhile Congress Government in the State responsible for the failure to distribute houses for the poor during the present dispensation, Mr. Somanna said the decks have now been cleared for distribution of 5 lakh houses by the State Government in addition to an estimated 18 lakh houses by the Centre. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Somanna said the ‘mess’ created by the erstwhile government headed by former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah had now been cleared to enable beneficiaries from Karnataka to receive houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. He claimed he had to attend several meetings with the officials to understand the loopholes created by the previous government. He was responding to the allegations by the Opposition including Mr. Siddaramaiah that the present BJP Government had not distributed even a single house. While 18 lakh houses had been sanctioned for Karnataka under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), Mr. Somanna said the number of houses sanctioned for the State this year will be known before this month-end. The Centre has also permitted the State to purchase 6.6 lakh sites for the poor, he said. In addition, the State Government had approved 5 lakh houses out of which 4 lakh will be distributed in rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-bjp-govt-will-take-up-mekedatu-project/article64946076.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:50 IST,KARNATAKA||4,105 positive cases reported on Monday||Mysuru district reported a total of 4,105 positive cases of COVID-19 on Monday. While Mysuru City accounted for 2,663 out of the total 4,105 cases in the district on Monday, H.D. Kote reported 55 cases, Hunsur reported 287, K.R. Nagar 201, Mysuru taluk 154, Nanjangud 283, Periyapatna 236, Saligrama 50, Sargur 12 and T. Narsipur 164, said a bulletin released by the district administration. Monday was the third successive day when the number of positive COVID-19 cases crossed the 4,000 mark in Mysuru district. After reporting a record high of 4,601 cases on Saturday, the district had reported 4,359 on Sunday and 4,105 on Monday. Home isolation The total number of active cases in the district on Monday climbed up to 18,846 out of whom as many as 18,339 had been isolated at home. Three deaths were reported in Mysuru on Monday, taking the cumulative death due to COVID-19 in the district to 2,455.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4105-positive-cases-reported-on-monday/article38322405.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:50 IST,KARNATAKA||70 schoolchildren, 53 teachers test positive in Mysuru district||COVID-19 infection among schoolchildren spiked on Monday as about 70 tested positive. Also, 53 teachers of government schools have tested positive, forcing the authorities to intervene for containing the spread in schools. The jump in cases among the schoolchildren has worried the district authorities amidst overall infections crossing four-digit mark.  Deputy Director of Public Instruction Ramachandra Raje Urs confirmed to The Hindu that 70 children have contracted the infection and the highest infection rate among the schoolchildren was reported from Hunsur and Periyapatna taluks.  The infections among the teachers were particularly high in K.R. Nagar, H.D. Kote, Hunsur and Periyapatna taluks, he added. Instructions “We were getting less than 20 cases all these days but the number has gone up substantially on Monday. The issue has been brought to the notice of the taluk committees on COVID-19. The BEOs have been told to visit the school where the children got infected and take appropriate steps, such as sanitization besides shutting down the school for three to four days as a precaution,” Mr. Urs said. The heads of schools need to take all recommended steps even if two to three children test positive and report the matter to the higher authorities, he said. Mr. Urs said steps are taken to get the entire schoolchildren tested even in case less than five children get the infection. The swab samples are collected on the school premises with the tahsildars and the taluk health officers directing necessary steps. The infection among 0-17 age group rose alarmingly on Monday as 170 were tested positive. Mysuru city has reported 55 cases while Periyapatna and Hunsur taluks have reported 27 and 44 cases respectively. Out of 170 cases, 145 cases are in 11-17 age group alone. The cases among 6-10 age group was 22. Three cases have been detected in the 0-5 age group and all of them were in Mysuru city and Mysuru taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/70-schoolchildren-53-teachers-test-positive-in-mysuru-district/article38322404.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:26 IST,KARNATAKA||BJP, JD(S) leaders in touch with Cong.: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Monday said that some leaders from the BJP and the JD(S) were in touch with the Congress. Speaking to presspersons in Badami on Monday, he said he would not be able to elaborate on the number and details of the legislators. To a query, he said that it was no secret that there were factions in the ruling party. “There were factions in BJP when B.S. Yediyurappa was the Chief Minister and now also under Basavaraj Bommai. Balancing them is a big headache for the Chief Minister,” he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah said that BJP, which called itself a disciplined party, had now become the most indisciplined party and because of the infighting and differences, development had taken a back seat. On former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s remark, he said: “We are in a political system and follow democracy. The State’s assets are the assets of the nation and the people. It is nobody’s asset. It is neither my father’s asset nor his father’s. It is asset of the people. If he doesn’t have that common sense, then what can I do about it?”. On his comment about sending out the JD(S) from Tumakuru, Mr. Siddaramaiah clarified that he had asked his party workers to work towards it and sought to know whether he had any right to speak to his party workers or not. Regarding former Minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s statement that some of the BJP Ministers were in the clutches of Mr. Siddaramaiah and D.K. Shivakumar, he declined to react saying that it was a pity that Mr. Yatnal did not know what he had spoken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-jds-leaders-in-touch-with-cong-siddaramaiah/article64946095.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:26 IST,KARNATAKA||Auspicious start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auspicious-start/article64946099.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Barge to collect houseboat waste||The District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) has deployed a specialised boat (sewage barge) for collecting septage from houseboats in Alappuzha. Lijo Abraham, secretary, DTPC said the mobile unit would be able to collect septage from about 10 houseboats daily. Pilot process "As a pilot process, sewage from 10 houseboats were removed last week. Following this, regular operations were launched on Monday. The barge, which belongs to the Tourism Department, is currently operated by the Kottayam DTPC. It will visit the Houseboat terminal at Punnamada Finishing Point and collect waste from vessels. The waste collected will be treated at a sewage treatment plant of the Kottayam DTPC," Mr. Abraham said. Rs. 2,360 per boat The DTPC charges Rs. 2,360 per boat for the process. It is mandatory for all houseboats to empty septage at a Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) once in every three months inorder to renew the annual license for operation. Houseboat operators in the district have found themselves in a fix after the STP at H-Block (Kunnumma), operated by the DTPC, was closed in 2019. The sewage treatment plant was shut after the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) found flaws in its functioning and rejected an application submitted by the DTPC for renewing its licence. In the absence of a functional waste treatment plant, majority of the houseboats have been discharging wastewater directly into Vembanad Lake, a designated Ramsar site, and rivers. Mr. Abraham, meanwhile, said that the upgradation of the treatment plant at H-Block was under way and it would be opened very soon. Complaints “There have been complaints of houseboats dumping waste into the water. The sewage barge is expected to help improve the waste management system in houseboats. We hope a large number of houseboat operators will make use of the facility. In the meantime, the work on the plant at H- Block is progressing and we hope to open it by February end,” the DTPC secretary said.  The waste collected will be treated at a sewage treatment plant of the Kottayam DTPC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-boat-to-collect-waste-in-alappuzha/article38321909.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:02 IST,KERALA||System in place since 1966: Vellappally||Responding to a High Court ruling that quashed the representation voting system in electing officer-bearers of the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam, its general secretary Vellappally Natesan on Monday said the election process had been in practice for several years. In a statement here, Mr. Natesan said the representation voting was introduced in the Yogam in 1966. “The system was in practice before my first election to the post of the Yogam general secretary. Back in 1966, the Yogam had 60,000 permanent members. The new system was introduced considering the difficulty in convening all the members. No one questioned the process until now. At present, the Yogam has 32 lakh members. As per the representation voting, 9,800 members should attend the annual meeting and cast votes,” the Yogam general secretary said. Mr. Natesan denied allegations that he sabotaged the democratic system in the Yogam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/system-in-place-since-1966-vellappally/article38322321.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Idukki package to be implemented: Minister||Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine has said that the government has planned elaborate projects for developing the district in connection with the 50 years of its formation. The prime focus is to find a solution to the land related issues and title deeds will be given to all deserving farmers. More facilities will be developed in Idukki Medical College and focus will be on the health sector. Educational backwardness will be solved by setting up more institutions in the district. Idukki package will be implemented with focus on infrastructure building. Funds has already been allotted for repair of rural roads and the main roads. Tourism sector will also be strengthened. A tourism circle connecting Thekkady, Munnar and the district headquarters will be implemented. More government buildings will be constructed, the Minister said adding that the national highways and the Public Works Department roads will be maintained well. Farm sector will be given importance. The government is aware of the issues being faced by the farmers, he said adding that various departments will introduce joint projects for the overall development of the district. Road circuit A road circuit connecting Calvery Mount with Munnar is also planned, he said.  A tourism circle connecting Thekkady, Munnar and the district headquarters on the anvil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-package-to-be-implemented-minister/article38322365.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:56 IST,KERALA||Eravikulam park likely to close by Feb. 1||With the sighting of three calves of Nilgiri tahr at Eravikulam National Park (ENP) the authorities are planning to close the park on February 1. The ENP has submitted a recommendation to the chief wildlife warden that three calves were sighted at Rajamala and the park should be closed from February 1 to April 1. This time, the sighting of the calves is early and the survey of the new births and total population in ENP will be held in the second week of April. In the last survey, the tahr numberes was 782.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eravikulam-park-likely-to-close-by-feb-1/article38322366.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Tribute to Netaji from an INA soldier’s family||He was running a hotel in Malaysia when N. Kunhiraman, inspired by the call of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, joined the Indian National Army (INA). Though he died in 2009, his heroic stories about Netaji and the INA always stayed with his son K. Sudhakaran, a former Principal of Kannur Government Medical College, and family members who grew up listening to it. Nearing completion Now, a 12-foot-tall statue of Netaji is nearing completion on the premises of the residence of Dr. Sudhakaran at Trikaripur in Kasaragod on the occasion of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary which was celebrated on Sunday. “Netaji had such a great influence on my father that he joined INA and never went back to his hotel,” said Dr. Sudhakaran. He was part of the INA soldiers who reached closed to Manipur on foot when Japan fell to the allies in the Battle of Imphal. He survived the Nilganj Massacre after being kept in the Nilganj jail. Kunhiraman was later released after a long trial. “It was my father’s wish that a Netaji memorial had to be built in Trikaripur so that future generations would cherish the role Netaji played in our Independence movement,” he said. Artist The family decided to construct a statue of Netaji and roped in artist Trikaripur Raveendran, a well-known sculptor who is a member of the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi and Kerala Sahitya Akademi, to do the job. The work, which has cost Rs. 6 lakh, is almost complete. Though it was proposed to be inaugurated last year, the work got delayed due to the outbreak of COVID-19, said Dr. Sudhakaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribute-to-netaji-from-an-ina-soldiers-family/article64946015.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Obscenity during online class: police launch probe||The cyber police have launched an investigation in connection with a person appearing naked during an online class conducted by the Kanhangad Iqbal Higher Secondary School.The police have registered a case based on a complaint lodged by a teacher of the school on Monday. On Jan.18 The incident took place on January 18 when the teacher was taking a maths class for Plus One students. The miscreant had covered his face during the act. An emergency PTA meeting was convened at the school on Monday in the wake of the incident.Meanwhile, GeneralEducation Minister Report sought V.Sivankutty has ordered an inquiry into the incident. The Director of General Education has been directed to submit a report in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/obscenity-during-online-class-police-launch-probe/article38322276.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Six-laning to usher in safe, fast motoring||A host of safety issues and hassles to smooth traffic on the 16-km-long Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass will be addressed while widening the congested stretch into a six-lane corridor, sources in the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) have said. The agency will soon name a design consultant to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for the project as part of the development of the entire Kozhikode-Edappally-Aroor stretch of NH 66 into a six-lane highway. Road users have been complaining of unsafe pedestrian crossing points, inadequate width of the tarred surface of service roads, waterlogging due to absence of drains, absence of cat’s eyes and other reflectors, inadequate lighting and sign boards in much of the corridor. Problems posed by unscientific location of bus stops, especially at entry points from service roads, thus causing blind spots, encroachments, and haphazard parking on service roads are cited as reasons for accidents and traffic snarls which have become the norm on the stretch. “The NH Bypass has an average width of 45 metres, wherein we hope to accommodate all necessary infra for fast and safe commuting. Pedestrian safety too will be accorded priority. The NHAI head office has been apprised of the need to widen four-lane portions on the stretch into six-lane, since the daily passenger car units crossed the 60,000 figure [which necessitates an eight-lane corridor] many years ago,” official sources said. Elevated corridor The 45-metre-wide stretch does not need an elevated NH at present, unlike the Aroor-Thuravur stretch having 30-metre width where an elevated corridor has been mooted. The DPR for the elevated corridor south of Aroor is in its final stage. As of now, the operation, maintenance and tolling (OMT) contractor of the Edappally-Aroor stretch is being given notice whenever required, to rectify problems cited by members of the public, they added. In addition, the NHAI’s Kochi project office is readying a revised estimate for the construction of drains wherever needed and to cover existing drains with slabs to prevent waterlogging and waste dumping, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-laning-to-usher-in-safe-fast-motoring/article64946149.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Prime tourist attractions at Fort Kochi remain in ruins||Gatekeepers of popular tourist attractions in Fort Kochi, which were crying for upkeep, are a worried lot with little being done to improve the state of affairs. Nowhere is it more evident than along the beachfront in Fort Kochi. Little has been done to renovate the iconic Chinese fishing nets, and a considerable stretch of the walkway along the beachfront, which was washed away during the past couple of years, remains in ruins. “Tourism and other stakeholders concerned do not seem to be worried, despite the number of Chinese nets dwindling from a total of 23 two decades ago to the present seven due to their increasing operating cost and sea erosion. The assurance by Kerala Tourism and others to help renovate the nets under a Rs. 1.5-crore project remains on paper, over five years since the project was set in motion,” said Kunjappan C.A., who began operating the nets in 1965 and now owns one such net. Many of the existing nets, which used to be pulled by six people, are losing their traditional charm since the fishermen have been forced to install a motor to operate them. The teak logs that supported their cantilever frame were replaced with iron pipes during the past decade due to the difficulty and expense of procuring teak. “The nets may fast fall into oblivion, since tourists, who often join in pulling the nets, are not at all impressed by their mechanisation,” said Mr. Kunjappan. Kerala Tourism sources said the project would have kicked off, but for the Forest Department forwarding its file to the government seeking permission. The reconstruction of the damaged portions of the beach walkway too is in limbo, for what tourism stakeholders say is inadequate interest being shown by the departments concerned. “The walkway could have been restored but for the Irrigation department and experts from IIT-Madras being on different pages on checking sea erosion which ate up much of the beach, and subsequently the walkway. The department prefers more or less a conventional sea wall, while the IIT recommended an economical but innovative sea wall. The walkway can be rebuilt only after the sea wall is readied,” said tourism sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prime-tourist-attractions-at-fort-kochi-remain-in-ruins/article64946151.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:02 IST,KERALA||HC sets aside representative voting at SNDP Yogam||The Kerala High Court on Monday struck down Clause 44 of the articles of association of the SNDP Yogam which provided for voting rights to a representative for every 200 members in the general body meetings of the yogam. Justice T.R. Ravi, while allowing a writ petition filed by V. Vijayakumar and another SNDP Yogam member from Kollam challenging the representative voting method, declared that Clause 44 of the articles of association was ultra vires the statutory provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, read with the provisions of the Kerala Non-Trading Companies Act, 1961. The court declared that all members of the Yogam had a right to vote in any election to be held by the Yogam. The court also made clear that the judgment would not in any way nullify the meetings held by the Yogam earlier or elections conducted earlier. However, decisions taken at the meetings to restrict the voting rights would not have any sanctity of law. Central govt. order The court also set aside a Central government order issued under section 25(6) of the Companies Act, 1956 exempting the Yogam from the provisions which gives voting rights to all the members at general body meetings. The court had earlier struck down Clause 47 which had restricted the voting rights to a representative for every 100, on the ground that the Yogam was not granted exemption by the Centre from the one member one vote pattern. Therefore, the Yogam later incorporated the clause 44 in its articles of association restricting the voting right to a representative for every 200 members after obtaining exemption order from the Centre. The court observed that while considering the application for exemption in 1974, the Central government had overlooked the aspect that the Yogam was governed by Kerala Non-Trading Companies Act which came into force in 1962. When the Kerala Act was to apply, the consideration of a request for exemption under Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956 could only be given by the State government and not the Central government. The right to vote could only have been taken away by a legal and valid order issued by the appropriate government under Section 25(6) of the Act. The court found that the exemption granted by the Centre was without authority of law. It was not issued by the competent authority and “hence cannot stand the test of law.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-sets-aside-representative-voting-at-sndp-yogam/article38322316.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Minister warns against disrupting investment-friendly climate||Those who worked against the efforts to create an investment-friendly climate in the State would be taken to task, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve said on Monday while inaugurating the four-day industrial machinery expo at the Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium in Kochi. It was time everybody changed their thinking pattern to encourage investments in the State, he said. Only new investments can ensure that the State has adequate income, which also go into welfare measures undertaken by the government. The State needs the support of the Union government as well as people from all walks of life to increase the number of enterprises. Discussions were on with different government departments on achieving the goal of one lakh new enterprises in 2022. The government had also held discussions with bankers on the issues involved, said Mr. Rajeeve. The machinery expo has 140 stalls that display machinery suited for agriculture, food processing, electronics and electrical engineering sectors. It will conclude on January 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-warns-against-disrupting-investment-friendly-climate/article64946155.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Ernakulam billboards highlight Mass row||Dozens of large billboards akin to advertisement hoardings continue to linger on roadsides in several places in Ernakulam district asserting the right of the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar church to continue with the fully congregation-facing Mass celebration, while the synod of bishops of the Syro-Malabar Church is yet to issue a circular granting permanent exemption to the archdiocese from a synodal decision. One of the billboards close to the busy Vyttila Junction in Kochi city reasserts the “people’s right to‘‘ continue with the fully congregation-facing Mass. The board has been put up by a group of parishioners in the Thripunithura Forane. Pope thanked Similar boards have been erected by different foranes and parishes. Many of the boards thank Pope Francis for allowing the archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly to continue with the 50-year-old custom of fully congregation-facing Mass. They also congratulate Metropolitan Vicar Archbishop Antony Kariyil for standing with the rights of the archdiocesan members. Many of the boards carry the names Almaya Munnettam, a combination of lay people and Athiroopatha Samrakshana Samithy or forum for protection of the archdiocese formed by the priests in the archdiocese. However, Riju Kanjookkaran, leader of the lay people said neither the group nor the combine of priests had put up archdiocesan level boards, which have been sponsored by members of parishes and forances in the archdiocese. Rally called off A senior priest said the boards were erected preceding a vehicle rally by the members of the archdiocese. However, with COVID-19 protocol that came into effect with a spiral in new cases, the rally was cancelled. Meanwhile, parishes and religious institutions coming under the archdiocese are reported to have stuck to the custom of congregation-facing Mass all though no circular or pastoral letter was issued on January 23 exempting the archdiocese from a synodal decision to have a uniform style of Mass with the celebrant facing the congregation only for the first half. “We are keeping our fingers crossed on the issue”, said a senior priest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/billboards-across-ernakulam-highlight-issue-of-mass/article64946016.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Restrictions to be tightened in Ernakulam from today||More restrictions will be in place in Ernakulam from Tuesday, as the district has been included in the ‘B’ category of the COVID-19 prevalence classification. If COVID patients form more than 10% of the total number of patients hospitalised in a district, and if COVID patients in ICU in a district have doubled from that on the baseline date (January 1), the district gets included in the ‘B’ category as per the new State government guidelines. Meanwhile, the district on Monday recorded 4,443 new cases of COVID-19, but the details were not made available by the Health department. The inclusion in the ‘B’ category means that no social, cultural, political, religious and community programmes will be allowed in the district. All religious worships should be held online, and only 20 persons will be allowed to attend weddings and funerals. District Collector Jafar Malik said efforts would be made to complete the vaccination of eligible children, at 53% now, by January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-to-be-tightened-in-ernakulam-from-today/article38322307.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:02 IST,KERALA||Cyberattack on poet: Satheesan slams CPI(M)||With poet-lyricist Rafeeq Ahamed coming under a vicious cyber attack for his social media post on environmental issues and those concerning basic civic amenities’ development in the State, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has sprung to his defence, making a pitched call for allowing diverse voices to exist in order to have a healthy, vibrant democracy. Mr. Ahamed, believed to be a Left co-traveller, became the target of attack by self-proclaimed Leftist accounts as his poem/note was perceived as speaking against the State government’s flagship SilverLine semi-high speed railway project. The lines “Where are you going this fast/past the wetlands/ rows of coconut trees/mangroves, shrines and ponds/toppling the Western Ghats/blocking the Pampa, the Perar…” is how the poem/note made on Facebook opens. It goes on to talk about the cities that have become garbage yards, the hospital buildings that gasp for breath, the people displaced for development and about the tribal hamlets where children die regularly. With trolls descending on his timeline, Mr. Ahamed made another post which said abuses would be powerless to stop pointed questions and that he only felt pity for the trolls. Stress on plurality Leader of the Opposition Mr. Satheesan, in his post, said plurality rendered democracy stronger. He launched a frontal attack on the CPI(M) by alleging that the attackers were wholesalers of intolerance, hate and violence. Since there was democracy in the land, the poet could not be sent to the concentration camp. Hence the CPI(M)-decided sentence in the cyber world. The cyber attackers comprised those with a face and also the faceless and the nameless. “They are hardcore criminals hiding behind fake profiles. Even as they wax eloquent about gender equality, renaissance, political correctness and the like, they are bereft of an iota of humanity,” he said. The party or its leadership would not be able to distance themselves from the attack as most of the profiles doing the same had either party images or the image of the Chief Minister, he maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cyberattack-on-poet-satheesan-slams-cpim/article64946031.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:54 IST,KERALA||Cameras to keep tabs on illegal waste dumping||A proposal for installing 150 surveillance cameras across the 74 divisions of the Kochi Corporation to curb illegal dumping of waste will soon come up for the consideration of the civic authorities. The proposal, which was vetted by the health standing committee of the corporation, will be placed before the town planning standing committee. Once cleared, it will be placed before the corporation council for its approval, the civic authorities said. Besides the 150 cameras of the civic body, another 150 are likely to be put up by the city police. The cameras will be networked to the district police headquarters. A private firm, which was identified by the police, came up with the proposal. The firm has offered to purchase, operate and maintain the network of high-definition cameras. The agency, which has associated itself with the Kerala Police in a few other local bodies for setting up surveillance cameras, has offered to ensure uninterrupted service during its contract period. It has sought the right to display advertisements on poles and posts erected on city roads in lieu of the cost of cameras and the operational and maintenance expenses of the network, a civic official said. Expenses It will be a zero-cost affair for the corporation, as it will not have to spend for the equipment and its installation and maintenance. Allowing the firm to display advertisement boards will have no financial consequences for corporation, as the right to collect tax for display of advertisements was taken away from civic bodies long ago, said T.K. Ashraf, chairman of the health standing committee. The proposal for setting up surveillance cameras was considered by the corporation earlier, as illegal dumping of waste on roads and canals had been causing health hazards. The civic body had earlier identified spots where refuse was being dumped. Strengthening surveillance system and strict enforcement of rules are necessary to keep city roads clean and effectively manage waste, Mr. Ashraf said.  Besides the 150 cameras of the civic body, another 150 may be put up by the city police. They will be networked to the district police headquarters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cameras-to-keep-tabs-on-illegal-waste-dumping/article38322301.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||MIMI fish app service comes to Thrissur as well||The coverage of the MIMI fish app service, jointly developed by the Kerala State Coastal Area Development Corporation (KSCADC) and the ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, is being extended to Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad districts from next month, apressnote issued heretoday said. At present, the services of the app are available in Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts. The app provides home delivery of cleaned fish, with access to details such as date and time of capture of the fish. Packets of half-kg are available for delivery, and the app assures that the fish is free of adulterants. Those interested in setting up franchise in the five districts where it will be launched may contact mobile 9383454647 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mimi-fish-app-service-in-five-more-districts/article38322294.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Three arrested in major drug haul in Kochi||In a major breakthrough, Excise officials seized hashish oil worth Rs. 1.50 crore, ganja worth Rs. 2.50 lakh and MDMA from three youths who were staying at a rented house at Kunnathunad in Ernakulam district on Sunday. The raid conducted by the special squad of the Excise Commissioner (South Range) resulted in the seizure of 1.6 kg of hashish oil, 15 kg of ganja, and 2 grams of MDMA. The arrested have been identified as Riswan, 22, of Taliparamba, Shaun, 23, of Kumbalanghi, and Denin, 24, of Konni. Jijo Koshy of Karunagappally, who is said to be the kingpin of the drug racket, fled on seeing the Excise personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-drug-seizure-by-excise-squad/article38322303.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||FLTCs to be restarted in city as COVID cases spiral||The COVID First-Line Treatment Centre (FLTC) at Mattanchery will resume functioning in the wake of the spread of the disease in the city. The Women and Children Hospital at Mattanchery will be converted into an exclusive hospital for treating children with COVID and the government hospital at Palluruthy into COVID treatment centre, according to Mayor M. Anilkumar. The city administration has also started efforts to re-start another FLTC in Ernakulum town. Steps are also being initiated for shifting the patients, who need urgent medical attention, to hospitals, he said in a communication. The representatives of traders including hotels and restaurants, NGOs, socio-cultural and religious organisations, who attended a meeting convened by the Mayor, assured the civic body of the required help for tiding over the crisis. The meeting was convened to seek the support of the various stakeholders and to coordinate the relief operations in the city. Representatives of Ernakulam Karayogam, SNDP Union, Jama-ath Council and various residents’ associations attended the meeting. The religious organisations assured the corporation to limit functions to the necessary ones and to postpone the ones in which people are likely to attend in large numbers. The civic body, informed the Mayor, will focus on the vaccination of children till January 27 and later on, move to provide booster doses. Some organisations had also offered to hold camps for providing booster doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fltcs-to-be-restarted-in-city-as-covid-cases-spiral/article38322299.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||ED probing charge against Atlas Jewellery||An Enforcement Directorate (ED) search operation at the businesses and bank lockers of Atlas Jewellery India Ltd., under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, in Mumbai, Bengaluru, and New Delhi on January 20 and 22 led to the seizure of Rs. 26.59 crore in the form of fixed deposit, currency, and gold, silver and diamond jewellery. The ED initiated the money laundering probe on the basis of an FIR registered by the Thrissur East Police Station against Atlas Jewellery, M.M. Ramachandran, and Indira Ramachandran under various Sections of the IPC on the charge of cheating South Indian Bank. The charge is that they planned and presented forged documents to the bank and availed loan worth Rs. 242.40 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-probing-charge-against-atlas-jewellery/article38322302.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Probe ordered into suicide of transwoman||The State Department of Health and Family Welfare has ordered an inquiry by the Additional Director of Health (Vigilance) into a complaint that transwoman Ananyah Kumari Alex, who underwent a sex reassignment surgery at a private hospital here, committed suicide after the surgery failed. The surgery failed due to the negligence of hospital authorities, said P.K. Preejith, who complained to the department. The inquiry report is expected in a month. Ananyah, 28, was a transactivist and Kerala’s first transwoman radio jockey. She had contested the State Assembly elections in April 2021 from Vengara, taking on Indian Union Muslim League leader P.K. Kunhalikutty. Medical negligence Ananyah was found dead in July 2021 at her apartment in Edappally. Allegations of medical negligence triggered protest against the hospital where she underwent the surgery. Hospital authorities said on Monday they would cooperate with the inquiry. The hospital had already denied allegations of medical negligence, they added. Kerala Transgender Justice Board member A. Anil said though the State had adopted a trans welfare policy in 2015, work to ensure justice to the community had not gone ahead with the required momentum. “The State does not have a uniform protocol for sex reassignment procedures. Secondly, Kerala has not constituted an ethics committee to consider requests for sex reassignment,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-ordered-into-suicide-of-transwoman/article38322287.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:40 IST,KERALA||Ministry urged to expedite steps to resume big aircraft operation||The Advisory Committee of Calicut International Airport has urged the Ministry of Civil Aviation to expedite steps to resume the operation of wide-bodied aircraft, which is still remaining suspended after the Air India Express flight crash at the airport on August 7, 2020. Committee chairman M.P. Abdussamad Samadani, MP, said that the accident had nothing to do with the infrastructure facilities at the airport. However, he said the delay in approving the resumption wide-bodied aircraft service caused severe hardship to passengers, especially the Non-Resident Indians bound for the Gulf sector. The expatriates had immensely contributed to the development of the airport, Mr. Samadani, who represented the Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency, said. The aircraft involved in the accident was classified under Code C (medium or short range). The accident killed 21 people including both pilots. Sources attached to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that recommendations of a committee constituted to analyse the report of Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), which probed the Air India Express crash, was crucial in deciding the resumption of the operation of wide-bodied aircraft. Last month, a team of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had also inspected the airport. Runway length Meanwhile, Mr. Samadani said that a reported suggestion on reconstructing the Runway End Safety Area (RESA) after reducing the length of the tabletop runway would be harmful for the development of the airport. If the RESA was increased by 240 metres on both sides, the runway length would be reduced to 2,540m.Now, the existing runway length of the airport is 2,700 m. This was actually shortened from its earlier length of 2,850 m for increasing the RESA four years ago. Then it was said that wide- bodied aircraft would be allowed to operate if the RESA was increased. The meeting has tasked Airport Director R. Mahalingam, who is the convener of the committee, to call a meeting of AAI officials and representatives of airline companies for starting domestic services to various sectors. To meet demand, more direct flights were required to Mumbai and Delhi as well as a daily flight to Thiruvananthapuram, Mr. Samadani said. He said that the advisory committee was awaiting the response of the State government on the meeting it had with stakeholders on the expansion of the Calicut airport. M.K. Raghavan, MP , who is the co-chairman of the committee, E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, and others took part in the meeting held online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ministry-urged-to-expedite-steps-to-resume-big-aircraft-operation/article64946159.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:40 IST,KERALA||Nod for renovation of 35 rural roads in Kozhikode||The renovation of 35 rural roads, which were in a damaged state after the monsoon season, will begin soon using a special development fund from the State government. Administrative sanction has already been accorded to the projects estimated to cost Rs. 2 crore. The majority of the roads selected for renovation are located within the limits of Koyilandy and Kunnamangalam Assembly constituencies. In Koyilandy constituency, the project will cover two municipalities and four grama panchayats. In Kunnamangalam constituency, it will cover five local bodies. According to Revenue Department officials, the works were approved based on the priority lists submitted by people’s representatives from the respective constituencies. More such roads would be identified from other constituencies as well under rural road improvement projects, they said. Meanwhile, approval is still pending for the renovation of many damaged roads in the coastal areas of the district.Despite the proximity of popular beach tourism spots, there is no considerable progress in the work. The Kappad-Koyilandy road is one such ignored stretch in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-renovation-of-35-rural-roads-in-kozhikode/article38322275.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Railway website, app snag troubles users||The Confederation of All India Rail Users’ Association has approached the Railway authorities regarding the problems associated with the mobile application of Indian Railways used to book tickets and check train status. C.E.Chakkunny, working chairman of the association, said that the rail users were facing difficulties with the applications as well as the website and that the issue had been brought to the attention of the General Manager of Southern Railway. Besides its official application IRCTC Rail Connect, there are several applications approved by the Railway for the purpose. Bookings can also be done through the IRCTC website. However, there have been complaints recently that the bookings were not happening and that several people had problems with making payments through net banking or e-wallets. Passengers are forced to book directly at the ticket counters to make sure that the tickets booked are really available. The applications often crash, forcing the users to re-login repeatedly. The distorted captchas often confuse users, especially zero and the letter ‘O’ that look alike. Some users find it impossible to book the tickets through the application or the website as the one time passwords are not available on time. The association has also raised a complaint regarding cancellation of eight trains that may lead to overcrowding in the remaining ones. “At a situation where COVID is spreading fast, we cannot afford to have overcrowding in buses and trains”, Mr. Chakunny said, adding that the issues had been brought to the attention of the Railway Ministry as well as the Railway Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railway-website-app-malfunction-troubling-users/article38322267.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:40 IST,KERALA||Colours spotlight women’s quest for societal space||Thantethu aaya/ aakenda/ akatha/ allathaya idam (the space that was one’s own/ that should have been/ that didn’t become/ that was lost). The title in itself is quite adequate to incite the curiosity of any normal art connoisseur. When a young woman talks about her own space that was never hers to begin with, there opens a whole new perspective of identity and politics of identity.  For Sooraja K.S., her latest exhibition of paintings is an attempt to highlight the lack of space experienced by women everywhere, despite the tall talk of gender equality. The exhibition that began at the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi Art Gallery in Kozhikode on Monday features around 50 paintings of various sizes and shapes by Sooraja made over a period of four years, but mostly during the two years of the pandemic when she had enough time to think about the matters of space. Hair seems to be a very important symbol in almost all the paintings of Sooraja, who has played around with this part of the human body. Most of the paintings feature the female nude body in various positions, even yogic poses, with hair being the only accessory and a powerful one at that. For Sooraja, the hair sometimes doubles as a chair, a dress, a support system and sometimes, it takes “root” and joins the female body with nature. “It is often perceived that hair is an integral part of a woman’s beauty or identity, for that matter. I shaved off my hair at one stage and some of the paintings are an after effect of that”, she said of the dozen paintings in which she is seen showing off her bald head and making a variety of faces. The exhibition was opened on Monday by Trangender Justice Board member Sheethal Shyam. It will conclude on January 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/colours-spotlight-womens-quest-for-societal-space/article64946156.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Aided school managers misleading people: forum||Functionaries of the Kerala Federation of the Blind have accused the Kerala Aided (Primary) School Managers Association of misleading people about a High Court order on reservations for differently abled persons in aided schools. Three per cent reservation was mandatory for the differently abled under the People With Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995, from February 7, 1996. Under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, the quota was raised to 4% from April 19, 2017, with retrospective effect. Federation president K.J. Varghese said on Monday that the court had not vacated the stay on grant of approval for appointments in aided schools. In an interim order on December 23, 2021, the court clarified that there would not be any embargo in granting approval to the appointments in posts which are not identified for disabled persons. The stay order continues and the writ petition filed by the Federation is pending in the court, Mr. Varghese said. The earlier mentioned order also had said that any approval would be subject to the result of the above writ petition. In an order on September 6, 2021, the Director of Public Instruction had sought to clear all the appointments to aided schools made by July 15, 2021, by September 24. The court stayed this order after the Kerala Federation of the Blind filed a petition alleging that the 4% quota for persons with disabilities had not been implemented. It was the KASMA functionaries who filed another petition opposing the stay order.  Court has not vacated the stay on grant of approval for appointments in aided schools K.J. Varghese Kerala Federation of the Blind||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aided-school-managers-misleading-people-says-forum/article38322270.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Calicut varsity union polls likely by March||Students’ union polls in colleges affiliated to the University of Calicut for 2021-22 are likely to be held by February last week or March first week. This follows an online meeting the university authorities had with representatives of students’ organisations on Monday. Syndicate sources said that all the students’ leaders demanded that the polls be held in line with the COVID protocol, though they were concerned about the rapid transmission of the infection. However, since exams are going to be held for various courses in the coming weeks, there is likely to be a clash of dates. So, it was proposed that the polls could be held by February last week or March first week. A Syndicate sub-committee would discuss the proposal and submit a report before the Syndicate meeting scheduled for January 29, the sources said. The students’ union polls have not been held for the past two years in view of the pandemic. Thus, the university union general council has not been constituted and the university union polls too have not been held. In the absence of the university union, arts festivals too are not being held. The Syndicate had in December 2019 amended the election bylaws to carve out an executive council from the general council of the university students’ union. Only members of this council were given voting rights to pick university union functionaries. All the university union councillors (UUC) from aided and government colleges, university departments and university study centres were to be its members. Only one-third of the UUCs from self-financing colleges, however, were made part of it. The Kerala High Court in February 2020 struck down the amendment. Implications of this verdict too were reportedly discussed at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-union-polls-likely-by-march/article38322271.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:40 IST,KERALA||Special vaccination drive from today||A special drive will be held from Tuesday in Kozhikode district for those who have not yet taken their second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. District Medical Officer V. Ummer Farooq said in a release on Monday that arrangements had been made at all government hospitals. It has been reported that over two lakh people, who had taken the first dose of the Covishield vaccine, are yet to take their second dose even after 112 days. They should make use of this facility, the DMO said. The drive would be on till February 15, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-vaccination-drive-from-today/article38322277.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Nambikulam hill station development project in limbo||Even after four years, a major tourism development project initiated by the Tourism Department at the Nambikulam hill station in Koorachundu is nowhere near completion. The majority of the proposed works in the first phase are yet to begin in the area which is now in a state of neglect with no proper surveillance or maintenance. Though the department had sanctioned Rs. 1.5 crore for the development of various facilities in the popular eco-tourism spot, only the works of a watch tower and a ticket counter were partly completed at the spot. Other major works such as the construction of a cafeteria, rain shelters, gates, hand rails, fences, bio toilets and office building have been pending for many years. The road access to the spot still remains in a piteous state despite the popularity of the spot among domestic tourists. The demand of the local residents is to complete the renovation works covering at least 3-km stretch connected to the hilltop. “Expecting timely completion of works, local landowners had handed over nearly three acres to the Tourism Department for the development of the spot. We are totally clueless of the future development of the area,” said a local tourism entrepreneur. He said that the neglected development activities would spoil the interest of the sightseers to the location. Nambikulam was selected for the beautification project, considering the prominence of the eco-tourism spot located nearly 2,000 metres above the sea level. Cooperating with the government’s proposal, about 17 local landowners had come together to exchange the required land free of cost with the Tourism Department. The whole aim was to promote the area in the tourism map and support the growth of allied tourism ventures for improving the livelihood of the people. It was in 2017 that the project was approved by the government. There was also the warm support of the local administrators from Koorachundu, Kottur, Kayanna, and Panangad panchayats. An Ernakulam-based multi-product engineering company had been entrusted with the work, which was expected to complete it in two years. According to Tourism Department sources, some unexpected fund crunch was holding up the project midway.  Expecting the timely completion of works, local landowners had handed over nearly three acres to the Tourism Department An entrepreneur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nambikulam-hill-station-development-project-in-limbo/article38322274.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Health Minister inspects MCH||Health Minister Veena George visited the Government Medical College Hospital here on Monday to take stock of the availability of COVID-19 treatment facilities. The visit, which was made against the backdrop of reports of dwindling intensive care unit (ICU) bed and ventilator capacity in government hospitals, was intended to allay such concerns. ICU beds Dismissing such reports, Ms. George inspected the available ICU beds, oxygen beds, and ventilators at the medical college. ‘No dearth’ Following the inspection, she said the hospital had no dearth of such facilities. All arrangements were in place to handle exigencies that could arise by a surge in COVID-19 cases. Currently, 28 COVID-19 patients including those who were diagnosed with the disease on Monday are being treated in the hospital ICU. While over a hundred ICU beds remained vacant, more number of ICU wards will be opened up when the need arose. Only six COVID-19 patients were being provided ventilator support at present. The Minister added an adequate number of health-care workers will be appointed in the hospital soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-minister-inspects-mch/article64946034.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:02 IST,KERALA||All steps in place to meet any exigency: Health Minister||The government has made adequate preparations much ahead to meet any exigency that might arise during the third wave by augmenting hospital infrastructure, including ICU, ventilator, oxygen beds, and there is no situation in the State wherein hospitals are running short of beds, Health Minister Veena George said here on Monday. Shortage of human resources in hospitals is a reality as a large number of healthcare workers have been falling sick due to COVID-19 and the government has now given directions to all hospitals to recruit personnel wherever required to tide over the current situation, she told mediapersons here. Every hospital has been asked to assess their human resources requirement and prepare a proper plan for optimising staff deployment whenever a set of people fall sick and become indisposed. She termed reports in certain sections of the media about hospital beds, ICUs and ventilators filling up as “false and baseless” and appealed that unnecessary panic is not created amongst the public. ICU beds Of the total 3,107 ICU beds in government hospitals, only 43.3% is occupied by both COVID and non-COVID patients. Of the ventilators also, only 13.1% are currently occupied. Ms. George reeled off the ICU/ventilator occupancy figures in major hospitals to explain that adequate beds are available. In Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital, of the total 206 ICU beds (40 for COVID), only 20 were currently occupied by COVID patients. As COVID ICU beds get filled up, more beds will be re-allocated from the non-COVID section. This can be done without letting the non-COVID care suffer because this time, plenty of beds have been set aside for non-COVID patients, she said. Ernakulam MCH has 50 ICU beds, of which only 10 are occupied by COVID patients; of the 256 ICU beds in Kozhikode, only 14 are occupied by COVID patients and in Thrissur, of the 120 ICU beds, only seven have COVID patients. Low ventilator use Ventilator use has been low so far and of the 40 ventilators in Thiruvananthapuram MCH, only two have COVID patients, while of the 52 ventilators in Kozhikode, only four are utilised by COVID patients. The third wave is likely to hit the peak fast because of the high transmissibility of the virus variant in circulation and the waning of the peak is also likely to be quite fast. Though the daily case graph has been hovering around 45-46,000 cases, the graph is likely to go up further as intense disease transmission is happening now, Ms. George said.  The third wave is likely to hit the peak fast because of the high transmissibility of the virus variant and the waning of the peak is also likely to be fast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-steps-in-place-to-meet-any-exigency-health-minister/article64946026.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||3,256 cases in capital, curbs intensified||Thiruvananthapuram has come under intensified restrictions after being classified in the C-category of COVID-19-induced curbs. Public movement is bound to be considerably restricted in the district that has been reeling under a worrying COVID-19 spread with the test positivity rate continuing to hover around 40%. The move has come in view of COVID-19-necessitated hospital admissions growing to over a quarter of the total number of hospitalisations in the district as on Monday. There are currently 48,596 active cases of infection in the district. As many as 3,256 fresh cases were reported on Monday. Bringing much relief, the rate of recovery grew significantly as 12,131 people tested negative during the last 24 hours. The ban of public meetings including social, political, cultural, religious, and communal gatherings will continue in the district. Prayers on online mode Prayers and worship services can be conducted only through the online mode. Not more than 20 people will be permitted to attend weddings and funerals. Cinema theatres, swimming pools, and gymnasiums will be shuttered as long as the district remained in Category C. Schools and colleges will be required to function only in the online mode till January 31. The restriction will not apply for classes of Class 10 and 12 students, and final-year students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Tuition centres will also be closed down for the time being. In the case of batches that have been permitted to function in the offline mode, the heads of institutions can decide on shifting to the online mode for 15 days in the event of a COVID-19 cluster formation or when the three-day attendance falls below 40%. The restrictions will not apply for residential educational institutions that operate in a bio-secure environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3256-cases-in-capital-curbs-intensified/article38322466.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:07 IST,KERALA||Well-poised to beat third wave: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has called for a concerted effort to tide over the Omicron variant-driven COVID-19 third wave. He said Kerala had completed 100% first dose vaccination. An estimated 83% of the population was double vaccinated and 66% of teenagers between 15 and 17 years had received their first dose. Nearly 33% of eligible citizens have received precaution doses. A large section of the population has acquired hybrid immunisation. As of January 20, nearly 97% of the estimated 2 lakh newly infected persons were quarantined at home. Only 2.7% developed severe illnesses and were hospitalised. Less than 0.1% of them required ventilators and supplementary oxygen. Mr. Vijayan said there was no cause for panic. However, citizens should strictly adhere to the pandemic protocol to retard the infection’s momentum. Breakthrough infections Kerala was well-poised to roll back the third wave. However, the exponential increase in breakthrough infections was a cause for worry. The government was against a total lockdown. Such a harsh measure would imperil livelihoods and further slow down the struggling economy. Hence, the government had fixed hospitalisations and intensive care unit admissions as the baseline to gauge the virulence of the pandemic and calibrate district-wise regulations accordingly. Paediatric wards The government has increased the number of COVID-19 intensive care unit beds and ventilators. It has sufficient stock of supplemental oxygen and antiviral drugs. The State has deployed a committee at the local self-government ward level to monitor infected persons in home quarantine. Special paediatric wards were operational across the State to take care of COVID-19-infected children. The number of beds has been increased in public-funded hospitals and government medical college hospitals. The administration has asked the private sector to reserve 50% of beds for COVID-19 patients. The government has initiated ‘infection control teams’ in government and private sector offices and institutions to identify and report clusters and outbreaks. If more than 10 persons get infected in a particular facility, the government will shut down the place for a minimum of five days. Protecting livelihoods, allowing businesses, and ensuring in-person learning would be part of Kerala’s pandemic control policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/well-poised-to-beat-third-wave-pinarayi/article38322289.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:02 IST,KERALA||Library council awards for Satchidanandan, Ilayidom||Poet K. Satchidanandan has won the I. V. Das Award instituted by the Kerala State Library Council for overall contributions to culture, language and literature. Sunil P. Ilayidom has been selected for the Kadamanitta Award for literary criticism, and P. Appukuttan for the council’s P. N. Panicker Award given to the best library activist. The awards are for the year 2020. The EMS Award for the best library which is over 50 years old was won by the Mulanthuruthy Public Library in Ernakulam. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 50,000, a bronze statuette and citation. Other libraries Upasana Library in Kuzhakode, Kozhikode, has won the DC Award for best rural library. The award, sponsored by DC Books, consists of books worth Rs. 50,000 and a citation. The N.E. Balaram Award for the best library in a backward area was won by the Aksharajyothi Granthalayam, Kavanakkunnu, Wayanad. The award, sponsored by Poorna Publications, consists of books worth Rs. 15,000 and a citation. Vembu Memorial Library, Kannur, won the Samadhanam Parameswaran Award for activities in the social and cultural sphere. The Kuzhikkalidavaka Public Library, Pangode, Kollam, bagged the P. Raveendran Award for best Balavedi centre, while the Safdar Hashmi memorial Library received the C. G. Santhakumar Award for environmental and scientific awareness programmes. The Sabarigiri Library and Reading Room, Pathanamthitta, won the Nangeli Award for women empowerment activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/library-council-awards-for-satchidanandan-ilayidom/article64946028.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||DUK to establish graphene centre||The country’s first graphene innovation centre will soon be established by the Digital University Kerala (DUK). The university has joined hands with the Centre for Materials for Electronics Technology (C-MET), Thrissur, to set up the India Innovation Centre for Graphene in the State. The Ministry of Electronics and IT has accorded sanction for a Rs. 86.41-crore project in this regard. According to DUK Vice-Chancellor Saji Gopinath, the centre is expected to offer students, researchers, established industries, and budding start-ups, an opportunity to test and experiment with new innovative products. It is bound to create a thriving environment for innovative graphene-based product development. Industrial partner University authorities point out that the project that will be implemented with support from the State government holds the potential to accelerate the State’s growth in the knowledge industry sector. Tata Steel Ltd. will be the industrial partner of the centre. The authorities are yet to zero in on a location for the centre. The chief investigators of the project, A.P. James of DUK and A. Seema of C-MET Thrissur, are spearheading the initiative with an aim to bridge the gap between graphene academic research and industrial applications. The main collaborators of the centre will include scientists from the National Graphene Institute, University of Manchester, and industry partners from across the world, the university says. Cutting screen cost Often referred to as a wonder material for its extraordinary electrical and electronics properties, graphene could replace Indium and thereby bring down the cost of OLED (organic light-emitting diode) screens in smartphones, recent studies have shown. DUK also expect graphene and the related two-dimensional (2D) materials to have a wide range of commercial and industrial applications in biomedical, defence, electronics, energy, and sensors in the next decade.  Digital University Kerala joins hands with Centre for Materials for Electronics Technology, Thrissur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/duk-to-set-up-graphene-centre/article38322263.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Agri dept. seeks to form students’ force||The State Agriculture department is exploring the possibility of forming a students' force along the lines of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) and the Student Police Cadet (SPC) scheme as part of attracting the younger generation to farming. While the finer details of the 'Agriculture Student Cadet' scheme are still being worked out, the general idea is that it should be piloted in at least one school in each district, according to a draft annual plan for the 2022-23 financial year prepared by the department. After the floods of 2018 and 2019 and the outbreak of COVID-19, the State has been placing greater emphasis on achieving self-sufficiency in agricultural production. Catching them young On the other hand, the sector is still far from being a career of choice for youth who scarcely see it as an income-generating profession or one that offers growth prospects. Dubbed as a 'catch-them-young' strategy, the scheme is designed to draw youngsters to farming right from their school days so that the activity can be pursued along with academics. Moreover, given the sweeping changes taking place in the agriculture sector, the involvement of youth is also seen as vital as they are more energetic, productive and receptive to new ideas and advanced technologies, according to the draft. Grace marks The basics of agriculture should be included as a subject with practical sessions for students, the draft plan noted. Grace marks should be allotted to students who excel in the subject based on their crop stand/yield. ''Similar to the National Cadets Corps or Scouts and Guides, and Student Police Cadets, a student should have a preference to become an Agriculture Student Cadet with equal priority as NCC/S&G/SPC,'' it noted.  To be modelled on the lines of NCC and Student Police Cadet scheme as part of attracting the young to farming||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agri-dept-seeks-to-form-students-force/article38322260.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Corporation to step up containment measures||A COVID-19 Core committee meeting held at the city Corporation on Monday decided to step up measures to control the spread of the virus in the city. The rapid response teams at the ward-level will be reconstituted or activated. Kudumbashree workers In wards where such teams are not functional, the services of Kudumbashree volunteers and health workers will be used. Food will be provided, if required, from the Kudumbashree Janakeeya restaurants for those who are in isolation. The functioning of the Corporation's COVID-19 control room will be expanded. More doctors and medical volunteers will be appointed in the control room. Consultations will be held with various organisations including the Indian Medical Association (IMA) for expanding the telemedicine facility. Tele-counselling services will also be launched to address mental health issues. The basic facilities in the COVID First-Line Treatment Centers and Second-Line Treatment Centers will be improved and more such centres will be opened. Medicine supply Adequate supply of medicines will be ensured in all the 28 hospitals under the control of the civic body. Awareness drives will also be organised at the local level, as many have been found to be not following the protocols. In the meeting The Mayor, Deputy Collector (Disaster Management), Deputy District Medical Officer, Corporation Health Standing Committee Chairperson, Corporation Secretary, and the Health Officer, took part in the core committee meeting. Earlier in the day, the Mayor chaired a meeting of councillors and health-wing officials.  The functioning of the Corporation's COVID-19 control room will be expanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-to-step-up-containment-measures/article38322469.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:02 IST,KERALA||Fewer tests, fewer cases||A huge dip in testing by nearly 50% over the weekend brought down the COVID-19 case graph of the State, which had been spiralling upwards steadily since the past three weeks. On Monday, the State logged 26,514 new cases, when 55,557 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s active case pool actually showed a reduction from 2,64,638 on Sunday to 2,60,271 on Monday, when the number of recoveries rose to 30,710. Of the 2,60,271, cases, 3.8% are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like COVID first line/second line treatment centres. The Health department’s data says that during January 14-23, the average active cases were 1,95,258, out of which an average of around 0.7 % were admitted in oxygen beds and 0.4% in ICUs. New cases increased by 183% (1,70,977 cases), while active cases increased by 189% during this period, in comparison to the previous week. Hospitalisations increased by 99% and ICU occupancy by 59%. Oxygen bed requirement rose by 120%. On Monday, the number of patients who newly entered hospitals with COVID-19 was 881. Total number of hospitalisations has risen to 10,038. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 51,987, with the addition of 171 deaths to the official list on Monday. This includes 13 recent deaths and 158 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden now stands at 56,69,611 cases. In districts Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 4,443 cases, Thiruvananthapuram 3,256, Kozhikode 2,979, Thrissur 2,687, Kollam 2,421, Kottayam 1,900, Malappuram 1,710, Palakkad 1,498, Kannur 1,260, Alappuzha 1,165, Pathanamthitta 1,065, Idukki 1,033, Kasaragod 573 and Wayanad 524 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fewer-tests-fewer-cases/article38322315.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Security arrangements for R-Day ceremony||The City police have finalised an elaborate security scheme for the State-level Republic Day celebrations at Central Stadium on Wednesday. According to City Police Commissioner G. Sparjan Kumar, as many as 200 police officers will be deployed outside and within the venue. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan will hoist the national flag at the ceremony that will commence at 9 a.m. Led by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic) Ankit Asokan, the security arrangements will involve the entire region being divided into four zones, each led by Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACP), for effective surveillance. Two sectors Each zone will be further divided into two sectors, each of which will be monitored by Inspectors. Major places in the State capital will also come under tight vigil with seven special striking forces readied for deployment to handle exigencies. The Commissioner added that entry to the Republic Day ceremony will be limited to 100 government invitees. The venue would remain off bounds for the public, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/security-arrangements-for-r-day-ceremony/article38322474.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Licence melas to observe year for new ventures||The Industries department will be organising licence melas at the local body-level as part of its target to help the opening of one lakh new ventures in the State in the next financial year, which will be observed as entrepreneurship year. The melas are being organised to ensure timely clearance of licences for new ventures. A core committee of senior officials from various departments will also be formed. A ministerial-level meeting of the agriculture, fisheries, tourism and animal husbandry departments, held online on Monday also decided to nurture new ventures under these departments. Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian said that all agencies under the department would be actively part of the entrepreneurship year observance. Tourism Minister P.A. Mohammed Riyas said that new ventures would be formed under the caravan tourism project, along with the Industries Department. Already, 200 caravans had been registered. Minister for Animal Husbandry J. Chinchu Rani said the existing laws regarding rearing of goats and pigs would be revised. The State, which fell behind in the production of eggs and meat, could explore more possibilities in these areas, she said. Agriculture Minister P. Prasad said that the market for value-added products and organic crops needed to be tapped. Steps would be taken to ensure that farmers got loans during the sowing season. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve said that a core committee consisting of officials from various departments from the State level to the local level would be formed to coordinate the activities as part of the entrepreneurship year observance. An e-commerce portal would be launched. Special licences would be provided for products, which were eligible to be marketed under the Kerala brand. The department would also award local bodies based on their progress in industrialisation, said Mr. Rajeeve. The Industries Minister had earlier held meetings with the Ministers for Local Self Governments and Cooperatives as part of the entrepreneurship year programmes. Discussions were also held with cooperative bank presidents, local self-government department officials, industrialists, and union representatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/licence-melas-to-be-held-to-promote-entrepreneurship/article38322264.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Man arrested for bootlegging||A 41-year-old man was arrested by the Neyyattinkara Excise range officials for alleged bootlegging on Monday. The accused, identified as Anil Kumar of Alathoor near Marayamuttom, was apprehended while allegedly smuggling six litres of Indian-made foreign liquor on his motorcycle. The accused person used to allegedly supply liquor to his clientele at prices higher than the market rates on holidays, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-for-bootlegging/article38322473.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:43 IST,KERALA||Back in business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-in-business/article64946154.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:54 IST,KERALA||Safety shot||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-shot/article64946144.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:56 IST,KERALA||Water getting scarce||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-getting-scarce/article64946142.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:01 IST,KERALA||Hard-earned wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hard-earned-wait/article64946036.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:06 IST,KERALA||Fire and water||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-and-water/article64946019.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:39 IST,KERALA||Patriotic spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/patriotic-spirit/article64946161.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||This museum of typewriters in Kerala has rich collection||Click-clack, click-clack, ding! For older generations, the sounds of typewriters are now memories of a past era, while many in the younger generations have never heard the noise. With the advent of computers, the once ubiquitous typewriters became a rare sight. That said, a narrow lane at Kidagamparambu in Alappuzha leads to AVP Museum of Typewriters — home to a small but diverse and exceptional collection of writing machines, some almost a century old. The museum, which displays 25 portable, electric-electronic typewriters that date back to different periods in the 20th century with English, Malayalam and Hindi characters, cyclo styling machines and old computers, is claimed to be the first-of-its-kind in the State. Why the museum P. Venkitarama Iyer has established the museum as tribute to his father V. Parameswara Iyer, who had set up AVP institute, a typewriting training centre, in 1946, and to keep the rich legacy of the typewriter. “The typewriter has revolutionised writing. Many youngsters are unaware of the antiquated device. The museum offers an insight into the history of the typewriter. My plan is to increase the number of writing machines on display to 100 by 2027,” he says. Among the typewriters at the museum is a Remington-16 model with a right-hand line-space lever used by Parameswara Iyer who died in 2001. According to Venkitarama Iyer, his father bought the second-hand machine in 1946 when he started the institute. It is still working. “Right-hand levers were used in older machines. The Remington-16 was manufactured in 1934. Almost all the typewriters in the museum, despite their old age, are in working condition,” says Venkitarama Iyer. Entry to the museum is free. Its heyday The AVP Institute was relaunched as AVP Institute of Commerce in 1949 and there was a time when 420 students attended typing classes in batches from 4 a.m. to 10 p.m. on 42 machines. The institute still offers typing lessons. But the number of students has declined from hundreds to fewer than 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/this-museum-of-typewriters-in-kerala-has-rich-collection/article64945956.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka Cabinet expansion unlikely amid polls in 5 States||The last week has seen renewed activity from ministerial aspirants trying to mount pressure on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to expand/reshuffle his Cabinet. However, even consultations for the exercise will likely begin only after completion of five State polls, including the crucial Uttar Pradesh, and once Governments are formed in these States, sources in the Bharatiya Janata Party said. The results of the five State polls will be announced on March 10. “None in the party high command has neither the time nor the mindspace for a Cabinet expansion here, when all resources have been pressed into the battle for Uttar Pradesh,” a senior party strategist said. He also added that the Uttar Pradesh poll results will decide on the course of BJP politics in the run up to the 2024 Parliamentary elections. “There is still a strong lobby pressing for leadership change in the State. A final decision on the State’s politics will be taken after the Uttar Pradesh elections and the prognosis it offers for BJP going ahead,” the strategist added. Meanwhile, Mr. Bommai responding to a question on Cabinet expansion on Monday said, “There are four berths vacant in the Cabinet that need to be filled. The party high command knows all the developments in the State and will take a call on when to do what,” he said. However, aspirants continue to lobby hard. Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, who recently met M.P. Renukacharya, another aspirant, met Ramesh Jarkiholi, also wanting to get back into the Cabinet, in the city on Monday. Mr. Yatnal demanded the Cabinet be reshuffled and expanded in the next 15 days, to include “party loyalists.” He alleged that many Ministers had already “booked tickets” in Congress for the coming polls and there could be an exodus like in Uttar Pradesh. “If the Cabinet is not expanded now, the new Ministers will not even get a year to perform,” he said. Mr. Renukacharya rued that several Ministers were not responding to MLAs and such Ministers must be sacked and new faces accommodated. Senior Minister K.S. Eshwarappa has also mounted pressure for an early Cabinet expansion. “With elections just over a year away, I don’t think it is politically wise to keep four Cabinet berths vacant. We should use those berths to provide regional and community representation and gear up to face the upcoming Assembly polls,” he told mediapersons on Monday.  Many Ministers had already ‘booked tickets’ in Congress for the coming polls and there could be an exodus like in U.P. If the Cabinet is not expanded now, the new Ministers will not even get a year to perform.Basanagouda Patil YatnalMLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cabinet-expansion-unlikely-till-completion-of-five-state-polls/article64945868.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl students vow to oppose child marriage||Hundreds of girls studying in high schools and junior colleges took an oath to put an end to social evils such as child marriages and child labour at the National Girl Child Day celebrations held in 42 villages of Bangarupalem mandal. Child marriage is common in a majority of these villages, located atop hillocks or nestled in remote areas abutting the Tamil Nadu border, despite the best efforts of the government to eradicate it. The District Legal Services Authority (Chittoor) in collaboration with the Rural Organization for Poverty Eradication Services (ROPES) and Canadian NGO Children Believe celebrated the occasion with the participation of parents and teachers. An overwhelming response was received at Kothalamadugu, Bandladoddi, Vepanapalli, Keeramanda, and Ragimanupenta villages. Drawing and Rangoli competitions were organised for the girl children, followed by a community lunch. The organisers administered an oath to the girl children that they would strictly oppose child marriage and child labour and any violation of their fundamental rights. Face-masks, soaps, sanitisers, and sanitary pads were distributed to around 3,500 families to mark the occasion. ROPES Programme Director P. Sree Latha said that in coordination with the police personnel, Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), and the DLSA staff, hundreds of child marriages were stopped in Bangarupalem, Palamaner, and neighbouring mandals of the western region over the years. “Apart from this, many girls were rescued during Operation Muskaan. We are also focusing on reducing the school drop-out rate among girls,” she said. DLSA secretary I. Karuna Kumar sought the girl students to seek the help of teachers, police or dial child helpline 1098 in case of troubles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-students-vow-to-oppose-child-marriage/article64945971.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Law and order situation in peril in A.P.: Union Minister||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan on Monday alleged that the law and order situation was in peril in Andhra Pradesh, with the surfacing of ‘terrorist activities’ in the Atmakur incident. TheState unit of the BJP earlier raised doubts that activists owing allegiance to an extremist outfit which is banned in several States were involved in the attack on its leaders at Atmakur in Kurnool district. Mr. Muraleedharan said he went to the sub-jail in Kadapa to call on the Kurnool district BJP president B. Srikanth Reddy. “Srikanth Reddy had reached Atmakur after getting permission from the police, but he became a victim of false cases and was put behind bars. The YSRCP government should immediately withdraw false cases against Mr. Srikanth Reddy and other party cadres and release them from jail,” he said, adding that there was an attempt to murder Mr. Srikanth Reddy at Atmakur when he tried to stop the illegal construction of a mosque. Mr. Muraleedharanfurther alleged that the State government had chosen toremain a mute spectator to the ‘violence being committed against Hindus’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/law-and-order-failure-in-ap-alleges-union-minister/article64945949.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elephant menace continues in Chittoor||The presence of a 14-member herd of wild elephants, accompanied by four lone elephants in Palamaner and Kuppam forest ranges, continues to worry the farmers who have suffered heavy damage to their standing crops of tomato, vegetables, and paddy. A fresh incident of crop damage was reported from Singasamudram village of Ramakuppam mandal, where a three-member herd had damaged vast stretches of vegetable crops, besides crashing to ground several coconut trees. In another incident, a full-grown tusker, believed to be the fifth lone elephant under the sanctuary belt, had created a flutter on Sunday night by entering the premises of a popular food processing industry at Moghili village in Bangarupalem mandal. Crates containing tomatoes were trampled. While the staff on duty ran helter-skelter, the tusker reportedly had a free stroll on the campus till early hours. A cause of concern The movement of wild elephants close to the Chittoor-Bengaluru and Madanapalle-Krishnagiri national highways has also become a cause of concern to the forest officials. Divisional Forest Officer S. Ravi Shankar said it was the lure of vegetable crops like tomato, sugarcane and paddy, attracting the wild elephants to agriculture fields. He, however, clarified that there was no shortage of fodder for the elephants in the sanctuary. “They are on the prowl to satisfy their special appetite. We have informed the farmers to immediately inform the forest officials when they come across the presence of any herd. Our personnel at the field level are monitoring the movement of the elephants day in and day out,” he said. Moreover, the forest officials heaved a sigh of relief saying that a majority of the elephants, believed to be around 90, in the Palamaner and Kuppam ranges had confined themselves to the Koundinya sanctuary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elephant-menace-continues-in-chittoor/article64945881.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mayor inspects fence erected around Jinnah Tower||Mayor Kavati Manohar Naidu on Monday visited the Jinnah Tower and inspected the metal fence erected aroundit recently in the wake ofdemands by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that the structure be either renamed or demolished. “The Jinnah Toweris an enduring symbol of Hindu-Muslim unity, and no forces can disrupt the secular traditions of Guntur town,” Mr. Manohar Naidu said. He added that the GMC had rejected a resolution back in 1966 that the tower be renamed as ‘Hamid Minar’. “The GMC had rejected a similar demand made in 1966 and all the members cutting across party lines said that there was no need to rename the tower. The BJP seems to have no otherstrategy except to cling on to communal issues. The communal forces have never had a footing in the State,” Mr. Manohar Naidu said. Guntur West MLA M. Giridhar Rao said Guntur is the only place in the country which has a tower built in the memory of Muhammad Ali Jinnah on a road named after Mahatma Gandhi. The Jinnah Tower is still a major landmark in Old Guntur surrounded by commercial shops..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mayor-inspects-fence-erected-around-jinnah-tower/article38322432.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||National Tourism Day celebrations at Berm Park||The National Tourism Day celebrations will be held at Haritha Berm Park at the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation’s Punnami resorts at Bhavanipuram in Vijayawada on Tuesday. Yoga guru’s performance The theme of the event is in line with 75th Independence celebrations under Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, and a series of events are lined up to spread the patriotic fervour with yoga guru K.V.S.K. Murthy’s performance being the highlight of the day. The yoga guru would be exhibiting many asanas, like ‘Padma Parvathasanam’, and those that would be useful to keep oneself healthy. Mr. Murthy would also be presented with Limca Book of Records salutation. The guests include, G.V.S. Vara Prasad, advocate in Supreme Court of India and V.V. Rama Rao, president, Yoga Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/national-tourism-day-celebrations-at-berm-park/article38321975.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kishan Reddy writes to KCR on railway works||Union Minister for Tourism, Culture and Northeast States Development G. Kishan Reddy has once again urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar to take the initiative, release pending funds and do the necessary land allocation to complete the pending and ongoing railway works across Telangana. In a letter to the Chief Minister, a copy of which was released to the media here on Monday, the Union Minister claimed that ever since Narendra Modi took over as the Prime Minister the allocations has been increased by seven times. Funds to the tune of Rs. 2,420 crore was allocated in 2021-22 as against Rs. 250 crore in 2014-15. Railway network was enhanced from 194 route km to 356 km, he explained. Mr. Reddy, also the Secunderabad MP, pointed out that the TRS party leaders have been claiming injustice to TS in terms of funds allotment and railway works when fact is there is a need to provide assured funding as per the accepted quota from the government side as well as land allocation to expedite the cleared projects. These include: Manoharabad-Kothapally 150 km where Rs. 100 crore is pending and 342 hectares of land allotment as per 1/3 cost sharing ratio; Akkannapet-Medak 17.20 km where if the remining Rs. 32 crore is released, the works can be completed in six months as per 50% cost sharing pact. MMTS Phase II: Original cost got hiked to Rs. 1,150 crore up from Rs. 816.55 of which railways had spent Rs. 835 crore whereas the TS government has released Rs. 129 crore and another Rs. 760 crore remains to be paid under the 2/3rd cost sharing pact. MMTS Phase II extension up to Yadadri for 33 km seeking to provide a rail link to the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple was cleared by Railway Board under 2/3 cost sharing ratio but remains a non-starter with the government not releasing funds. Bhadrachalam-Sattupalli 53.2 km was supposed to be over in July last year but got delayed to due land acquisition and road over bridge works; Kazipet-Balarshah third line work will get completed in 2024-25 due to delays in land acquisition at Peddapalli (six hectares), Karimnagar (4 acres) and Mancherial. Kazipet-Vijaywada third line 219.64 km too is getting delayed as 35.9 hectares in Warangal rural, 43.48 acres in Khammam and 14.39 acres in Mahabubabad districts is yet to be handed over. Similarly, bypass line between Kazipet and Hasanparthi road station needs 7.8 hectares of land for completion though railways had paid compensation in 2018; Muneerabad-Mahabubnagar new line of which 66 km is in TS and 40 km has been done and rest of the work has been stuck due to delay in land acquisition. Cherlapally new railway terminal needs proper approach roads on both sides and the government has been requested to expedite them. Another 54 road-over-bridges have been held up either at the design stage, alignments or approvals due to lack of cooperation from the government officials concerned, he charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kishan-reddy-writes-to-kcr-on-railway-works/article64945955.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR completes 162.4 km of electrification this month||South Central Railway (SCR) under the "Mission Electrification” programme of the Indian Railways, which aims to electrify all the existing broad gauge routes by December 2023, has completed 162.4 route km of electrification across three sections this month. It includes Gadwal-Raichur for a distance of 57.70 Rkm, Kohir Deccan–Khanapur for a distance of 60.40 Rkm, Pimpalkhuti–Kosai for a distance of 44.30 Rkm covering parts of Telangana, Karnataka and Maharashtra States, informed senior officials on Monday. Section between Gadwal–Raichur is the new railway line commissioned in 2013 for a distance of 57.70 km and was sanctioned for electrification in 2018-19 at an estimated cost of Rs. 46 crore. This line provides shortest and direct rail connectivity between two major sections of Secunderabad–Dhone and Wadi–Guntakal. Out of 57.70 km, 37 km falls in TS, while 20.70 km falls in Karnataka. Electrification works of the entire section have been completed and commissioned. Stretch between Kohir Deccan–Khanapur for a distance of 60.40 km is part of Vikarabad–Parli section (269 km), which is sanctioned for electrification in 2018-19 at an estimated cost of Rs. 262 crore. Stretch between Vikarabad–Kohir Deccan for a distance of 45 km was commissioned in March last year and out of 60.4 km, 26.7 km falls in Karnataka, while 33.7 km is in TS. A continuous stretch of 105 km has been electrified with completion of the 60.4 km between Kohir–Khanapur, they said. Trains originating and terminating from Bidar to different directions can be run with electric engine, which will help in energy saving while works in the remaining stretches are also in fast progress. Stretch between Pimpalkhuti–Kosai of 44.3 km is part of Mudkhed–Pimpalkhuti (183 km), for which electrification was sanctioned in 2018-19 at an estimated cost of around Rs. 167 crore. Out of 44.3 km, 40.3 km fall under TS, while 4 km is under Maharashtra State. General Manager Sanjeev Kishore informed in a press release that electrification of these railway lines will significantly strengthen rail infrastructure thereby providing seamless movement of freight and passenger traffic, besides reducing the enroute detentions. It will help railways reduce fuel expenditure and carbon footprint. He complimented the officials for completing the works and affirmed the zonal railways commitment to achieve the set target of electrification of about 500 Rkm by the end of the fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-completes-1624-km-of-electrification-this-month/article64945863.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||KCR against proposed amendments to AIS rules||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing his strong protest against the proposed amendments to the All India Services (Cadre) Rules, 1954, by the Centre. He demanded the Centre to cease and desist from the proposed amendments in the interest of administrative fairness and federal polity of the Constitution. The present provisions of AIS Cadre Rules were adequate to ensure harmonious and balanced deployment of officers, he said. The amendment to the AIS Cadre Rules was nothing but amending Constitution of India relating to Centre - State relations. Instead of such backdoor method of amending the AIS Rules, the Centre should muster courage to amend the provisions in Parliament, he added. On the face of it, Mr. Rao said the proposed amendments militated against the federal structure of the Constitution both in letter and spirit. They will also seriously erode the AIS character of IAS, IPS and IFS. Therefore, Telangana government strongly opposed the proposed amendments. Considering the criticality of functions discharged by AIS officers in the States, he said the present rule position and practice provided for concurrence of State governments in matters of deputation of officers to the Central government. The amendments sought to unilaterally disturb the above position with the Central government assuming the power to take officers on deputation without concurrence of the officers or State governments. This was a dangerous move which was against the constitutional framework and spirit of cooperative federalism. If the amendments were effected by Centre, the State governments would be reduced to be insignificant entities. The proposal was clearly a move to exercise indirect control by the Central government on officers working in the States. It amounted to interfering in the functioning of the State governments, targeted harassment of officers and their demoralisation, besides impacting accountability of officers to the State governments. It would also render State governments as helpless entities in matters of AIS officers. Mr. Rao agreed that the Parliament had enacted AIS Act, 1951, under the provisions of Article 312 of the Constitution and the Central government had made various rules under the said Act. However, he said he strongly objected to the coloured exercise of powers vested with the Centre to amend IAS/IPS/IFS Cadre Rules 1954 to the detriment of the interest of the State and watering down the federal polity of the country. He said he was sure Mr. Modi will appreciate that the makers of the Constitution had the foresight to ensure that the States views were taken if any Constitutional amendment was proposed which affected the interests of the States (Article 368 (2)). However, by the amendment to AIS Cadre Rules, the Centre was violating the spirit of the Constitution which was highly objectionable. The proposal showed scant regard to the administrative exigencies and requirements of the States. The amendments threatened the spirit of mutual adjustment and accommodation between States and Central governments in the matter of shared All India Services and will further strain the Centre - State relationship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kcr-against-proposed-amendments-to-ais-rules/article64945867.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prosecution seeks more time||The prosecution on Monday filed a petition before the Kerala High Court seeking to extend the deadline stipulated for completing the examination of five additional witnesses in the actor sexual assault case. It sought to extend the deadline till the completion of the probe being conducted into a case relating to an alleged conspiracy to do away with the investigation officers. Allowing the plea, the court had earlier directed the prosecution to ensure that it was done in 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prosecution-seeks-more-time/article38321899.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dileep to be questioned today too||The Special Investigation Team of the Crime Branch grilled actor Dileep and a few others for the second day on Monday in connection with an alleged conspiracy to do away with the investigators of the actor sexual assault case, in which Dileep is an accused. After the interrogation, which was held at the office of the CB at Kalamassery, he was let off. He will again be interrogated on Tuesday. Besides Dileep, his brother Anoop, brother-in-law T.N. Suraj, driver Appu, and Baiju, a friend, are being interrogated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dileep-to-be-questioned-today-too/article38321904.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC stays university union elections||The Kerala High Court on Monday stayed for 10 days the decision of the University of Kerala to hold college union elections on January 25. Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan passed the stay order on a writ petition filed by certain students challenging the University of Kerala’s decision to conduct the union election despite the spike in COVID-19 cases in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-stays-university-union-elections/article64945865.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Analysis of phone used to shoot video ordered||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed that the mobile phone used to record a video of a Thanjavur schoolgirl, who recently died by suicide, be handed over to the investigating officer on Tuesday (January 25). The video, shot by Muthuvel, is being cited by the BJP to claim that there was an attempt by the authorities of the Christian missionary-run school, where the girl studied, to “forcibly convert her” to Christianity. Justice G.R. Swaminathan also directed the parents of the girl and Muthuvel to appear before the investigating officer, Deputy Superintendent of Police R. Brindha, and give their statements at the Vallam Camp Office at 10 a.m. on Tuesday. The court directed the investigating officer to send the mobile phone, along with other materials, to the Forensic Science Laboratory in Chennai on the same day. The director of the laboratory shall give a report on the authenticity of the materials, the judge said. Viscera report The court also directed the Forensic Laboratory in Thanjavur to hand over the viscera report and the report on the girl’s post-mortem to the investigating officer by January 27. The copy of the statement given by the girl’s parents to the Judicial Magistrate was submitted to the court on Monday. The judge directed that a copy of the statement be handed over to the investigating officer, and adjourned the hearing of the case till January 28. Parents’ petition The court was hearing a petition filed by the parents of the girl, who sought a CB-CID probe into her death. They alleged she was forced to do domestic chores at the hostel and asked to convert to Christianity. The State government submitted that the statements of other students and faculty were being recorded. The mobile phone used to shoot the video was required for a forensic analysis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hand-over-phone-used-to-shoot-video-of-thanjavur-girl-hc/article64945864.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Let lower court decide on Dileep trial: SC||Actor Dileep, an accused in a case of sexual assault on a woman actor, on Monday, charged the State of Kerala in the Supreme Court with deliberately playing a “mischievous game” to delay the trial. The accusation against the State came even as the court refused to entertain a plea by Kerala for a six-month extension to complete the trial. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravikumar said it was up to the trial judge, and not the State, to seek extension of time. The Bench gave the trial judge liberty and discretion, if necessary in the future, to submit a report for extra time. Saying this, the court disposed of Kerala’s plea. During the hearing, Dileep, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, took “serious objection” to the State’s request for more time. “The State is attempting to delay the trial through various methods. They had wanted to change the trial court judge. This was refused by both the High Court and the Supreme Court. Then the Public Prosecutor resigned. Four extensions have been granted in the past... This is a mischievous game,” Mr. Rohatgi accused the State. He submitted that 202 witnesses have been examined in the case. “Then one man surfaces, claiming he has something to say and the case is delayed again,” he said. Senior advocate Jaideep Gupta and advocate Nishe Rajen Shonker, for the State, said “somebody has given us evidence... We cannot ignore that”. Opposing the State’s plea, Mr. Rohatgi asked why the State was now so particular to extend the time to complete the trial. “Why is the State asking? Please reject this plea,” he said. Justice Khanwilkar observed, “Let the trial judge file a report requesting for more... If the judge asks for time, we will consider.” Justice Ravikumar added that the period for completion of the trial, according to the last extension given, lasts till February 15, 2022. “If the trial judge want an extension then, let the court file a report before us at that time,” he said. The pace of the trial had suffered due to the pandemic. The prosecution case is that the victim, also an actor, was assaulted by a group of men in a moving car in 2017. One of them recorded the alleged crime on a mobile phone. Dileep is accused of conspiracy and is the eighth accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/let-lower-court-decide-on-dileep-trial-sc/article64945861.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steps needed to check early age marriages, says V-C||Adikavi Nannaya University (AKNU) Vice-Chancellor Prof. Mokka Jagannadha Rao on Monday stressed the need for stringent measures and policies to prevent early age marriages in Andhra Pradesh. ‘Unhealthy practice’ In an online conference conducted by AKNU as part of the ‘National Girl Child Day’ celebrations, Prof. Jagannadha Rao said he was dismayed at the growing number of early age marriages in the State and advocated policies to create awareness on the unhealthy practice. “Early age marriage is not an indicator of development. The practice must be stopped for the well-being of girls and it is necessary to guarantee them an environment to pursue their dreams and careers,” he said. The conference was attended by AP Women’s Commission Director Ravuri Suez, Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao State coordinator Rahamunnissa Begum, and AKNU teaching staff who spoke on the State government’s policies on women’s safety and security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steps-needed-to-check-early-age-marriages-says-v-c/article38322422.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In Kerala, delay in MGNREGS payment for SC workers||In yet another issue that has cropped up after the Union Government changed the wage payment method under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) last year, the wages for Scheduled Caste workers under the scheme have been delayed for the past two months in the State. Although a similar issue had cropped up after the wage payments were split last year into three categories for SCs, STs, and others, and was later addressed, it has recurred causing difficulties for SC workers in most districts. According to sources at the MGNREGS State Mission, issues led to the payments to SC workers not getting released. “The labour Budget is prepared each year based on the wage spendings in the previous year. So, after the split into three categories happened, fund allocations were made separately based on wage spendings in that specific category. However, when more work is awarded in the current year in any category, the fundings cease once the previous estimate is crossed. Earlier, when the wages were provided to everyone under a common category, such issues would not have cropped up. If funds are insufficient, it would affect everybody, rather than a specific category, as the SCs in this case,” said a source. According to officials, there has been no direction from the Rural Development Ministry on how to proceed when such issues crop up due to the changes made last year. The State Mission had written to the Ministry last week citing the issue and submitted a revised labour budget for the SC category, but a reply is still awaited. The wages can be released only when the revised budget is approved and the same is reflected in the Management Information System. Funds exhausted  All districts have now exhausted funds set aside for workers from the SC category. When The Hindu contacted programme coordinators from various districts, they also confirmed that there have been protests by various unions at the panchayat and block levels over the issue in the past few days. When the Union Government announced the new system of wage payment, several unions and workers’ rights organisations had said that the existing payment system, which was smoothly functioning, would be unnecessarily complicated due to the change.  Reverse trend In October, several States witnessed issues of some categories of workers getting paid earlier than the others. Back then, SC/ST workers in most States were getting paid on time, while wage was getting delayed for general category workers. In Kerala now, the reverse is happening now because of different systemic issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-kerala-delay-in-mgnregs-payment-for-sc-workers/article64945957.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Achuthanandan ordered to pay damages to Chandy||A court here on Monday awarded Rs. 10,10,000 in damages to former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy in a defamation suit he had filed against the then Leader of Opposition V.S. Achuthanandan. In an interview to a private television news channel in 2013, Mr. Achuthanandan had accused Mr. Chandy of being hand in glove with the solar investment scam case suspects to swindle money from the public. Mr. Chandy alleged that Mr. Achuthanandan had accused him of having incorporated a company with the accused persons as partners to perpetuate large-scale fraud and swindle gullible investors of vast sums of money. Mr. Chandy alleged that Mr. Achuthanandan had knowingly made the defamatory statement to malign him and his office. Mr. Achuthanandan's counsel argued that the CPI(M) veteran had made the accusation in good faith and the paramount public interest. In his verdict, Principal Sub Judge Shibu Daniel said Mr. Achuthanandan had not ‘entered the witness box’ to explain his side to the court. Instead, Mr. Achuthanandan’s counsel provided three ‘non-competent’ witnesses barely conversant with the case. Moreover, Mr. Achuthanandan did not offer up himself for cross-examination. The Judge observed the Leader of Opposition held a constitutional office and had every right to criticise the government and question its actions. However, no citizen had the ‘unfettered privilege to state anything or everything about another person.’ Congress reaction Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan hailed the verdict as a moral victory for Mr. Chandy. Mr. Chandy also welcomed the decision and claimed a moral victory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/court-orders-achuthanandan-to-pay-damages-to-chandy/article38322310.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala temple ‘hundi’ nets Rs. 21.61 crore income in 10 days||The hundi at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here netted an income of Rs. 21. 61 crore during the 10-day Vaikunta dwara darshanam organised from January 13 to 22. About 3.79 lakh devotees had darshan during the period amid COVID-19 third wave fears. While 1.66 lakh devotees had bought the Rs. 300 online special entry darshan tickets, 83,000 had free darshan. The others who had darshan were 43,250 virtual seva ticket holders and 6,949 devotees from SC, ST, BC and fishermen communities. The TTD also earned a record income of over Rs. 15.46 crore with 15, 465 devotees opting for the priced Sri Vani darshan tickets during the 10 days. About 7,917 devotees from various trusts also had the Vaikunta dwara darshan. The TTD had served free food to over 4.59 lakh devotees and transported the luggage of 2.05 lakh devotees freely from Tirupati to Tirumala. It received Rs. 4.68 crore as rental income from the cottages and guest houses allotted to devotees. About 1. 23 lakh devotees got their heads tonsured at the Kalyanakatta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirumala-temple-hundi-nets-rs-2161-crore-income-in-10-days/article38322437.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID certificate must for darshan, says TTD||The TTD on Monday reiterated that pilgrims should invariably carry along with them either the COVID-19 vaccine certificates of two doses or negative reports of RTPCR tests done within 48 hours while coming for the darshan of Lord Venkateswara here. The stipulation has been in force since October 1. Many pilgrims who visited the shrine without the papers since then had to return without having darshan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-certificate-must-for-darshan-says-ttd/article38322427.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fewer than 3% children required admission for COVID-19’||As concerns over Omicron spread among children rise, Amara Hospital in Tirupati has released data that showed that less than 3% of paediatric cases required admission in the current wave of the pandemic. The study was conducted on patients who had visited the hospital with symptoms of the coronavirus infection. However, the worrying trend is that the overall percentage of symptomatic children has seen a rise, compared to the number in the second wave. The recovery rate in the admitted children is 100%, but severity is seen mostly in children with co-morbidities,” says K. Sravanthi, a consultant paediatrician at Amara Hospital. Emphasising the need for eligible children to get vaccinated, the hospital’s Chief Administrative Officer D. Venugopal said: “Isolating children with symptoms at the earliest and reinforcing the habits of physical distancing and face masks are important to prevent the spread.” However, the effects of Omicron and the post-COVID effects in children are yet to be studied, Dr. Sravanthi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fewer-than-3-children-required-admission-for-covid-19/article64945964.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:45 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rangoli competition tomorrow||The Regional Science Centre, Tirupati, is celebrating ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ through a Rangoli competition in association with the Junior Chamber International on Republic Day, under the theme ‘75 years of triumph of Indian freedom struggle’. The competition is being conducted for two age groups of 10-18(juniors) and 19+(seniors), where the winners will get cash prize and certificates. The competition is open for all. Interested can register through the link https://tinyurl.com/rangolicompRSCT by January 25. Spot registration is also available. Details at 79896 94681.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rangoli-competition-tomorrow/article38322421.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:18 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Film industry should encourage newcomers, says former Minister||The Telugu film industry should encourage talent and welcome newcomers to provide wholesome entertainment to the viewers, said former Minister Galla Arunakumari. After watching the matinee show of the latest film ‘Hero’ at SV Cinemas in the city on Monday, Ms. Arunakumari celebrated its victory run by cutting a cake along with the viewers. The film is not only the maiden venture of the Galla-owned Amara Raja group into the entertainment industry, but also the launchpad into the tinsel town for her grandson Ashok Galla. Speaking to the media later, she said the film appealed to every section of the audience and hence turned out to be a commercial hit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/film-industry-should-encourage-newcomers-says-former-minister/article38321972.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Panchagavya’ products to hit stalls on Jan. 27||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams’(TTD) prestigious project to promote ‘Panchagavya’(cow-based) products is all set to materialise, as they are ready to hit the stalls on January 27. Joint Executive Officer V. Veerabrahmam, who inspected the plant site at DPW store compound here on Monday, said fifteen products would be formally launched that day. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy’s interest in cow worship as well as ensuring optimal utilisation of the cow dung and urine led to the production of such products. Coimbatore-based Aashirwad Ayurveda extended technical support to the temple management in this regard. The TTD will also roll out products made with dry flowers and extend cashless treatment to employees on the same day, Mr. Veerabrahmam added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panchagavya-products-to-hit-stalls-on-jan-27/article38322425.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. staff to launch strike from Feb. 7||The PRC Struggle Committee served a strike notice to Principal Secretary (HR) Sashi Bhushan Kumar at the Secretariat on Monday. The government employees will go on an indefinite strike from February 7. The steering committee members could not serve the notice on Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma as he was not in town, according to sources. The committee members claimed that from the staff side, the employees’ associations had tried their best to impress and convince the government to strive for an amicable settlement of the demands but could not get the desired result due to the government’s ‘adamant attitude’. The government alone would be responsible for any disruption to the citizen services on account of the agitation. “The employees are on an agitation path to achieve their just and genuine demands. The government has been requested to immediately come forward for settlement of the demands of the employees, teachers and pensioners,” the Committee members said, adding, they were left with no other option except to struggle and protest. Demands Scrapping of CPS as assured by the Chief Minister, declaration of probation and application of pay revision to village / ward secretariat employees have been highlighted in the notice. The employees also want the government toregularise the services of contingent, NMR daily wages and contract employees and enhance the remuneration of outsourcing employees based on the equal work equal pay principle. The government issued orders on the 11th Pay Revision without taking the objections raised and concerns expressed by all the service associations in all the rounds of consultations, the committee said, requesting the government to disclose the Ashutosh Mishra PRC report. They also wanted the government to look into the fitment, HRA, HRA slabs and HRA to the relocated employees. CCA, additional quantum of pension, gratuity date of effect, obsequies charges, recovery of extended monetary benefits and adoption of Central PRC were some of the other issues raised by the committee in the notice. The employees were opposing the adoption of the Central PRC and also the cut in HRA and doing away with the CCA. President of APNGOs’ Association and chairman of APJAC Bandi Srinivasa Rao,president, AP Government Employees’ Association and chairman of APGEA Ikyavedika K.R. Suryanarayana, AP Secretariat Employees’ Association and APGEF chairman K. Venkatarami Reddy, APRSA andchairman APJAC, Amaravati Bopparaju Venkateswarlu and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-staff-in-ap-to-go-on-strike-from-feb7/article38321905.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buddha Venkanna taken into custody for remarks on Nani||The West Zone police picked up former MLC Buddha Venkanna on charges of making derogatory remarks against Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) and Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang. Speaking toreporters on Monday, the TDP leader alleged that the casino at Gudivada wasorganised with the support of top police officers due to which no action was being taken against Mr. Nani for his illegal activities. Mr. Venkanna reportedly made some threatening comments against the Minister after whicha police team arrived at his house for questioning. The One Town police registered a case against the former MLC under Section 506 IPC (criminal intimidation), Section 505 (inciting a person or a community to cause any offence), 211 (making false charges) and other sections. When the police asked the TDP leader to come to the station, Mr. Venkanna refused and demanded the police to serve a notice under Section 41 (a) of CrPc (instructing to appear before the police officer). However, the police said they would serve the notice on him at the station. Meanwhile, TDP cadres converged at the former MLC’s house and after heated arguments, police picked up Mr. Venkanna and shifted him to the One Town police station. Commissioner of Police Kanthi Rana Tata said that police took the TDP leader into custody from his residence and have launched an investigation. Police stepped up security at the One Town police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/buddha-venkanna-taken-into-custody-for-remarks-on-nani/article64945952.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, Chief Minister to attend Republic Day fete at IGMC Stadium||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and other VIPs will attend the 73rd Republic Day celebrations at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium here on Wednesday. MLC Talasila Raghuram, Collector J. Nivas, Director (Protocol) Bala Subramanyam, Joint Collectors Madhavi Latha and Mohan Kumar, Sub-Collector G. Sai Surya Praveen Chand and other officers visited the stadium and reviewed the arrangements on Monday. Police will impose traffic regulations and restrictions from 7 a.m. to 12 noon in Vijayawada in the wake of VIP movements, Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata said. No vehicles will be allowed on the road from Red Circle to RTA Junction, Sikhamani Centre and Veterinary Junction. All vehicles proceeding from Police Control Room to Benz Circle will be diverted via RTC Y-Junction, Eluru Road (Swarna Palace), Vijaya Talkies, Chuttugunta, Gunadala, Ramavarappadu and Benz Circle. Vehicular movement will be diverted from RTC Y-Junction towards Bandar Locks, Raghavaiah Park, Old Fire Station Road, American Hospital, Netaji Bridge, Skew Bridge and Benz Circle. All vehicles coming from Benz Circle towards M.G. Road should travel via Fakir Gudem, Skew Bridge and towards Pandit Nehru Bus Station. Only invitees would be allowed from Benz Circle to DCP Bungalow on M.G. Road. No APSRTC buses will be allowed from 7 a.m. to 12 noon on M.G. Road. AA, A1, A2, B1, B2 pass holders should enter IGMC through gate numbers 3, 4 and 2 respectively and park their vehicles in the space allotted for them, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-cm-to-attend-r-day-fete-at-stadium/article64945884.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees highest daily positivity rate of 36% again||Andhra Pradesh has again witnessed the pandemic's highest daily test positivity rate of 36.09% as 14,532 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. Only 40,266 samples were tested in the past day. During the same period, seven deaths were reported. The highest daily test positivity rate in the second wave was only 25.81% when about 45,000 samples were tested. When the second wave hit the peak of 24,000 infections a day, the daily test positivity rate was around 25% with over one lakh samples tested every day. However, since the third wave began in the last week of December, the daily test positivity rate increased exponentially from a mere 0.3% to 36% in about 30 days. Also, during the second wave, it took 74 days for the cases to rise from least to around 14,000 whereas in the current wave the daily tally jumped from about 100 cases to 14,000 cases in just 26 days. Compared to the second wave, the daily tally was increasing three times faster and the positivity rate 2.4 times faster. In 91 days until it reached the peak, the second wave reported an average of 6,006 infections a day and in the third wave, an average of 4,092 infections a day were reported in 29 days since December 27. The toll and tally increased to 14,549 and 21,95,166 respectively. Two deaths were reported in West Godavari district and one each in Guntur, Kurnool, Nellore, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam in the last 24 hours. Visakhapatnam reported 1,728 infections. It was followed by Anantapur (1,610), Prakasam (1,597), Kurnool (1,551), Kadapa (1,492), Nellore (1,198), East Godavari (941), Srikakulam (865), Guntur (846), Chittoor (685), West Godavari (643) and Krishna (484). The district tallies are East Godavari (3,01,755), Chittoor (2,66,149), Guntur (1,88,454), West Godavari (1,83,361), Visakhapatnam (1,77,591), Anantapur (1,66,657), Nellore (1,54,401), Prakasam (1,45,047), Kurnool (1,30,205), Srikakulam (1,29,984), Krishna (1,24,784), Kadapa (1,20,995) and Vizianagaram (88,356).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-highest-daily-positivity-rate-of-36-again/article38322433.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||List PRC plea before appropriate Bench: HC||A Division Bench (DB) of the High Court comprising Justices Ahsanuddin Amanullah and B.S. Bhanumathi directed the registry to list the petition filed by AP Gazetted Officers’ JAC chairman K.V. Krishnaiah, challenging the revised pay scales for government employees, before an appropriate Bench with due permission of the Chief Justice, by citing technical grounds. Justice Amanullah said that the DB had no jurisdiction over the petition as it appeared to be a service matter owing to the personal nature of the grievance, and even if it was to be considered as a PIL, it was beyond their roster, while pointing out that it has nothing to do with the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014 (APRA). Principal Secretary (HR & General Administration) Shashi Bhushan Kumar and Mr. Krishnaiah deposed before the court in virtual mode upon being summoned to present the respective views. Leaders of the government employees’ steering committee were also asked to make their points clear virtually but they did not turn up due to paucity of time due to their scheduled appointment with the Chief Secretary. Appearing for the State, Advocate-General S. Sriram argued that the government took many things into consideration while fixing the pay scales and the amounts drawn on different heads of pay such as HRA, CCA etc. cannot be made the basis for figuring out how a gross package had been worked out. He stated that the method of fixation of pay scales was elucidated in the impugned G.O.s and enhancement of the retirement age, increasing the gratuity to pensioners and 20% rebate in the plots ought to be seen as a part of the holistic view taken by the government. Strike is prohibited under No.4 of AP Civil Services Conduct Rules and ‘government employee’ is a status and not a contract. Therefore, the government servants do not have the option of keeping the sword of strike hanging over the government’s head that too in COVID-19 times, Mr. Sriram said, adding that in spite of a drastic fall in the State earnings due to the pandemic, the government tried its best to make it a win-win situation for the employees based on parity with the Central government’s 7th Pay Revision Commission (PRC). The petitioner’s counsel P. Ravi Teja said the government did not follow a transparent process of formulating the PRC and the report was not furnished to the employees. Besides, he alleged that the PRC finalisation was affecting the service conditions of employees who moved from Telangana, which was in contravention of Section 78 of APRA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/list-prc-plea-before-appropriate-bench-hc/article38322430.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leaders not allowed to meet DGP||Tension prevailed at the A.P. Police headquarters near Mangalagirias Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leadersembarked on amarch to meet Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang at his office to lodge a complaint over the Gudivada casino issue. Police stepped up security at the DGP’s Office. The Opposition leaders demanded that action be taken against Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani)for allegedly running a ‘casino’at a convention centre owned by him during the Sankranti festival. A delegation of the TDP, which earlierlodged complaintswith Krishna Superintendent of PoliceSiddharth Kaushal andEluru Range Deputy Inspector General K.V. Mohan Rao, made a vain bid to meet the DGP at the police headquarters on Monday. Policeerected barricades and stopped the TDP leaders from entering the DGP’s office. The leaders subsequently entered into an argument with the police and demanded that they be allowed to meet Mr. Sawang. On beingprevented frommarching towards the police headquarters, the TDP leaders said the government was suppressing their agitation. Later, TDP leaders A. Rajendra Prasad andVarla Ramaiahhanded over theircomplaint to a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leaders-not-allowed-to-meet-dgp/article38322435.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heifer International to support women poultry farmers||Heifer International, a global non-profit organisation, is going to support over8,000 families through eight Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) in two districts of Andhra Pradesh as an expansion of their project ‘Hatching Hope: Accelerating Incomes Through Diversification’. Heifer International country director Avni Malhotra announced the expansion of the project of Heifer International, Cargill and Walmart Foundation at a press conference in the city on Monday. Ms. Avni said that it is Heifer’s first project in Andhra Pradesh and a total of 8,918 familieswould besupported through eight FPOs in Anantapur and East Godavari districts. Through the project, farmers, particularly women farmers, will be provided expertise, training and increased access to resources to add new profit-making streams in backyard poultry farming which is an economically sustainable agri-business, she said. “Heifer is already working with farmers in Bihar, Odisha, Rajasthan and Jharkhand involving over one lakh families. The project in the State is supported by the Walmart Foundation and financial support of USD 3.5 million will be provided,” she said. Programme Director Shyam Kumar Katta said the FPOs in the two districts would be strengthened through this project and processing units set up if needed. He said heed mills, hatcheries and collection centres are being established. He said so far 710 small business units were set up in the two districts already and 120 persons were employed. Ms. Avni said this is a pilot project that would end in March 2023. Decisions on expanding the project to other districts would be taken then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heifer-international-to-support-women-poultry-farmers/article38322491.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pepperfry studio opened in city||Furniture and home products marketplace and e-commerce portal Pepperfry launched its first studio on Guru Nanak Nagar road in the city as part of its offline expansion. It currently has more than 100 studios in over 50 cities in the country. South India, which forms the biggest market for Pepperfry, alone, houses 35 studios across Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Mangalore, Kochi, Trivandrum, Kozhikode, Coimbatore, Visakhapatnam, Madurai, Kottayam, Kollam, Salem, Gulbarga, Trichy, Vellore, Secunderabad, Chittoor and now in Vijayawada. Pepperfry business head Amruta Gupta said, “We are delighted to expand our omni-channel footprint by launching our first studio in Vijayawada in partnership with Saikr Retail."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pepperfry-studio-opened-in-city/article38322492.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC buses likely to go off the roads||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) employees and workers will join the strike from February 7. The PRC Sadhana Samithi served a strike notice to Principal Secretary (HR) Sashi Bhushan Kumar on Monday. The employees and workers’ unions would hold discussions formally before submitting a letter to the APSRTC Managing Director (MD) on joining the strike. Nearly 54,000 employees of APSRTC became employees of the Public Transport Department from January 1, 2020 and have since been receiving their salaries directly from the State government. A total of 10,576 RTC buses would be off the roads. The RTC buses cover 38.59 lakh kilometres and carry 28.89 lakh people to their destinations every day. They connect 14,123 villages to all major towns and cities in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-buses-likely-to-go-off-the-roads/article38322493.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP slams ‘illegal arrest’||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP)on Mondaycondemned the ‘illegal arrest’ of TDP leader Buddha Venkanna by the police for making comments against Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani). TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, State unit president K. Atchannaidu, polit bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, national general secretary Nara Lokesh, and former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu, in separate statements, deplored that the police were not acting according to law. They were behaving in a partisan manner and supporting the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and targeting Opposition leaders, the TDP leaders alleged. They sought to know why the policedid notarrest Mr. Kodali Nani for making abusive remarks against Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu. Police arrived in huge numbers to arrest Mr. Buddha Venkanna for asking Mr. Kodali Nanito stop using abusive language, the leaderssaid. Mr. Lokesh said no action was taken when the YSRCP goons attacked the TDP central office. “The policefailed torespond in time and failed to prevent the attack on Mr. Naidu’s residence. The DGPdid noteven give an appointment to the TDP fact-finding committee,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-slams-illegal-arrest/article38322434.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 18 deaths, over 19,000 COVID cases in 20 days||The district recorded over 19,000 COVID-19 cases and around 18 deaths in the last 20 days. On Monday morning, as per the State COVID bulletin, the district recorded 1,728 cases, which is little lower when compared to the previous day of 2,258. On Sundays normally the count is low, as the people reaching the testing sites are on the lower side, being a holiday. But as per the indications over the last one week, the district is heading towards the peak of the third wave, said a senior doctor from King George Hospital. Comparing to the last two waves, Visakhapatnam district has been been leading the third wave with a higher count over the other districts. In the last two waves, Visakhapatnam district stood between fifth and ninth positions. But ever since the State was hit by the third wave, the district has been in the first position. And the experts from the medical field attribute it to non-compliance with safety protocols by most of the people and opening up of public places during the festivals. Meanwhile, with the increase in cases and the rate of transmissibility being very high, King George Hospital, which is the main COVID hospital and catering to COVID care through its CSR block, has been hit hard with staff shortage. Both doctors, especially the resident doctors, who form the frontline doctors, and the staff nurses, are getting infected at a vary rapid pace. “Every time, a doctor or a staff nurse falls sick or gets infected with the virus, we are isolating them for at least a week. But after treatment and many on duty are reluctant to take up COVID duty,” said a senior doctor from KGH. Fortunately, this wave is not as severe as the second wave and both hospitalisation and fatality are on the lower side. Even demand for ICU beds and oxygen is low, said the doctors from KGH. Well this can be considered to be the brighter side of the wave and as per a WHO prediction, it is likely to tapper down by the first week of February, said former principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-dist-sees-18-deaths-over-19000-covid-cases-in-20-days/article64945877.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||City will host National Tourism Day State-level function: APTDC chief||A virtual meeting is being organised by the Union government of India to mark the 75 years of Independence – Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav – and the National Tourism Day being observed on January 25. Union Minister of Tourism G. Kishan Reddy, spiritual guru Jaggi Vasudev and officials will participate in the meeting which would begin at 11 a.m. Giving details to the media here on Monday, AP Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) Chairman A. Vara Prasada Reddy said that Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had ordered that awareness programmes by involving local artisans, organisation of photo exhibitions and illumination of tourist spots in all the districts should be done to mark the occasion. Freedom fighters or their family members would be felicitated in the respective districts. The main event would be held at the VMRDA Children’s Arena in the city. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, officials of the Archaeological Society of India (ASI), Education Department, representatives of the Hotelier’s Association, tour and travel operators and all stakeholders have been invited. He said that emphasis was being given to rural tourism and community-centric tourism. Programmes would also be organised at the Alluri Memorial at KD Peta in the district. Awareness rallies would be taken out and cultural events would be presented by students to mark the occasion. Replying to queries, the APTDC Chairman said that the APTDC cottages at Lambasingi, which were incomplete since long, would soon be completed. An amount of Rs. 50 lakh was allocated by the APTDC for the Alluri Memorial at KD Peta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-will-host-national-tourism-day-state-level-function-aptdc-chief/article64945874.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP brought casino culture to Gudivada, alleges Anita||Telugu Mahila president V. Anita has alleged that the YSR Congress Party government has brought ‘dirty’ casino culture to Gudivada in the State. Addressing a media conference here on Monday, Ms. Anita ridiculed that the State has gained the dubious distinction of getting the top position in many spheres like crimes, ganja and drugs. The latest was bringing the casino culture to Gudivada. She said that in the past the State was synonymous with ports and industries. She alleged that in the name of entertainment, obscene dances by girls and gambling were being encouraged. Ms. Anita said that Minister for Civil Supplies Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani), who was abusing TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu frequently, stands exposed as the ‘casino-style’ event was organised at the function hall, owned by the Minister. She said that the people were not ready to believe the statement of Mr. Nani that he was innocent in the issue. She wondered as to why he had not complained to the police, when he came to know that obscene dances were being organised at his function hall. The TDP leader questioned the police, which promptly responds with arrests to social media posts against the Chief Minister, on its silence of the casino issue. She alleged that Rs. 300 crore had changed hands in the issue and wondered what was the share of the police in it. She also questioned the silence of the Chief Minister on the issue. She recalled as to how then Opposition leader had ridiculed the Telugu Desam government alleging that it was trying to conduct ‘bikini festival’ on the beach for its proposal for conducting beach festival. She demanded dismissal of Mr. Nani from the State Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-brought-casino-culture-to-gudivada-alleges-anita/article38322459.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two engineering graduates arrested, drugs seized||The City Task Force (CTF) personnel arrested two engineering graduates and seized some drugs from them in Visakhapatnam on Monday. They were identified as Akhil and Rahul. The CTF personnel also seized 21 blots of LSD, two grams of MDMA, 20 grams of dry ganja, Rs. 2,000 and a motorcycle from them. Circle inspector of MVP Colony police station, Ramnayya, who took up the investigation, said that Rahul was arrested in Seethammadhara area based on a tip-off and after questioning him, he gave the information on the whereabouts of his friend Akhil, who was picked up from Gajuwaka area on Monday. The CI said the duo got addicted to drugs while studying engineering in Chennai and after completion of their course, they returned to Visakhapatnam and started selling the drugs to fund their habits. They were selling these drugs only to their friends and known associates. Both will be produced in the court on Tuesday, the CI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-engg-graduates-held-drugs-seized/article64945875.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||DCI, Abu Dhabi’s NMDC ink MoU||Dredging Corporation of India has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Abu Dhabi- based National Maritime Dredging Company (NMDC), here on Monday. The MoU was exchanged in virtual mode between G.Y.V. Victor, the managing director and CEO of DCI, and Yasser Nassr Zaghloul, Group Chief Executive Officer of NMDC, in the presence of H.N. Aswath, Development Adviser (Ports), Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Water Ways.Delivering the opening address, Mr. Awasth said that the MoU will pave the way for strategic alliance and would play a crucial role in achieving the Maritime Vision- 2030. Dr. Victor, said that with increase in marine infrastructure development activities in the Indian sub-continent, African region and middle and far east region, the MoU will act as strategic alliance and facilitate participation in bids for projects on a case-to-case basis in these regions. DCI owns and operates a large fleet of Trailing Suction Hopper Dredger whereas NMDC owns and operates large Cutter Suction Dredger and have hands on experience on development and management of ports, he said. The strategic alliance shall focus on areas apart from capital dredging works to project development on Build Operate and Transfer (BOT) basis, operate ports as managers, participate in public and private partnership in dredging works, shipping and waterways projects, port development, reclamation works and development of multi-modal transportation. The projects execution shall be either through a join venture or as a consortium on a project-to-project basis, said Dr. Victor. Mr. Yasser said that experience and expertise of both the companies will be brought under one platform for executing various projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dci-abu-dhabis-nmdc-ink-mou/article38322494.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APERC public hearing on power tariff begins||Chairman of Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) Justice C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy has said that the Commission would take a decision on the power tariff balancing interests of consumers and the financial well-being of power companies. He was delivering the inaugural address at the three-day public hearing on power tariff that began at APEPDCL office, here on Monday. The public hearing for all the three Discoms (APEPDCL, APCPDCL and APSPDCL), is being held in online mode due to the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. He said that the decision that was taken in the financial year 2021-22 was based on long-time priorities of the consumers. Justice Nagarjuna Reddy pointed out that Rs. 1,000 crore was collected on the initiatives of the APERC at the request of power distribution companies from various government departments. He said that the Standards of Performance (SoP) have been set for power distribution companies to enhance transparency in customer service. Farmers who have suffered losses due to the erection of power towers and lines were compensated, he said. He also said that APERC had taken steps to ensure immediate compensation to the victims of the electrical accidents. He said efforts would be made to bring awareness among consumers in utilising power-saving devices. 65 objectors According to the APERC Chairman, 65 objectors had registered their objections and more people can also register. Later, the CMDs of the Power Distribution Companies K. Santosh Rao (APEPDCL), H. Haranadharao (APSPDCL) and J. Padma Janardhana Reddy (APCPDCL) read out their company proposals. The consumers can participate in the programme by logging on tohttps://www.elivetelecast. com/apercpublichearing on January 25 and 27 from 10.30 a.m. to 1.00 p.m. and from 2.00 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aperc-public-hearing-on-power-tariff-begins/article38322436.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roads will be laid to hamlets in Agency, says ITDA PO||Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer Ronanki Gopalakrishna has said that roads will be constructed to ‘road-less’ hamlets in the Agency areas of the district at an estimated cost of Rs. 164.24 crore under ‘Mission Concept Paderu’ programme. The Project Officer held a virtual meeting with officials of the Tribal Welfare Department, Panchayat Raj and MG National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme(MGNREGS) from Paderu on Monday. He said that administrative approval was obtained from the District Collector for undertaking the works under Mission Concept Paderu with Rs. 120.24 crore and under Left Wing Extremism (LWE) funds to the tune of Rs. 44 crore. He directed the engineering officials to prepare technical estimates and commence the works from February 1. He said that bridges, culverts and drinking water schemes would be constructed under the mission project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/roads-will-be-laid-to-hamlets-in-agency-says-itda-po/article38322458.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Extra coaches to clear rush||Train no.18567 Visakhapatnam-Kollam, 18568 Kollam-Visakhapatnam express trains to be added one sleeper coach each on January 27 and 28 respectively to clear rush. Train no. 22820 Visakhapatnam – Bhubaneswar and 22819 Bhubaneswar – Visakhapatnam intercity express to be added one Chair car coach on January 25 and 26 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/extra-coaches-to-clear-rush/article38322495.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||IGNOU launches online courses||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has started online courses from the January 2022 session. MBA and other Post Graduate courses such as MA-English, MA-Hindi, MA-Journalism, MA-Rural Development, MCA, MA- Gandhi and Peace Studies and many more braduate, Diploma, PG Diploma and certificate courses are available through online mode. These courses are recognised by statutory bodies such as UGC and AICTE. The teaching –learning process for these programmes will be through online mode only. Academic counselling, evaluation and examinations will all be conducted through online modes for the students, according to G. Dharmarao, Regional Director, IGNOU Regional Centre. The student support will be given through internet/radio/television and students are not required to visit the Study Centres. Interested candidates can submit their applications through a separate link provided for this purpose https://ignouiop.samarth.edu.in/ Enrolled students will be taught through virtual classrooms of IGNOU, Gyan Darshan, Gyan Vani, e-Gyankosh and Gyandhara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ignou-launches-online-courses/article38321970.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) opposes power policies||The CPI(M) has opposed the power policies which the party alleged will cause tremendous financial burden on the common man. Party leaders Ch. Narasinga Rao, K. Lokanadham and M. Jaggu Naidu said that the three DISCOMS in the State, in their report to the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) have shown losses to the tune of Rs. 10,045 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-opposes-power-policies/article38322450.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:27 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two city schoolkids bag PM Bal Puraskar||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna handed over the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar to Ameya Lagudu of Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Vihar at a programme organised at the Collectorate here on Monday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated Ameya through video conference. Ameya also interacted with the Prime Minister from the NIC centre at the Collectorate. sThe Collector said that Ameya was one among the 32 children selected for the Rashtriya Bal Puraskar for 2021. Ameya won the award under the category of ‘Art and Culture’ for 2021. Veer Kashyap, a student of Class 6 of Navy Children School(NCS), Visakhapatnam, received the PM Rashtriya Bal Puraskar through video conference from the Prime Minister. Later, the District Collector handed over the certificate to the awardee. He appreciated the boy for his innovative and educative game, which spreads awareness about the ongoing pandemic. Veer handed over a copy of his boardgame ‘Corona Yuga’ to the District Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-city-schoolkids-bag-pm-bal-puraskar/article38322496.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t be misled by Naidu, govt. employees told||Former MLA and YSR Congress Party leader S.A. Rahaman has appealed to government employees not to be misled by Telugu Desam Party(TDP) president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu but give up their adamant attitude on the issue. Addressing a media conference here on Monday, Dr. Rahaman said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has a soft corner for government employees and would never cheat them like Mr. Naidu had done in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-be-misled-by-naidu-govt-employees-told/article38322456.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM must break silence on Kodali casino’||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy break his silence on the issue of the ‘illegal casino’allegedly organised by Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) at Gudivada in Krishna district. The TDP, at a strategy meeting presided over by party president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Monday, decided to step up its agitation against the ‘poisonous casino culture that was creeping into the State’. “Complaints would be made to various national investigation agencies about how money amounting to hundreds of crores changed hands,” party leaders said. The TDP slammed Mr. Nani for turning Gudivada, known as a birthplace of freedom fighters and intellectuals, into a ‘casino capital’. The attack ona fact finding committee comprising Opposition members was highly condemnable, the TDP said, adding that Mr. Nani would not be able to escape from the law as there was ‘video evidence’ of the illegal casino. Despite the evidence, the Minister wasasserting that he is not guilty and is making false statements, the party said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-asks-jagan-to-break-silence-on-casino-scam/article38321913.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:22 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||For a better tomorrow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/for-a-better-tomorrow/article64945962.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:23 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nip in the air||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nip-in-the-air/article64945954.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lifestyle expo showcases over 1,000 products||A ‘Furniture & Lifestyle Expo’ is being organised by Prompt Trade Fairs (I) Pvt. Limited at Vizag Convention, beside the International Cricket Stadium at PM Palem, near Madhurawada.The exhibition showcases over 1,000 products like modular kitchens, interior decorative products, indoor and outdoor decorative lights and new household appliances, according to a statement issued here on Monday.The expo will be open at 10.30 a.m. and close at 8.30 p.m. till January 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lifestyle-expo-showcases-over-1000-products/article38322457.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||Online classes begin through Vidya channel||Online classes for students of Classes VIII, IX and X of as many as 141 State-run high schools commenced through T-SAT Vidya channel in the tribal majority district on Monday. While all the schools continue to remain closed due to the extended Sankranti holidays up to January 30 in view of surge in COVID-19 cases in the State, the State government has decided to conduct digital lessons for students of Classes VIII, IX and X through the T-SAT channel from January 24 to January 28. As many as 895 teachers reported to duty in the State-run high schools in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district to monitor the digital lessons. An equal number of teachers will attend to duty to supervise the online classes on Tuesday. Teachers of the high schools have been directed to attend to duties to oversee the online classes on alternate days, sources said. Students of high schools have attended the digital classes telecast through T-SAT as per the fixed slots from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in their homes. In Karimnagar district, online classes started for around 10,400 students of as many as 149 State-run high schools on Monday. The online instruction for students of Classes 8, 9 and 10 started in other districts too in compliance with the orders issued by the School Education Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/online-classes-begin-through-vidya-channel/article64946057.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||Less than 4K cases recorded in TS as tests are below 1 lakh||Telangana has recorded 3,980 COVID-19 cases on Monday. This is the second consecutive day when less than 4,000 cases were recorded as comparatively less tests were conducted. Over 1 lakh samples were tested from January 18 to 22 and they dropped thereafter. On Monday, 97,113 samples were put to test and results of 7,852 were awaited. Three more COVID patients died. The 3,980 new infections include 1,439 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 344 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 234 from Rangareddy, 159 from Hanumakonda, 110 from Khammam, 99 from Pedapalli, 96 from Yadadri Bhongir, 95 each from Sangareddy and Bhadradri Kothagudem, 94 from Mahbubnagar district. From March 2, 2020 to January 24 of this year, a total of 3.14 crore samples were put through COVID test and 7,38,795 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 33,673 were active cases, 7,01,047 have recovered, and 4,075 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/less-than-4k-cases-recorded-in-ts-as-tests-are-below-1-lakh/article64946058.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||‘No need to bring all projects into board’s purview’||Telangana has reiterated one more time that there is no need for bringing its projects and their components other than Peddavagu in Khammam district under the administrative control of Godavari river management board (GRMB) as they are not common projects serving the needs of the two Telugu States but serve the needs of only Telangana. Sixth meeting of the sub-committee of GRMB was held here on Monday to discuss and finalise the handing over notes of Medigadda Barrange and Kannepally pump house of Kaleshwaram project in Telangana and old Venkatanagaram pumping house of Andhra Pradesh. On the agenda items of Telangana its member Sridhar Rao Deshpande, Officer on Special Duty to Chief Minister on Irrigation, said as decided at the 12th meeting of GRMB held on October 11 last year, Telangana had already submitted the details of common project Peddavagu and agreed for handing over its management to the river board. However, he reiterated, that there was no reason for bringing other projects into the board’s purview in Telangana. He also pointed out that Telangana had already written to the river board and Ministry of Jal Shakti on removal of five projects including Kaleshwaram from Schedule-2 and shift a few other project components from Schedule-2 to 3. Since there was no response from either from GRMB or from MoJS there was no need to discuss the matter now. Further, the Telangana member reiterated that the matter of projects’ site visit and preparation of handing over notes had to be taken up only after discussion and approval of the board meeting and the involvement of sub-committee members in the visit and notes preparation was also necessary. He also registered Telangana’s strong protest on the visit of projects by GRMB secretariat members and preparation of handing over notes without board’s permission. Telangana has made it clear to Member Secretary of GRMB B.P. Pandey that it would not discuss on the one-sided notes prepared by the board secretariat without the knowledge and involvement of Telangana. The Member-Secretary was also requested to record the views/opinion of Telangana expressed in the fifth meeting of the sub-committee in the minutes of the sixth meeting as they were not recorded properly that time. During the discussion on Venkatanagaram pumping house, AP member of the sub-committee Pulla Rao demanded that all projects and their components of Telangana be brought under the board’s purview. In response, Telangana member said the demand of AP was not justified since all the projects were taken up in combined AP and they serve needs of only Telangana and as per Clause IV of Godavari Award, States have freedom to divert their share of dependable water to un-served areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-need-to-bring-all-projects-into-boards-purview/article64946044.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||Buddhavanam project unveils an exciting prospect||A beautiful picture is going to unveil once the Buddhavanam project is inaugurated. The project was completed at a cost of about Rs. 65 crore This project has come up in about 275 acres at Nandikonda village of Peddavura mandal of Nalgonda district, near Nagarjunasagar, located about 130 km.from the State headquarters. The Budhhavanam project is divided into eight segments with an elegant entrance plaza Buddhacharitavanam, Bodhisattva Park (Jataka Park), Dhyanavanam (Meditation Park), Stupa Park, Mahastupa, Buddhist University, Buddhist Monasteries from South- East Asian countries and modern museum on the revival of Buddhism in India with a research library to symbolically represent the Astangamarga propounded by the Buddha.This will be the first in the country with so many thematic segments depicting the major events from the life of Siddhartha Gautama and his previous birth stories, eight miniature stupas of national and international models. The State Department of Archaeology and Museums has established a Buddhist Heritage Museum in the ground floor of Maha Stupa. “There is a good response from foreign countries, especially from South-East Asia. The Government of Sri Lanka has donated a replica of the Avukana Buddha statue and Dhamma bell. The replica of Mahastupa with sculptural panels in Amaravathi School of Art is embellished, the main attraction of the Buddhist Theme Park,” said an officer of the Buddhavanam project. Amaravati Stupa replica At the Centre of Buddhavanam is a replica of the original Amaravati Stupa in its original dimensions, shape, and design for the first time, the Amaravati School of Art after 1,700 years. A museum of Buddhist heritage, an amphi-theater and international centre along with civic amenities are developed. The drum, dome and railing are embellished with sculptural panels. Inside of Mahastupa upper-level dome ceiling is decorated with lotus petals and sky panels made in an aluminum acoustic system central portion in a 28-feet height miniature stupa were made in stone and installed Pancha Dhyana sitting Buddhas of Amithabha, Akshyobya, Ratnasambhava, Amoghasiddhi and Virochana - four sides and four cardinal directions.  “The project is already completed and will be inaugurated shortly. The project was established with an investment of Rs. 65 crore contribution from both the State and Central governments,” Buddhavanam Special Officer Mallepally Laxmaiah told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/buddhavanam-project-unveils-an-exciting-prospect/article64946049.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:35 IST,TELANGANA||NIMS doctors perform rare surgery||Doctors have removed 3-kg aggressive cancerous tumour from the liver of a 24-year-old woman who was seven months pregnant. The surgery was performed by specialists at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), with support of gynaecologists from Niloufer Hospitals around 10 days ago. “To the best of our knowledge, this is the first ever reported case of a primary choriocarcinoma of liver in pregnant women in Indian population and probably in the world,” said N Bheerappa, professor and Head, Department of Surgical Gastroenterology at NIMS. The woman from Jangaon district of the State had consulted the Surgical Gastroenterologists around 15 days ago complaining of lump in her abdomen and pain. After she was found with a large tumor arising from liver, further diagnosis tests revealed that it was choriocarcinoma of liver. Considering her symptoms, tumour progression, its size, high risk of tumour rupture during pregnancy or delivery, a surgery was planned on the patient in her third trimester. This was decided after discussing pros and cons of the surgery with the patient, her husband, and other family members. The gynecologists from Niloufer Hospital were involved in the team as risk of severe bleeding and pre-term delivery were anticipated. “As advised by the gynecologist Dr Radhika, medications were added prior to surgery, to relax her uterus and prevent any premature contractions. Also medications were added to achieve foetal lung maturity, in case a premature delivery happens. In view of the hyperdynamic (more blood circulation) circulation due to pregnancy and the high vascular nature of the liver tumour, adequate blood products were reserved,” said Dr Bheerappa. Senior anesthesiologists Dr Nirmala, Dr Abhiruchi and team added that they had to take particular care regarding the selection of their anesthetic drugs and dosing, due the special circumstances of the case. After operating on her for about six hours, a large tumour weighing around three kgs was removed from her liver. The surgery was taken up around 10-days ago. Scanning and gynecological examinations were conducted after the surgery which revealed that the foetus and the mother are in good health. The patient and the foetus were regularly monitored in a special ICU. She is fit for discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nims-doctors-perform-rare-surgery/article64946172.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:36 IST,TELANGANA||Trees felled for elevated corridor||More than 20 full grown trees have been axed on the VST-Indira Park stretch to make way for the elevated corridor under construction as part of the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) project in the city. While the trees have been felled following proper procedures, by obtaining necessary permissions from the district level tree protection committee, environment enthusiasts have expressed anguish at the measure. “They announce Haritha Haram and Green India Challenges, and proudly display the trophy of Hyderabad as Tree City of India, but cannot allow us to carry out free translocation of trees to where people are ready to adopt them,” said P. Uday Krishna from Vata Foundation, who has made it his mission to translocate trees permitted to be felled by the tree protection committee. Forest officials, while confirming that all necessary permissions have been obtained, said nod for felling is given by the tree protection committee for exotic species such as Peltophorum and Rain Tree. “If it is a native variety such as neem or ficus, we try to protect them either by retaining or mandating translocation,” an official shared. Demand for translocation instead of felling the trees standing in the way of public utility projects has been gaining strength for the past few years. Minister K. T. Rama Rao had reportedly given explicit instructions to the GHMC and urban development officials not to resort to tree felling for infrastructural projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trees-felled-for-elevated-corridor/article38322227.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:55 IST,TELANGANA||Akshaya Patra offering free vaccination with ration||In a move that would encourage people to go for vaccination, the Akshaya Patra Foundation located at Kandi in Sangareddy district has offered free vaccination along with ration at its premises. Lots of people arrived at the Foundation and got vaccinated. The programme was commenced on Monday. For those getting first dose/ second dose/ booster dose of vaccine at their centre, the organisers of the Foundation have extended 11 types of ration material including chickpea, groundnut, jaggery, red gram, rice, salt, oil, a soap and sanitiser worth Rs. 550. The programme will run from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. every day till February 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/akshaya-patra-offering-free-vaccination-with-ration/article64946062.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||Hearing-impaired more attentive to visual clues: study||A sample of congenitally hearing-impaired individuals born to hearing-impaired parents show greater attentional orienting to visual cues than individuals with normal hearing, according to a study conducted by the school of medical sciences of University of Hyderabad on Monday.  The study conducted on “Attention capture by brief abrupt - onset cues in hearing-impaired individuals” by Prof. Ramesh Mishra’s lab at Centre for Neural and Cognitive Sciences has been published by the prestigious journal Neuropsychologia which is an interdisciplinary journal for cognitive neurosciences, said an official release.  In the paper, the authors using the ‘Posner cueing paradigm’, a well-known paradigm in attention research, show that suddenly appearing information on the screen capture the attention of hearing-impaired individuals to a greater extent. This suggests that hearing impairment makes such individuals more susceptible to sudden information in their environment. Underlying reasons Whether this is an advantage or not depends on the type of information and the environment in which the individuals find themselves. Deafness-induced neuro-plasticity in the brain along with the use of sign language is considered to be the underlying reasons behind such visual processing differences observed in the hearing impaired . Such findings have implications not only for understanding the hearing impaired visual system better but also for their education and rehabilitation. The study was conducted by former PhD student Seema Prasad under Prof. Mishra’s supervision. Seema is currently a Humboldt postdoctoral fellow at TU Dresden, Germany. The paper is also co-authored by former intern Vidya Somashekarappa, currently a PhD student at the University of Gothenburg, Sweden. The study was also made possible with the support of Gouri Shanker Patil, specialising in speech pathology at the National Institute of Hearing-Handicapped and has been a long time collaborator of Prof. Mishra’s lab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hearing-impaired-more-attentive-to-visual-clues-study/article64946059.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:38 IST,TELANGANA||BioAsia to open on February 24||The 19th edition of BioAsia, a two-day Life Sciences and health tech forum, will be in held virtually from February 24. One of the largest such devoted to Life Sciences, BioAsia is the annual flagship event of Telangana government and emerged as a global platform for various stakeholders, from biotech and biopharma companies, research institutions, academia, investors, service providers to policymakers and regulators. With ‘Future Ready’ as the theme this year, it will focus on exploring different aspects of Life Sciences industry, including taking stock of the progress achieved and capabilities needed for powering future growth, the organisers said in a release on Monday. “Hyderabad has cemented its position as the life sciences hub of the country and vaccine capital of the world. BioAsia has been an integral part of this extraordinary growth story and continues to help us showcase the prowess of Hyderabad in particular and India in general,” Industries and IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao said inviting stakeholders from around the world to the event. The conference will provide an opportunity to pharma and biotech firms, CROs, CMOs, CDMOs, biotech start-ups, academic institutions, scientists and researchers, policymakers and regulatory experts across the globe to assess the industry’s current position and deliberate on imperatives for future growth. It will feature an array of panels on future of Life Sciences amid the pandemic and the ways the industry must be focussing to combat future pandemics, the organisers said. IT and Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said BioAsia is an excellent global forum for biotechnology, pharma and healthcare industries, academia and start-ups to showcase their innovations and network for better connections. Over the last 18 years, the event has seen over 270 Lol, bilateral co-operation agreements and MoU getting signed along with trade and investment to an extent of $2.6 billion. Last year’s BioAsia, which went virtual for the first time, had around 31,450 participants from 72 countries and 60 high-profile speakers. “We are confident the 19th edition will bring together some of the most influential leaders to discuss a wide range of topics concerning the opportunities and challenges in the healthcare sector,” said Shakthi Nagappan, CEO of BioAsia and Director of Life Sciences, Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bioasia-to-open-on-february-24/article38322232.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||DS may join Congress in February first week||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Rajya Sabha member D. Srinivas’s re-entry into his parent party - the Congress, will be only in the first week of February. Mr. Srinivas, it is understood, received communication to this effect from the high command in New Delhi. It was reported that Mr. Srinivas would join the party in the presence of All India Congress Committee (AICC) president Sonia Gandhi in New Delhi. However, it was deferred due to the third wave of COVID and some office-bearers of the AICC also testing positive for Coronavirus, according to sources. Mr. Srinivas may join the party during Parliament sessions that would commence next month. Mr. Srinivas was the APCC chief when the Congress party rode to power in 2004 led by the CLP leader Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy after the latter’s largely successful padayatra across the united AP. The veteran Congress leader at that point even hinted that he was also in the race for the Chief Minister’s post. Ultimately, the high command chose Dr. Reddy and Mr. Srinivas had to contend with a Minister’s post. He lost the 2009 and 2014 elections and in 2015 switched sides and joined the Telangana Rashtra Samiti.. TRS chief and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao nominated Mr. Srinivas to the Rajya Sabha and the bonhomie between the two leaders was short-lived so much so that the latter was not invited to any party meetings. Since then, it was stated Mr. Srinivas had been lying low and as his term comes to end sometime this year decided to take a call on return to his parent party. “So far we have no information from the high command about the joining of Mr. Srinivas in the party except some reports in the media. Strictly speaking, some Congress leaders from Nizamabad district are objecting to his re-entry into the party stating that he had back-stabbed the party when it was in trouble and wondered whether his admission strengthens the party. Mr. Srinivas has been looking at the party as he has no option but may not be of any use to the party,” said a source in the Congress party. When contacted Mr. Srinivas said: I was asked to join the Congress during the Parliament sessions that would commence in the first week of next month. I had received communication to this effect from AICC.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ds-may-join-congress-in-february-first-week/article64946045.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:55 IST,TELANGANA||Hyd boy scales new heights with PM Bal Puraskar||It was a day to remember for eight-year-old T. Virat Chandra, who created history of sorts scaling the Mount Killimanjaro, who is conferred with the prestigious Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Pursakar award on Monday. These awards are given to children (five to 18 years of age) with exceptional abilities and outstanding achievement in six fields of innovation, scholastic achievements, sports, arts and culture, and social service and bravery and carry a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh and a certificate  “ Murisipoyanu (was delighted). I was excited and couldn’t wait for the big moment,” was the reaction of the young mountaineer after the virtual presentation of the Award from the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Feeling really proud to get this kind of recognition within a year of my Mt. Kilimanjaro feat,” the third standard student of Gitanjali Devashray (Secunderabad), informed The Hindu on Monday.  “Now, the target is to scale the highest mountain peaks in all the continents,” said Virat, who is also keen to be a qualified engineer. Virat’s father, Sharath Chandra, said though initially they were scared about the young boy taking up mountaineering, now they have no regrets. “We are naturally on cloud nine with this award. What more can a kid ask for,” said the proud father, who is the sole distributor of Godrej lockers in the city. Coach elated For his part, trainer Bharath Tammineni is equally elated. “Yes, it is a great feeling to get this award and incidentally second one for me as my other trainee Samanya got it in 2020 for scaling the highest peak in Australia,” said Bharath. These awards are given for the under-16 age group for excellence in different fields including sports, arts, social service. “Yes, when the seven-year-old Virat scaled the very challenging Mt Kilimanjaro in 2021 March, it was the result of six months of gruelling training schedule including two sessions of physical fitness. And, for his age, the young boy showed great maturity and was clealry a different kind of kid for his age,” recalled 32-year-old Bharath, who himself scaled Mt. Everest and many other difficult peaks across the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-boy-scales-new-heights-with-pm-bal-puraskar/article64946061.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:35 IST,TELANGANA||Apollo launches ‘International second opinion service’||‘International second opinion service’ was announced by Apollo Hospitals Group in collaboration with The Clinic by Cleveland Clinic on Monday. As part of it, doctors at Apollo will be able to collaborate with leading medical experts at the Cleveland Clinic to review complex cases and devise treatment plans. Those seeking an international second opinion can consult an Apollo consultant, and express interest in the service. The patient’s medical records will be shared with The Clinic by Cleveland Clinic under appropriate consent and a conference call will be scheduled between the international medical expert and Apollo consultants, in presence of the patient. Based on the patient’s health history and case discussion with the Apollo consultant, the international doctor will share insights in the form of a written opinion with the Apollo consultant, who will further discuss and decide the course of treatment for the patient. “At Apollo, we strive to break all barriers that come in the way of patients getting nothing but the best care. Empowering our doctors with global peer support in ratifying the diagnosis and exploring innovative management plans is one step in that direction,” said Dr Sangita Reddy, Joint Managing Director, Apollo Hospitals Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/apollo-launches-international-second-opinion-service/article38322210.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||Glass bottle maker opens new facility at Bhongir||Container glass bottle manufacturer AGI glaspac on Monday inaugurated a new manufacturing facility at its Bhongir plant. Set up amid growing demand in speciality glass segment, the 154 tonnes per day (TPD) facility has started producing clear glass products that are primarily used for packaging cosmetics and perfumery, pharmaceuticals, premium spirits, food and beverages and also to make water bottles and candle jars. The facility is expected to provide employment to 350 people and reduce dependence on imports and promote sustainability by encouraging various user-industries to choose glass over plastic in terms of packaging, said AGI, which is the packaging products division of HSIL Ltd. Besides India, the new unit will also serve foreign markets. President and CEO Rajesh Khosla said: “with the opening of this new facility, we are closer to our vision of building a centre of excellence in the container glass packaging in India, using globally-benchmarked manufacturing systems and practices. With an expected revenue of Rs. 250 crore, it will boost our commitment to produce sustainable world-class, innovative products.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/glass-bottle-maker-opens-new-facility-at-bhongir/article38322234.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||Kondapochammasagar to fill the twin reservoirs||Telangana State government’s plans to fill the twin reservoirs at Gandipet using water from the Kondapochammasagar reservoir resurfaced when the Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K. T. Rama Rao reiterated the commitment, during his address after launch of the second phase of drinking water project for municipalities, villages and colonies within the Outer Ring Road on Monday. Kondapochammasagar at 612 metres height from the mean sea level and Hyderabad at 530 metres height, make it plausible to draw water through gravity, Mr. Rama Rao said, averring that together with Mallannasagar project, this could solve the city’s ever expanding drinking water needs for good. Kaleshwaram project, designed for irrigation requirements of the Northern Telangana districts, has a drinking water component for the city too, the Minister reminded, while elaborating on Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao’s plans for city’s drinking water in coming 30 years. TRS government has allocated close to Rs. 6,000 crore for the drinking water needs of the city unlike in the undivided State, when there would be frequent protests for water, Mr. Rama Rao pointed out. All the schemes of TRS government are being replicated at the Central level, replacing Bengal with Telangana in the aphorism, ‘What Bengal thinks today, India thinks tomorrow’, he quipped, citing the ‘Har Ghar ko Jal’ and ‘PM Kisan Samman’ schemes modelled after Mission Bhagiratha and Rythu Bandhu schemes. Acknowledging the need for identifying the peri urban areas too as part of the State capital region, the TRS government had allocated Rs. 2,000 crore for drinking water supply needs of the peripheral municipalities which later merged with GHMC. Further on, the ORR Phase-I programme was launched with Rs. 775 crore targeted to provide drinking water for 25 municipalities within ORR through the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board. Provision of drinking water to several other colonies and gated communities within ORR with a cost of Rs. 1,200 crore is envisaged through the Phase-II of the ORR project, which was launched on Monday. The mandals to be benefited include Narsingi, Manikonda, Shamshabad, Maheshwaram, Ibrahimpatnam, Hayatnagar, Ghatkesar, Shamirpet, Keesara, Medchal, Qutbullahpur, Rajendranagar, Ramachandrapuram, Patancheru, and Bolarum. Additional pipeline Keeping in view the drinking water needs of the city, which are set to grow from the current 600 million gallons per day to 1000 million gallons per day by 2051, an additional pipeline is being laid from Sunkisala with an expenditure of Rs. 1,400 crore, the Minister said. As per the details shared by the HMWS&SB, the ORR phase-II project, divided into two packages, is set to benefit a total 978 colonies and close to 6.33 lakh people. A total 75 reservoirs are proposed to be built, with a combined capacity of 137 million litres. Pipeline length to be laid will be 2,864 kilometres, to provide for 2,09,870 connections. Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy too was present at the meeting, along with several other public representatives and officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kondapochammasagar-to-fill-the-twin-reservoirs/article64946051.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||PJTSAU Vice-Chancellor elected to universities body||Vice-Chancellor of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) V. Praveen Rao has been elected as the secretary-general of the Indian Agricultural Universities Association (IAUA) for 2022. His election took place at IAUA’S meeting held on December 20 in Birsa Agricultural University at Ranchi. The universities body acts as a liaison between the agricultural universities, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and Central and State Governments. According to a press release, the association formed in 1967 has 4 Central, 4 deemed to be, 44 State agricultural, 6 horticultural, 17 animal husbandry and 3 fisheries universities as its members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pjtsau-v-c-elected-to-universities-body/article38322220.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||State to have 20 more blood storage centres||Blood storage centres would be established at 20 more locations by the Telangana Health department. Each would cost Rs. 12 lakh. They would come up in 12 districts at Community Health Centres, Area Hospitals. The decision was taken at a review meeting held by Health Minister T Harish Rao with health officials i here on Monday. Currently, there are 57 blood banks and 51 blood storage centres in the State. Works for new medical colleges, repairs at existing hospitals, fever survey and COVID-19 vaccination too were discussed at the meeting. An amount of Rs. 10.84 crore is being allotted for repairs and around 13 health facilities, works at labour rooms, electrical and sewage works would be taken up in the coming days. The health facilities are located in 14 districts: Nalgonda, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Sangareddy, Nizamabad, Hyderabad, Nagarkurnool, Medak, and others. TSMIDC chairman Errolla Srinivas, Principal secretary of Health department Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi, and others were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-to-have-20-more-blood-storage-centres/article38322222.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:38 IST,TELANGANA||ULBs told to hold special sessions for finalising next year budget||The State government has directed the district collectors and additional collectors (local bodies) to convene special sessions of the governing bodies of the municipal corporations and municipalities to finalise their respective budget proposals for the financial year 2022-23. The meetings should discuss about financial conditions of the respective urban local bodies including revenue and expenditure as well as resource mobilization, to strengthen their functioning further. Municipal Administration Special Chief Secretary Arvind Kumar addressed letters to the district collectors and additional collectors (local bodies) in this regard. He said the focus of the new budget should be on equal development and all the urban local bodies should ensure planned development in their respective jurisdiction. The government on its part would ensure allocation of funds through Finance Commission as well as Pattana Pragati. The budget should include expenditure on account of sanitation, water charges, loan payments, power tariff in addition to 10 % of budget allocated as green budget. With the financial year coming to close in about two months, the district collectors had been asked to conduct preliminary meetings for finalization of the budget proposals. Collectors and additional collectors (local bodies) should attend the special meeting of the municipal corporations and municipalities for finalization of their budget without fail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ulbs-told-to-hold-special-sessions-for-finalising-next-year-budget/article38322235.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||Centre conspiring to privatise Singareni: TRS||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre is conspiring to privatise all public sector undertakings, including the Singareni Collieries Company Limited, by invoking the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act. Minister Koppula Eshwar, Government Whip Balka Suman, Member of Parliament B. Venkatesh Netha and legislators Gandra Venkatramana Reddy, Korukanti Chander and Sandra Venkata Veeraiah said here on Monday that the TRS would agitate along with the families of Singareni workers and employees to protect the company from being privatised by the Centre. They sought to know the need to private Singareni, which is running in profits, by invoking the MMDR Act. They alleged that while the Centre is not giving permission to mine coal in new blocks, it is trying to privatise the existing blocks on the other hand. It had already decided to privatise 98 coal blocks. Stating that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had written to the Central government in 2015 and 2021 with a request not to privatise coal blocks, they said in turn the Centre is trying to privatise the coal blocks of Singareni itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-conspiring-to-privatise-singareni-trs/article38322246.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||CPI (M) calls for fight against TRS, BJP policies||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) State committee has called upon the party cadre and people to fight against the policies of the TRS government which are benefitting the rich at the expense of the poor as well as fight the communal politics of the BJP. The political resolution adopted by the CPI(M) State conference expressed concern over the soft stance adopted by the TRS on the BJP, which it said is trying to gain foothold in the State through its divisive policies. “Though the BJP has been trying to divide people on communal lines, the TRS is adopting opportunistic stand on the issue,” he resolution said. The ruling party is also dilly-dallying on taking a firm stand against the BJP government at the Centre, which is attempting to usurp the powers of the State. “The TRS is indulging in sale of lands rather than fighting the Centre to secure the State’s due share of funds,” the resolution said adding the TRS’ actions indicate how it is soft pedaling on the BJP which is openly promoting the policies of hatred. The resolution expressed concern over the mounting public debt that reached Rs. 2.86 lakh crore according to the latest information. The government is however trying to mobilise resources in the name of corporations floated for projects. These funds would not be reflected in the budget, but would be burden on the people of the State. “The government is indulging in huge cuts in the allocations made to marginalised sections like dalits, tribes, women and BCs. There was cut of Rs. 30,000 crore in the allocations made for dalits,” the resolution said. Though the government is harping on development as its focus for raising resources, investors in the construction companies, pharma, real estate and other sectors are being benefitted with these amounts. The government had no doubt announced loan waiver for farmers, but the scheme had covered less than 1/3rd of the eligible ryots. Farmers are already suffering on account of spurious seed as well as non-procurement of their produce by government agencies. This is in addition to the government’s moves to take away assignment and podu lands on the pretext of developmental projects. The government is also silent on the exploitation of common people by corporate hospitals in the name of Covid-19 pandemic. Unrest is building up among different sections of people and the BJP is trying to take advantage of the situation by taking forward its communal policies. The party was equally critical of the Congress whose leaders, it said, are not worried about the plight of the people - but are eyeing power. The CPI (M) had therefore decided to strive for an alternative with Left and democratic forces to oppose the government’s policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpim-calls-for-fight-against-trs-bjp-policies/article38322245.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:36 IST,TELANGANA||Private ambulance provider raises $20 million||Private ambulance service provider StanPlus has raised $20 million through a combination of debt and equity. Additionally, $2 million has been raised from Grip Invest and will be utilised for leasing ambulances, the startup said in a release. Overall, the capital infusion will be leveraged to scale up operations to 500 hospitals, launch the flagship Red Ambulance brand in 15 cities from the current five. The goal is to bring the ambulance ETAs down to eight minutes from the present 15 minutes by StanPlus and less than 40 minutes on average by other ambulance service providers. Founder and CEO Prabhdeep Singh said “In India, grocery is delivered in 10 minutes but ambulances take 45. At StanPlus, we are focusing on the 8-minute ambulance paradigm .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/private-ambulance-provider-raises-20-million/article38322221.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||Stop hiding COVID deaths, Cong. leader tells govt.||The Congress party has demanded that the State government pay ex gratia of Rs. 50,000 for all the families of COVID- 19 victims who applied as directed by the Supreme Court. Hyderabad City Congress Committee (HCCC) Minorities Department chairman Sameer Waliullah reiterated the allegation that the State government was hiding the actual figure of deaths due to COVID-19 so as to avoid paying compensation to the families of the victims. Referring to the data filed by TS government in the Supreme Court, he said that theCovidcompensation claims received by the State was almost seven times higher than the official count of death. “As against 3,993 deaths reported by the TS government, it received claims from 28,969 families. There is a huge gap of 24,976 victims. Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao must seek an explanation from the Health Department for this huge contradiction,” he said in a release here on Monday. Further, Mr. Sameer Waliullah said that of 28,969 claims, the compensation has been paid to 12,148 families. In this scenario, the State government must furnish the reasons for rejecting the claims of the remaining 16,821 families.Mr. Sameer Waliullah also demanded that the State government update its daily Media Bulletin with the correct figures of death which shows toll as 4,072 (as on 23rd January)..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stop-hiding-covid-deaths-congress/article38322223.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:36 IST,TELANGANA||Chain snatcher nabbed||L.B. Nagar police nabbed an accused in the chain-snatching offence reported at Janapriya Colony on January 13. The stolen 3.5 tola gold thali chain was recovered from the accused. According to police, Md. Ashwaq, a resident of Falaknuma, along with another man came on a motorcycle and snatched the chain from the woman, while she walking to her house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chain-snatcher-nabbed/article38322225.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:36 IST,TELANGANA||Inter first-year student found dead||An Intermediate first-year student was found dead in the penthouse portion of their residence in Sanatnagar police station limits late on Sunday. The boy had locked himself up, reportedly upset that he was not doing well in studies and that his parents had chided him, the police said. The incident, according to police, was reported after 8 p.m. on Sunday. Family members, who got suspicious after the boy did not open the door after repeated knocking, forced the door open only to find him hanging from the ceiling.  Although he was rushed to a nearby hospital, in an attempt to save his life, the boy had already breathed his last. (Roshni, suicide prevention helpline, 040- 6620 2000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inter-first-year-student-found-dead/article38322226.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:38 IST,TELANGANA||AP Mahesh Co-op Urban Bank server hacked||Servers of Andhra Pradesh Mahesh Co-op Urban Bank Limited in Hyderabad were hacked on Monday, city police’s cyber crime wing confirmed. Police said fraudulent transactions worth nearly Rs. 12.5 crore were also carried out and the proceeds were transferred to several accounts outside the network. According to the police, the incident was reported by bank officials at around 12 noon, reportedly after its systems vulnerabilities were compromised. It was suspected that the hackers targeted at least three of its branches in the city. The locations, however, were not disclosed. Through swift action, police said it was able to freeze about Rs. 2.5 crore of the transferred funds. Preliminarily, cyber officials suspect extraneous agents targeted the bank’s “weak security protocols”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ap-mahesh-co-op-urban-bank-server-hacked/article38322231.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||Release grants due to State, Harish tells Centre||The State government has requested the Centre to release the grants due to the State under different heads without any delay. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that grants under Section 94(2) of the AP Reorganisation Act for the development of backward areas for the years 2019-20 and the current year amounting to Rs. 900 crore are yet to be released. “As you will appreciate the yearly grant of Rs. 450 crore being sanctioned by the Government of India falls short of the requirement of Rs. 30,751 crore and the amount of Rs. 24,205 crore recommended by the NITI Ayog,” the Minister said in a letter addressed to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman. He requested that the grant be extended for five more years beyond 2021-22 in addition to releasing Rs. 900 crore due. Mr. Harish Rao recalled that the State had been denied XIV Finance Commission grants to local bodies amounting to Rs. 817.61 crore (Rs. 315.32 crore to rural local bodies and Rs. 502.29 crore for urban local bodies). Though the State had fulfilled all the conditions, these grants were denied without any specific reason. The Centre should therefore take steps to release the grants at the earliest. He requested release of special grant of Rs. 723 crore recommended by the XV Finance Commission for 2020-21 as the devolution to the State was projected to decline in absolute terms as compared with the previous fiscal. Grants recommended by the Finance Commission were never denied in the past, he said. requesting the Centre to reconsider its decision and release the grant without further delay. Mr. Harish Rao lamented that the Centre had released the State’s share of Centrally sponsored schemes to Andhra Pradesh in 2014-15, the first year of formation of Telangana. The entire Centre’s share was released to AP by oversight though it was apportioned in the ratio of population between AP and Telangana. The share of Telangana wrongly released to AP amounted to Rs. 495.2 crore. Though the matter was taken up with the government of the neighbouring State and the Accountant General, the amount is yet to be adjusted to Telangana. “I request that this amount may be released to Telangana on a priority basis,” he said adding that the Centre should also consider release of IGST settlement dues amounting to Rs. 210 crore which is the due share of Telangana in the IGST amount of Rs. 13,944 crore transferred by the Centre to the consolidated fund of India in 2018-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/release-grants-due-to-state-harish-tells-centre/article64946043.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:38 IST,TELANGANA||Woman, paramour convicted of murder||XI Additional District & Sessions Judge, Medchal, K. Jayanthi on Monday convicted one Mahankali Laxmi, and her paramour Gunti Balraj, of murder of her husband in Medchal police limits in April last year. The duo had conspired and killed Mahankali Krishna. Police in its investigation has proved that the duo laced his toddy with sleeping pills on three separate dates in March, but he escaped safely even after consuming it. Later, on the night of April 8, Krishna had caught his wife and her paramour in the next bedroom, leading to a confrontation, in which he was killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-paramour-convicted-of-murder/article38322242.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:56 IST,TELANGANA||13 unauthorised structures demolished||HMDA, together with the district level task forces, has taken action against 13 structures in four municipalities on Monday, as part of its ongoing drive against illegal constructions. The municipalities where the structures were pulled down include Bhoodan Pochampally, Thukkuguda, Bandlaguda, and Kompally. The total number of structures against which action has been taken by the urban development authority stand at 95. A total of 75 structures have been demolished and 20 structures have been seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/13-unauthorised-structures-demolished/article64946053.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:38 IST,TELANGANA||No water supply||The following areas of the city will not have water supply from 6 a.m. on January 27 to 6 a.m. on January 28 owing to pipeline laying works, a press release from the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board informed. On January 28 too, there will be delayed supply, it said. Areas to be affected include Borabanda, Allapur, Gayatri Nagar, Parwat Nagar, Vivekananda Nagar, SPR Hills, Sriram Nagar, and Kareem Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-water-supply/article38322238.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:55 IST,TELANGANA||Fever survey: 45,418 houses covered in Karimnagar dist.||For the second consecutive day, a little over one thousand cases of fever and other suspected COVID symptoms were detected during the fever survey across Karimnagar district on Monday. As many as 1,095 persons were found to be suffering from fever or other symptoms during the door-to-door survey of nearly 45,418 houses by 701 teams across the district on the fourth day of the ongoing fever survey. Home isolation kits were distributed among them. COVID tests were conducted on 1,258 persons in various parts of the district on Monday. Of them, 118 persons were found to be infected with coronavirus, sources said. In Khammam district, a total of 1,554 teams surveyed nearly 66,186 houses as part of the fever survey on Monday. As many as 2,816 home isolation kits were given to those found suffering from fever or other symptoms associated with COVID, sources added. Vaccination drive The COVID vaccination drive has also been intensified along with the fever survey to administer the second dose and booster dose to all eligible population in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fever-survey-45418-houses-covered-in-karimnagar-dist/article38322462.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:57 IST,TELANGANA||Fast track court convicts former MIM Adilabad district president to life imprisonment||A fast-track court in Adilabad on Monday convicted and sentenced former AIMIM Adilabad district president Mohd. Farooq Ahmed to life imprisonment for murdering a man identified as Syed Zameer over an altercation in Adilabad town in December, 2020. According to the police, Farooq allegedly opened fire from his licensed revolver, severely injuring Zameer, who succumbed to the injuries a few days later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-mim-adilabad-district-president-gets-life-imprisonment/article38322233.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||Chilli ryots stage protest in Warangal||Irked over the sharp fall in procurement price of red chilli, agitated farmers staged a massive protest at Enumamula agricultural market here on Monday demanding an end to the “exploitative tactics” of errant traders and remunerative price for their chilli produce. Some infuriated farmers damaged several weighing machines at the market yard during the protest, sources said. A group of farmers staged a sit-in on the premises of the market yard alleging that the errant traders were offering a low price in the range of Rs. 11,000 to Rs. 14,000 per quintal of red chilli when the most sought after Teja variety of the commodity is commanding an average price of Rs. 17,200 per quintal in the current season. They further charged the traders with adopting dubious tactics by trying to procure the commodity at a low price by citing “low quality.” Several distraught farmers recounted their months of toil in raising the chilli crop, facing the severe pest attack and the vagaries of nature, during the sit-in protest. The market officials intervened and invited some of the aggrieved farmers for talks to resolve their grievances. Even as talks were underway, a group of agitated farmers turned furious and allegedly damaged a few weighing machines on the premises of the market yard, triggering tension. The protest brought the transactions at the market yard to a halt. The local policemade elaborate security arrangements at the entrance of the market yard to prevent untoward incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chilli-ryots-stage-protest-in-warangal/article64946046.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:58 IST,TELANGANA||Cong. extends support to teachers||State Congress chief A. Revanth Reddy assured support to the ongoing agitation by teachers against G.O. 317. A delegation of teacher unions met the TPCC president on Monday explaining how the G.O. would adversely impact the ‘local’ status of many teachers. They informed him that despite repeated appeals and deaths of several teachers, the government has failed to respond and address the issue. The teachers have sought the support of the party for the proposed agitation before Collectorates on January 29 and asked the TPCC president to participate in the dharna at Indira Park on February 5. “We will seek an appointment of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is coming to Hyderabad on February 5, to present a memorandum in this regard. We will also seek an appointment with the President, who is coming here on February 13,” said Mr Revanth Reddy while interacting with union leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-extends-support-to-teachers/article38322256.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:23 IST,||‘Good that Yogi Adityanath didn’t contest from Ayodhya’||The chief priest of the Ram temple here on Monday said it is good that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is not contesting the Assembly polls from the seat as he would have faced a lot of opposition. When asked why he suggested that Mr. Adityanath should not to contest from Ayodhya, Acharya Satyendra Das said he advised this “after asking Ram Lalla (Lord Ram)”. Acharya Das said he suggested that Mr. Adityanath should contest from Gorakhpur as people whose houses and shops were demolished here due to infrastructure projects in the wake of the construction of the temple were opposing him. “It's good that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is not contesting from here. I had suggested it earlier and advised that it will be better that he contest from any seat of Gorakhpur,” said the Acharya, who is the chief priest of the makeshift Ram Lalla temple, which is being replaced by a grand temple. “I speak after asking Ram Lalla. I spoke with Ram Lalla’s inspiration,” he said. The seers here are divided in their opinion and those whose houses and shops were demolished are against him, the 84-year-old priest said. "All are saying that it’s his work. The opposition is there. I said he better go there (Gorakhpur). He would have won from here but could have faced problems,” he added. There was a strong buzz in political circles that Mr. Adityanath would enter the fray from Ayodhya but the BJP leadership decided to field him from the Gorakhpur (Urban) Assembly segment. About the election mood in Ayodhya, the Archrya said it is not yet clear as all parties have not declared their candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/good-that-yogi-adityanath-didnt-contest-from-ayodhya/article64946112.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:23 IST,||Hills hold the key to govt. formation in Manipur||The party that wins most of the 39 Assembly seats in the Imphal Valley usually has the edge in Manipur. The 20 constituencies in the hills around have become equally important since the fractured verdict of 2017. While the valleys are inhabited by the primarily Hindu Meitei and Muslim Pangal communities, the hills are almost equally divided between the largely Christian Naga and Kuki-Chin tribes. The BJP, whose seat count increased from the 21 in the 2017 polls to 30, is expected to benefit from the desertion-hit Congress and the restricted reach of smaller parties, primarily the National People’s Party (NPP) and the Naga People’s Front (NPF). Both NPP and NPF are allies in the BJP-led government of Nongthombam Biren Singh. But they are unlikely to take the friendship to the polls, as has been the practice between the BJP and its smaller allies in the northeast, barring Assam. Although the BJP appears to enjoy an edge, pre-poll surveys have pointed to a 2017-like hung House. In such a scenario, the MLAs – individuals often matter more than political parties – of the hills could be the kingmakers. NPF president Shurhozelie Liezietsu said many in Manipur view his party as Naga and Nagaland-centric. “We are reaching out to other communities for a better performance this time,” he said. The NPF had won four of the 11 seats it had contested in Manipur in 2017. Of the 20 hill seats, nine each are dominated by the Nagas and Kuki-Chins while two – Chandel and Tengnoupal – are touch-and-go. The NPP, led by Meghalaya CM Conrad K. Sangma, is upbeat about winning more than the four seats (one in the hills) it bagged five years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hills-hold-the-key-to-govt-formation-in-manipur/article38322123.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:23 IST,||Mahi canal system being strengthened for irrigation in Rajasthan’s Banswara||The canal system of the Mahi river in southern Rajasthan’s Banswara district is being strengthened for ensuring adequate supply of drinking and irrigation waters in the tribal-dominated areas. A check dam to be built on the Anas river, a large tributary of Mahi, is set to bring more water to the canal system. Water Resources Minister Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya laid the foundation stone for the check dam in Goyka Pargisath village over the weekend, while assuring the rural populace of early completion of the project. Mr. Malviya said the villagers should get full benefit of the upper high level canal project operative in Banswara district. The check dam will facilitate supply of water till the tail-ends of distributaries in the canal system, ensuring the irrigation of all agricultural fields, and also make drinking water available in the region. Mr. Malviya said the works for improvement of canals, cleaning of distributaries and expansion of irrigation facilities would be completed on time. The check dam will ensure water supply to Goyka Pargisath, Kachlan, Khuta, Vageri, Bhoran and other villages in the Kushalgarh Assembly constituency falling in Banswara district. Mr. Malviya said no village having technical feasibility would be left out of the canal system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mahi-canal-system-being-strengthened-for-irrigation-in-rajasthans-banswara/article64946109.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:23 IST,||Nagaland, Assam ready for settlement of border row: Rio||The governments of Nagaland and Assam are ready for an out-of-court settlement of the long-pending inter-State boundary dispute between the two Northeastern neighbours, Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio said here on Monday. Mr. Rio said Nagaland and Assam delegations are likely to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah in February to discuss and formulate how to go about the settlement. The Nagaland Assembly’s select committee to examine the border issue held an hour-and-a-half closed-door meeting, a day after Mr. Rio, his deputy Y. Patton and NPF legislature party leader T.R. Zeilang met Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma in Guwahati on Sunday. “We had fruitful discussions on the border issue with Mr. Sarma. Nagaland and Assam had jointly taken up the matter with Union Home Minister Amit Shah on December 23, 2020. Both the State governments are in favour of an out-of-court settlement, and maybe our teams will meet Mr. Shah in the first part of February to discuss and formulate how to go about it,” Mr. Rio told reporters here. Royalty on petroleum The issue of royalty on petroleum and natural gas along the Assam-Nagaland border was also discussed. “If we resolve the border dispute and the issue of royalty, it will be good for both sides as we are going to remain neighbours,” Mr. Rio said. Asked about the delay in getting the Central Forensic Science Laboratory report on the killing of 14 civilians by security forces in Mon district, Mr. Rio said the Special Investigation Team has completed the probe and is awaiting the forensic report. On whether Nagaland will get a forensic laboratory, Mr. Rio said he will take up the matter with Mr. Shah. On Konyak Union and Eastern Nagaland Peoples’ Organisation giving a call to boycott the Republic Day celebrations in protest against the killings, Mr. Rio said they are asking the government only to hoist the Tricolour in public offices. “They can say whatever they want in a democracy, but the government will also do whatever it deems necessary,” he said. The inter-State boundary dispute erupted after Nagaland State was carved out of Assam in 1963. The two States share a 512.1-km-long border. The Nagaland State Act of 1962 had defined the State’s borders as per a 1925 notification when the Naga Hills and Tuensang Area were integrated into a new administrative unit and made an autonomous area. Nagaland, however, did not accept the boundary delineation. Soon tensions flared up resulting in the first border clashes in 1965, followed by major clashes in 1968, 1979, 1985, 2007 and 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nagaland-assam-ready-for-settlement-of-border-row-rio/article64946105.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:23 IST,||Recognise Netaji as India’s first PM: TMC||Senior TMC leader Kunal Ghosh on Monday said the Centre should recognise Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose as the first Prime Minister of the country as he headed the Provisional Government of Free India formed in October 1943. Mr. Ghosh also urged the West Bengal Education Department to include events related to the proclamation of the Azad Hind government by Netaji in the school curriculum. ‘Declassify files’ “Installing a statue is not a real tribute; that would be to declassify all files related to Netaji, DNA test of the Renkoji ashes and recognising him as the first PM,” the Trinamool Congress State general secretary told PTI. Mr. Ghosh said Netaji was also in charge of the Ministry of War and Foreign Affairs, and the Azad Hind government was recognised by nine countries, which had diplomatic relations with it. “Whether to accept this demand is for the Union government to decide. But, I would like to urge the State Education department that as the first step towards it, the episodes of the proclamation of the independent government, the distribution of responsibilities and its international recognition should be included in detail in the curriculum,” he said. The nation on Sunday paid homage to Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary, with the leaders hailing his ‘monumental’ contribution to India's freedom struggle and Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiling a hologram statue at India Gate. The day was observed as ‘Parakram Diwas’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/recognise-netaji-as-indias-first-pm-tmc/article64946103.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:22 IST,||Photographers launch online platform to generate work||Battered by job losses and salary cuts, photographers in Mumbai have come together to create their own networks and cooperatives to generate work by launching a first-of-its-kind online platform. It will provide the space for freelance photographers to exhibit and market their work to newspapers, digital news services, ad agencies and even NGOs. Led by the Mumbai Press Club, the online platform ‘PicsWire.com’ is a cooperative project which promises to serve as an easily accessible marketplace for those seeking professional photographers for short or long-term assignments. Renowned photographer Raghu Rai on Monday launched the project. “This project is based on no profit no loss principle. A vendor can come to this website, choose the photograph, pay the price and use it for the intended purpose. Out of the payment, 70% will go to the photographer and rest for the maintenance of the site,” said Praving Kajrolkar, senior freelance photographer and club’s committee member who along with senior photographer Kirti Parade will manage the project with the help of a team that includes a few IT professionals. Mr. Kajrolkar said that pandemic witnessed a number of publications shutting down due to which photographers were impacted the most. “While publications pay one time to a freelance photographer for a photo, this platform will allow the photographer to sell his work multiple times to whoever is interested,” he said. While general photo will be available with Rs. 413 including GST, a special fee will be set up for exclusive ones. A legal agreement has been signed with freelance photographers who will be contributing to the site by which they cannot submit the photograph which has been shared already with a news agency or publication house. “Initially, starting with Mumbai-based photographers, the club intend to expand the project to a national footprint in the coming months,” said club’s secretary Rajesh Mascarenhas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/photographers-launch-online-platform-to-generate-work/article38322122.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:22 IST,||CBI to file reply to Indrani’s application||A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Monday accepted an application filed by former media executive Indrani Mukerjea stating that her daughter Sheena Bora is alive and directed the CBI to file a reply. Advocate Sana Raees Khan filed an application on behalf of Ms. Mukerjea, lodged at the Byculla women’s prison since October, 2012, for allegedly killing her daughter Sheena on April 24, 2012. The application mentions a hand-written letter by Ms. Mukerjea to the court stating that on November 25, 2021, around 7 a.m., inside the jail, she was approached by Asha Vishwanath Korke, a Mumbai police inspector who was arrested in a case related to former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and was sent to jail on November 16. ‘Crucial information’ According to the letter, Ms. Korke claimed she had crucial information regarding Sheena which she had suppressed since July 2021. Ms. Korke said she met Sheena on June 24, 2021, when she went to Srinagar on a vacation and when she called her name out, Sheena replied. Sheena then asked Ms. Korke who she was and how did she recognise her. Ms. Korke told her she was an inspector and that Sheena must come forward and say that she is alive as her parents are incarcerated for her murder. To which Sheena told her, ‘I have started a new life, I do not wish to return to my old life anymore.’ Ms. Korke then told Ms. Mukerjea that a man (foreigner} came on a motorcycle and Sheena left with him, the letter said. After two days, Ms. Mukerjea wrote a letter to CBI Director Subodh Jaiswal about her conversation with Ms. Korke. The court has taken the application on record and directed the agency to file a reply on February 4. Sheena, 24, was allegedly strangled in a car and then her body burnt and dumped in a forest in Raigad. Ms. Mukerjea’s ex-husbands, Peter Mukerjea and Sanjeev Khanna, are also accused in the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cbi-to-file-reply-to-indranis-application/article38322334.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:23 IST,||Enforcement of draft fire safety rules sought||A public interest litigation (PIL) was filed in the Bombay High Court on Monday seeking the enforcement of the draft special regulations for fire safety in buildings issued in 2009. The PIL has been filed by advocate Abha Singh stating, “In the wake of bomb blast and other vulnerabilities existing in the various towns of Maharashtra, the government had issued Draft Special Regulations for Building Vulnerable to Manmade Disasters vide Notice dated 27th February, 2009. Notwithstanding that the objections and suggestions in the matter were processed by the Deputy Director Town Planning, yet no final notification has been issued.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/enforcement-of-draft-fire-safety-rules-sought/article38322341.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:12 IST,||For health volunteers, the fight is twofold: virus and its stigma||The Omicron variant of COVID-19 may be relatively milder than its more devastating predecessors but the efforts to tackle its spread have by no means been easier. It’s not just the high transmissibility of the virus that bothers the Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and the civil defence volunteers (CDVs), who are at the front lines of the city’s fight against the virus. The volunteers say they have to face “rudeness and hostility” of patients as well as their family members in most cases.  The work of the ASHAs and CDVs has become more important given their role in forming home isolation teams that help in creating strict micro-containment zones, which is the most effective weapon in the administration’s arsenal against Omicron. “Micro-containment and strict perimeter control are of utmost importance given the transmissibility of the Omicron variant,” a senior government official said. “While more and more containment zones have been chalked out, deployment of teams on the ground has also been increased to ensure stricter perimeter control,” the official said.  Almost 37,000 COVID patients were isolated at home compared to 2,394 admitted at city hospitals till January 22. From just 207 containment zones in the city on December 24, 2021, the number spiralled to 44,464 on January 24, 2022. According to a senior government official, the number of home isolation teams has increased from 813, deployed during the second wave, to 1,282 in the third wave — an increase of around 58%. This shows that the onus on home isolation teams has been far greater in the third wave than in the second wave. One team has at least one ASHA and one CDV each. For 24-year-old Rohit Kadyam, a CDV who is a part of a Delhi government home isolation team, the process is filled with challenges on a daily basis. His job includes tracing COVID-19 patients, providing care and following up on their condition day in and day out for 7 to 10 days after they test positive.  Going door to door in personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, with a stock of medicines, pulse oximeters and other essentials, Mr. Kadyam, who previously worked at a private firm, says “hesitancy by patients in discussing their condition due to social stigmas , and non-cooperation by their families” have been the recurring difficulties that he has faced since joining the team at a dispensary in Chirag Delhi close to 11 months ago.  Challenges galore However, the challenges are not limited to patients isolating at home. Aman Prasad – who serves as the District Nodal Officer for home isolation at a control room in the city’s Raja Garden – said volunteers testing positive for the virus also adds to the caseload and further reduces the team’s strength. Mr. Prasad said the daily duties of the volunteers begin from the control room, where a list of patients along with their details – ICMR ID, testing laboratories – is received in the morning. While 26 teachers are deputed at the control room for tracing contacts of the infected person, a total of 90 CDVs are deployed in the field and on COVID helpline duties, said Mr. Prasad. He added that the cases are further tagged after receiving the list and sent to the dispensary teams for their field duties. There are instances where the patients provide wrong addresses, which are rectified after verification. Responding to these observations, Kriti Garg, District Magistrate, West Delhi, said despite the awareness drives carried out over the past two waves of COVID infections, there was no improvement in terms of the challenges faced by the home isolation teams during the current wave. “I would say that people have not been sensitive towards the duties that these teams carry out every day. Earlier, people would appreciate how the teams reached out to them with the aid. But over time, these teams are being perceived as part of the grind and are often ignored while the social stigma around the infected patients remains,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/for-health-volunteers-the-fight-is-twofold-virus-and-its-stigma/article64946200.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:23 IST,||Share videos of AAP govt.’s good work in Delhi: Kejriwal||With an eye on the upcoming Assembly elections, AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched a campaign, “Ek Mauka Kejriwal Ko” and asked Delhiites to upload videos of the Delhi government’s “good work” on social media. He also promised to have dinner with 50 Delhiites whose videos will become the most viral. New campaign “We are launching a campaign called ‘Ek Mauka Kejriwal Ko’ from today. Under this campaign the people of Delhi will make videos informing people all over India about the ‘Delhi model’ (of development). People can share whatever transformations they have personally noticed in Delhi over the years,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The AAP chief said for instance, if there is a ‘mohalla clinic’ around a person’s residence, then he or she can show in the video the facilities it provides. “People can be living proof of the education revolution of Delhi and show how our Happiness Curriculum or Entrepreneurship Curriculum has helped the children of Delhi. I have just one request, at the end of the video, one must appeal that if people want good work done in their State, they should give the Aam Aadmi Party and Arvind Kejriwal a chance to serve them,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said the AAP could “transform” Delhi because people showed faith in the party and gave them a chance to form the government. The AAP chief said he has worked relentlessly and honestly throughout his life and doesn’t have crores to spend on elections and his most valuable asset is the support of the people of Delhi. “The Aam Aadmi Party is currently contesting elections in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Uttar Pradesh. If you have any contacts in these States, you should share your video on WhatsApp and encourage your acquaintances to vote for the Aam Aadmi Party in their respective States. Tell the people there that if they, like you, give Arvind Kejriwal a chance, their lives would also change for the better,” he said. The AAP chief claimed that the Delhi government has fulfilled “every promise” made to the people of Delhi. ‘Living proof’ He said that Delhiites are living proof of the party’s developmental works and they can tell everyone in poll-bound States that their life too can change if they vote for AAP. “After the elections, I’ll invite 50 such citizens, whose videos go the most viral, to meet and have dinner with us. I eagerly await everyone’s videos,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/share-videos-of-aap-govts-good-work-in-delhi-kejriwal/article64946107.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:12 IST,||‘Anti-CAA stir sites were chosen near mosques’||Opposing former JNU student Umar Khalid’s bail plea in the north-east Delhi riots “larger conspiracy” case, the prosecution on Monday said that all the 25 anti-CAA protest sites were intentionally given “secular names” but were chosen in close proximity to mosques. The argument was made by Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat on Monday during the hearing of a bail application moved by Khalid, through advocate Trideep Pais. Giving examples of protest sites “chosen close to local mosques”, the prosecution submitted: “Shreeram colony protest site was actually Noorani Masjid protest, Sadar Bazar protest site was Shahi Idgaah... Gandhi Park protest site was actually Jamila Masjid.” The prosecution argued that several “hidden elements” were behind such protests, including PFI (Popular Front of India) and Students Islamic Organisation of India (SIO). “They wanted to create ground work for 24x7 sit-in protests... they spread misinformation and instigated the Muslim community to join the protests, including women and children,” SPP Prasad argued. Instigation charge He also submitted that the Jamia Awareness Campaign Team (JACT) was formed to “spread misinformation” and “instigate Muslims against CAA, NRC and induce women and children to join the protests”. SPP Prasad also told the court that there is a public perception that Khalid is an atheist as he studied in JNU “which vouches for being secular”. “...Why did you join a Muslim group? You portray yourself as something else for public knowledge,” SPP Prasad argued while referring to the group “Muslim Students of JNU”. The prosecution will continue its arguments in the next hearing on January 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/anti-caa-stir-sites-were-chosen-near-mosques/article64946207.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:22 IST,||Amarinder’s charge against Sidhu attempt to divert attention: Cong.||After Amarinder Singh claimed on Monday that he had got a message from Pakistan to reinstate Navjot Singh Sidhu in his government in Punjab, the Congress said it was shameful on the former Chief Minister’s part to raise such issues and added it was aimed at diverting attention in the run-up to next month’s Assembly polls. Asked about Captain Singh’s claim, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said, “He (Amarinder Singh) has been our senior leader and has had a long association with us. But the way he is talking, I feel it is shameful. He has occupied a constitutional post and was Chief Minister, it is wrong to speak like this...to grab headlines and remain in the news....” “Today the issues in Punjab are of farmers, of MSP (minimum support price of crops) and of unemployment. By raising such issues, one can only divert attention and that is what he is trying to do,” the Congress leader said. At a press conference at the BJP headquarters here, the former Chief Minister Singh claimed that he had got a message from Pakistan to reinstate Navjot Singh Sidhu in his government because he was an old friend of their Prime Minister. Capt. Singh, who has floated a new party after leaving the Congress and is fighting next month’s Punjab Assembly polls in an alliance with the BJP, said he was told that Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan would be grateful if he could keep Sidhu in the government. ‘Totally incompetent’ “I removed Mr. Sidhu from the job, the man was totally incompetent, incapable and totally useless. In seventy days he didn’t complete a file. I told him I don't want you in my government. Then several weeks later I got a message from somebody we both know, he knows and also I know. I got a message from Pakistan that the Prime Minister (Imran Khan) has sent a request that if you can take Sidhu in your Cabinet, he will be grateful. Sidhu is an old friend of his. And if he doesn't work you can remove him,” Capt. Singh said. Mr. Sidhu was dropped by Capt. Singh from his Cabinet during his tenure as Chief Minister and did not enjoy good ties with the cricketer-turned-politician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amarinders-charge-against-sidhu-attempt-to-divert-attention-cong/article64946116.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:13 IST,||AAP asks Delhiites to showcase govt.’s work||Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched an “Ek Mauka Kejriwal Ko” campaign, asking Delhiites to upload videos of the Delhi government’s “good work” on social media. Aimed at pitching the ‘Delhi model’ of development to voters of States where AAP is contesting Assembly elections, the Chief Minister also promised to have dinner with 50 Delhiites whose videos go most viral. “We are launching a campaign called ‘Ek Mauka Kejriwal Ko’ from today. People can share whatever transformations they have personally noticed in Delhi over the years,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The AAP chief said that for instance, if there is a mohalla clinic near a person’s residence, then she can shoot a video on the facilities it provides. “People can be living proof of the education revolution of Delhi and show how our Happiness Curriculum or Entrepreneurship Curriculum has helped the children of Delhi. I have just one request, at the end of the video, one must appeal that if people want good work done in their State, they should give the Aam Aadmi Party and Arvind Kejriwal a chance to serve them,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said AAP could “transform” Delhi because people showed faith in the party and gave them a chance to form the government. He said the party doesn’t have crores to spend on elections and his most valuable asset is the support of the people of Delhi. “The Aam Aadmi Party is currently contesting elections in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa, and Uttar Pradesh. If you have any contacts in these States, you should share your video on WhatsApp and encourage your acquaintances to vote for the Aam Aadmi Party in their respective States. Tell the people there that if they, like you, give Arvind Kejriwal a chance, their lives would also change for the better,” he said. The AAP chief said that the Delhi government has “fulfilled every promise” made to the people of Delhi. “I eagerly await everyone’s videos.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-asks-delhiites-to-showcase-govts-work/article64946198.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:23 IST,||BJP announces plan to check AAP’s outreach programmes||The BJP will ferry, and host, 100-person-strong jathas, or groups, of farmers, teachers, traders and doctors from Punjab to the Capital to counter the AAP’s digital outreach announced by its national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal here on Monday. Party sources said the “testimonial war” to counter the AAP’s programme in the poll-bound State was planned within hours of two significant announcements on Monday. These were Mr. Kejriwal’s appeal to Delhi’s citizens to circulate testimonials related to the Delhi government’s “good work” and BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda’s announcement regarding the seat sharing arrangement between the BJP and former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress. “The programme will begin on February 2 with the mobilisation of three jathas of farmers, teachers and traders from Punjab. We will only facilitate their interaction with their counterparts in the city from a distance,” said Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly. ‘Assess yourself’ “The farmers will be taken to Delhi villages, teachers will be introduced to guest teachers and traders to city markets so they can assess the promises being made to them and the claims of development in Delhi being touted by Mr. Kejriwal in Punjab,” Mr. Bidhuri, also the convener of the programme, added. According to Mr. Bidhuri, the interest groups — which will be encouraged to make videos of testimonials from their counterparts — will then circulate these on social media. While the programme, which will later see the mobilisation of more interest groups such as senior citizens, pensioners and doctors, will begin from Punjab and possibly be replicated in other poll-bound States. “The farmers of Punjab need to know how others like them in Delhi are paying the highest for power, the teachers how their counterparts have been suffering because they haven’t been given permanent jobs,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “We will bring doctors to see the joke that Delhi’s ‘mohalla clinics’ are and pensioners will be made to meet those who have not received their pensions for the last four years in Delhi,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-announces-plan-to-check-aaps-outreach-programmes/article38322351.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:12 IST,||Build memorial for heroes of 1857, says Rai||Names of India’s freedom fighters such as Mangal Pandey, Bahadur Shah Zafar, Tatya Tope and Rani Lakshmibai are not part of India Gate, AAP Minister Gopal Rai said on Monday. He requested the Central government to build a memorial for such martyrs in front of the Rashtrapati Bhavan. “The Central government has changed the location of the Amar Jawan Jyoti from India Gate to the newly built National War Memorial. There is a debate going on about its pros and cons, but the most important question is hidden,” Mr. Rai said. “India Gate was built by the British in memory of the soldiers who sacrificed their lives for them during the First World War. Names of martyrs of our freedom struggle of 1857 are not part of the India Gate,” said Mr. Rai in a video message from the platform — Desh Ki Baat Foundation — founded by him. “The unfortunate thing is that for 75 years, the Prime Ministers of our country, instead of saluting the martyrs of the freedom struggle, have been offering their salute at the India Gate on Independence Day and Republic Day,” the Minister said. “I hope that you [PM Narendra Modi] will construct a memorial for the martyred freedom fighters in front of Rashtrapati Bhavan and start a new tradition,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/build-memorial-for-heroes-of-1857-says-rai/article64946209.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:12 IST,||BJP MLAs to meet L-G, demand lifting of curbs||A delegation of BJP MLAs will meet Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday to demand lifting of restrictions, including night and weekend curfews, in view of the decreasing COVID-19 cases in the Capital. The meeting comes a day before the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is scheduled to meet to chart the way forward. Other demands Sources said the BJP delegation will also demand action against new liquor vends opening in the city in non-confirming areas, in violation of the provisions of the Master Plan for Delhi - 2041. Mr. Baijal is also the chairperson of the Delhi Development Authority. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “The city’s business class is badly affected due to the implementation of the odd-even rule in the markets. The shops are open only for two to three days in a week due to the weekend curfew.” “This has broken the back of shopkeepers, employees, suppliers and labourers working there,” he said. The restrictions were also affecting weddings organisers, banquet hall owners and catering business operators, said the BJP leader. Mr. Bidhuri, in his letter, wrote that to maintain order in the markets, instead of “focusing on collecting fi-nes”, the government should appoint volunteers so that they implement sanitisation and social distancing norms, in addition to distributing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-mlas-to-meet-l-g-demand-lifting-of-curbs/article38322112.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:23 IST,||‘Marital rape issue can’t be looked at from microscopic angle’||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that the issue of criminalisation of marital rape involves “family issues” as well as the dignity of a woman and cannot be looked at from a “microscopic angle”. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, urged the High Court to allow a “reasonable time” to place the position of the government after consultation with the stakeholders. “Your lordships are not just deciding the statutory or constitutional validity of a provision. It may not be looked at from that microscopic angle…Here, the dignity of a woman is at stake. There are family issues. There would be several considerations which would weigh with the government to take a position to assist your lordship,” the Solicitor General said. He added, “It would not be possible for the Centre to respond immediately, particularly when there is no imminent threat that something is going to happen to someone. I would reiterate my request that we would need a reasonable.” A Bench of Justice Rajiv Shakdher and Justice C. Hari Shankar, hearing a batch of petitions challenging the provision in law that makes an exception for marital rape, said this issue cannot be kept hanging. ‘We’d like to conclude’ “For some people and here, there is a live case (of one of the petitioners), every day matters for a simple reason that some say this abuse is happening, maybe not reported but this is happening. Now it can’t be our answer that listen it has been there for 100 years now, what is the urgency? Now that we’ve started we’d like to conclude,” the High Court said. In India, marital rape is not defined in any statute or law. NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association, a man and a woman seeking striking down of the exception granted to husbands under Indian rape law. The exception says sexual intercourse by a man with his wife aged 15 years or above is not rape even if it is without her consent. In October 2017, the Supreme Court increased it to 18 years.  During the hearing today, senior advocate Rebecca John, who is assisting the High Court as an amicus curiae in the case, said she was getting a lot of hate mails because of her view on the issue. “To all those who asked me to recuse because I’ve an opinion...the challenge is only to be tested on the anvil of constitutionality,” Ms. John said.  To this, the Bench said, “If having a view was a ground for recusal then everyone should recuse from every case. Every intelligent person has a view on everything.” The High Court will continue hearing the case on January 25.  The dignity of a woman is at stake. There are family issues. There would be several considerations Tushar Mehta Solicitor General||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/marital-rape-issue-cant-be-looked-at-from-microscopic-angle/article38322346.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:13 IST,||BJP to host Punjab groups to counter AAP claims||The BJP will ferry and host 100-person-strong jathas (groups) of farmers, teachers, traders and doctors from Punjab in the Capital to counter AAP’s digital outreach announced by its national convenor and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal here on Monday. ‘Testimonial war’ Party sources said the “testimonial war” to counter the AAP’s programme in the poll-bound State was planned within hours of Mr. Kejriwal’s appeal to Delhi’s citizens and BJP announcing its seat-sharing arrangement with former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s newly formed Punjab Lok Congress. “The programme will begin on February 2 with the mobilisation of three jathas of farmers, teachers and traders from Punjab. We will facilitate their interaction with their counterparts in the city so they can assess the promises being made to them and the claims of development in Delhi being touted by Mr. Kejriwal in Punjab,” said Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly. ‘May be replicated’ Mr. Bidhuri said the programme will begin from Punjab and possibly be replicated in other poll-bound States in the run-up to the elections there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-to-host-punjab-groups-to-counter-aap-claims/article38322124.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:12 IST,||EDMC launches digital library for students||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Monday launched a digital library initiative with an aim to provide an online learning platform to students. This is the first-of-its-kind initiative by the civic body. A senior official said the digital library will offer worksheets, audio and video learning material from the previous and current academic years to students and teachers across 354 EDMC schools. The official said frequent restrictions in holding physical classes due to the COVID-19 pandemic had affected the learning of students. “The digital library makes learning material readily available from anywhere,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/edmc-launches-digital-library-for-students/article38322114.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:12 IST,||COVID cases, positivity rate fall in Capital||The downward trend in COVID-19 cases continued in the city on Monday with the test positivity rate falling to 11.79% from 13.32% on Sunday, according to a Delhi government bulletin. The number of new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours fell to 5,760 from 9,197 a day earlier due to a dip in the number of tests. A total of 48,844 tests were conducted over 24 hours compared with 69,022 tests on Sunday. Thirty new deaths were reported, taking the total deaths to 25,650, as per the bulletin. Of the total 15,411 hospital beds for COVID-19, 84.47% were vacant on Monday. On January 13, 28,867 fresh cases were reported in the city, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-cases-positivity-rate-fall-in-capital/article38322116.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:22 IST,||Sharjeel’s bail petition dismissed||A Delhi court on Monday dismissed the bail plea of former JNU student Sharjeel Imam in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches given by him at Aligarh Muslim University and in the Jamia area during the anti-CAA agitation in 2019 and 2020. The order was passed by Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat on a bail plea filed by Imam, through Advocate Tanveer Ahmed Mir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sharjeels-bail-petition-dismissed/article38322333.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:12 IST,||Court denies bail to Sharjeel, frames charges||A Delhi court on Monday dismissed the bail plea of former JNU student Sharjeel Imam in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches given by him at Aligarh Muslim University and in the Jamia area during the anti-CAA agitation in 2019 and 2020. The order was passed by Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat on a plea filed by Imam, through Advocate Tanveer Ahmed Mir. ASJ Rawat also framed charges against Imam in the matter under IPC sections pertaining to sedition, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, etc., imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration, statements conducing to public mischief, apart from section 13 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The FIR in the case was lodged in 2020 while the section under UAPA was added later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-denies-bail-to-sharjeel-frames-charges/article38322109.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:23 IST,||DD braces for Republic Day telecast||The public broadcaster Doordarshan is bracing itself for the Republic Day parade ramping up its technical abilities. Fifty-nine cameras and over 160 personnel will telecast the parade live this time. This is the highest number of cameras and personnel deployed for the coverage till date. “We began our preparations as early as November 2021 to ensure 360 degree coverage of all aspects of every event on the Republic Day,” Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati said. To give people a bird’s eye view of the celebration, two 360 degree cameras have been installed, one at Rajpath and the other on the top of India Gate. Visuals from both cameras will be continuously live-streamed through two separate streams on DD National YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dd-braces-for-republic-day-telecast/article38322354.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:12 IST,||2019 crypto theft traced to Hamas wallets||Delhi Police Cyber Cell has busted a gang which stole cryptocurrency from a businessman here and transferred the amount to the wallets of Al-Qassam Brigades, the military wing of Palestinian organisation Hamas, it said. DCP (Special Cell Cyber Cell) K.P.S. Malhotra said that in 2019, the businessman filed a complaint alleging that his bitcoins, worth Rs. 30 lakh at that time and estimated to be worth Rs. 4 crore currently, had been fraudulently transferred to unknown accounts. Mr. Malhotra said the cryptocurrencies were routed through various wallets and landed in the wallets of the suspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2019-crypto-theft-traced-to-hamas-wallets/article38322113.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:12 IST,||Man stabs, robs woman for ‘fun’||A 60-year-old woman was attacked and robbed by a man known to her husband when she was alone at her Sarai Rohilla residence on Saturday evening. The accused, Ranvir, entered her house wearing a mask. He allegedly told the police that he used to work with the husband of the woman, Sushma, 10 years ago. “On Saturday, when he was crossing the area, he decided to rob her just for fun,” the officer said, adding that Ranvir is named in at least 10 other cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-stabs-robs-woman-for-fun/article38322115.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:12 IST,||SDMC identifies land for car parking facility||South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) Mayor Mukesh Suryan on Monday said the civic body has identified spaces at Janakpuri and Club Road, Punjabi Bagh, to construct fully automated multilevel parking lots. “The land in B-1, Janakpuri, belongs to SDMC and has surface-level parking which cannot accommodate many cars. This will be converted into a puzzle parking, and we are working at the cost estimates. The land for the project at Club Road, Punjabi Bagh, has been allotted by the Delhi Development Authority and spans over 2,500 square metres,” said Mr. Suryan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-identifies-land-for-car-parking-facility/article38322118.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:23 IST,||Hazare alleges Rs. 25,000 cr. scam in sale of sugar mills||Social activist Anna Hazare has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, demanding a probe by a retired Supreme Court judge into the alleged Rs. 25,000 crore “scam” in the selling of cooperative sugar mills in Maharashtra and their purchase at “throwaway prices”. In his letter to Mr. Shah, Mr. Hazare requested that a high-power committee be set up under a retired judge of the Supreme Court to probe the alleged scam. “We have been agitating against the sale of sugar mills in connivance with politicians at negligible value since 2009 and against irregularities in cooperative financial institutions. In 2017, we had filed a complaint in Mumbai, and one DIG-rank officer was appointed to investigate the complaint," Mr. Hazare wrote. Closure report He added that after two years, a closure report was submitted saying no irregularities were detected. “If the Maharashtra government is not ready to act against a scam worth Rs. 25,000 crore, then who will take the action?” the veteran anti-corruption activist questioned. “We are of the view that it would be a good example if the Centre probes the sale of sugar mills in Maharashtra by setting up a high-level committee,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hazare-alleges-rs-25000-cr-scam-in-sale-of-sugar-mills/article38322340.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:23 IST,||Himachal Cong. leader pushes for law on transparency for lawmakers||Ahead of the Assembly elections in Himachal Pradesh, due in the later half of this year, senior Congress leader and former president of the State unit, Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, is batting to bring in a new legislation to ensure transparency in public life of all legislators.  Mr. Sukhu, MLA from Nadaun in Hamirpur district, told The Hindu that elected representatives, be it the Chief Minister, Ministers or the MLAs, should compulsorily be asked to provide details of their income and more importantly the source of that income and place it in the public domain. Pointing out that corruption among other issues is going to be a key issue in the upcoming Assembly elections, he said it is important that all legislators come forward and support this law. Excerpts: How serious is corruption as an electoral issue in Himachal Pradesh ahead of Assembly polls? I believe that leaders who are in public life should have a clean image. And for this, it’s important that there should be complete transparency in their conduct. I would be seeking permission from the Speaker to present a private member Bill in the upcoming Budget session. This law envisages that any elected representative, be it the Chief Minister, Ministers, or the MLAs, they should compulsorily be asked to provide details of their income and more importantly the source of that income and place it in the public domain. This will help in bringing transparency. Corruption will be a key issue in the upcoming polls. As the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) is in power in Himachal Pradesh, therefore, the responsibility of their MLAs to show the intent towards curbing corruption will be tested on this Bill. Is the Congress party in Himachal Pradesh ready to take on the ruling BJP government in polls? What about factionalism? After the death of former Chief Minister and senior Congress leader Virbhadra Singh, naturally, group politics was there. But during the recent by-elections to one parliamentary seat and three Assembly seats, the “high command” and I were able to unite the party and all apprehensions about infighting have been laid to rest. There’s no groupism in the party now. We are all set to take on the BJP and I am sure the Congress will win the 2022 elections. After Congress’s win in recent bypolls, how does the party plan to keep up the momentum going till the elections? We are ensuring that the party does not lose its winning momentum and for this strengthening party cadre at the grassroots is what we are focusing on. Corruption is going to be a key issue as we will corner the BJP on it in their regime. Keeping this in mind we are ensuring that we promote young leaders in every Assembly segment, whose integrity is unquestionable and who are not facing any charges of corruption. We will encourage people with clean image to be at the forefront. How do you assess the work of the ruling BJP in the State and at the Centre? The BJP government does not have any administrative hold in the State. It’s the bureaucracy that is ruling the State. The Chief Minister is a “dummy CM” because the State is being controlled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who indirectly runs the State government. The BJP leaders don’t access the ground situation in the State and take decisions. And this is the reason the State is witnessing sharp price rise, corruption and unemployment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/himachal-cong-leader-pushes-for-law-on-transparency-for-lawmakers/article64946115.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:23 IST,||Idyllic setting||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/idyllic-setting/article64946111.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:47 IST,||Amid Ukraine crisis, NATO sends planes, ships to eastern Europe||NATO allies have put forces on standby and sent ships and fighter jets to bolster Europe’s eastern defences as tensions soar over Russia’s military buildup around Ukraine, the alliance said Monday. Tensions have soared over Russia’s deployment of some 1,00,000 troops and heavy armour at its neighbour’s borders, despite the Kremlin’s insistence it is not planning a new incursion. The U.S., Britain and Australia ordered diplomats’ families to leave Kiev, while France told its citizens to avoid non-essential travel to Ukraine. But both Kiev and the European Union’s foreign policy chief said any withdrawal of diplomatic personnel appeared premature, amid doubts over how imminent any attack could be. Top U.S. diplomat Antony Blinken was to dial in to a meeting of EU counterparts in Brussels to brief them on his meeting Friday with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, where the two sides failed to make a breakthrough but agreed to keep talking. The U.S. is trying to marshal its allies to prepare an unprecedented package of sanctions for Moscow if its sends in more of its forces. The U.S.-led NATO alliance said its members were placing troops “on standby” and sending ships and jets to bolster eastern Europe’s defences in response to the Russian buildup, pointing to recent decisions by Denmark, Spain and the Netherlands to mobilise forces. ’Will defend allies’ “NATO will continue to take all necessary measures to protect and defend all allies,” NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said. The Kremlin accused the alliance of ramping up tensions through “information hysteria” and “concrete actions”, adding that the risk of an offensive by Ukrainian troops against pro-Russia separatists was “very high.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-ukraine-crisis-nato-sends-planes-ships-to-eastern-europe/article64946243.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:47 IST,||Caste row in U.S. university’s faculty union||A group of faculty in the California State University (CSU) system has written to the Board of Trustees asking that caste not be added as a ‘protected category ‘to the system’s collective bargaining agreement (CBA), on the grounds that it would apply to Indian origin faculty alone and single them out for targeted scrutiny. A protected category in the U.S. refers to a category that has specific protections against discrimination. The proposed changes to the agreement with the union follow from a change across the system’s 23 campuses announced on January 20, in which caste was specifically made part of the institutions’ anti-discrimination policy.  The faculty letter, a copy of which was released by the Hindu American Foundation (HAF), was, according to the writers, written by over 80 CSU faculty (the list of names was withheld, so the number has not been verified by The Hindu ). The letter requests that the CBA only be approved after caste, as a category, is taken out. Meetings to ratify the agreement between the CSU and the union (the California Faculty Association or CFA), are scheduled for Monday and Tuesday.  Lack of understanding The letter’s signatories say union leaders, whom they met on January 14, “had no understanding” of the issue and were unable to answer “basic questions” such as, how many Indian and South Asian faculty were consulted before the change, whether existing policy — which already covers national origin, ethnicity, and ancestry — failed to provide protection, and how caste would be defined and adjudicated. Thenmozhi Soundararajan, executive director of Dalit rights organisation Equality Labs, says caste is already covered by other categories but explicitly including it as a category will spur institutions to action, including collecting data.  “The reason why caste oppressed people are asking for the category to be made explicit, is that when institutions make it explicit, they’re extending the existing rights more clearly, for caste oppressed people,” she told The Hindu on Monday over the phone. “Because once it’s listed, institutions then will build competency around it.”  The faculty letter alleges that Equality Labs is an “anti-Hindu activist organization” and that a member of the group was called in as a witness to the January 14 Union meeting. The CSU faculty letter also points to a 2021 survey report by the Carnegie Endowment and others, which says an Equality Labs 2018 study on caste used a non-representative sample as it dropped respondents who did not provide their caste, thus potentially skewing responses towards those who have strong views on the subject . The Carnegie report’s data suggest that 5% of respondents (Indian Americans) encountered caste discrimination. Equality Labs research says that 1 in 4 Dalits experience physical or verbal assault and 1 in 3 experience discrimination in universities, and that this data is borne out by student experiences at Cal State (CSU). With the change already enacted earlier in January, the University will now collect data and measure discriminatory harms. Organisations working in the rights space are helping to inform Americans about caste-based discrimination(an unfamiliar concept to many) and to include caste as a protected category in institutions. In December, Harvard University ratified a contract with its Graduate Student Union that included caste as a protected category. ‘Due diligence’ The signatories of the letter to the CSU Board urge the body to engage in “due diligence” about the role of caste in the university system and say that it will find that “…rather than redressing discrimination, [including caste as a protected category] will actually cause discrimination by unconstitutionally singling out and targeting Hindu faculty of Indian and South Asian descent as members of a suspect class because of deeply entrenched, false stereotypes about Indians, Hindus, and caste.” “Anyone that looks at this letter sees it for what it is, which is dominant caste fragility. And fear mongering and misinformation and gaslighting,” Ms. Soundararajan said, explaining that adding caste as a protected category doesn’t discriminate against any other category. Lawyers for HAF have also sent the CSU Board of Trustees, Chancellor and the CFA President letters on the issue. However, the California Trade Justice Coalition, an alliance of unions and rights organisations, is also sending a letter to CSU and CFA leadership, commending the addition of caste as a protected category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/caste-row-in-us-universitys-faculty-union/article38321720.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:47 IST,||Burkina Faso President held by mutinous soldiers: reports||Mutinous troops in restive Burkina Faso arrested President Roch Marc Christian Kabore on Monday and detained him in army barracks a day after staging an uprising, security sources said. Soldiers at several army bases across the country rebelled on Sunday, demanding the sacking of the military top brass and more resources to fight a bloody jihadist insurgency. Later in the day gunshots were heard near Mr. Kabore’s private residence in the capital Ouagadougou, and witnesses reported seeing a helicopter above it. “President Kabore, the head of Parliament and the Ministers are effectively in the hands of the soldiers” at the Sangoule Lamizana barracks in the capital Ouagadougou, a security source said, with another source confirming the arrest. The situation was tense and confused in the capital, where mobile Internet had been cut on Sunday, making it difficult to verify rumours of a coup in progress. An AFP journalist said around 10 hooded troops had posted themselves in front of the national broadcaster RTB on Monday, but it was not immediately clear if they were from the mutineers or had been sent in by the government. Mr. Kabore, first elected in 2015 before winning re-election five years later on campaign vows he would prioritise the fight against the jihadist insurgency, has faced rising public anger about the failure to stop the bloodshed. A group of protesters supporting the soldiers set up makeshift roadblocks on several main streets in the capital before being dispersed by police. There have been several coups or attempted coups in Burkina Faso.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/burkina-faso-president-held-by-mutinous-soldiers-reports/article64946247.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:47 IST,||China sends 52 aircraft towards Taiwan zone||China’s Air Force sent 52 aircraft towards Taiwan on Sunday and Monday in its latest show of force aimed at the island, prompting jets to be scrambled in response. Taiwan’s Defence Ministry said 39 PLA aircraft had entered Taiwan’s air defence identification zone (ADIZ) on Sunday, while 13 more aircraft did so on Monday. The first group included 34 J-16 fighters jets, four electronic warfare planes and one H-6 bomber, while on Monday there were 10 J-16s, two H-6 bombers and one Y-8 anti-submarine aircraft. The Ministry said Taiwan had scrambled jets and issued radio warnings in response. China has in the past sent aircraft into Taiwan’s ADIZ — but short of entering Taiwan’s airspace — as a show of force or signalling often coinciding with political developments or military exercises. October last year saw an unprecedented rise in aerial incursions into the ADIZ, and after a record 56 aircraft flew into the ADIZ on a single day last year, Taiwan’s Defence Minister was prompted to describe the cross-strait situation as the most strained he had seen in 40 years. U.S.-Japan drills Reports in the Chinese media suggested the latest aerial intrusions into the ADIZ may have been timed to coincide with recently concluded U.S.-Japan drills. Last year, the intrusions coincided with China’s National Day on October 1 and ahead of the “double ten” National Day celebrated in Taiwan on October 10. China sees Taiwan as its province, although both have been ruled separately since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949. Ties have plummeted and Beijing has stepped up pressure, including by weaning away the few remaining countries that maintain formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan, after the election of the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) and Tsai Ing-wen in 2016. Ms. Tsai was re-elected as President for a second term after a landslide win in 2020. Beijing has accused the DPP of pursuing “independence”, while Ms. Tsai has said Taiwan only wishes to maintain the current status quo and would “prevent the status quo of being unilaterally altered” by Beijing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-sends-52-aircraft-towards-taiwan-zone/article64946245.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:47 IST,||Taliban hail Oslo meet as ‘success’||On their first visit to Europe since returning to power, the Taliban held landmark talks with Western diplomats in Oslo on Monday over the humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, a meeting the Islamist regime’s delegation called an “achievement in itself”. The international community has however insisted the Taliban must respect human rights before aid can be resumed to Afghanistan, where hunger threatens more than half population. Having accepted a controversial invitation from Norway, the Taliban were holding talks on Monday with representatives of the U.S., France, Britain, Germany, Italy, the European Union and Norway. The closed-door discussions were taking place at the Soria Moria Hotel, on a snowy hilltop outside Oslo, with the Taliban delegation led by Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi, who hailed the fact that the meeting took place as a success in its own right. “Norway providing us this opportunity is an achievement in itself because we shared the stage with the world,” Mr. Muttaqi told reporters on Monday. “From these meetings we are sure of getting support for Afghanistan’s humanitarian, health and education sectors,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-hail-oslo-meet-as-success/article38321724.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:47 IST,||Pakistan gets its first woman SC judge||Justice Ayesha Malik on Monday took oath as the first woman judge of Pakistan Supreme Court, a landmark occasion in a nation where activists say the law is often wielded against women. Justice Malik attended a ceremony in the capital Islamabad where she now sits on the bench alongside 16 male colleagues at Pakistan’s highest court. “I want to congratulate Justice Ayesha Malik on becoming the first woman judge of the Supreme Court,” Prime Minister Imran Khan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-swears-in-first-woman-sc-judge/article38321723.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:47 IST,||Assange can appeal against U.S. extradition||WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange on Monday won the first stage of his effort to overturn a U.K. ruling that opened the door for his extradition to U.S. to stand trial on espionage charges. The High Court in London gave Mr. Assange permission to appeal the case to the U.K. Supreme Court. But the Supreme Court must agree to accept the case before it can move forward. “Make no mistake, we won today in court,” Mr. Assange’s fiancee, Stella Moris, said outside the courthouse. “We will fight this until Julian is free,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/assange-can-appeal-against-us-extradition/article38321717.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:34 IST,||The devastating impact of school closure||About three weeks ago, we all wished each other a happy 2022. However, that has remained wishful thinking with the Omicron variant of COVID-19 upending our lives. More than Omicron itself, which is more transmissible than Delta but far milder, the response to the variant in terms of the restrictions that have been imposed on us has once again affected our daily lives. Much has been written about the disproportionate response to Omicron. It stands to reason that if restrictions like night curfews and border checks did not restrict an earlier variant, they will not restrict a more transmissible one. Abandoning reason But we as a society abandoned reason long ago, when we decided to close schools for about 20 months. The unreasonable response to Omicron has had an impact especially on children. Schools have become an easy target for politicians: closing them gives them the benefit of being seen as “doing something”, even as being caring and sensitive, to “contain COVID-19”. But this is an emotional reaction and not rooted in reason and fact. Even before the second COVID-19 wave, experts across the board advised that schools should be the last to close and first to open. Ignoring all this advice has brought us the ignoble distinction of being among the countries with the longest school closures during the pandemic. Despite the Omicron surge, most other countries have kept schools open, prioritising the well-being of children. The primary (emotional) “reason” being provided for school closure is to “protect children”. Let us pause for a moment and examine this reason with an analogy. Suppose the government told us that children should no longer travel in cars and on motorbikes, as these are dangerous, what would our reaction be? Surely, we would consider it absurd. Now, data show that the risk of COVID-19 for those under 25 years is much lower than the risk from traffic accidents. So, school closures to “protect children” is as absurd as banning children from travelling in cars. Are schools super-spreaders? We are told that children could carry the virus from school to elders at home. The scientific evidence for schools as COVID-19 hotspots is very weak. Indeed, studies have shown the opposite. For instance, a study in Spain looked at data from over 1 million children of all ages in schools, and found that the R-value (rate of virus spread) is well less than one for all schoolchildren. Furthermore, the R-value is lower for lower ages, as low as 0.2 for pre-primary children. So, the practice of shutting Anganwadis and primary schools, which many States have done, is unscientific. Sweden never closed its schools for children under 16, and there was no extra risk for teachers compared to other professions. But at this point, one does not need careful studies, but only plain common sense. How can schools be super-spreaders when every other place in India is crowded: banks, markets, buses, trains, airports, and even malls and theatres? Consequences Does online education constitute education? Early on in the pandemic, whether children would be affected by COVID-19 may have been an unknown. But it was always known that online education would be a poor replacement for physical classes, and that children, especially in primary and pre-primary classes, can learn as well as socially and emotionally develop only through human interactions with teachers and peers. Yet, by shutting schools, we have experimented with their lives. The results of this experiment are devastating. A detailed survey report from September 2021 shows the extent of the impact. The reading and writing levels of children have declined, with nearly half of them unable to read more than a few words. More than a third of the them were not studying at all. Even going along with the baseless and implicit assurance that learning issues can somehow be made up at some unspecified future date, mental health issues are deeply concerning. Despite a shorter school closure than India, the U.K. has reported alarming increases in mental health issues among kids. Likewise, the American Academy of Pediatrics called the mental health crisis among children a national emergency. In India, aside from mental health issues, there have been other severe consequences of school closure. Malnutrition is a serious problem; by neglecting mid-day meals, we have worsened it. Decades of progress against the severe malice of child labour has been reversed due to extended school closure. As per the 2011 Census, we had an estimated 10.1 million children in child labour. If we had daily updates on malnutrition or child labour cases, we would probably have paid attention to the plight of India’s children and not closed schools this long. The vaccination argument Yet another myth in the context of schools is that they are safe only after children are vaccinated against COVID-19. This too defies logic as schools were open in several other countries even before adults were vaccinated. Some medical professionals have argued that COVID-19 vaccines are necessary for children as otherwise children may carry the infection from school back home to adults. Aside from the obvious ethical question of jabbing children for the benefit of adults, such a stance is also quite unscientific, as it is known now that the current COVID-19 vaccines (even boosters) do not prevent infection or transmission. While no one can argue against a vaccine that is shown to be safe and effective after rigorous trials for children, there is no case for linking schools and education to a vaccine still under clinical trial. There can be no question of emergency authorisation of vaccines for children as there has been no COVID-19 emergency for children. This was indeed the position of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation. The government nod for vaccinating children in the 15-18 age group defies explanation. Education is a constitutional right. By closing schools for this long and providing a poor substitute with online education, we have violated children’s right. Everyone must now speak up for children. A group of us has started an initiative, ‘Happy 2022, Happy for Kids Too’, which has been endorsed by various epidemiologists, doctors and educationists. We hope that 2022 and the years from now are normal for children in all respects, including a good school life and happy childhood. Children have needlessly suffered for too long, not from COVID-19 which has thankfully spared them, but from irrational and disproportional restrictions and school closures. We urge all concerned citizens to join the Chain-for-Children’s-Cheer at happy22kids.org to make this wish come true. Bhaskaran Raman is a Professor at IIT Bombay. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-devastating-impact-of-school-closure/article64946250.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:31 IST,||Dealing with the macroeconomic uncertainties||Macroeconomic uncertainties are mounting. Against the backdrop of possible interest rate hikes by the U.S. Federal Reserve and the taper tantrum, there is pressure on the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to increase its interest rates to prevent capital outflows. The monetary policy corridor is still “accommodative” to support the growth recovery. Globally, central banks have started increasing the interest rates. However, we need to wait for the Monetary Policy Committee meeting in February 2022 to understand the RBI’s decisions regarding policy rates. Inflationary pressures Inflationary pressures are also high. In India, the wholesale price index (WPI) inflation rose to a record high of 14.32% in November 2021 as per the data released by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The WPI decreased slightly to 13.56% in December 2021. The consumer price index (CPI) inflation now is 5.03%, though that is still within the comfort zone of the inflation targeting framework envisaged in India’s new monetary framework. The official nominal inflation anchor in India is 4%, with a band of variations of +/- 2. It has been argued that the inflation we are currently experiencing is transitory in nature due to supply chain disruptions and volatile energy and food prices. Absorbing the excess liquidity that was injected to stimulate growth as part of the pandemic response is crucial to reversing trends in non performing assets (NPAs). The RBI Financial Stability Report, published on December 29, 2021, revealed a possible worsening of the gross non performing asset (GNPA) ratio of scheduled commercial banks — from 6.9% in September 2021 to 9.5% by September 2022 — under a “severe stress scenario” estimates. The RBI has not yet formally announced any “normalization” procedure, though absorption of excess liquidity was attempted by increasing the cut-off yield rate of variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) to 3.99%, and curtailing the government securities acquisition programme. Interest rates structure The structure of interest rates is also a matter of concern. The call money market rates are below the repo rate. The bond yields are increasing ahead of the Union Budget 2022-23. The cut off yield rate of 10-year benchmark bond is as high as 6.63%. The rise in bond yields will result in higher borrowing costs for the Government. Given these macroeconomic uncertainties, maintaining an accommodative fiscal policy stance in the upcoming Union Budget for FY23 is crucial for a sustainable recovery. The fiscal deficit as a percentage of GDP rose to 9.5% in 2021–22 (revised estimates). The RBI estimates suggest that revenue deficit pre-empted about 70% of the gross fiscal deficit during the period 2018-19 to 2019-20, and increased further to 79% in 2020-21 (revised estimates) and 76% in 2021-22 (Budget estimates). Any attempt at fiscal consolidation at this juncture employing capital expenditure compression rather than a tax buoyancy path can adversely affect economic growth. Public investment — infrastructure investment in particular — is a major growth driver through “crowding-in” of private corporate investment.  Omicron is a reminder that the COVID-19 pandemic is still not over. Public spending on health by the Union government is still below 1% of GDP, though the estimate has increased from 0.2% of GDP in 2020–21 (revised estimates) to 0.4% of GDP in 2021-22 (Budget estimates). Strengthening investments in the health-care sector is crucial at this juncture as a prolonged lockdown can accentuate the current humanitarian crisis and deepen economic disruptions.  Bringing down the fiscal deficit now can be detrimental to economic growth recovery. The plausible “fiscal risks” arising from the mounting public debt and deficits need to be tackled with a medium-term road map of fiscal consolidation, as instantaneous deficit reduction can affect the sustainable growth recovery process. When credit-linked economic stimulus has an uneven impact on growth recovery, the significance of fiscal dominance cannot be undermined. We argue that the upcoming Union Budget for 2022-23 should maintain an accommodative fiscal stance in order to support the sustainability of the economic growth process and also for financing human development, which is crucial in the time of a pandemic. Address unemployment Rising unemployment needs to be addressed through an urgent policy response that strengthens job guarantee programmes. The welfare models of the Government in providing food security to poor households and designing gender budgeting in energy infrastructure are also welcome. However, we need to go further to strengthen social sector policies in the time of a pandemic. To deal with these issues and more, maintaining an accommodative fiscal policy stance in the upcoming Union Budget for 2022-23 is crucial. The advance GDP estimates released by the National Statistical Office on January 7, 2022, revealed that India’s GDP growth rate will be 9.2% in FY22. In FY21 it was 7.3%. However, this growth estimate is lower than that published by the RBI in December 2021, which was 9.5%. The growth in nominal GDP is estimated to be 17.6%. These GDP estimates published ahead of the announcement of the Union Budget 2022-23 are significant as they will be used for projections — including those for the fiscal deficit — in the upcoming Budget. How India emerges from the pandemic to meet these estimates will depend largely on an accommodative fiscal policy stance when monetary policy has limitations in triggering the growth recovery. Lekha Chakraborty is a professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP). Harikrishnan S. is an independent analyst. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dealing-with-the-macroeconomic-uncertainties/article64946183.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:34 IST,||India needs a national vision||“All the world knows, gentlemen, that we are building a new navy... Well, when we get our navy, what are we going to do with it,” asked Alfred T. Mahan, the great Naval strategist, in 1892 at the U.S. Naval War College. This is a question we can ask in India where piecemeal announcements are made in various sectors without a stated national vision. There is no overarching official document to guide policy and decision-making. Lessons from China What do other nations do? In 2015, China released a ‘Made in China 2025’ document that envisaged a 10-year plan for development of 10 key high-tech industries, the larger aim being to reduce dependence on foreign technology. The target is to be 70% self-sufficient by 2025 and to achieve a dominant position globally by 2049, the centenary of the People’s Republic of China. China’s 2019 defence white paper stated that by 2035, the armed forces would complete the “modernisation of national defence and the military” and by 2049, “fully transform the peoples armed forces into world-class forces.” The fifth plenum of the Chinese Communist Party re-emphasised China’s goal of becoming a modern socialist society by 2049. Western nations, too, periodically release vision documents — defence reviews, security strategies et al. Shell-shocked by the advances made by the USSR in space exploration in the 1950s and early 1960s, U.S. President John F. Kennedy enunciated in May 1961 the American vision to put a man on the moon by the end of the decade. Scientists were given a 10-year time frame, were supported financially and they met the national goal. In August 2018, India announced its aim of sending astronauts into space by 2022. Where are we? India carried out only two space launches in 2021 (of which one failed) while China set a world record of 47. India must learn from China. While unleashing his path-breaking economic reforms in the 1980s, Deng Xiaoping asked his countrymen to “hide your capability and bide your time.” With single-minded conviction and a national vision of regaining China’s lost glory, all policies and actions were focused towards first augmenting national power by accretion in economic capability. This central direction, and monitoring, is visible even now as Beijing goes about its Made in China 2025 plan, a long-term space exploration programme, and a military technology enhancement vision. India seems to announce a programme first and then go overboard with it. And even as the Aatmanirbhar campaign hogs the headlines, it would only be nationalistic to ask whether everything needs to be 100% Indian. Is it even possible in this era of niche technologies being protected by nations, which makes international cooperation the way out? For sure, a number of projects are indeed being developed indigenously. For instance, advancements in the UAV and drone industry, in the private sector, are truly riveting; and radars and missiles are achievements of the Defence Research and Development Organisation. But while there are success stories, it is dangerous for the environment to be pushed into a make-believe world of faux grandeur and equally hazardous that a feeling of being powerful allowed to creep in. Being powerful is having the ability to create and sustain an outcome. This requires depth in a nation’s capacity to not only be self-sufficient in focal spheres necessary for daily subsistence but to buttress steps undertaken to project national power to safeguard national interests. We announced that India was the world’s vaccine capital, but when it came to delivery, New Delhi reneged on its promise to supply COVID-19 vaccines; our ‘power’ became suspect in the eyes of our friends. Three-step process  If we continue in an unplanned manner, we are doomed to doing jugaad . The very fact that every emergency, without exception (Kargil, Mumbai 26/11, Doklam, Uri, Pulwama), has resulted in the despatch of high-powered teams to make emergency purchases of arms and ammunition shows that the lack of a national vision is costing us dearly; no wonder we get fleeced in such transactions. So, the need of the hour is to formulate an all-encompassing document to enable coherence in multi-sectoral and multi-ministerial policymaking and execution. Clarity will emerge only when the national vision document is drafted and put through a three-step process. First, adequate time should be given to experts to draft it. Second, the ‘vision’ should be put through an economic and technological analysis grinder to ensure that it is a realistic national dream. Third, the plan should be implemented by a body of experts that has the confidence of the leadership on both sides of the political aisle; a lack of political continuum would be a non-starter for achieving the grand national vision.  Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur is former Addl DG, Centre for Air Power Studies; views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-needs-a-national-vision/article64946248.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:30 IST,||In conjunction||The evolution of a democratic society is centred around the expansion of rights — civil, political, economic and cultural, leading to the empowerment of people. Democratic nations respect individual and group rights for moral and instrumental reasons. Duties, both legal and moral, are cherished in order to reinforce those rights. The obligations of the individual to the collective must be understood in that context; rights and duties complement each other, just as responsibility comes with freedom. Prime Minister Narendra Modi sought to suggest a dichotomy between the rights and duties of citizens when he said last week that the country had wasted a lot of time “fighting for rights” and “neglecting one’s duties”. His speech was not the first time that he or other Hindutva protagonists have called for a foregrounding of duties over rights. Service and the sacrifices of nameless and faceless nation-builders have formed the bedrock of the modern Indian Republic, but their sacrifices were indeed for rights, dignity and autonomy. Any notion of rights and duties being adversarial or hierarchical is sophistic. The Indian Constitution enshrines equality and freedom as fundamental rights, along with the right against exploitation, freedom of religion, cultural and educational rights, and the right to constitutional remedies. The deepening of Indian democracy has led to an expansion of rights — education, information, privacy, etc. are now legally guaranteed rights. The state’s fidelity to these rights is tenuous at best. Citizens are generally duty-bound to protect the integrity and the sovereignty of the country, and this is true for India though there is no conscription. Other constitutional duties expected include a duty to promote harmony and brotherhood, and to develop scientific temper, humanism and a spirit of inquiry. Any shift in state policy emphasis from rights to duties will be absurd and a disservice to many for whom the realisation of even fundamental rights is still a work in progress. An enlightened citizenry is critical to progress and good governance. But duty is not something that the citizens owe to the state. The obligation of individual citizens to the collective pursuit of a nation can be meaningful when their rights are guaranteed by the state. The citizen has a right to use a public road, and a duty to obey traffic rules. The right and the duty are meaningful only in conjunction. The Prime Minister’s comments come against this backdrop — formal and informal restrictions on the rights of citizens are on the rise along with coercive powers of the state. The emphasis on duty along with the de-emphasis of rights also raises the spectre of a descent into pre-Republican norms in social relations. The celebration of India as a traditionally duty-driven society carries with it the inescapable connotation of an exploitative division of labour and norms that are antithetical to constitutionalism. Needless to say, that is not progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-conjunction/article38321702.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:31 IST,||Not mild for all||Even at the peak of the second wave in India last year, when no contact tracing was done or was possible, not a word was said about the Delta variant being in community transmission — where the source of infection cannot be traced. But with extremely transmissible Omicron becoming the dominant variant across major cities, INSACOG, the consortium meant to monitor the genomic variations in the SARS-CoV-2 virus, has for the first time officially mentioned that India has entered community transmission; daily fresh cases have been over 0.3 million since January 19. Even as on June 15 last year, when the second wave had peaked here, India claimed to have only a ‘cluster of cases’ as reflected in WHO’s last epidemiological report (weekly) mentioning the stage of transmission in member-States. In contrast, the U.S. declared community transmission in February 2020 when the source of infection was untraceable in one instance; only 15 cases were detected then. The closest India came to admitting community transmission was in October 2020, when then Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan said it was restricted to “certain districts in limited States”. The deep reluctance to acknowledge community transmission was based on the premise that it marked the Government’s inability to control the virus spread and the failure of the harsh national lockdown. As the Government tried in vain to obfuscate the stage of transmission, it only reflected its resistance to acknowledge reality and an unwillingness to be transparent. INSACOG’s weekly bulletin also mentions that the BA.2 sub-lineage of Omicron forms a substantial fraction of cases detected in India. This sub-lineage was detected a month after WHO had designated Omicron to be a variant of concern on November 26, 2021. Though the Omicron variant causes less disease severity intrinsically and most of those who are fully vaccinated have only mild disease, the number of people hospitalised and requiring intensive care has been increasing in the third wave in India. As WHO recently warned, people infected with Omicron can display the “full spectrum of disease” — from asymptomatic infection to severe disease and death. This is especially true in older people, those with comorbidities, and people not fully vaccinated. Though over 67% of adults have been fully vaccinated, and nearly 8.2 million booster doses administered as on January 23, nearly 5.5% of health-care workers, 6.8% of frontline workers, and 16.2% of those older than 60 years have not received their second dose. Fully vaccinating these vulnerable groups should be a high priority. Meanwhile, the need for strict adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour cannot be overemphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/not-mild-for-all/article38321708.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:34 IST,||Women as bus drivers||Madras, Jan. 24: In the Tamil Nadu Assembly to-day, members belonging to different parties urged the Government to appoint women as drivers and conductors in State Transport buses with a view to creating a proper climate between busmen and passengers. Mrs. Jothi Venkatachellam said during question time that, at least as an experimental measure, women should be appointed as drivers and conductors. The Transport Minister, Mr. A. Ramachandran, said that when men were not in a position to secure jobs, it would be rather difficult to appoint women for the posts. He pointed out that whenever there was unrest, transport buses became the target of attack and he felt that appointment of women as bus crew would be like “playing with fire”. Mr. A. Subramanyam remarked that in the eye of the law woman was man’s equal. Mr. K. Anbazhagan, Health Minister, said that while he appreciated the enthusiasm of members to champion the cause of women, they had to realise whether women would be in a position to bear the stress and strain involved in the job. The Government had taken steps to provide secretarial jobs in the depots and other wings of the State Transport Department. Mr. S. Ramachandran told another member that it would not be possible to appoint women in express buses as it would be inconvenient for them to work in fast moving buses. When some more members asked whether it would not create a proper climate between bus crew and passengers, the Minister said the aim of the Government was mainly to operate the bus services efficiently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/women-as-bus-drivers/article38321714.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:30 IST,||Letters||It is a bit surprising that the spotlight has moved to freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in the manner it has (Inside pages, “Many freedom fighters recognised now: PM”, January 24). Netaji would never have accepted Hindutva as is being propagated now. Netaji’s Azad Hind Fauj comprised Hindus, Christians and Muslims. Once again, those in charge of the governance of this nation seem to be proceeding with adventures of a quixotic kind. Achuthakrishnan M. Variath, Mudappulur, Palakkad, Kerala Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose embodies three qualities that make him immortal — strategic intelligence, courage, and leadership. Unfortunately, his contributions and that of the Azad Hind Fauj have not been given their due. The Government’s move to have his statue erected eventually is a great tribute. Tarun Patidar, Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh    A needless and distasteful controversy has arisen over the decision of the Government to replace ‘Abide with me’ with ‘ Ae mere watan ke logon ’ at the Beating Retreat ceremony this year. ‘Abide with me’ is a part of traditions that were a carry-over from a colonial era. Much has changed and the Indian tune to replace it is vastly popular with a multitude of Indians. It is eminently suitable for a ceremonial military occasion. It is time to give ‘Abide with me’ a quiet burial. It can continue to abide with us in memory.  Ravindra Ramarao, Bengaluru    R. Nagaswamy was a walking encyclopedia with a humble approach to the commoner and the elite alike. He was also instrumental in reviving the Naatya performances in temples in Tamil Nadu in 1982. Being one of the advisory board members, I had the privilege of working with him to find an appropriate name for the temple festivals. When I suggested the name ‘Naatyaanjali’, he was overjoyed to accept it and start the festival in Chidambaram with a repertoire I had choreographed in 1968. The Naatya fraternity owes a great deal to this gentleman of vision and integrity.  V.P. Dhananjayan, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/letters/article64946184.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 04:30 IST,||Corrections and Clarifications||In the report titled “Archaeologist and epigraphist Nagaswamy passes away at 92” (January 24, 2022), the word tharpai — a holy grass used in rituals — has been erroneously translated as tarpaulin . It is an editing error.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/corrections-and-clarifications/article38321701.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,||‘COVID 3.0 drags activity lower by 20% in less than a month’||The onset of the third COVID-19 wave in the country has dragged down economic activity by about 20% in less than a month, as per a Nomura index tracking resumption of business operations since the pandemic started. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index fell to 100.5 for the week ended January 23, from 102.2 in the preceding week, only approximately 0.5% above pre-pandemic levels, the firm said in a note on Monday. A reading of 100 on the index indicates activity levels before the pandemic hit the economy in early 2020. This is the fourth successive week of moderation in the index, which had peaked at 120.2 in the week ended December 26, and signals a slowdown in the economy in tandem with the rise in COVID-19 cases ahead of the Union Budget for 2022-23 to be presented next week. Nomura recently cut its India GDP growth forecast for 2021-22 to 8.7% from 9.2%. “We expect the upcoming Budget... to prioritise growth, with directional fiscal consolidation to 6.4% of GDP in 2022—23 from 6.8% of GDP expected in 2021-22,” Nomura research analysts Sonal Varma and Aurodeep Nandi noted. Economic data are mixed: air traffic continues to fall steeply (-36% from December peak), but railway passenger revenues have stabilised and freight revenues remain robust. As cases stabilise, activity should improve in February/March,” the economists observed. New daily COVID-19 cases have exceeded 3,00,000, up from about 2,50,000 last week, but the rate of increase has moderated and a few States, including Bengal and Delhi, are reporting lower cases while death rates remain stable, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-30-drags-activity-lower-by-20-in-less-than-a-month/article64945931.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,||Crisil calls for tariff cuts to spur exports||The government should lower import tariffs on inputs and raw materials to stop importing inflation and help domestic manufacturers compete for global orders, Crisil said in a report on Monday, mooting policy actions in the upcoming Budget to support exports. While the recent buoyancy in global demand is likely to push India’s merchandise exports past a record $400 billion in 2021-22, ‘the harder part will be to keep the momentum going once global growth moderates’ as massive stimulus packages across the world wind down, the rating agency said. To attain the $1-trillion target set by the government for merchandise exports by 2029-30, Crisil emphasised the need to initiate specific measures in this Budget to boost infrastructure spending for trade, reduce tariff costs, and enhance credit risk cover to facilitate trade. “Exports in India have historically ridden the global growth wave. But when that recedes, as expected this calendar year, exports cannot rely on external demand alone to prop it up,” the agency’s chief economist D.K. Joshi wrote in the report co-authored with colleague Amruta Ghare. India also needs to consolidate the recently seen increase in share of industrial/investment goods in overall merchandise trade. “To tackle both these, the Budget’s focus on developing infrastructure in shipping and logistics to reduce time and non-tariff costs of trading across borders will be imperative,” they added. “Net terms of trade in fiscal 2022 has consistently declined, implying faster increase in import prices vis-à-vis export prices. This year too, commodity prices are projected to stay elevated and volatile,” they wrote. “Hence, a reduction in tariff costs through a change in custom duties for raw materials and inputs would help bring down imported inflation and support domestic manufacturers as well.” Crisil also sought steps to expedite the low offtake of the credit risk cover for project exports under the National Export Insurance Account, in which the finance ministry announced a Rs. 1,650 crore infusion last year to support exports worth Rs. 33,000 crore by 2025-26. “The progress has been relatively slow this year — according to the Ministry of Commerce, the NEIA supported exports worth only Rs. 91.4 crore by issuing insurance cover worth Rs. 58 crore between May-August 2021.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/crisil-calls-for-tariff-cuts-to-spur-exports/article64945930.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||Stocks extend slide as Fed rate plan looms||Stocks extended their slide for a fifth straight session on Monday, with the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex tumbling 1,545.67 points, or 2.6%, as growing concern about the pace of anticipated interest rate increases by the U.S. Federal Reserve spurred overseas investors to unwind positions in the Indian equities market. Metal and IT stocks led the sell-off with top Sensex losers including Tata Steel (5.98%), Wipro (5.35%) and Tech Mahindra (5.14%). Reliance Industries fell 4.1%. “Sell-off in global markets, weak Q3 results and pre-budget nervousness triggered heavy sell-off in the domestic bourses as risk sentiment took a blow ahead of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting starting tomorrow,” said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. “Investors are keenly awaiting the result of the two-day Fed meeting where the U.S. central bank is expected to provide more guidance on its rate hike plans. While all sectors hit rough weather, stocks of the new age tech companies were the most affected due to drop in growth of profitability amid expensive valuations,” he added. ‘More volatility ahead’ The NSE Nifty-50 index too slumped 468.05 points, or 2.66%, to 17,149.10 points and analysts warned of more volatility ahead. “The index went on to even test the 17,000 mark which was last seen during the end of December,” said Ruchit Jain, Lead Research Analyst at 5paisa.com. “As the global markets tumbled, FIIs were seen selling in the cash segment as well as in the index futures segment which has resulted in a sell-off in our indices,” he added. The INDIA VIX, which measures the implied volatility, had also risen sharply to near the 23 mark, Mr. Jain observed. “Although this is not an alarming level as of now, it certainly is a sign of higher short-term volatility ahead of the global and domestic events,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/stocks-extend-slide-as-fed-rate-plan-looms/article64945924.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||Swiggy raises $700 mn in Invesco-led funding||Swiggy on Monday said it had raised $700 million in new funding led by Invesco. The round also saw participation from new investors such as Baron Capital Group, Sumeru Venture, IIFL AMC Late Stage Tech Fund, Kotak, Axis Growth Avenues AIF- I, Sixteenth Street Capital, Ghisallo, Smile Group and Segantii Capital. Existing investors Alpha Wave Global, Qatar Investment Authority, and ARK Impact, along with its long-term investor Prosus also participated, the company said in a statement. “Our goal is to make Swiggy the platform that 100 million consumers can use 15 times a month,” said CEO Sriharsha Majety. Its food delivery business had almost doubled in gross order value (GOV) in the last year and the fund raise would enable it to further accelerate growth on the core platform and make meaningful investments to grow Instamart. “Instamart is set to reach an annualised GMV run rate of $1 billion in the next three quarters,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/swiggy-raises-700-mn-in-invesco-led-funding/article64945923.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||‘India can make $300-bn electronics by 2026’||Given the ‘unforeseen and unprecedented’ challenges brought by the pandemic, India is likely to achieve electronics production of $300 billion by 2026, lower than the target of $400 billion by 2025 set as per the National Policy on Electronics (NPE) 2019, according to a vision document. The document was released by Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) in association with the India Cellular & Electronics Association (ICEA). However, the reduced target still aims for a 400% increase from the current level, the document noted, adding that electronics manufacturing had grown from $37.1 billion in 2015-16 to $67.3 billion in 2020-21 “There are various challenges being faced by the industry across qualitative (non-tariff, infrastructure related) and quantitative (tariff, free trade agreements etc.) aspects and need to be addressed in toto to ensure that manufacturing in India is resilient, globally competitive and able to undertake operations at massive scale,” as per the document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-can-make-300-bn-electronics-by-2026/article64945928.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||TI to invest Rs. 350 crore in clean mobility||Tube Investments of India Ltd (TI) has announced the setting up of a new wholly owned subsidiary and the acquisition of an electric tractor firm to pursue clean mobility business by investing Rs. 350 crore. “The formation of a separate subsidiary and acquisition of a controlling stake in Cellestial will enable the company to bring required focus to the emerging growth opportunities in electric vehicles,” said M.A.M. Arunachalam, chairman, TI. “These new EV products along with the existing product portfolio of bicycles and e-bicycles will further strengthen the company’s efforts towards climate change and sustainability,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ti-to-invest-rs-350-crore-in-clean-mobility/article38321699.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||CCI fines three marine lines in cartel probe||The Competition Commission has imposed fines totalling more than Rs. 63 crore on three maritime transport companies — Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd (K-Line), Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd (MOL) and Nissan Motor Car Carrier Company (NMCC) — and individuals concerned for indulging in cartelisation. The watchdog passed an order against K-Line, MOL, NMCC and Nippon Yusen Kabushiki Kaisha for cartelisation with respect to maritime motor vehicle transport services provided to automobile Original Equipment Manufacturers for various trade routes. The regulator also directed them to cease and desist from anti-competitive practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cci-fines-three-marine-lines-in-cartel-probe/article38321696.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||Tata Tech to hire 3,000 innovators||Global engineering and product development digital services company Tata Technologies said it has expanded its talent acquisition programme to hire over 3,000 innovators over the next 12 months. The move comes amid accelerated investment in digital as manufacturing companies adapt to meet new and evolving customer needs. The company would be ramping up its workforce in all major markets globally as well as in India, including in States such as Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The move comes at a ‘time when the firm has been growing rapidly, achieving industry-leading growth rates,’ according to the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-tech-to-hire-3000-innovators/article38321700.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,||Axis Bank Q3 net surges on interest income||Axis Bank Ltd. reported third-quarter net profit grew more than threefold to Rs. 3,614 crore on account of a rise in net interest income and improvement in asset quality. Net Interest Income (NII) grew 17% YoY to Rs. 8,653 crore while fee income rose 15% YoY to Rs. 3,344 crore. The balance sheet grew 20% YoY and stood at Rs. 11,13,066 crore. Total deposits grew 20% YoY to Rs. 7,71,670 crore. Advances grew 17% YoY to Rs. 6,64,866 crore. Net decline in NPA’s (before write-offs) for retail loans stood at Rs. 94 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/axis-bank-q3-net-surges-on-interest-income/article38321680.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||MMR saw highest home registrations in 2021; sold 2.42 lakh units||The year 2021 saw the highest number of residential registrations in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) with realtors selling 2.42 lakh homes, a 53% increase from 2020, as per a study by CREDAI MCHI, Colliers and CRE Matrix.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mmr-saw-highest-home-registrations-in-2021-sold-242-lakh-units/article64945927.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||Rane Madras Q3 net slides 64%||Rane Madras Ltd., a leading manufacturer of steering and suspension products, reported standalone net profit for the third quarter ended December contracted 64% to Rs. 7.7 crore due to shortage of semiconductor chips and a drop in sales volume to original equipment clients. Income from operations remained almost unchanged at Rs. 391 crore compared with the year-earlier period, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rane-madras-q3-net-slides-64/article38321691.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:25 IST,||Ramco Cements Q3 net plunges 59%||The Ramco Cements Ltd. has posted a 59% drop in its standalone net profit for the third quarter ended December to Rs. 83 crore on account of weak demand. Sales from products rose 16% to Rs. 1,541 crore. EBIDTA contracted 41% on account of a sharp increase in fuel prices and drop in cement prices, it said in a statement. Cement sales rose 15% to 3 million tonnes. It spent Rs. 486 crore in capex during Q3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ramco-cements-q3-net-plunges-59/article38321690.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,||Google Cloud to open new office in Pune; begins hiring||Google Cloud on Monday said it plans to open a new office in Pune, Maharashtra, in the second half of 2022, and the first ‘Googlers’ in the space will be hired in its Cloud Product Engineering, Technical Support and Global Delivery Center units. These hires will be responsible for building advanced enterprise cloud technologies in collaboration with Google Cloud’s global engineering teams, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/google-cloud-to-open-new-office-in-pune-begins-hiring/article38321685.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,||Team India’s no show has thrown up many questions||A 3-0 whitewash is never comforting. Yet, amidst the darkness, you can sometimes see motes of light. The reemergence of Deepak Chahar as a skilful new ball bowler who can also wield the bat usefully down the order is a positive for India, even if it arrived in the thrilling last game. Chahar is now what Bhuvneshwar Kumar was four years back. He moves the ball both ways at a brisk pace, gets the early breakthroughs, and bats with strokes and resolve. The feisty Chahar ticks a box for India in its quest to find a ‘complete’ team for the 2023 ODI World Cup. India’s search for a pace bowling all-rounder is heading nowhere with Hardik Pandya picking up a chronic back injury. And Venkatesh Iyer, he deserves a longer run, is more a batter who can bowl handy medium pace. Instead, if India can pick seamers who can be effective with the bat too, men such as Shardul Thakur and Chahar, the team could yet find the balance and the depth. Of course, Jasprit Bumrah will lend the attack cutting edge. If the seamers around him can produce runs, India will be able to bat deep. This is the era of ‘Total Cricket’ in the shorter formats, and the bowlers are expected to bat. India missed Washington Sundar, who picked up COVID-19, before the series. Washington is parsimonious with his off-spin and is a southpaw with grace, footwork and timing. Problem area The middle-order was a problem area for India and the team needed more than just the 54 runs Shreyas Iyer managed in three innings. And Virat Kohli has to rediscover the habit of winning matches for India on the chase rather than playing an attractive innings but falling well short of the target. Comeback-man Shikhar Dhawan — the leading run-scorer for India with 169 in three matches — brought his left-handed flair and experience to the top of the order. But then, his partner, stand-in skipper K.L. Rahul, had a lacklustre series. Once Rohit Sharma returns, Rahul may be shifted to a middle-order role. For South Africa, Janneman Malan, an elegant top-order stroke-maker, was the find of the series, while Quinton de Kock reaffirmed why he is such a dangerous white ball player with a whopping 229 runs in the series. Coming to captaincy, Rahul is still a work-in-progress. And given Rohit’s fitness issues, it is hard to see him lead the country in all three formats. The explosive Rishabh Pant is brilliant one moment, reckless the next. Will giving him captaincy instil a sense of responsibility in this marauder? Such gambits have worked in cricket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-no-show-has-thrown-up-many-questions/article38321942.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,||Srivedya and Nagendra live out a dream||It was a dream finish for G. Srivedya as she made the mixed doubles final partnering T. Hema Nagendra Babu in the just-concluded Syed Modi India International badminton in Lucknow. The pair finished runner-up to Ishan Bhatnagar and Tanisha Crasto on Sunday. The 19-year-old, a trainee of the Chetan Anand Badminton Academy (CABA), is targeting more international titles and an Olympic qualification. Huge achievement  “The mixed doubles final appearance in Lucknow is a huge achievement. We look to keep improving,” Srivedya said in a chat with The Hindu on Monday.  Coach Chetan spotted her talent and admitted Srivedya in CABA in 2015 and insisted she train in both singles and doubles. “Nagendra and I have been training and competing on and of besides practising in singles. Chetan sir felt this will help improve my all-round game and fitness,” said Srivedya, who made the quarterfinals in the 2019 Junior Nationals. Srivedya had claimed the women’s doubles gold with Ishika Jaiswal (USA) in the Mexico International and then silver in the El Salvador events last December. “I believe smashes and net game are my strong points even as I try to improve my on-court movement and strengthening,” said Srivedya, who thanked CoresPack software firm for financial support. “She is very aggressive, has all the strokes, is dedicated and hard-working. We are working on her speed which will take her game to the next level. I am sure she will make a huge impact in the international circuit soon,” said Chetan. Unexpected The 25-year-old Nagendra, who has won a few doubles titles partnering K. Srikanth and others, said they were hoping for a satisfying performance but never expected it would come so soon. “The Syed Modi tournament was a great experience. No doubt, the withdrawals because of the COVID-19 had an impact but still we had to give our best to reach the final,” the ABC and Youth Commonwealth Games bronze medallist from South Central Railway, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srivedya-and-nagendra-live-out-a-dream/article64945939.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,||Smriti is Cricketer of the Year||India’s Smriti Mandhana and Pakistan fast bowler Shaheen Afridi were named the ICC Women’s and Men’s Cricketers of the Year on Monday. Smriti won the award for the second time for her stellar run of form across all formats in 2021. Smriti, who also made it to the ICC T20 Women’s Team of the Year, pipped Tammy Beaumont of England, Lizelle Lee of South Africa and Gaby Lewis of Ireland for the top award, the ICC said in a statement. She had earlier won the award in 2018 as well when she was named the Women’s ODI Cricketer of the Year, making her only the second woman to win the highest individual distinction in the overall category. “I am truly honoured for receiving the prestigious Rachael Heyhoe Flint Trophy for the ICC Women’s Cricketer of the Year 2021. A recognition of such high class from the global governing body of cricket in an exceptional and difficult year will motivate me to continue to better my game and contribute to Team India’s success going forward, said Smriti. England captain Joe Root was named the Test Player of the Year.  The 2021 winners:   Women’s Cricketer of the Year (Rachael Heyhoe Flint Trophy): Smriti Mandhana (Ind);   Men’s Cricketer of the Year (Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy): Shaheen Afridi (Pak).   Men’s Test Cricketer of the Year: Joe Root (Eng); ODI Cricketer of the Year: Men: Babar Azam (Pak); Women: Lizelle Lee (SA).   T20I Cricketer of the Year: Men: Mohammad Rizwan (Pak); Women: Tammy Beaumont (Eng).   Umpire of the Year: Marais Erasmus (SA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/smriti-is-cricketer-of-the-year/article38321923.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,||Vidit bounces back with a win||Vidit Gujrathi bounced back from the seventh-round defeat to beat Sweden’s Nils Grandelius in 34 moves and retained his tied-third spot in the Masters section after eight rounds of the Tata Steel chess tournament at Wijk aan Zee, near Amsterdam, on Sunday. Vidit raised his tally to five points, same as Anish Giri, to stay half point behind leaders Magnus Carlsen and Shakhriyar Mamedyarov. The leaders clash on Tuesday when action resumes after a day’s rest. Mamedyarov defeated R. Praggnanandhaa in 46 moves after Carlsen drew with Sam Shankland in 35 moves. In the Challengers section, Arjun Erigaisi (7) enhanced his lead to 1.5 points after beating Denmark’s Jonas Buhl Bjerre for his sixth victory. Surya Shekhar Ganguly (4), however, lost to Rinat Jumabayev.  The results (eighth round, Indians unless stated):   Masters: Vidit Gujrathi (5) bt Nils Grandelius (Swe, 2); Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze, 5.5) bt Praggnanandhaa (2.5); Sam Shankland (USA, 3.5) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 5.5); Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 4) lost to Anish Giri (Ned, 5); Sergey Karjakin (Rus, 4) drew with Richard Rapport (Hun, 4.5)Fabiano Caruana (USA, 4) drew with Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 4). Challengers (involving Indians): Arjun Erigaisi (7) bt Jonas Bjerre (Den, 4.5); S.S. Ganguly (4) lost to Rinat Jumabayev (Kaz, 5.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-bounces-back-with-a-win/article38321982.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,||Kanepi ousts Sabalenka; Cornet knocks out Halep||The women’s World No. 2 Aryna Sabalenka crashed out after an epic that finished on the stroke of midnight, while a tetchy title favourite Daniil Medvedev was pushed to the limit before reaching the last eight of the Australian Open on Monday. Men’s fourth seed Stefanos Tsitsipas survived a late-night fright to reach his third Australian Open quarterfinal after a pulsating day of marathon matches, frayed tempers and searing heat at Melbourne Park. Tsitsipas was staring at defeat, trailing two sets to one before clawing back to beat the 20th seed Taylor Fritz 4-6, 6-4, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 in 3hr 23min of classic punch and counter-punch tennis on Rod Laver Arena. Earlier it took the petulant Russian men’s World No. 2 Medvedev 3hr 30min to subdue the unseeded American serve-volley specialist Maxime Cressy 6-2, 7-6(4), 6-7 (4/7), 7-5 and set up a quarterfinal against Canada’s Felix Auger-Aliassime. The men’s ninth seed Auger-Aliassime overcame the 2018 finalist Marin Cilic 2-6, 7-6(7), 6-2, 7-6(4) in 3hr 35min. Sabalenka lost a thriller that went to a final-set 10-point tiebreak as veteran Kaia Kanepi ended the Belarusian’s hopes of a maiden Grand Slam title. Second seed Sabalenka saved four match points before losing 5-7, 6-2, 7-6(7), sending down 15 double faults as her serving yips that have plagued her throughout the Australian summer came back to haunt. French veteran Alize Cornet made the quarterfinals of a Slam for the first time in her long career after upsetting former World No. 1 Simona Halep of Romania 6-4, 3-6, 6-4 in energy-sapping daytime heat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kanepi-ousts-sabalenka-cornet-knocks-out-halep/article38321924.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,||PVL should move to 25-point sets in the future, says Karthik||He was a decent sprinter in school in Bengaluru and later, he was into the NCC. A. Karthik came to volleyball rather late, at 18, after his dad’s friend, a volleyball referee, nudged him to join SAI, Bengaluru. Big growth The youngster has come a long way in the sport. He is now the Indian captain, having led the country at the Asian Championship in Japan last year. Matches in the RuPay Prime Volleyball League, which begins in Hyderabad on February 5, run on unique 15-point sets, but Karthik feels that the league could look at adopting the 25-point set which is the format the world over.  “Usually it is 25 points in volleyball and the match changes only after 15 points. So, in future, may be if they have 25 points, the normal volleyball set, that will be very good for players and the sport,” said Karthik, the Kochi Blue Spikers’ star, in a chat with The Hindu at the team’s training base at Triprayar in Thrissur.  The usual format “Wherever you go, whether it’s national or international, that’s how the format is. So it’s better we bring in 25 points. Usually, the fight will be sort of equal till 15 but after 15 or 20, the game changes, so those crucial points will be very important. If it’s 25 points, you can play well. In 15 points, you feel the set is running too fast.” The last PVL (it was called Pro Volley League then) was held three years ago and players hope the new league will be a regular, yearly affair in future. With that in mind, the middle blocker feels that the league’s organisers Baseline Ventures could give teams the option of retaining their players for the next season.  “Retaining a player is better, you have a good bonding with fellow players, it’s almost like we are family. If players are willing to be retained, it’s good. Again, going into a new team, getting used to new players, it’s a big thing,” said Karthik who was with Calicut in the 2019 PVL.   Usually, the fight will be sort of equal till 15 but after 15 or 20, the game changes, so those crucial points will be very important. If it’s 25 points, you can play well. Karthik||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pvl-should-move-to-25-point-sets-in-the-future-says-karthik/article64945933.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,||Tunisia shocks 10-man Nigeria||Tunisia shocked Nigeria and Burkina Faso edged Gabon on Sunday to set up an Africa Cup of Nations last-eight showdown, while minnow Comoros prepared to use an outfield player as a goalkeeper when it confronts hosts Cameroon. Veteran Youssef Msakni scored two minutes into the second half to give previously unimpressive Tunisia a 1-0 second-round victory over 10-man Nigeria in Garoua. Big blow Nigerian hopes of levelling were dealt a huge blow midway through the second half when Alex Iwobi, initially yellow-carded for a stamp on Msakni, was sent off after the referee looked at the VAR monitor. In the first last-16 match, Burkina Faso needed a penalty shootout to eliminate Gabon, which forced a 1-1 draw after extra time having played 56 minutes with 10 men, following the red-carding of Sidney Obissa.  The results: Burkina Faso 1 (B. Traore 28) drew with Gabon 1 (Guira 90+1-og) (Burkina Faso won 7-6 on penalties); Tunisia 1 (Msakni 47) bt Nigeria 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tunisia-shocks-10-man-nigeria/article64945936.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:03 IST,||It’s 10 out of 10 for Gokulam||It is 10 out of 10 for Gokulam Kerala FC in the Scoreline Kerala Women’s League football. Gokulam, the Indian Women’s League champion, defeated Don Bosco FA 6-0 in the concluding match of the six-team league at the Corporation Stadium here on Monday. Gokulam, from Kozhikode, had won the title a few days ago and had to just complete the league formalities on Monday. It finished with 30 points and scored 99 from its 10 matches without conceding any. Gokulam’s Elshaddai Acheampong, from Ghana, finished as the KWL’s top-scorer with 40 goals while Jyoti, also from the champion team, was adjudged as the player of the league. Don Bosco FA (Ernakulam) finished runner-up with 19 points (six wins, a draw and three losses) while Travancore Royals (18) was third. Kerala United FC (14), Kadathanad Raja FA (7) and Luca SC (0), in that order, took the last three spots.  The results: Gokulam Kerala 6 (K. Manasa 24, 46, Elshaddai Acheampong 51, Jyoti 67, 82, Kashmina 83) bt Don Bosco 0.   Travancore Royals 1 (Vijayalakshmi 10) bt Kerala United 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-10-out-of-10-for-gokulam/article64946025.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,||Taylor reveals taking drugs, bribe||Former Zimbabwe cricket captain Brendan Taylor revealed Monday in a tweet he took cocaine, a $15,000 bribe from an Indian businessman to fix matches and that he faces a multiple-year ban from international cricket. “The ICC (International Cricket Council) are taking the decision to impose a multi-year ban on my international cricketing career,” tweeted Taylor, adding he did not fix any match. The 35-year-old batsman said in October 2019 he was invited by an Indian businessman to discuss “sponsorships and the potential launch of a T20 competition in Zimbabwe and was advised that I would be paid $15,000 for the journey”. Amidst concerns The invitation came when the team had not received salaries for six months and there were concerns the country would not be able to continue playing internationally. He said he was a “little wary” but undertook the trip all the same. During drinks on the last night, he was offered cocaine, which the businessman and his colleagues were taking, and said he “foolishly took the bait”. “The following morning, the same men entered my hotel room and showed me a video taken of me the night before doing cocaine and told me that if I did not spot fix at international matches for them, the video would be released to the public,” he said. Cornered He said he was “cornered” and handed a $15,000 deposit to fix matches. He took the cash so that he could fly out. It took him four months to report the offence to the ICC “I acknowledge this was too long of a time but I thought I could protect everyone and in particular, my family,” he said. He said he was ready and will “humbly” accept the ICC decision with the “hope that my story will be used as a means of encouragement for cricketers to report any illicit approaches as early as possible”. But he stressed he never fixed any matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/taylor-reveals-taking-drugs-bribe/article64945858.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,||Arabian Queen reigns in feature event||Trainer M. Srinivas Reddy’s Arabian Queen (Akshay Kumar up) claimed the Godolphin Barb Million, the main event of Monday’s (Jan. 24) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Ram H. Shroff & Mr. Raj H. Shroff rep. Stride Livestock Private Limited & Mr. Chetan Shantilal Shah. Akshay Kumar two more winners on the day. 1. BRAVE HUNTER PLATE (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): AYR (Kuldeep Singh) 1, True Icon (B. Nikhil) 2, Crimson Rose (Akshay Kumar) 3 and The Akhanda (Ashad Asbar) 4. 3-1/2, 4-1/2 and 2-1/2. 1m, 5.65s. Rs. 40 (w), 11, 13 and 13 (p). SHP: 37, THP: 59, SHW: 21 and 11, FP: 178, Q: 88, Tanala: 399. Favourite: Crimson Rose. Owners: Mrs. Rajini Meka, Mr. Bharat Venkat Epur & Mr. Ayyadevara Srinivas. Trainer: L D’Silva.  2. AGOSTINI PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): DRD (Akshay Kumar) 1, Sea Wolf (B. Nikhil) 2, Sacred Lamp (Abhay Singh) 3 and Appenzelle (A.A. Vikrant) 4. 1/2, 1-1/2 and 1-1/4. 1m, 12.55s. Rs. 16 (w), 13, 30 and 15 (p). SHP: 96, THP: 62, SHW: 14 and 53, FP: 213, Q: 233, Tanala: 1,769. Favourite: DRD. Owner: Mr. B.M. Dayananda. Trainer: Ananta Vatsalya.  3. AGOSTINI PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): ROYAL GRACE (Afroz Khan) 1, Thunder Road (Akshay Kumar) 2, Lockhart (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Apollo (Gaurav Singh) 4. Nk, 1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m, 12.43s. Rs. 56 (w), 16, 14 and 51 (p). SHP: 41, THP: 118, SHW: 27 and 25, FP: 245, Q: 89, Tanala: 2,423. Favourite: Mind Reader. Owner & Trainer: L D’ Silva.  4. AGOSTINI PLATE (Div. III) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): TOP IN CLASS (Akshay Kumar) 1, N R I Magic (Mukesh Kumar) 2, Hashtag (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Max (N.B. Kuldeep) 4. 3, 3/4 and Nk. 1m, 12.11s. Rs. 23 (w), 13, 26 and 11 (p). SHP: 92, THP: 44, SHW: 13 and 75, FP: 212, Q: 119, Tanala: 1,077. Favourite: Top In Class. Owners: Mr. Satyanarayana Reddy Pannala, Mr. Mirza Ayub Baig, Mr. M. Sudheer Reddy & Mr. Mohammed Abdul Wajid Khan. Trainer: S.S.F. Hassan.  Note: California Beauty (B.R. Kumar) planted in the starting stalls and did not participate.  5. EME CENTRE ROLLING TROPHY (2,000m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II): SCRAMJET (T.S. Jodha) 1, Kesariya Balam (Akshay Kumar) 2, Summer Night (Ajeeth Kumar) 3 and Staridar (Abhay Singh) 4. Not run: Ashwa Yashobali. 1-1/2, 2-3/4 and 2-1/4. 2m, 4.33s. Rs. 37 (w), 13, 10 and 11 (p). SHP: 28, THP: 35, SHW: 18 and 11, FP: 98, Q: 35, Tanala: 88. Favourite: Kesairya Balam. Owners: United Racing and Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: K.S.V. Prasad Raju.  6. ASTONISH PLATE (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): IN CONTENTION (R. Ajinkya) 1, Bandit King (Santosh Raj) 2, November Rain (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Lamha (Akshay Kumar) 4. Not run: Committed Warrior. 1-1/2, 1-1/4 and Nk. 1m, 38.89s. Rs. 34 (w), 14, 17 and 19 (p). SHP: 49, THP: 50, SHW: 10 and 21, FP: 128, Q: 98, Tanala: 883. Favourite: Maximum Glamour. Owners: Mr. P.J. Vazifdar, Mr. Firoze A. Vakil , Mr. M. Rishad, Mr. Prem Vazirani & Miss. Soonu J. Davar. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  7. GODOLPHIN BARB MILLION (1,400m) (Terms), 3-y-o only: ARABIAN QUEEN (Akshay Kumar) 1, Sensibility (Ajeeth Kumar) 2, Essential (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Survivor (Kuldeep Singh) 4. 3/4, 2-3/4 and 3/4. 1m, 26.22s. Rs. 30 (w), 14, 13 and 10 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 25, SHW: 21 and 10, FP: 67, Q: 28, Tanala: 154. Favourite: Sensibility. Owners: Mr. Ram H. Shroff & Mr. Raj H. Shroff rep. Stride Livestock Private Limited & Mr. Chetan Shantilal Shah. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy.  8. MOUNT EVEREST PLATE (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): FURIOUS FUN (Kiran Naidu) 1, Angelita (Ajeeth Kumar) 2, Theo’s Choice (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Coming Home (Rupal Singh) 4. Not run: Cosmico, Its On and Royal Support. Nk, 3/4 and 2. 1m, 12.94s. Rs. 145 (w), 27, 11 and 21 (p). SHP: 35, THP: 54, FP: 814, Q: 171, Tanala: 5,670. Favourite: Angelita. Owners: Mr. K.S.V. Prasad Raju, Mr. Seshadri Reddy Pochana, Mr. Mohit Jaju & Mr. Giri Prathamesh Mahadev. Trainer: K.S.V. Prasad Raju.  Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 2,01,727 (2 tkts.) & 30%: 1,490 (116 tkts.). Treble: (i) 584 (85 tkts.), (ii) 1,313 (25 tkts.), (iii) 6,176 (13 tkts.). Mini Jackpot: (i) 4,077 (12 tkts.), (ii) 80,884 (1 tkt).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arabian-queen-reigns-in-feature-event/article38321987.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,||Priceless Gold well prepped for a repeat||Priceless Gold, who is in fine fettle, may score an encore in the Bangalore Race Course 159th Year Commemoration Trophy (1,600m), the chief event of the races to be held here on Tuesday (Jan 25). False rails (average width of 2.5m from 1,600m to the winning post) will be in position. LUNI PLATE (1,600m), rated 00 to 25, 1-30 p.m.: 1. Eco Friendly (10) Arvind Kumar 62.5, 2. Lantana (6) S. John 62.5, 3. Livisilla (2) Vishal Bunde 62.5, 4. Royal Thunder (1) Akshay K 62.5, 5. Antinori (3) Srinath 61, 6. Infinite Grace (8) S. Saqlian 61, 7. Knotty Princess (4) L.A. Rozario 61, 8. Linkin Park (12) Jagadeesh 61, 9. Love (7) Suraj Narredu 61, 10. Dream Chaser (11) P.P. Dhebe 60, 11. Areca Angel (5) Angad 59.5 and 12. Lightning Flame (9) C.S. Jodha 59.  1. LOVE, 2. LANTANA, 3. ANTINORI LAKSHMANA TIRTHA PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 5-y-o & over, 2-00: 1. General Patton (4) S. John 60, 2. Stone House (2) Shreyas Singh 57.5, 3. Songkran (5) Mark 56, 4. Definitive (7) S. Saqlain 55, 5. Impelling Power (3) Antony 54.5, 6. Mr Humble (—) (—) 54.5, 7. Raven Rock (1) Jagadeesh 53.5 and 8. Commandpost (6) Angad 51.5.  1. GENERAL PATTON, 2. IMPELLING POWER, 3. RAVEN ROCK GATEWAY OF INDIA PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Four Wheel Drive (1) Srinath 61.5, 2. Sacrament (5) Shane Gray 57, 3. Pink Jasmine (7) Akshay K 56.5, 4. Spectacular (8) Trevor 55, 5. Electric Blue (2) Arshad 53, 6. Maharaja (3) P.P. Dhebe 52.5, 7. Measure Of Time (6) Neeraj 52.5, 8. Sacred Creator (4) Rajesh Kumar 51 and 9. For Old Times (9) Md. Habeeb 50.5.  1. SACRAMENT, 2. FOUR WHEEL DRIVE, 3. PINK JASMINE TETRASOFT BANGALORE WINTER MILLION (1,200m), 3-y-o (Terms), 3-00: 1. Disruptor (3) Akshay K 57, 2. Forseti (6) Darshan 57, 3. Imperial Power (4) Suraj Narredu 57, 4. Inexhaustible (2) Dhanu Sigh 57, 5. Serdar (5) Neeraj 57 and 6. Stormy Ocean (1) Srinath 57.  1. IMPERIAL POWER, 2. DISRUPTOR SRIKANTADATTA NARASIMHARAJA WADIYAR MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms), 3-30: 1. Roman Power (9) S. Shareef 56, 2. Star Admiral (5) C.S. Jodha 56, 3. Star Glory (2) Suraj Narredu 56, 4. Sunway Lagoon (7) Mark 56, 5. Tranquilo (3) Srinath 56, 6. Chinky Pinky (1) Jagadeesh 54.5, 7. Desert Dance (10) Dhanu Singh 54.5, 8. Luminary Star (6) Neeraj 54.5, 9. Place Vendome (8) Trevor 54.5 and 10. Star Comet (4) Ashok Kumar 54.5.  1. STAR GLORY, 2. PLACE VENDOME, 3. TRANQUILO BANGALORE RACE COURSE 159th YEAR COMMEMORATION TROPHY (1,600m), 4-y-o & over, (Terms), 4-00: 1. Northern Alliance (3) Dhanu Singh 60, 2. Priceless Gold (5) Suraj Narredu 60, 3. Automatic (2) A. Qureshi 58, 4. Electra (1) Antony 56.5 and 5. Shesmyscript (4) Trevor 56.5.  1. PRICELESS GOLD, 2. NORTHERN ALLIANCE C. NARAYANA REDDY MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,400m), rated 40 to 65, 5-y-o & over, 4-30: 1. Regal Music (9) Naveen Kumar 61.5, 2. Southern Ruler (4) Ashok Kumar 59.5, 3. Hokkaido (11) Suraj Narredu 59, 4. Starry Wind (10) Dhanu Singh 57.5, 5. Drusilla (12) Arshad 57, 6. Garamond (8) Trevor 55, 7. Whizzo (6) Jagadeesh 55, 8. Caracas (3) Akshay K 53, 9. Lycurgus (1) P. Sai Kumar 50, 10. Ombudsman (2) Neeraj 50, 11. Osiris (7) Ajeet Kumar 50 and 12. Tokyo Rose (5) Vinod Shinde 50.  1. GARAMOND, 2. CARACAS, 3. DRUSILLA LAKSHMANA TIRTHA PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 5-y-o & over, 5-00: 1. Miniver Rose (2) Vishal Bunde 62.5, 2. Anakin (7) L.A. Rozario 62, 3. Gypsy (6) Ikram Ahmed 57.5, 4. Morganite (5) Shreyas Singh 57.5, 5. Golden Vision (8) Saddam H 57, 6. Capable (1) P. Sai Kumar 56.5, 7. Land Of Liberty (3) Angad 55.5 and 8. Copper Sunrise (4) Antony 54.5.  1. COPPER SUNRISE, 2. MINIVER ROSE, 3. GYPSY  Days best: PRICELESS GOLD  Double: GENERAL PATTON — SACRAMENT Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Treble (i): 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/priceless-gold-well-prepped-for-a-repeat/article38321981.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:17 IST,||Out-of-tune MCFC takes on bottom-placed NEUFC||Mumbai City FC will be desperate to return to winning ways as it faces NorthEast United FC at the PJN Stadium in Fatorda. The defending ISL champion has been completely out of tune with just two points in its last five games, not winning a match for over a month now, and sits outside the top four with 17 points from 11 games. "In the last few games we have played some good football, but we have not been able to come up with the results. With nine games to go, we are in a good position to finish strong in the second half of the season," MCFC head-coach Des Buckingham told the press. Mumbai City FC and NorthEast United have met 15 times in the league so far, with Mumbai winning seven times, drawing thrice and NEUFC winning five times. The last time the sides met, strikers form both sides shone with Deshorn Brown scoring a hattrick for NEUFC. The Jamaican, however, will not be in action, being ruled out with an injury — an absence that MCFC will try to exploit in its pursuit to storm into the top-four. NorthEast United is winless in its last six games and has conceded the most goals (27) in the league so far. The Highlanders have had some consolation with the arrival of Austrian Marco Sahanek and former Golden Boot winner Marcelinho in their squad, but wins have not followed yet. The team will look to solidify its defence as its captain Hernan Santana shifts from centre-back to defensive midfield in the absence of Khassa Camara, who is on National Duty at the African Cup of Nations. NorthEast United has dropped points from five of its last five matches from winning positions and will try its best not to throw away three points against Mumbai on Tuesday. Mumbai City FC, on the other hand, did not lose to only two teams in its last five matches, one of them being NEUFC. As it aims for a win to go second on the table, bottom-placed NEUFC may just be the right setting to start the race back to the top.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mcfc-takes-on-bottom-placed-neufc/article38322103.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,||All India games are cancelled, says AFC||The Asian Football Confederation on Monday formally announced India’s ouster from the ongoing Asian Cup for women here, saying that all its matches stand “null and void” after the host’s withdrawal from the clash against Chinese Taipei owing to a massive COVID-19 outbreak in their camp. A day after India failed to field a team against Chinese Taipei following 12 players’ RT-PCR reports coming positive, the Asian Football Confederation issued a statement confirming that the home side “is considered to have withdrawn” from the tournament as per the guidelines. “Following the cancellation of the AFC Women’s Asian Cup India 2022 Group A match between Chinese Taipei and India... India is considered to have withdrawn from the competition in accordance with Article 4.1 of the ‘Special Rules Applicable to AFC Competitions during the COVID-19 pandemic’,” the AFC said in a statement. “All matches of India are now cancelled and considered null and void pursuant to Article 6.5.5 of the Competition Regulations.” The continental body added that the result of the lone India match so far, the draw against Iran, will not be taken into consideration while determining the final standings in the group.  The results:   Australia 4 bt Philippines 0.   Thailand 4 bt Indonesia 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-india-games-are-cancelled-says-afc/article38321976.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,||India enters semifinal, books World Cup spot||Gurjit Kaur’s hat-trick and a brace each by Monika and Jyoti powered defending champion India to a 9-1 win over Singapore and helped the team qualify for the semifinals of the women's Asia Cup hockey tournament here on Monday. In the semifinals on Wednesday, Pool A runner-up India will take on Pool B leader Korea, while Pool A topper Japan will meet Pool B runner-up China. The final is scheduled for Thursday. The top four teams have qualified for this year’s World Cup to be co-hosted by Spain and Netherlands. Gurjit converted two penalty corners and also scored a field goal (8th, 37th, 48th), while Monika (6th, 17th) and Jyoti (43rd, 58th) scored two field goals each. Vandana Katariya (8th) and Mariana Kujur (10th) were the other scorers.  .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-enters-semifinal-books-world-cup-spot/article64945857.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,||These men are still competitive, entertaining||Naman Ojha played a blinder at the Al Amerat Cricket Stadium here the other night. But his 140 off just 69 balls didn’t prove enough for India Maharajas to win against World Giants. A stunning onslaught from a man who is known primarily for his leg-spin took his side home with three wickets and as many balls to spare. Imran Tahir’s 52 not out off 19 balls turned the match around. Fellow South-African Kevin Pietersen had set up the chase with 53 off 27 balls. Final over thrillers That means the first three matches of the inaugural edition of the Legends League Cricket were all decided in the final over. The retired cricketers have proved that they could be more competitive than some people would have expected. The 40-ball 80 by Yusuf Pathan had lit up the opening match, as he powered Maharajas to a six-wicket win against Asia Lions, for which Upul Tharanga had hit 66 off 46 balls earlier. Then in the second match, Kevin O’Brien smashed 95 off 46 balls, only to end on the losing side as the Giants’ daunting total was overtaken by Lions, for which the Lankan duo Tillakaratne Dilshan (52, 32b) and Taranga (63, 43b) were in fine form. The tournament has not just captured the imagination of the cricket fans in Oman. The streaming of the opening match on YouTube attracted more than 3.3 lakh views. And there have been more than 3.7 lakh views for the last match. These men continue to entertain. (The writer is in Muscat at the invitation of Legends League Cricket)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/these-men-are-still-competitive-entertaining/article64945859.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:03 IST,||Athreya crushes Swantons, enters final||Athreya Cricket Academy, Thrissur crushed Swantons CC, Ernakulam by 82 runs to enter the final of the Dr. M.S. Nair memorial all-Kerala cricket tournament at the KCA stadium here on Monday. Batting first, Athreya recovered from a disastrous position (58/6) in the 21st over to reach 173 in 50 overs. Arju (46) and Ujwal (34) figured in a 56-run ninth-wicket stand which was instrumental in Athreya putting up a fighting total. Thampi scalps four Basil Thampi (4/26) was the most successful bowler for Swantons. Swantons stuttered early in the chase, losing three wickets in the opening over and was bowled out for 91 in 38 overs. Athif Bin Ashraf (3/7) and Arju (3/18) did the damage with the ball for Athreya.  The scores: Athreya, Thrissur 173 in 50 overs (Arju 46, Ujwal 34, Basil Thampi 4/26) bt Swantons, Ernakulam 91 in 38 overs (Harikrishnan 37 n.o., Athif Bin Ashraf 3/7, Arju 3/18) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/athreya-crushes-swantons-enters-final/article38322359.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:24 IST,||Late win brings Barca cheer||A late strike by Frenkie de Jong earned Barcelona a 1-0 win at Alaves in LaLiga on Sunday and rescued three points for Xavi Hernandez’s men on another day of struggles against lowly sides. Alaves squandered a number of chances before Barcelona broke the deadlock in the 87th minute when de Jong latched on to a Ferran Torres pass to fire in from close range. Barcelona, which has already been eliminated from the this season’s Champions League and Copa del Rey, climbed to fifth in the standings with 35 points from 21 matches. It trails leader Real Madrid by 15 points, with a game in hand., and is only a point adrift of fourth-placed Atletico Madrid. “The victory was really important because of our situation in the league and the difficult season that we are going through, but we still have a lot of things to work on and improve,” said de Jong. In Serie A, AC Milan was held to a 0-0 draw by Juventus at the San Siro, as it dropped to third in the table, four points behind the leader Inter Milan.  The results:   LaLiga: Granada 0 lost to Osasuna 2 (Garcia 64, Kike 89); Rayo Vallecano 0 lost to Athletic Bilbao 1 (Serrano 30); Real Sociedad 0 drew with Getafe 0; Alaves 0 lost to Barcelona 1 (de Jong 87).   Serie A: Cagliari 1 (Joao Pedro 47) drew with Fiorentina 1 (Sottil 75); Empoli 2 (Pinamonti 55, Bajrami 72) lost to Roma 4 (Abraham 24, 33, Oliveira 36, Zaniolo 37); Spezia 1 (Verde 69) bt Sampdoria 0; Torino 1 (Sanabria 16) drew with Sassuolo 1 (Raspadori 88); AC Milan 0 drew with Juventus 0.   Bundesliga: RB Leipzig 2 (Orban 76, Gvardiol 84) bt VfL Wolfsburg 0; Hertha Berlin 1 (Ekkelenkamp 80) lost to Bayern Munich 4 (Tolisso 25, Mueller 45, Sane 74, Gnabry 79) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-jong-is-barcas-saviour/article64945935.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:17 IST,||India fined for slow over-rate||India was fined 40% of its match fee for maintaining a slow over-rate against South Africa in the third ODI here the ICC said on Monday. Match referee Andy Pycroft imposed the sanction after K.L. Rahul’s side was ruled to be two overs short.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-fined-for-slow-over-rate/article38321936.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:17 IST,||Tanvi stuns Niyati||Sree Tanvi Dasari stunned fifth seed Niyati Kukreti 6-2, 6-3 in the girls’ first round of the ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament here on Monday.  Other results (first round):   Boys: Denim Yadav bt Aryan Arora 6-2, 6-1; Jason David bt Dhanush Varma 6-2, 6-3; Akarsh Gaonkar bt Mohammmad Malik 7-5, 6-0; Vineeth Mutyala bt Kavin Karthik 6-2, 6-1; Ritvik Nadikude bt Siddharth Gowthaman 6-1, 6-1; Prajwal bt Adhirit 6-3, 3-6, 6-4; Kriish bt Jasmeet 6-0, 6-2; Deep Munim bt Vansh Nandal 6-2, 6-1; Shivam Kadam bt Arjun Gohad 6-0, 6-4; Keerthivassan Suresh bt Ansh Kundu 6-1, 6-1; Azmeer Shaikh bt Manavardhan Rakhecha 6-3, 7-5; Saheb Sodhi bt Tharakesh Ashokar 2-6, 6-3, 6-2.   Girls: Sonal Patil bt Thaniya Sarai 6-1, 6-1; Durganshi bt Sweta Rana 6-3, 6-1; Gauri Mangaonkar bt Tamanna Panwar 6-1, 6-0; Nandini bt Kaavya 6-1, 6-0; Saijayani Banerjee bt Penal Kharadkar 7-6(10), 6-1; Diva Bhatia bt Millee Chug 6-4, 6-2; Aanya Choubey (US) bt Ajenika Puri 6-0, 6-0; Sreenidhi bt Kaira Chetnani 6-0, 6-0; Amishi bt Radhika 6-2, 4-6, 6-3; Shakshi bt Saily 1-6, 6-4, 7-5; Kashish Bote bt Pari Chavan 6-0, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tanvi-stuns-niyati/article38322104.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,||It’s Lucknow Super Giants||The Lucknow franchise of the Indian Premier League (IPL) will be known as Lucknow Super Giants. Sanjiv Goenka, the chairman of the Kolkata-based R.P. Sanjiv Goenka Group which owns the franchise, announced the name on Monday, following an initiative, inviting fans to join the ‘Naam banao, naam kamao’ contest and suggest names for the new team, launched on Jan. 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-lucknow-super-giants/article38321937.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,||Maninder stars for Warriors||Maninder Singh (13 points) was the star for Bengal Warriors as it beat Jaipur Pink Panthers 41-22 in a ProKabaddi League Season 8 match here on Monday. Puneri Paltan demolished Dabang Delhi 42-25.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maninder-stars-for-warriors/article38321935.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 06:28 IST,||Ogbeche ’tricks, sinks EB||Bartholomew Ogbeche performed a hat-trick to help Hyderabad FC crush East Bengal 4-0 in an Indian Super League fixture at the Tilak Maidan Stadium, Vasco, on Monday and move to the top of the table. Aniket Jadhav scored the other goal. SC EB made a couple of costly errors in the first half, allowing HFC to score twice. Hyderabad coach Manolo Marquez, aware of SC EB’s shaky defence, employed two of his best attackers: experienced Nigerian Bartholomew Ogbeche and young Spaniard Javier Siverio. The Indian trio of Nikhil Poojary, Hitesh Sharma, Akash Mishra and Aniket Jadhav was at the forefront of the attacks on the flanks as Hyderabad made numerous forays into the SC EB box. HFC broke through in the 21st minute after three successive corners. Ogbeche’s header took a minor deflection off East Bengal defender Semboi Haokip and slipped out of East Bengal goalkeeper Arindam Bhattacharya’s reach. SC EB had an opportunity to equalise in the 40th minute, but Joao Victor pulled off a goalline save to deny Antonio Perosevic. In the 44th minute, Ogbeche made the most of another defensive error by SC EB centre-back Adil Khan to score his second. A minute later, Aniket capped a solo effort with a neat finish before Ogbeche netted his third in the 74th minute.  The result: SC East Bengal 0 lost to Hyderabad FC 4 (Ogbeche 21, 44 & 74, Aniket 45) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ogbeche-tricks-sinks-eb/article64945854.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:17 IST,||ATK MB, Odisha go goalless||ATK Mohun Bagan (ATK MB) resumed its Indian Super League campaign playing out a goalless draw with Odisha FC in the second match of Sunday’s double header, at Fatorda. The first half belonged to Mohun Bagan, which made relentless attacks just to be denied a goal by the Odisha defence, especially its goalkeeper Arshdeep Singh. The ATK MB attack created chances at will but lacked the decisive touch to convert one of the many openings coming up at the Odisha goalmouth. Adding to ATK MB’s agony was the fine showing by Arshdeep under the bar. The young custodian came up with some brilliant saves and prevented Roy Krishna twice and Liston Colaco once from scoring what appeared to be sure goals. ATK Mohun Bagan substitute Prabir Das had the chance to seal the match in the 89th minute but produced a wayward shot when he just had to tap the ball into an open goal from five yards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atk-mb-odisha-go-goalless/article38322392.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:55 IST,||Anusha stars in Venkat CA’s triumph||S. Anusha’s unbeaten 76 helped Venkat CA beat Smiling Pearls CA by 66 runs to clinch the title in the Swastik Cricket Promoters Women’s Open Age T20 tournament held recently. Tamil Nadu cricketer N. Niranjana gave away the prizes.  The scores (final): Venkat CA 170/3 in 20 overs (S. Anusha 76 n.o., Anam Rana 51) bt Smiling Pearls CA 104/7 in 20 overs (Kowsalya 34, Arshi Choudhary 3/26).   Special awards: Best batter: Trisha Madhu (Spark); best bowler: Shanmuga Priya (PSCA); best fielder: Steffi Sylvia (SPCA); best wicketkeeper: Aishwarya (SPCA); best all-rounder: Akshara Srinivasan (Spark); Player of the series: Arshi Choudhary (Venkat CA) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anusha-stars-in-venkat-cas-triumph/article38322023.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:32 IST,||A peek into the amazing world of spiders||During the summer of 2010, parts of Pakistan received 10 years’ worth of rainfall in a single week. As the monsoon waters rose, millions of local spiders scampered to take shelter among the higher branches in the trees around. Then they began to spin their webs. When the flood finally receded, they moved away leaving behind ghostly, web-filled trees. Of course, this was a great photo opportunity for the Pakistanis. But something else happened. Visiting health authorities noted that the webs helped reduce mosquito populations despite all the stagnant water in the area. Apparently, the bugs were as drawn in by the webs as the photographers were! The spider world is a fascinating one. Read about this extraordinary araneae (scientific name for a spider) and its web-spinning talents. River-spanning spider web The Darwin’s Bark Spider, which was first identified in Madagascar in 2009, perhaps makes the world’s largest web by a single spider. The web sometimes goes across a river. The strength of the web has been found to be the world’s strongest biological material. Zoologist Ingi Agnarsson and colleagues have found Darwin's Bark Spider webs as wide as 82 feet (25 metres) - about the length of two city buses. The webs were discovered in the Andasibe-Mantadia National Park, Madagascar. The DBS and its record-breaking webs were unknown to science till they were documented by the team.   An analysis of the DBS silk indicates that it is the toughest biological material discovered to date. “‘Tough’ here means the ability to absorb energy before breaking, and results from a combination of strength and elasticity,” Agnarsson explained. The DBS silk “is about the strength of steel but much, much tougher, because it also stretches. It is many times tougher than even Kevlar, which is one of the best man-made materials.” Despite spinning webs of Spiderman-size and strength, the DBS uses them to catch only small fry – insects such as mayflies and dragonflies. Dozens of mayflies have been photographed hanging helplessly in a DBS web. Unlike their webs, Darwin's bark spiders aren't very big: Not counting its legs, an adult is usually less than 0.8 inch (2 centimetres) long. But it manages to spin amazing webs. . What’s their web made of? Darwin's Bark Spider webs are made out of two basic kinds of silk. The DBS spins “Dragline” silk to create the supporting strands that tie up the endpoints of an orb web to tree branches overhanging rivers or lakes. These are the radial (spreading out) threads in the web. The spider makes stretchier, stickier silk to create the spiral (the strands that connect the radial threads) that captures prey. When an insect flies into the web, it gets stuck, and its struggles cause the silk lines to vibrate, alerting the waiting DBS. The spider then crawls to the captured insect, and envelops it in a silk cocoon to eat at leisure. Unlike most spiders, the DBS will sometimes wrap several insect corpses into a single cocoon, creating a snack pack for breakfast, lunch or dinner. The DBS weavers of the largest webs are almost always female, say the biologists who have studied the spider. Juvenile males also weave spider webs, but once they become adults, they abandon this task and instead channel their energies solely towards reproduction. Protection from predators For survival, the DBS relies in part on its mottled, jagged appearance, which camouflages the spider against trees. This effective camouflage gave the DBS its name. If you remember, it is renowned naturalist Charles Darwin who first wrote about animal camouflage. The DBS species is known to exist only on the island of Madagascar, off Africa's south-eastern coast. In 2010, scientists discovered the web of another species that may be a close relative of the DBS. That too happens to live in Madagascar's Andasibe-Mantadia National Park. The central orb structure of this spider's web is about three feet (one metre) wide. By contrast, the orb of a DBS web can grow up to seven feet (two metres) across, though most are much smaller. Who are the best spinners? Agnarsson hopes that studies of the species will help shed light on the mysteries of spider silk. “Almost all of the spider-silk research has focussed on one or two spider species," he said, referring to golden orb weavers and spiders of the Agriope genus. “Our interest is in looking much more broadly across the diversity of spiders. There's no reason to think that the two exemplar species that most researchers happen to be studying [are the only ones that] make the best silk of all the spiders.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/a-peek-into-the-amazing-world-of-spiders/article64946261.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:33 IST,||Collins wins epic match||Fired-up American Danielle Collins stayed on track for match her 2019 Melbourne Park heroics as she battled through an epic against Elise Mertens to make the Australian Open quarter-finals on Monday. The 27th seed outlasted 19th seeded Mertens 4-6, 6-4, 6-4 in a 2hr 51min marathon in sweltering heat on Rod Laver Arena. It earned her the right to play either two-time Grand Slam winner Simona Halep or French veteran Alize Cornet for a place in the last four. “It was really tough for me, I played a long match as well the other day so I had to make a lot of technical adjustments to be able to get myself moving around,” said Collins. “That was a big challenge.” She is the third American woman to make the last eight, with Madison Keys and Jessica Pegula also through. Collins was an Australian Open semi-finalist three years ago, but she has failed to match that effort since. However, she clinched her maiden WTA Tour titles in San Jose and Palermo last year to rejuvenate her career after a tough start to 2021 when she needed surgery to remove a cyst. She had a dream start, holding comfortably then breaking Mertens. But the Belgium soon warmed to the task and pushed Collins hard on her next service game. The American held on but Mertens worked her first break point and converted for 1-3 when Collins netted then threw her racquet to the ground in frustration. Constantly berating herself, Collins began to wilt in the heat as Mertens stayed cool to win five games in a row and take an enthralling set. But she composed herself at the changeover and raced to a 3-0 lead in the second set as she found her groove again and put constant pressure on the Mertens serve. The rallies were again long and Collins prevailed to take it to a decider, where momentum shifted as they exchanged breaks before Mertens ended with a whimper, double-faulting on match point.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/collins-wins-epic-match/article38321621.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:31 IST,||This or that?||1. A huge wave / waive crashed against the sea shore. 2. I was a wreck / wreak when you didn't answer the phone. 3. The security device has a heat sensor / censor. 4. It was a novel / naval idea that every welcomed. 5. The council / counsel will meet to discuss tax changes. Answers:1. Wave, 2. Wreck, 3. Sensor, 4. Novel, 5. Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/this-or-that/article64946272.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:31 IST,||Fun fact||The banana is scientifically a berry, whereas the strawberry is not. As per the classification of a berry, it must contain seeds inside the flesh, not outside. Did you know that each cluster of bananas is called a ‘hand’ and the individual bananas on the hands are called ‘fingers”? Q. The banana belongs to the family of plants called ________||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/fun-fact/article64946269.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:33 IST,||India’s first food museum||Did you know India’s first-ever food museum has come up in Tamil Nadu? Come, let’s find out more about it. Who developed it? The Food Corporation of India, in association with the Visvesvaraya Industrial and Technological Museum, Bengaluru, has set up the digital food museum in Thanjavur, Tamil Nadu, across an area of 1,860 sq ft and at a cost of about Rs 1.1 crore. Thanjavur, known as the rice bowl of the State, is also the birth place of the FCI, whose first office was inaugurated in the district in January 1965. The museum, located on the ground floor of the FCI’s regional office, also commemorates the FCI’s role in the production, preservation and distribution of food grains in the country. Union Minister Piyush Goyal virtually launched the museum on November 15, 2021. Food for thought The first food museum is a one-of-its-kind effort to depict India’s journey in food production from the beginning to the country becoming one of the dominant food producers in the world. The museum boasts state-of the-art exhibits which can be operated by visitors using projectors, touch screens, sensors, etc. The museum showcases the history of farming and food storage within and outside the country. It traces the evolution of the early man from being hunter-gatherers foraging for food to establishing permanent settlements to cultivate food grains, marking the beginning of civilisation. The story of the first harvest, the rise of the villages, the evolution of granaries, and the perils posed by pests during storage, among other things, are covered. The museum has on display the major grains, fruits, and vegetables grown in India, information on ancient grain storage methods and challenges, and sheds light on the food cultures existing in different parts of the world. What’s more, the entry to the museum is free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/indias-first-food-museum/article64946253.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:33 IST,||Discovered: a coral reef of hope||Scientists have discovered a vast reef of “pristine” rose-shaped corals apparently unharmed by climate change in deep water off the coast of Tahiti, UNESCO announced recently. Mapping approximately three km long and up to 213 ft wide, UNESCO said it was “one of the most extensive healthy coral reefs on record”. The UN heritage agency said it was “highly unusual” to find healthy coral in cooler waters between 30 and 65 metres deep and that it could suggest that there are more reefs in the ocean depth that are safer from the impacts of warming waters. The discovery was made in November by divers with special equipment that allowed them to go deeper and spend 200 hours at the reef. The giant rose-shaped corals are each up to two metres in diameter. “It was magical to witness giant, beautiful rose corals which stretch for as far as the eye can see. It was like a work of art,” said Alexis Rosenfeld, a French photographer and founder of the UNESCO partner 1 Ocean campaign. “To date, we know the surface of the moon better than the deep ocean,” said UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay, adding that only 20% of the world’s seabed has been mapped. Deeper and more protected “The discovery of this reef in such a pristine condition is good news and can inspire future conservation,” said Laetitia Hedouin, a marine biologist at French research agency (CNRS). “We think that deeper reefs may be better protected from global warming.” Most of the world’s known reefs have been found at depths of up to 25 metres and the UN heritage body said the Tahiti reef could suggest there are more areas of healthy coral in the ocean’s unmapped “twilight zone”. “This remarkable discovery in Tahiti demonstrates the incredible work of scientists who, with the support of UNESCO, further the extent of our knowledge about what lies beneath,” said Azoulay. French Polynesia suffered a significant bleaching event back in 2019, but this newly discovered reef does not appear to have been significantly affected. “These corals do not show signs of stress or disease,” Hedouin told AFP.AFP   Coral bleaching and deaths Corals are marine invertebrates living in colonies, forming large underwater structures called coral reefs. Each individual coral is a polyp. Most corals have a symbiotic relationship with an algae called zooxanthellae. They live in the coral polyp’s body, and through photosynthesis, provide energy for themselves and the polyp. They also give corals their spectacular colours. Without these algae, the corals are colourless. When ocean waters warm, the corals expel the algae and return to their colourless selves. This is called coral bleaching. If oceans keep warming, the corals will not allow the algae to return, and will eventually die.   Tahiti is an island in French Polynesia, located in the central South Pacific Ocean.   Did you know? The recent volcanic eruption in Tonga that triggered tsunami waves across the Pacific has not affected the reef off Tahiti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/discovered-a-coral-reef-of-hope/article64946254.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:31 IST,||Space odyssey||1. Red stars are ..........................., while blue stars are ....................... 2. The .....................constitutes 99% of the total mass of our solar system. 3. When you look up at the night sky with the naked eye, every star you see is part of ......................... galaxy. 4. All stars are made of the same basic ingredients: ....................... & ........................ 5. As a humorous tribute to the cosmologist ..............................and his association with the catchphrase "billions and billions", ‘Sagan’ has been defined as a unit of measurement equivalent to a very large number – technically at least four billion (two billion plus two billion) – of anything.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/space-odyssey/article64946271.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:31 IST,||Picture story||Can you describe the picture in a few words? Be creative. ______________________ ______________________ ______________________ ______________________ ______________________ ______________________||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/picture-story/article64946268.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:32 IST,||ARTIVITY||Read the newspaper and create an original artwork based on a news item that interests you and send your entry in JPEG format (not as PDF) to school@thehindu.co.in with the subject - Artivity. ONLY artworks based on current news or issues relating to Science, Space, Environment, Wildlife and Sports will be considered for publication. Please AVOID mailing other works. Mention your name, class, school and city in the same mail (not in separate mails).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/artivity/article38321650.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:33 IST,||Do light-coloured clothes keep you cool?||We are often told to wear light-coloured clothes and avoid black in summer to beat the heat. But does the idea have any scientific basis to it? In 1980, scientists wanted to find out something that has baffled them for years – why do people residing in hot deserts wear black? Shouldn’t they be wearing something light-coloured or white, they wondered. They did a study titled "Why do Bedouins wear black robes in hot deserts?", which was later published in the journal Nature . (Bedouins are nomadic Arabs of the desert)  They studied the condition at Egypt’s Sinai desert where residents wore black robes. They made their subjects wear black and then white and recorded their body temperatures. They found the difference in temperature to be nil. The report pointed out that the amount of heat experienced by a Bedouin in the desert is the same whether he wore a black or a white robe. There are other studies that argue that black clothes are better than white ones, provided they are loose fitting and airy. White clothes reflect the sun's rays back into the atmosphere. But heat is not just coming from the sun. It’s also coming off a person's body. When the body heat hits the white clothing covering it, it gets reflected back towards the body. On the other hand, black clothing absorbs heat from the sun as well as the body. This heat is lost before it reaches the skin due to convection as the loose clothing allows free flow of air. (Heat energy is transferred from hot places to cooler places by convection.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/do-light-coloured-clothes-keep-you-cool/article64946255.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:32 IST,||Is it the end of the pandemic in Europe?||The Covid-19 pandemic has entered a new phase with the Omicron variant, which could infect 60 percent of people in Europe by March, and could bring it to an end, the WHO Europe director said. “It's plausible that the region is moving towards a kind of pandemicendgame,” Hans Kluge told AFP, urging nonetheless caution due to the virus' ability to mutate.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/is-it-the-end-of-the-pandemic-in-europe/article38321671.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:32 IST,||Delhi logs highest January rainfall in 122 years||New Delhi A spell of rain late Saturday night brought Delhi'scumulativeprecipitation this January to 88.2 mm, which is the highest in the month since 1901, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Before this, the capital recorded 79.7 mm of rainfall in 1989 and 73.7 mm in 1953, the IMD data showed. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, has recorded six rainy days and 88.2 mm of rainfall this month so far. It got 19.7 mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30 am on Sunday. The Palam Observatory also received a record 110 mm of precipitation this month, according to the data available on the IMD's website. The rainfall also brought the maximum temperature in the capital down to 14.7 degrees Celsius on Saturday, seven notches below normal and the lowest this season so far. The maximum temperatures have been lower than normal since the second week of January. Minimum temperatures have been close to and above normal. This is largely due to clouds and rain preventing long exposure to sunshine between January 9 and January 19, said Mahest Palawat, Vice President (Meteorology and Climate Change), Skymet Weather.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/delhi-logs-highest-january-rainfall-in-122-years/article64946259.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:32 IST,||‘Rancho’s school may get much-awaited CBSE nod||More than two decades after it was founded, Druk Padma Karpo School in Ladakh, popularly known as “Rancho's school”, may get the much-awaited CBSE affiliation this year as it got the clearance from the Jammu and Kashmir board after a long delay. The school which shot to fame after it featured in the Aamir Khan-starrer “3 Idiots” in 2009, is presently affiliated to Jammu and Kashmir State Board of School Education (JKBOSE). “We have been trying to get our school affiliated to the CBSE for many years,” school principal Mingur Agmo told PTI. "Though we have all the required infrastructure in place, excellent result record, and focus oninnovativeways of teaching and learning, we didn’t get the NOC from JKBOSE despite several attempts all these years," she said. "Finally, the document has been received this month and we will complete rest of the process for affiliation soon. We are hoping that we will get the affiliation this year and there will be no more hurdles," she added. The 21-year-old school is named after Mipham Pema Karpo (1527-1592), who is revered as a great scholar, while Padma Karpo means 'White Lotus” in Bothi, the local language. The wall of the school's building was featured in the closing scene of the Bollywood film. While the ‘iconic idiotic wall’ -- part of a building which was damaged in the 2010 flash floods -- still remains on campus, the first floor, earlier made of bricks, has been replaced with wooden structures typically used in Ladakh. The school decided in 2018 to relocate the "Rancho's wall" to ensure students don't get distracted due to inflow of tourists.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/ranchos-school-may-get-much-awaited-cbse-nod/article64946257.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:31 IST,||Word of the day||Idiosyncrasy is a noun which refers to an unusual or peculiar character or habit of someone, mostly those that are distinct and individualistic. Origin  The term "idiosyncrasy" originates from Greek idiosynkrasia , which means "a peculiar temperament, habit”.  Usage The film moves forward through the protagonist’s voice-over – it’s one of the filmmaker’s idiosyncrasies. Activity Use the word in a sentence of your own||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/word-of-the-day/article38321628.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:32 IST,||Why does light travel faster than sound?||We often compare light and sound because they correspond to two senses that inform us about our surroundings remotely. But from a physicist's perspective, they are very different. Light can be described by weightless little particles moving at very high speed, called photons, while sound is what we perceive from small variations in the density of the air around us. When thunder breaks, the lightning emits photons which travel almost freely towards us, at a speed that would make them reach the Moon in about a second. Lightning also disturbs the surrounding air molecules, and this is what produces sound: the disturbance in the air propagates from molecule to molecule until it reaches our ears. This makes it much slower than photons. Actually, while sound needs a medium like air or water to propagate, photons can travel in empty space, which is how the Sun's light reaches us.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/why-does-light-travel-faster-than-sound/article64946262.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:33 IST,||happy republic day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/happy-republic-day/article64946251.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:32 IST,||Three-minute fun reads||•Among several important functions that a computer does is to help us visit websites. Websites themselves have become very integral to our everyday lives - from banking and music, video sharing to shopping and reading the morning newspaper - that they can all be accessed through mobile phones these days. Have you wondered about the history of the website? •The history of websites begins with a British scientist named Tim Berners-Lee. He was working at CERN in Geneva. CERN is the European particle physics laboratory. CERN was looking at finding ways to help several groups of researchers share information at one place and more easily. That is when Berners-Lee is said to have come up with a way to bringing together hypertext - the technique to link documents with clickable words - and the Internet, already used in CERN. In 1990, a Web or WWW server and a browser were up and running at CERN. Gradually, over several years, the Web began to expand outside of CERN. Today it is an important tool for international connectivity in unimaginable ways. ACTIVITY CORNER 1. Expand WWW. ________________________________________________________________________ 2. In which country is CERN located? ________________________________________________________________________||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/three-minute-fun-reads/article64946266.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:32 IST,||ww.magicsquarepuzzles.com(9840662780)||Fill the empty cells using numbers from 1 to 64 each only once such that 1) Each row, column and two main diagonals of each 4x4 sub square gives the magic sum of 130. 2) Each 2 x 2 square marked in the same colour gives the sum of 130. 3) The center 2 x 2 marked in black border in each 4x4 sub square gives a sum of 130. 4) Group of cells in boxes within dotted lines is a cage. Cage sum is mentioned at the top in respective colours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/wwmagicsquarepuzzlescom9840662780/article64946267.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:32 IST,||Bringing home Healer||Once I found a puppy on the street shivering in cold, so I thought of taking it home and adopting it. But my mom wasn’t a pet lover so she didn’t like the idea. Hence I kept it outside my house and fed it milk every day. After a few days, the pandemic started which made my mom feel tired and stressed out. One day, I suggested taking a stroll around our neighbourhood along with the puppy to make her feel better. And that did the trick! My mom felt better after a while and happily agreed to bring the puppy home. You know what we have named him? “Healer”. S. Vedhamithraa IX-E, Sri Vignesh Vidyalaya SeniorSecondary School, Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/bringing-home-healer/article38321649.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:32 IST,||I love Teddy||I got a Pomeranian puppy today as a gift from my uncle. I’ve named him Teddy, as he looks like a baby teddy bear. My sister and I played with him for a long time. He is cute, chubby and white in colour. When I offered food, Teddy finished it in no time. When my mom raised her hand to beat me, he started barking at her. Oh, I love my Teddy very much. B. J. Prami Kowshika V-B, Kendriya Vidyalaya Nagercoil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/i-love-teddy/article38321648.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:32 IST,||Can you identify the person in this picture?||She is the only Indian to make the coveted list of players in International Cricket Council’s T20I Team of the Year. Send your entries by 11 a.m. to school@thehindu.co.in along with your name class, and school. [Subject: Person.]Previous answer: Mamata Banerjee. Congrats to R.P.Saindhavi, Class II, D A V Sec School; M. Vaishnavi, Class VII, KV, Anna Nagar; K. Mahima, Class VII, KV, Mandapam; Karnish Ganesh, Class VII, KV, CLRI, Adyar; Ashish Mishra, Class VI, GBN Senior Secondary School Faridabad; Shreeraj Ramesh Nakhate, Class IV, Vision English School, Selu; R.Vishak Karthikeyan, Class III, KV, Nagercoil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/can-you-identify-the-person-in-this-picture/article64946256.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 03:32 IST,||activity||1. Can you find out how the Darwin’s Bark Spider spins a web across a river? ________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________ 2. Choose another spider (the tarantula, for example) and do a profile with pictures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-in-school/activity/article64946260.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:19 IST,||Raise your glass||Gin is still a hot trend globally, but Tequila and mezcal will soon catch up, according to bar consultants and celebrity promoters like The Rock. And that’s why we have a new 100% aged agave spirit in the country — Maya Pistola Agavepura.Since Tequila is a distilled spirit made from the blue Agave and produced only in Mexico, what is distilled from agave in India is simply termed as ‘agave spirit’. Desmond Nazareth, the man who launched DesmondJi and India’s own 100% agave and 51% agave spirits 12 years ago, has had a role to play with this second 100% aged agave spirit in the country. Recently launched, Pistola comes fromRakshay and Radhika Dhariwal, the siblingduo behind Passcode Hospitality and popular bars like Jamun, PCO and Ping’s. Nazareth helped the duo set up a distilling facility in Chittoor, from where the agave travels to Goa to be blended and bottled. The first variant to hit the markets is the Reposado, aged for five months on average, in virgin American White Oak and ex-Bourbon casks in Goa. Currently retailed in Goa (soon Delhi and Mumbai). Meanwhile, for gin and coffee fans, a collab between NAO Spirits (Greater Than and Hapusa) and Sleepy Owl Coffee has resulted in the country’s first coffee-infused gin. Launched on Christmas, No Sleep, a limited release gin, is the result of infusing acold brew using 100% Arabicacoffeefrom Chikmagalur, Karnataka, in gindistillate. They say thecoffee’s bold, fruity aromas rise to the surface with a splash of tonic water and an orange wedge. Suitable for cocktails like Negroni or Espresso Martini.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/raise-your-glass/article64946124.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:19 IST,||’Social media has turned us all into performers’||Seize the moment, tell your story. That’s the sentiment that’s driven veteran dancer Anita Ratnam for the last 30 years — first in her interaction with the internet and, more recently, social media platforms. “People unknown two years ago have become huge stars on social media, all because they have seized the moment. They are younger and more nimble, but that doesn’t mean that at any age we can’t continue to morph and use technology,” says the enthusiastic 65-year-old, one of the first to have a website way back in 1996. (Narthaki.com started off as a telephone directory with 1,000 names — an idea that took shape when the American Broadcasting Company couldn’t reach dancer Yamini Krishnamurthy, and Ratnam helped source her number.) “Media and visibility are so democratised now. The towers and castles have all been demolished. So, why should I be sitting in one?” Having worked for 10 years in New York as a television producer, media was not new to her. Neither was imagining the camera to be her best friend. Keeping things social  Ratnam took to social media “for myself — to stay sane, curious, centered and positive”. During the pandemic, it was a matter of jugaad. “I could not order lights. I was balancing my phone on a book stand and opening the curtains hoping for light on my face.”  Though her last stage performance was in Baroda in March 2020, she hasn’t missed dancing. “I feel I’ve performed so much. Digital media is performative. Whether we’re talking on Zoom or any kind of environment, we’ve all become performers because of this rectangle screen.” In the last two years, the producer in Ratnam has largely been at the helm of things. In April 2020, when the pandemic began, she hosted a month-long Facebook series of invited written pieces, called Pandemic Ponderings — where she asked creative people ‘What are you feeling?’ In May, she ran a live series called ‘Boxed’ on Instagram for over eight weekends, with five presentations every day. “We asked them to choose one place in their home they spent the most time in. Some chose the bathroom, the bathtub, kitchen, couch, or balcony. It helped them psychologically.” The digital series has been nominated for an award from the U.K.-based Manch Arts, a virtual platform that promotes cross-arts events.  Since then, there’s been Taalam Talkies , a six-episode series on cinema and Bharatanatyam on YouTube; Devi Diaries  , a series of dance commissions on Narthaki’s YouTube channel (she did two seasons in October 2020 and 2021, for 31 days, at 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. — 62 original performances); and Andaal’s Garden , an original series produced during Margazhi 2020, and more.  Digital responsibility Now, two years in, she is thinking about legacy. “I don’t run a school, I don’t have students. My entire legacy, as it is, is in the digital media.” In 30 years, Narthaki has collected “valuable information and the writings of well-known writers whose last writings are with us. It’s a huge responsibility”. She’s working with a consultancy “to look at how Narthaki can stay as a platform of value for the next three years. I don’t like to make five-year and 10-year plans because things are shifting so quickly”. She also launched neonarthaki.com in August 2020 as a platform to address issues around dance that the main brand was not addressing. “It started with #MeToo and the caste issue in dance, and went on to embrace diversity, identity, LGBTQI+, etc.” Ratnam is looking forward to 2022. And it will be a hybrid approach. She’s part of an international storytelling festival in February, she’s accepted to act in a play in San Francisco. “I’m keeping myself open as to what I’m going to do — either offline or online.” Anita Ratnam speaks about the late Birju Maharaj’s legacy on weekend.thehindu.com   Instagram outshines all other media, she insists. “Between Reels, Stories and IGTV, this platform has become the most effective place to mirror the distraction, shrunken attention spans, and insatiable appetite for the new.” Ratnam has completed nearly 100 talks on Insta Live. “I had less than 5,000 followers in March 2020. Now I have over 50,000. I’ve learnt how to use Reels; I think Insta is perfect for the way we feel now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/social-media-has-turned-us-all-into-performers/article64946123.ece
25 January 2022||January 25 2022 05:18 IST,||A busy 2022 for India’s food industry||From exclusive dinners in offbeat locations to a couple of big-ticket launches in foreign destinations such as Seattle and Monaco, Indian restaurants and the food industry have plans for 2022 — if COVID-19 does not play spoilsport yet again! “I hear that 40-50 new restaurants are opening in Goa itself,” says a bemused top chef as we discuss what to expect this year. Most restaurateurs seem headed to the sunshine State, even as some of us bemoan the fact that it has become a mini ‘Delhi-Mumbai-Bengaluru’! “It is going to be like Bangalore of a few years ago, with experimental and creative projects but with prices in restaurants and bars lower than in Mumbai and Delhi,” says the chef, who is known for his foraging and farm-to-table experiments. First up, bar-friendly Goa India’s most creative bartenders, distillers and the bar community in general seem to have shifted en masse to Goa, not just because of an easier lifestyle but for its easier bar and bottling policies. 2021 saw Bar Tesouro come up in Colva, very international but also rooted in its tightly-knit south Goa community. By two of India’s leading bar experts — Pankaj Balachandran and Arijit Bose (with restaurateur Donovan Vaz as partner) — it quickly zipped up the World’s 50 Best Bars list at no. 65. Now ‘Bose’, as he is popularly called, and ‘I Say Negroni’ (his Instagram handle) Balachandran plan to set up another bar in Goa in 2022. But not Tesouro “as we don’t want to dilute it”, says Balachandran. “It will be very international while still being a local bar. You can call it a five-star local bar,” he chuckles. Ashish Kapur, the restaurateur known for his chic bar-meets-dining concepts such as The Wine Company (Delhi) and Antares (Goa), now spends half the year in Goa. He is ready to open a beach club-restaurant in Morjim in 2022, plus a boutique hotel in Assagao. Mumbai’s successful Izumi is looking to sprout a second outlet in Goa. What many are eagerly awaiting, however, is the local Goan bar and tapas brand Antonio in Fontainhas opening a “Japanese small bites sort of a place, post April”, according to an older Goa settler. Pop-ups and supper clubs If Goa is the OG destination, the OG trend for 2022 is luxe pop-ups in non-restaurant locales. Chef Prateek Sadhu of Masque, who has just come up with a concept called “Pravas” (or “journey”), is set to travel to different regions in India, beginning with the northeast. He plans to research local ingredients and traditions, develop dishes around these, and then go back to these locations with full-fledged pop-up dinners. “I did two dinners in Gwalior recently at the Jai Vilas Palace with food inspired by Gwalior. We sold tickets and diners flew in from Delhi, Mumbai and elsewhere,” he says. He aspires to create “bespoke journeys” and pop-ups in other parts of the country every few months — at around Rs. 10,000 per head. Storytelling in London around India’s lesser-known culinary cultures is set to gain ground too, where chef and restaurateur Asma Khan will focus on her supper clubs. Her restaurant Darjeeling Express (now at Covent Garden) did relatively well through the pandemic with its biryani and thali lunches — actor Paul Rudd aka Marvel’s Antman posted pictures on Instagram last year. “Through the pandemic, I realised I want to tell stories more, about the women who cook food in Indian homes, so I want to do more of the supper club thing,” says Khan. In Kolkata with her family after two years, Khan got to hear some stories herself over a new year meal with a Malda zamindari family. Oiendrila Ray Kapur, who comes from Harishchandrapur in Malda, served up ancestral recipes in her central Kolkata home near Ballygunje as a specially curated offering. We will see more such experiences coming into their own now. Bengaluru for the global young Indian In Bengaluru, one of the hottest under-the radar ‘non-restaurants’ of 2021 has been Farmlore. Helmed by three chefs with work experience at Michelin-starred and the World’s 50 Best restaurants, it is set within a 37-acre farm, offers freestyle, degustation-only menus to just 18 diners thrice a week, and tells stories about local produce and customs.  Nirupa Shankar of the Brigade Group, who spent New Year’s Eve there, says this exclusivity married to farm-to-table gastronomy will be in demand once the market opens up. Shankar, whose company owns several hotels in Bengaluru, is in the process of rejigging her own restaurants to cater to a younger, more global customer. Their Glass - Kitchen & Bar at the Holiday Inn on Racecourse Road, has opened recently in collaboration with Chef Abhijit Saha. Offering modern Indian regional food, with several offbeat dishes like hemp protein-enhanced idli and ajwain leaf fritters, it uses cleanly sourced ingredients, and is all instagrammable, as Shankar says. This may be a way forward for younger diners, marrying international trends with local flavours.  When brands like Avartana travel Avartana, the modern south Indian restaurant brand at ITC Grand Chola, is set to go national with an offshoot in Kolkata to begin with. There has been a buzz that Indian Accent is set to open in Mumbai, while restaurateur A.D. Singh of the Olive group is bringing a new brand to Gurugram later in the year. “It is something that I have seen internationally but not in India,” he says mysteriously. Zorawar Kalra is opening his first restaurant in the U.S., in Seattle — Farzi Cafe, tailored for North America — “at an epic location” (he is still tight-lipped about it) by mid-year, while one of India’s largest and most profitable restaurant companies, the Amit Burman-Rohit Aggarwal promoted Lite Bite Food, will focus on the UAE (besides smaller Indian cities like Pune, Kochi, Lucknow and Bhubaneswar) with Punjab Grill restaurants. This market is being looked upon as a sort of modern-day Casablanca for those seeking to escape pandemic hardships. Finally, in what is one of the most unusual locations, The Wine Company’s Ashish Kapur is zeroing in on Monaco for a fully Indian experiment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-busy-2022-for-indias-food-industry/article64946125.ece
