26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||Centre to remind States again of IAS cadre rules||The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) will send another reminder to States to respond to its proposal to amend the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, with which Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Forest Service (IFoS) officers could be deputed to the Union government and Ministries without necessarily taking the State government’s nod. So far, 16 States have responded. Seven States — Haryana, Manipur, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Arunachal Pradesh, all governed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — have given their consent to the proposal. Five States — Odisha, Meghalaya, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and West Bengal — have responded to the DoPT, opposing the amendments. The Chief Ministers of three other States — Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Telangana — have written to the Prime Minister to register their opposition. A senior government official said that January 25 was the deadline to respond but as many States have not sent their replies, the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions will send another reminder this week.  The Union government is facing an acute shortage of All India Services (AIS) officers, and despite existing provisions, States are not sponsoring adequate numbers of officers for Central deputation, and the available officers are not sufficient to meet requirements, the DoPT has said. As reported by The Hindu , the DoPT had earlier sent three letters on December 20, December 27, and January 6, seeking comments from the States, but after half-a-dozen States opposed the move and the rest did not respond, it further revised the proposal on January 12.  The initial proposal (of December 20), only had two amendments — first, States had to send a list of all officers available for the Central deputation reserve, and the “actual number of officers to be deputed... shall be decided by the Central Government in consultation with State Government concerned”; and second, in case of any disagreement, the State will give effect to the decision of the Centre “within a specified time”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-to-remind-states-again-of-ias-cadre-rules/article64945509.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||India has shown unmatched resolve in facing COVID-19 threat: President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday said the country has shown unmatched resolve in the face of the extraordinary challenge posed to humankind by the coronavirus pandemic, and asserted that a strong and sensitive India is now emerging. Addressing the nation on the eve of 73rd Republic Day, President Kovind noted that democracy, justice, liberty, equality and fraternity form the bedrock of India, and urged the people to celebrate “Indian-ness” this Republic Day. As Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, the President said that this year was a watershed year for women’s empowerment, with “India’s daughters breaking a glass ceiling as Permanent Commission has now been allowed for women officers in new areas and our armed forces will benefit from better gender balance”. President Kovind urged citizens to not lower their guard and keep following COVID-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance. “It has been an extraordinary challenge to humankind. The pandemic management was bound to be all the more difficult in India. We have a high population density and, as a developing economy, we did not have the level of resources and infrastructure needed to battle this invisible enemy. But it is only in such difficult times that the resilience of a nation shines forth. I am proud to say that we have shown an unmatched resolve against the coronavirus,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-has-shown-unmatched-resolve-in-facing-covid-19-threat-president/article64945510.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||Gen. Rawat, Kalyan get Padma Vibhushan||General Bipin Rawat, India’s first Chief of Defence Staff who died in an air crash recently, and former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Kalyan Singh, who headed the State during Babri Masjid demolition, were selected for Padma Vibushan posthumously on the eve of Republic Day. Padma Vibhushan, part of the Padma series, is the second highest civilian award. Congress leader and former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir Ghulam Nabi Azad and former West Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee were awarded with Padma Bhushan. Bharat Biotech’s Suchitra and Krishna Ella, Serum Institute of India’s Cyrus Poonawalla were accorded with Padma Bhushan along with Natarajan Chandrasekaran, Chairman of Tata Sons. Olympian Neeraj Chopra, gold medallist at 2021 Tokyo paralympics Avani Lakhera and singer Sonu Nigam were given Padma Shri. Satya Narayana Nadella, Chairman and CEO of Microsoft Corporation, Sundararajan Pichai, CEO, Google and Alphabet were accorded with Padma Bhushan. Punjabi singer Gurmeet Bawa was given Padma Bhushan posthumously. Former Union Home Secretary and Comptroller General of India (CAG) Rajiv Mehrishi was also conferred with Padma Bhushan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gen-rawat-kalyan-get-padma-vibhushan/article64945508.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:17 IST,||One in two taking COVID test is positive||The COVID-19 transmission has intensified to a phase in the State wherein one in two persons are testing positive for the disease. On Tuesday, the State logged 55,475 new cases – the highest in a single day so far – when 1,12,281 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. With almost half the number of samples tested in the State turning out to be positive, the test positivity rate (TPR) 49.4% recorded on Tuesday is also the highest so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-in-two-taking-covid-test-is-positive/article38327288.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:27 IST,||HC throws out pleas to put off urban civic polls||The Madras High Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a batch of public interest litigation petitions filed by various individuals, including two physicians, for postponing the urban local bodies elections in Tamil Nadu until the COVID-19 situation improved. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu said judicial discipline required the High Court to keep its hands off when the Supreme Court had on September 27 ordered that an election notification be issued within four months. However, the judges decided to monitor compliance with the COVID-19 protocol by the candidates and the political parties during the campaign and directed the High Court Registry to list the cases 10 days after the election notification was issued. The court noted that the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (SEC) had on December 10 imposed elaborate restrictions and ordered that campaigning in large groups would not be permitted and only three persons at a time should go for door-to-door campaign. Therefore, any violation of the protocol could be brought to the notice of the court. The litigants’ contention that the COVID-19 wave was not at its peak when the Supreme Court passed the order on September 27 and therefore the High Court could interfere with the elections now did not cut ice with the Bench. When the judges wanted to know why the litigants had not approached the Supreme Court, counsel for the litigants replied that they were not parties to the case before the top court. Counsel also argued that the SEC ought to have approached the Supreme Court to get the elections deferred by apprising it of the high number of COVID-19 cases being recorded in the State. Not in agreement with this submission, the Bench said the SEC could not be compelled to approach the Supreme Court when it had already given an undertaking to conduct the elections within four months and had now taken all precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-throws-out-pleas-to-put-off-urban-local-body-polls-in-state/article64945576.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:20 IST,||Bengal Governor, Speaker engage in verbal duel||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday traded charges with the Speaker of the State Assembly, Biman Banerjee, on the occasion of National Voters’ Day. The Governor offered floral tributes to a statue of B.R. Ambedkar on the Assembly premises and told journalists assembled there that “voters were not free in West Bengal”. Mr. Dhankhar targeted Mr. Banerjee, accusing him of transgressing constitutional norms and cited several instances to level allegations against the Speaker. “The Speaker thinks he has the licence to talk anything about the Governor,” Mr. Dhankhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-governor-speaker-engage-in-verbal-duel/article38327345.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||CM disburses Rs. 589 cr. to 3.92 lakh women||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday disbursed Rs. 589 crore into the accounts of 3,92,674 economically-backward women from upper castes under the EBC Nestham scheme. Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister said that the scheme is aimed at improving the livelihoods of economically backward women in the 45-60 age group by providing financial assistance of Rs. 15,000 per annum. “The EBC Nestham was not mentioned in the election manifesto, yet the government has come up with the scheme to help the poor,” the Chief Minister said. The government implemented similar schemes like YSR Cheyutha and Kapu Nestham to empower middle-aged women, where over 32 lakh women benefited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chief-minister-credits-rs-589-crore-into-accounts-of-39-lakh-women/article38327022.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:02 IST,||Padma Shri for Siddalingaiah||Five from Karnataka have been awarded the Padma Shri. They are poet late Siddalingaiah, gamaka exponent H.R. Keshava Murthy, agriculture scientist Subbanna Ayyappan, innovative farmer Abdul Khader Nadakattin, and Amai Mahalinga Naik who single handedly drilled tunnels to irrigate his land. While Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had said that the State Government would recommend the name of actor late Puneeth Rajkumar for Padma Shri, his name did not figure in the list. None from the State has been awarded Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/padma-shri-honour-for-siddalingaiah/article64945663.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:58 IST,||Track and trail||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/track-and-trail/article64945824.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:02 IST,||SSLC exam from March 28||The SSLC examination is set to begin on March 28 and end on April 11, as per the timetable released by the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) on Tuesday. The dates have come as a surprise to many students and management of schools who were expecting the board exams to begin later in April. The examination will be conducted from 10.30 a.m. to 1.45 p.m. The KSEEB stated that students with learning difficulties and those who have hearing and visual impairment will be given an extra hour. Vaccination While the regular examination for SSLC students had been cancelled last year due to the second wave of the pandemic, the Government is set to conduct the exam this year as the vaccination drive for children aged between 15 and 18 is under way. Standard operating protocols, however, have yet to be released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sslc-exam-from-march-28/article38327052.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||‘Irrational poll freebies’ irk Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought responses from the Union government and the Election Commission of India (ECI) on the continued ‘tamasha’ of political parties promising or distributing ‘irrational freebies’ using public funds. A Bench of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hima Kohli issued notice to the Centre and the EC on a plea filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, represented by senior advocate Vikas Singh, to issue stringent guidelines to deregister errant political parties and seize their election symbols. “The ‘tamasha’ has been going on for decades. Promises always remain as promises. Most of them, except freebies, are not implemented,” the petition said and contended that the offer of these freebies amounted to bribery and undue influence. The court, however, drew a skeptical note about how Mr. Upadhyay, in his plea, named only a few, select political parties and States. Mr. Upadhyay said he did not mean to target only a few parties and offered to make all political parties respondents in the plea. The court said it would start, for the time being, by issuing notice to the Centre and the ECI, which have been named respondents now. The court listed the case after four weeks. In the hearing, Mr. Singh submitted that parties, even in debt-ridden States, were promising/distributing freebies to garner votes and to create an uneven playing field before polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-seeks-eci-govt-response-on-irrational-poll-freebies/article38327057.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:13 IST,||Process for online trade licence further simplified||Mayor Premananda Shetty on Tuesday said that the Mangaluru City Corporation has further simplified the process of online renewal of trade licence enabling traders to get provisional trade licence without any delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/process-for-online-trade-licence-further-simplified/article64945724.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:36 IST,||‘Not voting tantamount to abstaining from duty’||Principal District and Sessions Judge Umesh Adiga has said that refraining from casting one’s vote will amount to abstaining from exercising one’s rights and fulfilling duties envisaged in the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/not-voting-tantamount-to-abstaining-from-duty/article64945701.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:21 IST,||FCRA plea: SC refuses to pass interim order||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to pass an interim order directing the government to extend the validity of licences of NGOs under the Foreign Contribu- tion Regulation Act, which expired in September 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fcra-plea-sc-refuses-to-pass-interim-order/article38327346.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:32 IST,||Curfew unlikely in Valley on R-Day; 4 injured blast||The J&K administration is planning not to impose a curfew or restrictions in the Valley on Republic Day, even as four persons, including a policeman, were injured in a grenade explosion in Srinagar on Tuesday, a day ahead of the functions in the UT. A police officer said a multi-tier security grid is in place to ensure peaceful celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curfew-unlikely-in-valley-on-r-day-4-hurt-in-blast/article64945708.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:52 IST,||BJP getting ready for BBMP polls in April-May||The BJP is getting ready for the much-delayed elections to the BBMP council which it expects to be held in the last week of April or by May first week. The party kicked off a three-day brainstorming session over the polls on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-getting-ready-for-bbmp-polls-in-april-may/article64945833.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:13 IST,||R.P.N. Singh crosses over from Cong. to BJP||Former Union Minister and senior Congress leader R.P.N. Singh joined the BJP on Monday, terming his move “ der aaye durust aye (better late than never)”. Mr. Singh, while quitting the Congress earlier in the day, had said in a presser that “it was no longer the party he had joined”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rpn-singh-crosses-over-from-cong-to-bjp/article38327173.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:42 IST,||Six Army men honoured with Shaurya Chakra for gallantry||Olympics gold medallist Subedar Neeraj Chopra was named for the Param Vishisht Seva Medal (PVSM) on the eve of Republic Day, while six Army personnel, five of them posthumously, have been selected for the Shaurya Chakra, the third highest peacetime gallantry award, by the President and Supreme Commander of the Indian armed forces, Ram Nath Kovind. A Defence Ministry statement said: “The President has approved awards of 384 Gallantry and other defence decorations to armed forces personnel and others on the eve of 73rd Republic Day celebrations.” These include 12 Shaurya Chakras, 29 PVSMs, four Uttam Yudh Seva Medals, 53 Ati Vishisht Seva Medals, 13 Yudh Seva Medals, 125 Vishisht Seva Medals, 84 Sena Medals (Gallantry), two Vayu Sena Medals (Gallantry), 40 Sena Medals (Devotion to Duty), eight Nao Sena Medals (Devotion to Duty), and 14 Vayu Sena Medals (Devotion to Duty). Subedar Neeraj Chopra won the Olympic gold in javelin at the 2021 Tokyo Olympics. He enrolled in the 4th battalion of the Rajputana Rifles as a direct entry Naib Subedar on May 15, 2016. Awarded for distinguished service of exceptional order, the PVSM is mostly awarded to officers of the Lieutenant General rank and equivalent, and rarely to officers of lower ranks, and even less so to Junior Commissioned Officers. The five personnel conferred Shaurya Chakra posthumously are Naib Subedar M. Sreejith and Sepoy Maruprolu Jaswanth Kumar Reddy from the 17 Madras Regiment; Havildar Anil Kumar Tomar from the Rajput Regiment; Havildar Kashiray Bammanalli from the Corps of Engineers and with the 44 Rashtriya Rifles (RR); and Havildar Pinku Kumar from the Jat Regiment and with the 34 RR. The sixth Shaurya Chakra awardee is Rifleman Rakesh Sharma, 5 Assam Rifles. All the six personnel have been awarded the Shaurya Chakra for their role in counter-insurgency operations, of which all five personnel awarded posthumously were for operations in Jammu and Kashmir and along the Line of Control (LoC). The sixth Shaurya Chakra awardee, Rifleman Sharma, was part of an ambush that took place after receiving information on the movement of insurgents for extortion and killing of civilians in a village in Assam in May 2021. In addition, the President has awarded one President’s Tatrakshak Medal (PTM), three Tatrakshak Medals (TM) and one TM for meritorious service to Coast Guard personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-army-men-honoured-with-shaurya-chakra-for-gallantry/article64945500.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,||‘Inaccuracies, procedural violations’ in Great Nicobar EIA report||The details of the recently released draft environment impact assessment (EIA) report for the mega development project in the Great Nicobar Island have raised serious questions related to submission of incorrect or incomplete information, scientific inaccuracy and failure to follow appropriate procedure. A public hearing to discuss the report has been scheduled for Thursday at Campbell Bay, the administrative headquarters. The matter is related to the NITI Aayog-piloted Rs. 72,000-crore integrated project in Great Nicobar that includes construction of a mega port, an airport complex, a township spread over 130 sq. km of pristine forest and a solar and gas-based power plant. Andaman and Nicobar Islands Integrated Development Corporation Ltd. (ANIIDCO) is the project proponent. The pre-feasibility report for the project was prepared in March 2021 by the Gurugram-based consultant AECOM India Pvt. Ltd. A committee of the Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) issued terms of reference (ToR) to prepare the EIA report in May 2021. Concerns raised  Ecologists and researchers have been raising concerns about this project for over a year (“NITI Aayog vision for Great Nicobar ignores tribal, ecological concerns”, The Hindu , March 21, 2021), and the recent draft EIA has not been able to allay those fears. Concerns begin with the role of the Hyderabad-based Vimta Labs Ltd. hired for conducting the EIA.  While the ToR for preparing the EIA was finalised only in May 2021, the report itself lists many instances of Vimta staff being in the field and conducting studies as early as December 2020. How is it possible that Vimta knew the details of the projects and the needs of the EIA months before the contract was awarded and even the project details were finalised? This could have only been through the project proponent or the DPR consultant and appears a violation of the ToR, which had stated that the DPR consultant should be independent of the EIA consultant. “The consultants appointed to carry out the draft EIA have only one empanelled expert on ecology and biodiversity in its team — and it is not clear what his area of expertise is. It is also clear that several of the ToRs have not been complied with, as admitted in the draft EIA Report itself,” says Debi Goenka, veteran environmental campaigner and executive trustee of the Conservation Action Trust. He also points out that the rapid assessment study carried out by the Wildlife Institute of India and the baseline survey by the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), both appended as annexures, too were commissioned before the issue of the ToR. ‘Incomplete data’ There are also serious issues of of scientific accuracy and integrity where the data presented is concerned. Large parts of Section 3.9, which is on ecology and biodiversity, have in-text citations but no references. Tables with lists of plants and animals found in the island are incomplete and with no sources provided. The information in other places is internally inconsistent and/or incorrect. The area of the island is mentioned in one place as 1,045 sq. km, while it is 910 sq. km (the current official figure) in another. The executive summary mentions that the Galathea port area does not record any coral reefs, whereas the ZSI study appended to the EIA, reports a coral reef spread over 116 hectares in Galathea Bay. Chapter 3 similarly says 330 species of fauna are recorded in the island, while the same ZSI study puts the number at more than double at 695. Institutional callousness The EIA says in another place no migratory birds have been reported from Great Nicobar, whereas it is well known that these islands are located along two globally significant bird flyways and more than 40 species of migratory birds have been recorded from Great Nicobar The callousness continues in the approach of the statutory authorities. The EIA report was expected to have details of the project proponent’s environment policy such as its standard operating process, procedures for highlighting violation of environmental and forest norms and for ensuring compliance with environmental clearance conditions. All that the project proponent, ANIIDCO, has said in response is that no such policy exists and that they undertake to comply with all laws of the country related to the environment, forests and coastal regulation zone. A statutorily mandated set of requirements is being given the go-by, raising further questions on the validity of the EIA. Equally illustrative is the undertaking issued by the Directorate of Tribal Welfare, the agency tasked with the primary job of securing the rights of the indigenous people on the islands. It first assures that “the right of the tribal shall be well protected and taken care of” and then goes on to conclude that “whenever any exemption from the existing regulations/policies/law of the land are required to be provided for the execution of the project, this Directorate will seek required exemptions(s) from the competent authority to that effect”. ‘Tick box exercise’ “Can there be bigger evidence that this EIA has been approached less as a document to ask important questions and more as an exercise in merely facilitating clearances and ensuring that the project goes ahead,” asks a senior tribal researcher who did not wish to be named. Environmental lawyer Sreeja Chakraborty says, “It is evident that there are serious procedural lapses, lack of transparency and a lack of any seriousness in this EIA process. The EIA has been reduced to a mere ‘tick box’ exercise and inspires no confidence at all.”  ( Pankaj Sekhsaria has been researching issues of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands for over two decades. He is also author of five books on the islands)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inaccuracies-procedural-violations-in-great-nicobar-eia-report/article64945482.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:43 IST,||Ahead of U.P. polls, R.P.N. Singh crosses over from Cong. to BJP||Former Union Minister and senior Congress leader R.P.N. Singh joined the BJP on Monday, terming his move to the saffron party as “ der aaye durust aye ” (better late than never).  He joined the BJP at the party’s headquarters in New Delhi, flanked by Education Minister and BJP in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, Dharmendra Pradhan, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, and Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur. Mr. Singh had earlier in the day quit the Congress, and stated in a presser at his joining that while he had put in 32 years in the Congress, it hasn’t remained “the party that I joined or the ideology that I follow”. He termed his joining the BJP as better late than never and lauded the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Pradhan, who formally welcomed Mr. Singh into the party, said that he had, ever since 2004 when he had himself been elected to the Lok Sabha, maintained that both Mr. Scindia and Mr. Singh should join the BJP. “I am happy that both are with us now,” he said. The BJP is hoping that Mr. Singh, who belongs to the Sainthwar sub-caste among non-Yadav Other Backward Class (OBC) Kurmis, and is also the scion of the princely state of Padrauna, will help ameliorate some of the damage from the exodus of non-Yadav OBC MLAs of the BJP, especially former Minister Swami Prasad Maurya among that community and in eastern Uttar Pradesh in particular. Mr. Maurya is to contest from Padraina Assembly seat, where Mr. Singh, who has won the seat thrice before is likely to take him on. “There are 60,000-70,000 voters belonging to the Sainthwar community in Gorakhpur alone, and R.P.N. Singh’s entry will help us reach out to this community. Swami Prasad Maurya has bitten off more than he can chew,” said a senior Union Minister involved in the BJP’s Uttar Pradesh campaign. The Congress on its part termed Mr. Singh’s exit, a day after he had been included in a list of star campaigners released by the party, as the actions of a “coward”. Party spokesperson Supriya Srinate said, “I would only say that the kind of battle of ideology, the kind of fight that the Indian National Congress is putting up across the country, and particularly in a State like U.P., is a battle against the government’s resources, is a battle against agencies, it is a battle of ideology, it is a battle for truth. To fight a battle as strongly pitched as this one, you have to fight with courage. You cannot be a coward and fight this battle.” There are some apprehensions in Congress circles that the party’s coalition government in Jharkhand with the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) may also be in danger as Mr. Singh has been handling the party’s affairs there. It is not clear whether Mr. Singh will fight the Assembly polls in U.P., but his addition to the BJP’s ranks has definitely created a major talking point.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-poll-bound-up-rpn-singh-crosses-over-from-cong-to-bjp/article64945490.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:42 IST,||Making a splash with their art||The winners of the Club Mahindra National Painting Competition 2021, in association with The Hindu Young World, were announced virtually on January 22. The preliminary round started on the occasion of World Students’ Day on October 15 and over 24,000 entries were received from children across categories. Finally, 927 children made it to the finale held on December 26.  In the sub-junior category, S. Nikithaa, a Class 4 student of Avila Convent Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Coimbatore; Krithi Rajesh, a Class 4 student from Maharishi Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School, Coimbatore, and Thanishka Nair, a Class 4 student from City Pride School, Moshi, Pune were adjudged the winners. Nived Reji, Class 8, Cochin Refineries School, Thiruvaniyoor, Ernakulam; A. Kundana Rayal, Class 7, Kendriya Vidyalaya Bowenpally, Hyderabad; and S Adrija Pathanjali, Class 6, SRM Nightingale Matriculation School, Chennai were the winners in the junior category. In the senior category, Jumon Thakuria, Class 12, South Point School, Guwahati; Tanusha Srinivasan, Class 11, Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School, Mylapore, Chennai; and Priyam Keshri, Class 12, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Cossipore, Kolkata emerged as the winners. N. Vaidyanathan, GM Sales & Distribution, The Hindu Group, Mumbai, gave the welcome address and said that cash prizes of a total of Rs. 1.95 lakh were to be announced. Suraj Nair, General Manager, Marketing – Club Mahindra, said that he was amazed at the response, and the stellar work from the participants. Thanking parents and teachers who encouraged children to participate in this competition, Sridhar Aranala, VP Sales & Distribution, The Hindu Group encouraged children to keep enhancing their learning journeys with The Hindu Group’s products exclusively curated for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/making-a-splash-with-their-art/article64945498.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:43 IST,||Shortage of reagents, funds hits sequencing||Amidst the third wave of COVID-19, several laboratories tasked with genome sequencing are limiting the number of coronavirus samples they analyse for a variety of reasons, The Hindu has learnt, including a paucity of necessary reagents, a fund shortage or a deluge of sampling requests.  Some of these labs are part of the INSACOG network, the pan-India consortium of 38 laboratories tasked with monitoring the genomic variations in SARS-CoV-2. An internal note by the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB), Thiruvananthapuram, for instance says the “reagent shipment is highly impacted” and only limited number of samples would be taken up for sequencing. The institute however said it expected the shortage to resolve within a week.  The Delhi-based National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) refused to analyse cases (determining the variant) involving “adverse outcomes” and directed that they be sent to the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, also in Delhi. “No samples to be sent to NCDC as they have run out of [test] kits,” said another note to labs viewed by The Hindu .  Both the RGCB and the NCDC are part of the INSACOG network. A January 10 note by the INSACOG made public on January 23 said India was now in “community transmission”, the first time a government body has conceded so. It said Omicron and its related variant, BA.2, was the dominant variant driving infections across the country. That the true extent of the spread of the Omicron variant is unknown, is apparent from the same INSACOG note, which says only 517 instances (as of Jan 10) have been confirmed to be Omicron. This, when India had started to report over 1,00,000 cases every day. One scientist, connected to the genome sequencing effort, said on condition of anonymity that genome sequencing relied almost entirely on imported chemicals, and the case surge in Europe meant that supply shortages were inevitable. “NCDC is a blackhole with little data sharing.”  Some labs were not getting the necessary funds promised by the government and therefore unable to keep pace with demand, The Hindu has learnt.  Rakesh Mishra, former Director of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, also an INSACOG lab, said not conducting enough tests ran the risk of not detecting future variants of concern. Some laboratories relied on a genome sequencing technology from Nanopore, a United Kingdom-based company, that could be causing disruptions in supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shortage-of-reagents-funds-hits-sequencing/article64945484.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||Keep a check on language when criticising ECI: Rijiju||Union Law and Justice Minister Kiren Rijiju on Tuesday said while the judiciary had the right to criticise the Election Commission of India, “judges should think about the language used”. Mr. Rijiju, while addressing the ECI’s National Voters Day event here, said attempts to discredit the ECI were akin to attempts to discredit the Indian democracy. “Those elements which try to discredit the ECI actually try to discredit the democratic process of our country,” Mr. Rijiju said. He said there was space for “corrective measures”, but the way the ECI had handled challenges, including conducting elections during the pandemic, had left little to criticise it for. The Minister stressed upon the need for “coordination” between the ECI and the Law Ministry, while maintaining independence. “I have told the judiciary team the same. The Chief Justice, the Supreme Court judges, the judges of High Court, that there is a life beyond files and formalities. There should be coordination. But we won’t interfere. In a democracy, it’s fine if someone criticises the ECI. There is a right to criticise, but there are limits to the language. If court says something, the judges must think about the language used. They should understand the situation the ECI works under,” Mr. Rijiju said. The Law Minister also said that the recent amendments to election law, including linking Aadhaar with Voter ID, would benefit new voters. He said he was unable to explain the benefits of the amendments in Parliament due to “ruckus”. He added that there was a need for further reform. A contest on voter awareness was launched at the event.  The judges must think about the language used. They should understand the situation the ECI works under Kiren Rijiju Law Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keep-a-check-on-language-when-criticising-eci-rijiju/article38326805.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,||India’s active case tally crosses 22.3 lakh mark||India recorded 2,84,357 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. The total number of infections has reached 3.98 crore, and the number of active cases has crossed the 22.3 lakh mark. The figures are based on the State bulletins released until 10.45 p.m. on Tuesday. However, Ladakh, Tripura, Jharkhand and Lakshadweep had not yet released data for the day. Kerala recorded 55,475 infections on Tuesday, followed by Karnataka (41,400) and Maharashtra (33,914). On Tuesday, 611 deaths were recorded in India, considerably higher than the average levels recorded in the last week. The total number of recorded fatalities has reached 4,90,478. Kerala reported the most deaths with 154 fatalities (84 were from a backlog), followed by Maharashtra (86) and Karnataka, which recorded 52 deaths. On Monday, 16.4 lakh tests were conducted (the results for which were made available on Tuesday). The test positivity rate was 16.6%. As of Tuesday, 91.7% of the eligible population has been vaccinated with at least one dose, while 67.9% have received both doses. In the 15-17 age cohort, 58.7% of the population have received their first dose. Altogether, 93,41,96,331 first doses, 69,21,32,594 second doses, and 89,96,415 booster doses have been administered across the Country. Andhra Pradesh reported 12 deaths due to COVID-19 and 13,819 fresh cases in the 24 hours ending on Tuesday morning. In all, 4,559 new infections were recorded in Telangana as over a lakh tests were conducted on Tuesday. Two more COVID patients have died in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-active-case-tally-crosses-223-lakh-mark/article64945481.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:43 IST,||Cong. borrows training ideas from Chhattisgarh for U.P.||To revive the defunct Congress organisation in Uttar Pradesh ahead of the election, the party is emulating its successful training module from Chhattisgarh in Uttar Pradesh. Ahead of the upcoming Assembly election, 1.75 lakh Congress workers from 388 Assembly constituencies have been trained in U.P. In the 2017 election, when it fought in an alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Congress could win only seven seats in U.P. Its last credible score in the State was 31 years ago, in the 1991 elections, when it won 46 seats. The party has failed to arrest the downslide that began in 1993, when it went down to 28 from 46 seats. Ground-level workers in a majority of constituencies deserted the party over the years because of its dismal electoral performance, leaving it with the unenviable task of rebuilding the organisation ground-up. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel is the party’s senior observer for U.P. Senior leaders from Chhattisgarh have been camping in Uttar Pradesh for many months now. To mobilise the ranks, the Congress in 2019 took the first lot of 150 party workers to Raipur to attend the first round of the training. The next round was held in Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s Lok Sabha constituency, Rae Bareli.The second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic put a temporary brake on the training programme, but as soon as the situation eased, the party resumed it. “This whole exercise will pay us dividends but we cannot right now predict the quantum of our gain,” Vinod Verma, political adviser to Mr. Baghel, said. The training module used in Chhattisgarh was modified for the realities in U.P. Typically, a day-long training session consists of lectures on “Congress’s history and achievements”, “The truth about the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party)/RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh)”, “Social media and how to use it”, “booth management”, and a low-down on the SP and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) governments’ performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-borrows-training-ideas-from-chhattisgarh-for-up/article64945493.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:43 IST,||No rule of law, only law of ruler in Bengal: Governor||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday traded charges with the Speaker of the Assembly, Biman Banerjee, on the Assembly premises on the occasion of National Voters Day. The Governor offered floral tributes to a statue of B.R. Ambedkar on the Assembly premises, and then told journalists assembled that “voters were not free in West Bengal”. “We have seen post-poll violence of unprecedented level where those who dared to vote according to their own volition had to pay the price with their life,” the Governor said. Mr. Dhankhar said that the situation was “horrible and frightening” in West Bengal, and accused that instead of “rule of law, the law of the ruler” is prevailing in the State. The Governor targeted Speaker Biman Banerjee accusing him of transgressing constitutional norms, and cited several instances to level allegations against the Speaker. Licence to talk “The Speaker thinks he has the licence to talk anything about the Governor,” Mr. Dhankhar told journalists in the Assembly. The Governor said that none of the Bills are pending with him, and added that on several occasions, the Speaker did not provide him information he had sought from him on the resolutions passed in the Assembly. The remarks by the Governor evoked a strong reaction from the Trinamool Congress leaders and the Speaker. The Speaker expressed surprise that Governor made these remarks on the State Assembly premises. “It was not in our knowledge that the Governor would use this platform for such kinds of comments. He could have done this media interaction at the Governor’s house and not in the Assembly,” Mr. Banerjee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-rule-of-law-only-law-of-ruler-in-bengal-governor/article64945488.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:29 IST,||After BJP slight, JD(U) divided in U.P.||With the BJP contesting the upcoming Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh without its ally Janata Dal(U) even after keeping the party in the loop for over a month, the differences between the two top party leaders, both considered close to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, have come to the fore. The JD(U) on Tuesday released the first list of 20 candidates to contest the polls, mostly in the eastern part of the State. Ramchandra Prasad Singh, senior JD(U) leader, who is the party’s Rajya Sabha member and Union Steel Minister, was authorised by the party to hold talks with the BJP for seat sharing and he was said to be negotiating with BJP leaders for over a month to forge an alliance and was also “convinced” of an alliance. But, when the BJP recently announced name of its alliance partners for the U.P. polls, the JD(U) was missing from the list. “Though, we’re not blaming anyone, he (RCP Singh) can explain why the alliance failed with BJP for U.P. polls. He was assigned by the party to hold talks with the BJP for this and was convinced of an alliance,” JD(U) national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh, alias Lalan Singh, told presspersons. “He (RCP Singh) should be able to speak about the honesty of BJP’s assurances,” Mr. Singh said. The differences between party president Mr. Lalan Singh and Mr. RCP Singh in JD(U) has been an open secret.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-bjp-slight-jdu-divided-in-up/article64945574.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:43 IST,||Ramp up COVID-19 testing: Mandaviya||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has directed stakeholders to ramp up COVID-19 testing to keep a close watch on the emerging clusters, hotspots and monitor the trend of hospitalised cases along with the deaths. At a virtual meeting on Tuesday, with State Health Ministers and senior officials of nine States and Union Territories, the Minister asked them to adopt a hub-and-spoke model while ensuring that more centres for tele-consultations are opened. He also asked them to ensure effective monitoring of the substantial number of active cases across the country recuperating from COVID-19 in home isolation while stating that it was important to focus on expanding the reach of teleconsultation services for providing timely, quality healthcare to the beneficiaries. Stressing that vaccination remains a potent tool to fight COVID-19, the Minister said that vaccinated people were less prone to severe disease and hospitalisation as seen in India and globally. “Higher hospitalisation is being seen in unvaccinated people and hence it becomes crucial to vaccinate the unvaccinated,” he said while directing States to promote vaccination among the 15-17 age group and ensure full coverage in the districts that have shown a lower coverage of the first and second doses. Mr. Mandaviya spoke about using teleconsultation service such as e-Sanjeevani that, he said, could prove to be a game changer especially in hard-to-reach areas. “States need to ensure that these centres work 24x7 and ensure convenience for both the common public and health experts. To ensure minimum hassle and travelling, such expert advice can be provided at the block levels, secondary or primary health centre levels tool,” Mr. Mandaviya said. He urged States to plug the gaps by efficiently utilising the amount sanctioned for various infra projects. “With strengthened health infrastructure, we can meet any health emergency and public health crisis with better preparedness,” he said. States were advised to ensure regular update of availability and use of infrastructure such as hospital beds and oxygen equipment on the COVID-19 portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ramp-up-covid-19-testing-mandaviya/article64945485.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:42 IST,||Laurels bestowed on police personnel||As many as 939 police personnel were awarded service medals, which includes 189 for gallantry, on the eve of Republic Day. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) published a list containing names of personnel who have been decorated with the Police Medal for Gallantry, President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service, and the Police Medal for Meritorious Service. Among the 189 gallantry awards, 134 personnel are being awarded for their gallant action in the Jammu & Kashmir region, 47 for their bravery in Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected areas, and one personnel for similar conduct in the northeast region, a Home Ministry spokesperson said. The highest number of bravery medals — 115 — have been awarded to the Jammu and Kashmir Police, followed by 30 to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), 10 to the Chhattisgarh Police, nine to the Odisha Police, seven to the Maharashtra Police, three each to the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), and two to the Border Security Force (BSF. Eighty-eight personnel have been awarded the Distinguished Service Medal, while 662 have been given the Meritorious Service Medal. Ritu Misra, Joint Director, MHA, Kohima, and Rashmi Sinha, Joint Director, MHA, Guwahati, have been awarded the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service. The Distinguished Service Medal has also been awarded to Sudesh Chandrakant Sawant, Assistant Director, MHA, Srinagar. The Police Medal for Gallantry has been given to the team of Assistant Commandant Ashok Kumar, and Inspectors Suresh Lal and Neela Singh of the ITBP, for killing two wanted Maoists during a fierce encounter in the Left Wing Extremism-affected area of Chhattisgarh’s Rajnandgaon district in February 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/laurels-bestowed-on-police-personnel/article38326820.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:43 IST,||SP releases fresh list of 39 candidates||The Samajwadi Party (SP) has fielded Maharaji Prajapati, wife of former Minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati who was recently sentenced to life after being convicted of rape, from Amethi. Mr. Prajapati was an important Cabinet Minister in the Akhilesh Yadav government and had been deputed by then SP chief Mulayam Singh to mobilise most backward caste communities. He, however, lost in 2017. In a fresh list of 39 candidates, the SP has fielded BSP rebel Hakim Chandra Bind from Handia, Prayagraj, and BJP rebel Madhuri Verma from Nanpara in Bahraich. Both are sitting MLAs. The list is dominated by non-Yadav OBC and Dalit candidates especially from the Pasi and Kurmi castes. It features candidates in 11 reserved seats including senior Pasi leaders Avdesh Prasad from Milkipur in Ayodhya and Inderjeet Saroj in Manjhanpur in Kausambhi. In Hardoi, the party fielded Usha Verma, former Lok Sabha MP and also a Pasi, from Sandi. Pasis are the second largest Dalit community in U.P. and found in large numbers in central parts of the State around Lucknow. In Ayodhya, the SP fielded Tej Narayan Pandey alias Pawan Pandey, who ended the BJP’s long streak in the constituency in 2012 but lost in 2017. A Brahmin, he was also a Minister in the SP government and has been vocal over the alleged corruption in the purchase of land for the Ram Mandir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-releases-fresh-list-of-39-candidates/article64945492.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:43 IST,||Candidates facing cases rule U.P. lists||Helping the needy during the COVID-19 crisis stands out as one of the most common reasons stated by political parties in favour of selecting candidates in the Election Commission of India-mandated advertisements put out by them in Uttar Pradesh, justifying why they fielded people facing criminal cases. An analysis of such documents of over 150 candidates of two major parties, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Samajwadi Party (SP), uploaded by them on their official websites, also shows that the parties fielding them have dismissed the criminal cases against their nominees as being “trivial” or “politically motivated.” Take the case of Keshav Prasad Maurya of the BJP, Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister, who is contesting from Sirathu in Kausambhi. Mr. Maurya faces four FIRs, including one invoking the SC/ST Act. The BJP said he was implicated in these cases due “to political rivalry, hence he has been preferred over the other candidates.” While caste and communal narratives have taken over the election campaign, while referring to the way the government handled the COVID-19 crisis, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has on several occasions said the Opposition did nothing to help the needy and remained in “home isolation.” Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has said the BJP left people to die like “orphans.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/candidates-facing-cases-rule-up-lists/article38326830.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||EPFO website glitch continues||Users trying to access the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) website continued to face trouble on Tuesday. A Labour Ministry official said a “module was malfunctioning” and would take till Thursday to fix. Error messages had been greeting users trying to complete the e-nomination process for their PF accounts for at least five days. The EPFO’s Twitter handle continued to face a barrage of complaints from users unable to access services. Some users on Twitter said they had been unable to complete the e-filing for months now due to the glitches. In response to queries by several users on Tuesday, the EPFO tweeted the same reply: “Thanks for sharing/updating us. We are taking the matter with the concerned IT Desk to check the same.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/epfo-website-glitch-continues/article38326804.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:29 IST,||Don’t get ‘misguided’, Railways tells job-seekers||Amid reports of some job aspirants indulging in vandalism and unlawful activities, the Ministry of Railways on Tuesday said they may face lifetime debarment from obtaining a Railway job. “It has come to notice that aspirants of Railway job have indulged in vandalism/unlawful activities like protesting on railway tracks, disruption of train operations, damaging railway properties etc.,” the Ministry said in a public notice. It said such misguided activities are the highest level of indiscipline, rendering such aspirants unsuitable for Railway/Government jobs. “Videos of such activities will be examined with the help of specialised agencies and candidates/aspirants found indulged in unlawful activities will be liable for police action as well as lifetime debarment from obtaining Railway job.,” it said. It said the Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) are committed to conduct a fair and transparent recruitment process maintaining highest standards of integrity. “Railway job aspirants/candidates are advised not to be misguided or come under the influence of such elements who are trying to use them for fulfilling their own selfish ends.” On Monday, alleging discrepancies in the results of an exam conducted by the RRB, thousands of protesters in Bihar gathered on railway tracks. (with inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-get-misguided-railways-tells-job-seekers/article38326821.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||Centre to remind States again of IAS cadre rules||The initial proposal (of December 20), only had two amendments — first, States had to send a list of all officers available for the Central deputation reserve, and the “actual number of officers to be deputed... shall be decided by the Central Government in consultation with State Government concerned”; and second, in case of any disagreement, the State will give effect to the decision of the Centre “within a specified time”. In its revised proposal on January 12, which has been vigorously opposed by Opposition-ruled States, the DoPT added two more amendments — if the State government delays posting a State cadre officer to the Centre and does not give effect to the Central government’s decision within the specified time, “the officer shall stand relieved from cadre from the date as may be specified by the Central government”; and secondly, in specific situations, where the services of cadre officers are required by the Central government in “public interest”, the State shall give effect to its decisions within a specified time. Presently, officers have to get a no-objection clearance from the State government. The first proposal was opposed by Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Meghalaya, Karnataka and MP. An official of Jharkhand said the State has responded to the DoPT that “the proposed amendment will be contrary to the spirit of cooperative federalism”. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren had written to the Prime Minister, “Centre should find out reasons for the perceptible decline in the number of officers opting to go on Central Deputation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-remind-states-again-of-ias-cadre-rules/article38326799.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||Gen. Rawat, Kalyan get Padma Vibhushan||Punjabi singer Gurmeet Bawa was given Padma Bhushan posthumously. Former Union Home Secretary and Comptroller General of India (CAG) Rajiv Mehrishi was also conferred with Padma Bhushan. Guruprasad Mohapatra, former AAI chairman and DPIIT secretary, was selected for Padma Shri posthumously. Radheyshyam Khemka, President of Gita Press, known for publishing religious Hindu books, has been named for Padma Vibhushan posthumously. This year the President has approved the conferment of 128 Padma Awards comprising four Padma Vibhushan, 17 Padma Bhushan and 107 Padma Shri Awards. As many as 34 awardees are women and the list also includes 10 persons from the category of Foreigners/Non Resident Indians and Overseas Citizens of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gen-rawat-kalyan-get-padma-vibhushan/article38326802.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:43 IST,||Buddhadeb refuses Padma Bhushan award||Former West Bengal Chief Minister and veteran CPI(M) leader Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee on Tuesday refused to accept the Padma Bhushan award conferred on him in the field of Public Affairs. “I know nothing about this award. No one has told me anything about it. If they have decided to offer Padma Bhushan to me, I refuse to accept it,” he said a statement. The 77-year-old politician has been away from public life due to his failing health. Mr. Bhattacharjee held the office of the Chief Minister from 2000 to 2011. A senior government official said on Tuesday that a call was made to Mr. Bhattacharjee’s residence but since he is unwell, it was answered by his wife. “His wife was informed about the conferring of the Padma award. If the recipient had to decline, he should have called back,” said the official. He added that there was no rule that a recipient’s consent had to be taken. “He or she is to be informed only, if they want to decline they can state so when the call is made,” said the official. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is the nodal Ministry for the Padma awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-refuses-padma-bhusam-award/article64945494.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||‘India has shown resolve in facing COVID-19 threat’||He stressed that the observance of the Fundamental Duties mentioned in the Constitution creates the proper environment for the enjoyment of Fundamental Rights, and cited people’s participation in the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and in COVID-19 vaccination as examples of citizens fulfilling their fundamental duties and rendering a national service. “There have been setbacks, unfortunately, as the virus makes a comeback with new mutations. Countless families have gone through a harrowing time. There are no words to express our collective trauma. The only saving grace is that many lives could be saved. As the pandemic is still widespread, we must remain alert and not let our guard down,” he said. Lauding the timely interventions by the country’s leadership, policy-makers, administrators and others at the Central and State levels during the pandemic, the President said it was a testimony to India’s spirit that the economy is on the move again, and is projected to grow at an impressive rate in this fiscal after a year of contraction. “The impressive economic performance is made possible due to improvement in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors. I am happy to note that our farmers, especially young farmers with small holdings, are enthusiastically adopting natural farming,” he said. The President thanked the constant vigil of the armed forces in securing the borders, and police personnel in maintaining internal security within the country. “It is our soldiers and security personnel who carry on the legacy of national pride. In the unbearable cold of the Himalayas and in the excruciating heat of the desert, far away from their families, they continue to guard the motherland. It is thanks to the constant vigil of the armed forces securing our borders and the police personnel maintaining internal security within the country that their fellow citizens enjoy a peaceful life,” he said. He said that when a brave soldier dies on duty, the entire country feels sad, and remembered Gen. Bipin Rawat, one of India’s bravest commanders, his wife and other soldiers, all of whom died in a tragic accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-has-shown-resolve-in-facing-covid-19-threat/article38326803.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:42 IST,||SC seeks ECI, govt. reply on ‘irrational poll freebies’||Mr. Upadhyay said he did not mean to target only a few parties and offered to make all political parties respondents in the plea. The court said it would start, for the time being, by issuing notice to the Centre and the ECI, which have been named respondents now. The court listed the case after four weeks. In the hearing, Mr. Singh submitted that parties, even in debt-ridden States, were promising/distributing freebies to garner votes and to create an uneven playing field before polls.  Mr. Singh said the Election Commission’s guidelines on the freebies, issued after a Supreme Court judgment in the Subramaniam Balaji case, reported in 2013, were “toothless”.  “Promise/distribution of irrational freebies from public fund before election unduly influences the voters, shakes the roots of free-fair election, disturbs level playing field, vitiates the purity of election process and also violates Articles 14, 162, 266(3) and 282,” the plea said. It highlighted how the ECI had held a meeting with the political parties and issued guidelines which mandated that their election manifestos should not contain anything repugnant to the Model Code of Conduct. Mr. Singh submitted that arbitrary promises of irrational freebies violated the ECI’s mandate for free and fair elections, and distributing private goods-services from public funds clearly violated the Constitution. Rather than promising better rule of law, equal pay for equal work, clean water, equal quality education, quality healthcare, quality infrastructure, speedy justice, free legal aid, citizen charter, judicial charter, efficient police system, effective administrative system, political parties arbitrarily promised irrational freebies from public fund, he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/irrational-freebies-by-political-parties-irk-sc/article38326816.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:43 IST,||‘Irrational freebies’ by political parties irk SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought responses from the Union government and the Election Commission of India (ECI) on the continued ‘tamasha’ of political parties promising or distributing ‘irrational freebies’ using public funds. A Bench of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hima Kohli issued notice to the Centre and the EC on a plea to issue stringent guidelines to deregister errant political parties and seize their election symbols. “The ‘tamasha’ has been going on for decades. Promises always remain as promises. Most of them, except freebies, are not implemented,” the petition said. The petition, filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, represented by senior advocate Vikas Singh, contended that the offer of these freebies amounted to bribery. The court, however, drew a skeptical note about how Mr. Upadhyay, in his petition, named only a few, select political parties and States. Mr. Upadhyay said he did not mean to target only a few parties and offered to make all political parties respondents in the petition. The court said it would start, for the time being, by issuing notice to the Centre and the ECI, which have been named respondents now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/irrational-freebies-by-political-parties-irk-sc/article38327434.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:43 IST,||Cong. reshuffle delayed in Rajasthan||Two months after the Cabinet expansion and reshuffle, the political appointments and organisational recruitments in the ruling Congress are yet to be made in Rajasthan, leading to an apprehension that the truce between the rival factions may break down. The workers in the districts are also waiting with great expectations. Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra has so far appointed only 13 district unit presidents and two spokespersons during his year-and-a-half tenure. The district and block units were dissolved in July 2020 after the dismissal of Tonk MLA Sachin Pilot as the PCC president and Deputy Chief Minister following his rebellion Two dozen political appointments to various boards and corporations are yet to be made in which 400 block and 29 district presidents will be nominated, is getting delayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-reshuffle-delayed-in-rajasthan/article38326827.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:42 IST,||No interim order on FCRA plea||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to pass an interim order directing the government to extend the validity of licences of NGOs under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) which expired on September 30 last year, instead opting to pronounce its judgment first in a pending case challenging the very constitutionality of the amendments to the law on the flow of foreign funds into India. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar was hearing a plea made by a U.S.-based organisation, Global Peace Initiative, represented by senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, which challenged the expiry of the FCRA licences of nearly 6,000 NGOs. The organisation urged the court to let these NGOs continue with their licences until further orders. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the government had extended the licences of 11,594 NGOs which applied within time. Mr. Mehta further questioned the locus standi of the petitioner, asking how an organisation based in Houston was concerned with the FCRA licences in India. The court refused to intervene in the issue though it allowed the petitioner to approach the authorities with a representation which would be considered on merit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-interim-order-on-fcra-plea/article38326817.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:43 IST,||Majithia gets protection from arrest||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted protection against arrest for three days to former Minister and senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a case related to allowing illicit drugs smuggling and harbouring offenders involved in the drugs trade. The protection has been given to enable Mr. Majithia to approach the Supreme Court for challenging the dismissal of his bail application. The High Court on January 24 dismissed the anticipatory bail application of Mr. Majithia. In its order, the court granted three days to enable Mr. Majithia to approach the Supreme Court for challenging the order. “..in view the peculiar circumstances of this case, while not finding any ground to afford one week as prayed for, petitioner is afforded three days to enable him to approach the Hon’ble Supreme Court for challenging this order. It is made clear that this protection shall enure only for three daysfrom today (January 24),” read the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/majithia-gets-protection-from-arrest/article38326834.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:43 IST,||AAP promises to cleanse recruitment||Asserting that major reforms were needed in the recruitment process of Punjab government departments and educational institutions, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday said it would bring necessary reforms in the processes, after forming the next government in the State. AAP MLA and Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and senior leader Aman Arora said the evil of temporary employment and outsourcing of employees, through which SAD-BJP and Congress governments have been exploiting the youth of Punjab, will be brought to an end. “We will recruit people for the government jobs in Punjab on the basis of merit and the waiting list process, which was stopped irrationally by the previous governments,” they said. They said the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal, to promote the private sector, had resorted to contract-based and outsourcing recruitment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-promises-to-cleanse-recruitment/article38326833.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:43 IST,||SC calls for better access to vaccines||The Supreme Court on Tuesday urged the Union government to consult stakeholders and domain experts for ways to upgrade, better facilitate access and transparency in vaccination of disabled people, pregnant women and nursing mothers. The court asked the Social Justice Ministry to hold a meeting and invite suggestions from experts and even disabled persons or their representatives for ways to prioritise vaccination for them. The court has asked the government to complete the process of consultation in three weeks, prepare a report and consider implementing any constructive findings in it. Advocate Pankaj Sinha, for the Evara Foundation, said the publicised helplines for vaccination were either “stated to be invalid” or those who attended the calls were not aware of the facilities, if any, for prioritising vaccination for the disabled. In a separate petition, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights highlighted how there is no option for pregnant women or nursing mothers to declare their condition on the CoWin portal. However, the government countered that such an option may unnecessarily alarm the person applying for vaccination, leading to hesitancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-calls-for-better-access-to-vaccines/article38326843.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:42 IST,||Supreme Court to hear SpiceJet appeal against Madras HC order on January 28||The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to list on Friday an appeal filed by air carrier SpiceJet against a Madras High Court order to wind up the company for non-payment of over $24 million to a Swiss company which maintains, repairs and overhauls aircraft engines and components. Making an oral mentioning before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for the air carrier, pleaded urgency as the protection granted would end on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supreme-court-to-hear-spicejet-appeal-against-madras-hc-order-on-january-28/article64945495.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||NHRC directs MHA to protect rights of Arunachal Chakmas||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has directed the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Arunachal Pradesh government to submit an action taken report against the racial profiling and relocation of people belonging to the Chakma and Hajong communities. The NHRC’s order on Monday, based on a complaint filed by the New Delhi-based Chakma Development Foundation of India, has given the government six weeks to ensure the protection of human rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-directs-mha-to-protect-rights-of-arunachal-chakmas/article38326801.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||India to extend immediate relief assistance to Tonga||India on Tuesday expressed “deep sympathy” to the tsunami-hit Kingdom of Tonga in the Pacific Ocean and extended an immediate relief assistance of $200,000 to deal with the disaster that was triggered by the explosion of a massive underwater volcano. “India has firmly stood by Tonga during times of crisis and devastation caused by natural disasters, as during Cyclone Gita in 2018. Disaster Risk Reduction and Management is an important pillar of India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans’ Initiative (IPOI) announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November 2019,” said the Ministry of External Affairs in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-extend-immediate-relief-assistance-to-tonga/article38326800.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Marginal drop in fresh COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu recorded a marginal drop in fresh COVID-19 cases, from 30,215 on Monday to 30,055 on Tuesday. The fresh cases took the tally to 31,94,260. The number of new infections rose in some districts, while dropping marginally in others, as per statistics released by the Tamil Nadu government. Among those who tested positive were four persons from abroad – two who arrived from Sri Lanka and one each from Norway and the United Arab Emirates. A total of 12 passengers, including six from Andhra Pradesh, two each from Karnataka and West Bengal and one each from Puducherry and Kerala, also tested positive. The number of persons infected till date in Chennai exceeded seven lakh, with another 6,241 persons testing positive on Tuesday. Currently, 51,613 persons are under treatment, either at home or in healthcare facilities in the district. Coimbatore, with a single-day tally of 3,763, came a close second. At 108, Perambalur recorded the lowest number of cases. Six other districts also recorded fresh infections in their thousands, including Chengalpattu (1,737), Erode (1,229), Kanniyakumari (1,217), Salem (1,087), Thanjavur (1,104) and Tiruppur (1,490). With the discharge of 25,221 patients post-treatment, the total number of recoveries rose to 29,45,678. The daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health recorded 48 deaths, with 26 occurring in private health facilities and 22 in government healthcare institutions. As on date, 1,19,639 children aged below 12 and 4,63,294 senior citizens have contracted the infection. As many as 26,11,327 persons in the 13 to 59 age group have tested positive so far. A total of 1, 32,108 persons were vaccinated in 3,992 sessions. The beneficiaries included 2,627 healthcare workers, 2,488 frontline workers and 5,833 persons aged 15 to 17. As many as 66,328 persons in the 18 to 44 age group and 31,626 persons aged 45 to 59 also benefited. Vaccination was provided to 23,206 senior citizens. Till date, 9,07,46,992 persons have been inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marginal-drop-in-fresh-covid-19-cases/article64945563.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Buckingham Canal beautification project to be over by next month||The Buckingham Canal beautification project being executed below the elevated track of the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) is set to be completed by February and opened for the public from the first week of March. The beautification project, which was launched in June last year and proposed to be finished in six-month’s time, had been delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Rs. 20-crore project being developed under the MRTS railway line from Thiruvanmiyur to Kasturibai railway station once completed is set to give a makeover to the Buckingham Canal and attract hundreds of visitors. Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the beautification project, similar to the Mambalam Canal project, has been speeded up even as the civic body is fighting the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Bedi said the 2.1-kilometre project being executed in two phases by two contractors would make travelling on the Rajiv Gandhi Salai a pleasant experience, as the project involves setting up of a Miyawaki forest, installing bright streetlights, wall paintings, and laying a paved footpath. Plans for more stretches The civic body is planning to have more such scenic stretches in the coming years, he added. The beautification project funded by Tamilnadu Urban Road Infrastructure Project (TURIP) and executed on both sides of the Buckingham Canal would feature dedicated a cycle track and walkway paved with paver blocks, a play area for children, green zone comprising Miyawaki forest with nearly 30,000 saplings in 9,000 square metres, and artwork on different themes would come up in the piers of the MRTS elevated track. A senior official of the civic body said work on cycle track and footpath have already been completed along with the installation of ornamental streetlights. For the green zone, more than 30,000 tree saplings have been planted and artwork in the piers are in progress. Work would soon start for constructing a skating rink and also sculpture court, the official added. Bid to attract commuters The Rajiv Gandhi Salai, which starts from the Madhya Kailash junction and runs along the Buckingham Canal, being the Information Technology corridor is one of the busiest arterial roads in the city. The stretch from Kasturibai station to Thiruvanmiyur station had remained poorly lit and was used for dumping construction debris. The beautification project would help in attracting a large number of people to commute in the MRTS section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buckingham-canal-beautification-project-to-be-over-by-next-month/article64945823.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Security tightened for R-Day festivities||The city police have tightened security arrangements at several places across the city in view of the Republic Day celebrations to be held on Wednesday. The celebrations will be held near Gandhi Square on Wednesday morning and Governor R.N.Ravi will unfurl the National flag. The police brought the venue under their control from Tuesday morning and thorough checks were conducted around the place. In order to prevent sabotage activities, SecurityChennai Police (SCP), Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) and Coastal Security Group conducted intensive checks across the city. Police personnel went on boats around the Adyar river and conducted anti-sabotage checks under the bridge in Kotturpuram, Adyar and other places. Police personnel are patrolling the beach using beach buggies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-tightened-for-r-day-festivities/article64945813.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water supply in south Chennai to be suspended for two days||Water supply to areas in south Chennai, like Adyar, Velachery and Kottivakkam, will be suspended on January 27 and 28 to take up maintenance work at the Nemmeli desalination plant. According to a press release, water production at the desalination plant with a capacity to treat 110 million litres a day will be stopped from 6 a.m. on Thursday to 6 a.m. on Friday for undertaking maintenance work at the facility. Call for urgent needs Due to this, water supply to areas, including Mylapore, Besant Nagar, Sholinganallur, Injambakkam, Neelankarai, Kottivakkam, Perungudi and Thiruvanmiyur, will be stopped for two days. Residents may store sufficient quantity of water in advance. They may also contact the area engineers concerned for mobile water supply for urgent requirements. Area Engineer-IX – (8144930909); Area Engineer- XIII – (8144930913); Area Engineer- XIV-(8144930914) and Area Engineer- XV - (8144930915).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-supply-in-south-chennai-to-be-suspended-for-two-days/article64945815.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Footboard travel: students risk life for fun||M. Kumar, 20, a first-year student of MA History in Presidency College, lost his life to rivalry with students ofPachaiyappa’sCollege in a dispute allegedly over ‘routethala’ (the bus route leader). All efforts of his fatherManivannan, a petty shop owner atGuruvarajapetnearArakkonam, to ensure a good future for his son went in vain. Mr.Manivannansaid, “The death of my son is a lesson for other students travelling on trains and buses to city colleges. I struggled a lot to place my son in a good college. He studied hard to become a sub-inspector of police. Now everything is lost.” The accident was considered a fall-out of the ‘routethala’culture, identified as the main cause for clashes among college students, who travel on the footboard and top of buses and trains.This culture has spread among school students too, traffic policemen point out. Despite awareness campaigns and stringent action, students travelling on the footboard of buses and trains continue in the city and its suburbs. In the last week of November, school students were seen performing stunts on a moving train at theKavaraipettaistation. In a video taken by a passenger, a girl in school uniform was seen boarding a running train and a boy following suit. Then she was seen holding the compartment door, putting one leg out and dragging it on the platform. The act was then repeated by the boy. Schoolchildren follow suit On December 2, school students travelled hanging from window bars and atop anMTCbus (T-110) fromTiruvallurtoMeyyur. At least a dozen boys aged below 15 were involved in this revelry, which was captured on a mobile phone and posted on social media. On December 28, a group of Presidency College students sat in front of an EMU train after a Railway Protection Force officer detained their collegemate for pulling the train to a stop. While the students were celebrating a final-year student’s birthday on the train betweenVelacheryandArakkonamby cutting a cake, a few of them pulled the train to a stop. On December 29, A.NirmalKumar, 18, ofTheagarayaCollege inTiruvottiyur, was stabbed by some students of Dr.AmbedkarLaw College following a fight over who was to ‘lord’ over bus routes. Apart from these widely reported incidents, school boys have often been found travelling on footboards ofMTCbuses in several parts of the city. School and college students continue to indulge in footboard travelling and hanging from train windows in theVelachery-BeachandGummidipoondiandArakkonamsections. There may be a lull owing to thelockdownfor a couple of weeks. The menace will haunt the commuters again once schools and colleges are reopened. NainaMasilamani, president of theArakkonamRail Passengers’ Association, says, “As soon as students come to the railway station platform, they join their friends and indulge in stunts creating nuisance to other passengers... Mostly they are travelling on footboards. Some are hanging out from the window bars. There are not adequate members of the Railway Protection Force or the Government Railway Police to check these violations.” AndrewSesuraj, convener of Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch, said, “Inspired by random social media posts and due to peer pressure, these children indulge in dangerous acts to attract the attention of others. They must be taught that these acts are dangerous and can cost them their life.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/footboard-travel-students-risk-life-for-fun/article64945816.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM writes to Modi, MEA over fishermen issues||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to prevail upon the Sri Lankan government not to auction off the boats seized from Tamil Nadu fishermen. He also wrote to Minister for External Affairs S. Jaishankar, urging that India take up with Sri Lanka the attack on Tamil Nadu fishermen by “Sri Lankan nationals” on January 23. At the request of the Ministry of External Affairs through the High Commission of India, the State government deputed officials and stakeholders to oversee the disposal of 125 unsalvageable Tamil Nadu boats berthed in Sri Lankan harbours. In the meantime, the media reported about the auction of 105 Tamil Nadu fishing boats scheduled between February 7 and 11. Mr. Stalin termed it an “unfortunate development” when the India-Sri Lankan Joint Working Group on Fisheries was due to meet shortly. “The above action has created alarm and distrust among the Tamil Nadu fishermen, who have come forward with an accommodative frame of mind to find an amicable solution to this long-pending issue,” he said in the letter to Mr. Modi. Copies of both letters were shared with the media. The “tearing hurry” to auction the boats without consultations was bound to derail the efforts of the Indian High Commission and the Tamil Nadu government, he said, pointing out that these unsalvageable boats were released by Sri Lankan courts following a due procedure. ‘No legal right’ “I strongly urge the Government of India to register its disapproval in the strongest possible terms at the appropriate level and to prevail upon the Sri Lankan government to recall the advertisement published by the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources for auctioning the Tamil Nadu fishing boats to which they do not have any legal right,” he said, pleading for the early release of 75 boats and fishing gear seized by the Sri Lankan Navy after 2018. In his letter to the Minister for External Affairs, Mr. Stalin referred to the attack and requested that India take up the issue with Sri Lankan sternly so that such acts did not take place in future. Three fishermen from Pushpavanam near Vedaranyam in Nagapattinam district, who went for fishing on their fibre-reinforced plastic boat, were attacked by a group of “unidentified Sri Lankan nationals” while they were fishing 16 nautical miles south-east of Vedaranyam around 9 p.m on January 23. The fishermen were robbed of a net weighing 300 kg, GPS & VHF sets and 30 litre of diesel and attacked. The injured are being treated at the government hospital at Vedaranyam. “It is observed that the continuing attacks on innocent Tamil Nadu fishermen by the Sri Lankan nationals are clearly aimed at keeping the Tamil Nadu fishermen away from their traditional fishing waters of the Palk Bay. I am constrained to point out that these attacks are disconcerting,” he added. The issue had become a matter of life and death for thousands of fisherfolk, whose livelihood was under a serious threat, he noted. “India cannot continue to be seen as a mute spectator as the rights of Indian fishermen are repeatedly trampled upon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-writes-to-modi-mea-over-fishermen-issues/article64945565.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Public Libraries Act, Rules to be revisited||Conscious of the problem of lack of funds being faced by public libraries and the consequent adverse impact on development works of the Libraries Department, the Tamil Nadu government has decided to revisit the Public Libraries Act, 1948, and the Public Libraries Rules, 1950. An eight-member high-level committee, headed by former Tamil University Vice-Chancellor M. Rajendran, has been constituted, according to an order issued by the Education Department last week. Among other members are N. Avudaiyappan, former director of Connemara Public Library; Sunder Ganesan, Director, Roja Muthiah Research Library; and Jagadish, former Library Director at the American Consulate, Chennai. The government has named three special invitees, including Mary Rader, Librarian, South Asian Studies, University of Texas. Pointing out that the Act and the Rules had not been amended suitably ever since they came into force, the order, quoting a communication of the Director of Public Libraries sent to the government last month, explained that as per a government order in May 1992, the library cess had been fixed at Rs. 0.1 (10 paise) per rupee to be collected from the local bodies through the proceeds of the property tax collections in accordance with Section 12(1)(a) of the Public Libraries Act. It was through this source of income, called Local Library Authority Fund, that development works were being carried out and the expenditure on the purchase of books, periodicals, magazines, stationery items and consumer articles, construction of buildings and their maintenance, repairs and the pay and allowances of library staff members was incurred. But the local bodies had not been remitting properly to the Local Library Authority Fund. Improving finances As the need had arisen for improving the finances of the public libraries and creating a permanent source of funding, the Act and the Rules required to be amended. There were a couple of other reasons for the proposed amendment to the legal provisions. They included numerous litigation over the service conditions of library employees, the need for streamlining the service conditions, the idea of direct recruitment to libraries and the plan to treat the Anna Centenary Library in Chennai and Kalaignar Library in Madurai as one unit, the order added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-libraries-act-rules-to-be-revisited/article38327119.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reconstruction of 7,500 tenements to commence||Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board Minister T.M. Anbarasan on Tuesday chaired a meeting with senior officials and MLAs from many constituencies in Chennai to discuss the projects to demolish and reconstruct old and dilapidated tenements of the Board in the city.  The Minister later told The Hindu that around 23,000 tenements had been earmarked for reconstruction in the city, of which the work for 7,500 tenements would be commenced this financial year.  “The preliminary work has already commenced in many of these sites,” he also said. He added that another 10,000 tenements would be taken up for reconstruction in the next financial year. He said that the MLAs were advised to work closely with the officials and the residents of the tenements in their respective constituencies in explaining to the latter the need to reconstruct the buildings and in addressing the concerns raised by them. The Board was facing some resistance from a section of residents of tenements in areas like Mandaveli and Chetpet that have been earmarked for reconstruction. Apart from difficulties surrounding temporary relocation, the residents have particularly raised objections to the Board’s decision to build high rise buildings instead of the three or four storey structures that exist now. Mr. Anbarasan said that the allowance provided by the government to assist the residents in relocation has been increased. “We have also brought down the money they need to pay for allocation of houses in the reconstructed buildings along with easy instalment options,” he said. He said that administrative changes within the Board were also under way towards effective implementation and monitoring of the construction projects. MLAs from Mylapore, Egmore, Villivakkam, Thousand Lights, T. Nagar, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Royapuram, Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar and Anna Nagar constituencies took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reconstruction-of-7500-tenements-to-commence/article64945819.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||State govt. asks public to avoid visiting Marina||In view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic, the Tamil Nadu Government on Tuesday issued an advisory requesting the general public, children and senior citizens to avoid visiting the Marina beachfront to watch the Republic Day parade in Chennai on January 26. “Arrangements have been made to live telecast/broadcast the Republic Day celebrations through television and radio. To avoid crowding, the general public, students and senior citizens are requested to avoid visiting the beachfront to witness the celebrations in person. They are requested to watch or follow the event through the broadcasts,” an official release from the State government said. In view of the prevailing unusual situation, the cultural events by school and college students have been avoided this year. Considering the well-being of senior citizens, the Collectors have been instructed to send officers to personally visit the residences of freedom fighters to honour them in every district to avoid the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-asks-public-to-avoid-visiting-marina/article38327110.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP leader launches scathing attack on AIADMK||A BJP leader launched a scathing attack on the party’s senior ally on Tuesday, saying he was unable to see an AIADMK having a spine. BJP Legislature Party leader Nainar Nagenthiran, formerly an AIADMK Minister, made the remarks during a protest organised by the national party near Valluvar Kottam on Tuesday, demanding action against those responsible for the death of a girl student in a Christian missionary school hostel in Thanjavur district. Mr. Nagenthiran said, “I could not see an AIADMK that is brave, potent and has the spine to speak up in the Assembly. Many of you can ask me that you [the BJP] could speak. With four persons, one cannot do anything there. We could speak but [we] will be thrown out.” The AIADMK has 66 members and the BJP four in the 234-seat Assembly. He said the AIADMK was not the “Opposition party”. “Even if we do not speak in the Assembly, the BJP is the Opposition party and our leader Annamalai gives interviews to the media.” Earlier, the Tirunelveli MLA said the AIADMK was in the alliance, only to correct himself subsequently: “It is secondary whether or not it is part of the alliance.” Raj Satyen, a party functionary from Madurai, took to social media to take a dig at Mr. Nagenthiran. Claiming that Mr. Nagenthiran won in the Assembly election by riding on the AIADMK’s shoulders, he challenged the Tirunelveli MLA to resign, face the election again and prove his masculinity. “Masculinity means action, not words,” he said. In the evening, Mr. Nagenthiran tweeted, “There is no ulterior motive in my comments. Our sole intention is to get justice through the protests.”  ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-leaders-scathing-attack-on-aiadmk/article38327117.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chola-era inscriptions found at temple near Villupuram||Inscriptions of the Chola period were discovered at the Vishnu temple at Angur in Villupuram district. They belong to the period of Kulottunga I (1070-1120), Vikrama Chola (1118-1135) and Kulottunga II (1133-1150). “The inscriptions are important because three Chola kings — the grandfather, the father and the son — were associated with the temple. One inscription was hidden behind layers of white wash on the outer wall. It refers to the village as Gangaikonda Chola Vala Naatu Panaiyur Naatu Anangur,” said D. Ramesh, Assistant Professor of History at Arignar Anna Government Arts College, Villupuram. He discovered the inscriptions, along with his students Nivan, Ukkiramurthy and Kalaimani. Another inscription, which is incomplete, starts with the word ‘poomaruviya’, normally found in the inscriptions of Kulottunga. Mr. Ramesh said another 14th century inscription on the basement of the sanctum sanctorum had recorded the donations of a vessel for preparing food and a bell made by Chitrambalavan Padavan, a goldsmith. “There are two more inscriptions that explained measurements used in the 16th century,” he said.  They belong to the period of Kulottunga I, Vikrama Chola and Kulottunga II||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chola-era-inscriptions-found-at-temple-near-villupuram/article64945775.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP stages protest demanding CBI probe into student’s death||BJP State president K. Annamalai on Tuesday led a protest near Valluvar Kottam in Chennai, demanding a CBI probe into the death of a girl student in a Christian missionary-run school in Thanjavur district. He said the BJP was not making any new claim but was repeating the statements made by the parents. Interacting with journalists, Mr. Annamalai alleged that the school, where the girl studied, harassed and forced her to clean toilets. This, he said, was corroborated by her parents. Referring to a video clip, in which the girl was heard responding to a male voice saying “two years ago” her parents were asked by the school authorities to convert her to Christianity, he said it was clear to the investigating officer that the voice was that of the girl. “There is no evidence so far to say that the video is fake,” he said.  ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-stages-protest-demanding-cbi-probe-into-students-death/article64945795.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP will burn its fingers in girl’s death case, says Alagiri||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri on Tuesday accused the State BJP president K. Annamalai of politicising the recent suicide of a Class XII girl, who was studying at a Christian missionary-run school in Thanjavur district. “The BJP will burn its fingers by adding religious colour to the incident,” he told reporters at Sathyamurthy Bhavan. Mr. Alagiri said he had also watched the video of the girl making a statement [the girl responded to questions posed by the person who shot the video], and said she had talked about a proposal to convert to Christianity “two years ago”. “What has it got to do with the suicide now? We are not supporting [forcible religious] conversions, and whoever is responsible for the girl’s suicide should be punished. But if a person willingly embraces a religion, we cannot say anything,” he added. Mr. Alagiri wondered where Mr. Annamalai was when a student from Ariyalur district, committed suicide as she could not join a medical college as NEET was introduced that year. “It was a genuine issue and the BJP never bothered to fight against it. Now, it is politicising the suicide of another girl,” he said.  Meanwhile, DMDK founder Vijayakant and MNM founder Kamal Haasan sought a fair probe.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-will-burn-its-fingers-in-girls-death-case-says-alagiri/article64945567.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Improving quality of education at govt. schools is need of the hour’||Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi on Tuesday said improving the quality of education at government schools was the need of the time. The difference in the outputs of government and private schools was “worrisome”. In his address on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day to the people of Tamil Nadu, he said, “The poor cannot afford expensive private schools. Government schools are their only hope.” Before the introduction of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical courses, the share of students from government schools in the seats at government medical colleges was hardly 1%. “Thanks to the affirmative action of 7.5% reservation for [the NEET-qualified] government school students, the number has improved significantly. However, there is an urgent need to improve the quality of education at the government schools. In higher education too, we must work hard to restore the once enviable reputation of our universities.” Referring to the initiative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to establish the ‘Mahakavi Subramania Bharati Chair’ at Banaras Hindu University, the Governor said the country must have the full benefit of the richness of Tamil. “While it is important that Tamil language is given a wider spread in the rest of the country, it is equally important that our school students learn other Indian languages like those in other States. Depriving our students of the knowledge of other Indian languages is unfair to all. Besides fostering brotherliness and better mutual appreciation, a linguistic intellectual and cultural cross-pollination will enrich all of us and open several opportunities for our harmonious growth.” Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, the country had dealt with the unprecedented global crisis of COVID-19 and its adverse consequences, he said. Tamil Nadu was progressive and in COVID-19 management, it had done very well. The State government had performed “remarkably well” in mitigating the adverse effects of unprecedented rain and cyclones in 2021. Constructive measures “Our human and industrial development indices are commendable. Through constructive measures taken by the successive State governments and with support of the Central government, we have achieved a remarkable success in social justice, spread of education, healthcare and enhancing the livelihood of our people,” he said. He thanked the Prime Minister for inaugurating 11 medical colleges in the State.  While continuing to steadily improve our position in development and growth, the focus should be on building social harmony and lending quality to education, he said. “The anthropocentric view of life and resultant reckless rampant exploitations of nature and natural resources by some advanced countries have put our planet in an existential crisis. The countries responsible for destructions of ecology and climate are not yet forthcoming to mend their ways,” he said. However, India with its commitment to integral humanism of ‘ Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam ’ and an unwavering belief in the integral creation of ‘ Sarve Bhavantu Sukhinah-Sarve Santu niramayah ’ [Let every being be happy and free of diseases] was demonstrating the ways of sustainable harmonious development, he said.   Numerous diversities were the beauty and strength of the country, he said. “For several thousand years, people have lived together as one large family, united in our shared cultural spirituality and values that are rooted in universal unity of human beings and their oneness with all of creation.” “Our Sangam literature, perhaps the most ancient living literature, represents the highest-ever evolution of intellectual and spiritual self, and has inspired and influenced the succeeding generations of poets, thinkers and philosophers,” he said. “The great Kamban gave us Ramayan , the life story of Sri Ram who lives eternally in the heart of every Bharatiya.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/improving-quality-of-education-at-govt-schools-is-need-of-the-hour/article64945564.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates T.N. Unmanned Aerial Vehicles Corpn. expo||Inaugurating the Tamil Nadu Unmanned Aerial Vehicles Corporation exhibition in Anna University, Chennai, which has been set up at Rs. 10 crore, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said the need for drones were on the rise. He also virtually inaugurated the 1 MW capacity solar power plant established at Rs. 7.25 crore in the Madurai Kamaraj University campus. Mr. Stalin said the corporation manufactured drones with financial support from the Tamil Nadu Government. “Initially, they were used by the Police Department. Later, they were used for aerial photography and disaster management and for measuring mines. The need for these drones is on the rise every other day,” he said. Virtually inaugurating the solar power plant in the MKU campus, developed with financial assistance from the Rural Electrification Corporation Limited, the Chief Minister said: “Electricity requirement is increasing day by day. We should use solar energy to meet the need. All universities should follow the example set by the Madurai Kamaraj University. I request all universities to continue initiating pioneering efforts like these.” All universities should not merely remain certificate granting institutions but should become research institutions, Mr. Stalin said and added: “We should introduce similar courses and degrees being offered in foreign universities. We should introduce these programmes in colleges and universities of Tamil Nadu.” Academic programmes relating to artificial intelligence are said be important, Mr. Stalin said and added that data science, cyber security, customer success analysis, social engineering, digital marketing, behaviour economics, game theory, history of economics and study of the universe are among the fields that were emerging. The Chief Minister handed over appointment orders to 21 and 15 persons, who were the legal heirs of employees of the Directorate of Technical Education and the Directorate of Collegiate Education, respectively, who died while in service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-tn-unmanned-aerial-vehicles-corpn-expo/article64945566.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||20 police officers to get medals for distinguished service on R-Day||On the occasion of Republic Day, theUnion Governmenthas announced the award of medals to 20 police officers for 'distinguished works' and meritorious services. Two officers — G.Venkataraman, Additional Director General of Police, Headquarters and C.Sivanarul, Inspector of Police, Special Branch CID, Thanjavur — will receive the ‘President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service.’ Eighteen officers will beawarded the Police Medal for Meritorious Service. Following is the list: V.Balakrishnan, Inspector General of Police(IGP), Central Zone, Tiruchi, Pradip Kumar, Commissioner of Police, Coimbatore City, R.Sudhakar, IGP, West Zone, Coimbatore, P.Saravanan, Superintendent of Police(SP), TirunelveliDistrict, P.Kannammal, SP ‘Q’ Branch CID, Chennai, V.K.Surendranath, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Traffic Planning, Chennai City, D. Karthikeyan, Commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Police XII Battalion, Manimuthar, V.Elangovan, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Traffic Planning, Coimbatore City, A. Thomas Prabhakar, Additional Superintendent of Police, NIB CID, Chennai, S. Prabakaran, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Bank Fraud Investigation, Central Crime Branch, Greater Chennai Police, S. Murugavel, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Intelligence Section, Coimbatore City, M.Muralitharan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Crime Branch CID, OCU, Coimbatore City, K.Murugesan, Inspector of Police, Central Crime Branch, Greater Chennai Police,K.Anna Durai, Inspector of Police, ‘Q’ Branch CID, Chennai, D.Shanmugam, Inspector of Police, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, Cuddalore, G.Sivaganesan, Sub Inspector of Police, Special Task Force, Erode, R.Ganesan, Special Sub-Inspectorof Police, Special Intelligence Unit, Tiruchi and R.Pasupathi, Special Sub Inspector of Police, Special Branch CID, Headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/r-day-20-police-officers-to-get-medals/article64945562.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Authorities take the sensitisation route to check menace||After a series of complaints, the police have started a campaign to sensitise students to the dangers of footboard travelling. The Traffic police personnel, on the order of Commissioner of PoliceShankarJiwal, visited colleges and schools and asked students not to indulge in dangerous acts. A senior police officer said, “When the colleges reopened last time, we implemented a scheme for security on the routes of college students. Now the institutions are closed. The same will be implemented again once they reopen. We call up the parents of students committing such offences for the first time and explain the consequences. If the offence is major, we remand them.” Alert police The Railway Police’s round-the-clock helpline, 1512, and contact number, 9962500500, have been displayed in all railway stations and on trains for passengers to alert the police to crimes, issues of security and accidents. Passengers and students are also advised to inform the police if they have any complaint about their travel. A senior official of Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) said footboard travel was usually attributed to poor bus services on certain routes in north Chennai. But almost 50% of the total fleet of nearly 1,600 buses are operated on various routes in north Chennai. No shortage of services He denied any shortage of services during the lean hours in the afternoon as no fewer than 1,500 buses were operated in full shift and 1,600 buses were operated in a single shift. SeniorMTCofficials said some students had made travelling on footboard, a habit, and this could be prevented only with the coordinated efforts ofthe city police, teachers and parents.  Some students have made travelling on footboard, a habit, and this could be prevented only with the coordinated efforts ofthe city police, teachers and parents MTC officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/authorities-take-the-sensitisation-route-to-check-menace/article64945817.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC expunges offending remarks against actor in Rolls Royce case||The Madras High Court on Tuesday expunged “offending and objectionable” remarks made by a single judge on July 8, 2021, while disposing of a 2012 writ petition filed by actor C. Vijay Joseph seeking entry tax exemption for his Rolls Royce Ghost imported from England. Allowing a writ appeal preferred by the actor last year only to get the remarks expunged, a Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and Mohammed Shaffiq held that the “disparaging” remarks made by the single judge against the actor were “wholly unwarranted.” The Bench concurred with senior counsel Vijay Narayan that there was great uncertainty over the legal position on collection of entry tax until the Supreme Court upheld such collection in 2017 and therefore, the actor could not be blamed for having filed a case in 2012. “Thus, to impute motives to a litigant or castigating him for taking a particular legal position or exercising his Constitutional right under Article 226 (writ jurisdiction of High Courts) is unwarranted,” the two judges wrote after taking note that the actor paid the tax in full last year. Authoring the verdict for the Bench, Justice Sathyanarayana, also said: “The charm and dignity of a judge gets enhanced by sobriety, restraint, grace and concern for the cause of justice.” The Bench also recorded the submissions of Mr. Narayan that the “uncharitable and castigating” remarks made by the single judge against his client had hurt the actor badly, and that they would not only affect his future career but also his reputation, integrity and conduct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-expunges-offending-remarks-against-actor-in-rolls-royce-case/article64945727.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minister inaugurates palliative care facility||A palliative care centre was commissioned at the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. The facility will offer treatment for cancer patients. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, who commissioned it, said the facility was part of the Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam scheme launched by the Chief Minister in last August. Till date 46,37,974 persons had benefitted under the scheme of which 1,68,075 had sought palliative care. Among them, 1,20,335 persons had required continuous palliative care. The centre will have the latest ultrasound equipment, besides offering treatment for transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, nerve blocks, nerve lesions and radio frequency nerve ablation, among others. The hospital has established a 15-bed in-patient ward. The centre came up at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh and has been partly funded by film producer ‘Abhirami’ Ramanathan and Rotary Club. Mr. Ramanathan has donated Rs. 15 lakh and the Club had donated Rs. 7 lakh, Mr. Subramanian said. HR and CE Minister P.K. Sekar Babu and senior health department officials were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inaugurates-palliative-care-facility/article64945821.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘No prohibition on learning Hindi in T.N.’||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday told the Madras High Court that there was no prohibition on learning Hindi in the State, which is dotted with several Hindi Prachar Sabhas, though it follows the two-language (Tamil and English) policy so as not to overburden school students. Appearing before the first Division Bench of Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu, Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram said the avenues were aplenty for those who wanted to learn Hindi. The submissions were made at the hearing of a PIL petition which accused the State government of not adopting the National Education Policy 2020 for political reasons and because of the “false” fear of Hindi and Sanskrit being imposed on the State. When the Advocate-General said the State does not follow a three-language policy and it insists on teaching only two languages to school students, the Acting Chief Justice asked, “What is wrong in following a three-language policy?” He said a judge had lamented to him that he once got selected for a top job in the Airports Authority of India but could not take it up only because he wasn’t proficient in Hindi. In reply, the Advocate-General said he had lived in the Hindi belts and had seen how they learnt nothing but Hindi. “They don’t even learn English,” he said and sought time to file a detailed counter-affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-prohibition-on-learning-hindi-in-tn/article38327118.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Work to prevent sedimentation at Ennore creek mouth may take off soon||The long-pending project to prevent sedimentation at the mouth of Ennore creek may take off in a couple of months. The Water Resources Department (WRD) is likely to begin construction of a training wall for the sustainable opening of the Ennore creek mouth in March or April. The project aims at reducing sedimentation and inundation in upstream areas of the Kosasthalaiyar river. Officials of the WRD said the expert appraisal committee in the State Coastal Zone Management Authority has provided coastal regulation zone clearance and recently recommended the project to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for final approval. The department has planned to build ‘straight training walls’ for a length of 500 metres on the northern side of the embankment and for a length of 400 metres on the southern side near the Ennore creek where Kosasthalaiyar joins it. How will the walls help? Training walls at the creek would help direct the flow of the river and also interrupt transport of sand by waves. Officials said at present, minimal dredging was being done to keep the Ennore creek mouth open for a width of 80 metres to allow tidal action and minimise sand bar formation. There are plans to use a combination of boulders and tetrapods to construct the training wall to enable the Ennore creek mouth to be open for a width of up to 400 metres. It would mitigate flooding in the upstream areas, including Manali New Town, around the banks of Kosasthalaiyar and aid in draining floodwater of the river’s maximum capacity. Last year, nearly 31,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs) of floodwater drained into the sea during the Northeast monsoon. The Kosasthalaiyar rhas a maximum flood discharge capacity of more than 1 lakh cusecs near the creek, officials said. The training wall would also provide better access to fishing boats and help the livelihood of residents in the surrounding fishing hamlets. Once final approval is provided, work on the Rs. 128-crore project would be implemented with the funding of Kamarajar Port Limited. Demolition of old piers near Nettukuppam would also be taken up as part of the project. The work is expected to be completed in a year, an official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-to-prevent-sedimentation-at-ennore-creek-mouth-may-take-off-soon/article38327114.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||A discussion on sleep and dental health in children||We Little and The Hindu Wellness Series will present a webinar on ‘Sleep Disruptions in Kids — A Slow Pandemic’ on January 29.  Shifa Shamsudeen, founder and director of We Little and a preventive paediatric dentist, will touch on the connection between problems in oral cavity and sleep. She and her team works on children’s dental requirements and have brought out what they call a sleep passport — a booklet for parents and children that gives pointers on a healthy sleep routine from infancy to 18 years of age. The booklet provides a pictorial description of low-quality sleep and highlights the symptoms, causes and effects of mouth breathing and sleep disordered breathing (SDB), an upper airway dysfunction.  Saturday’s webinar, which begins at 11 a.m., will offer expert insights from Umakant Katwa, instructor of paediatrics, Harvard Medical School. Pon Vasanth B.A., senior reporter, The Hindu, will moderate the session.  To register and view the webinar visit:https://bit.ly/WELTHWor scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-discussion-on-sleep-and-dental-health-in-children/article64945551.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:03 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two held for fraud||The Commercial Crime Unit of Police has arrested two staff — secretary of a cooperative bank and an appraiser — for allegedly cheating the bank to the tune of Rs. 1.64 crore by pledging fake jewellery. Police sources said three staff were allegedly involved in the fraud. From December 2019, till March 2021, they withdrew Rs. 1.64 crore as jewel loan after pledging fake jewelleryin thename of 29 members of Primary Cooperative Society Bank in Uthiramerur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-fraud/article38327113.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea to allow T.N. tableau in Delhi R-Day parade dismissed||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed a public interest litigation petition which sought a direction to the Ministry of Defence to permit the participation of Tamil Nadu’s tableau in the Republic Day parade in New Delhi on Wednesday. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu rejected the PIL petition filed by Chennai-based advocate P. Babu right at the admission stage after pointing out that he had not filed any document to support the averments in his affidavit. The judges pointed out that the litigant had filed the case wholly on the basis of news reports and failed to produce any official record to show the reasons cited by an Expert Committee for having rejected Tamil Nadu’s tableau for this year’s parade. The Bench further pointed out that the case had been filed at the eleventh hour, and hence, it could not be entertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-allow-tn-tableau-in-delhi-r-day-parade-dismissed/article38327129.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Clarify doubts on Police Commission’||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the State government to clarify the provision of law under which it constituted a Police Commission on January 19 under the chairmanship of retired High Court judge C.T. Selvam to recommend measures aimed at police reforms. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu told Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram that they had reserved orders on January 12 on a couple of writ petitions that challenged certain provisions of Tamil Nadu Police (Reforms) Act, 2013. The litigants, who included advocate Saravanan Dakshinamurthy and retired police officer A.G. Mourya of Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), had insisted that State Level Police Complaints Authority must be headed by a retired High Court judge and not the Home Secretary, as contemplated under the 2013 Act. However, after reserving judgment in these two cases, the judges came across news reports of the State government having constituted the police commission. Therefore, the judges listed the two cases ‘for clarification’ on Monday and wanted to know the provision of law under which the commission was constituted. The A-G replied that the commission appeared to have been constituted on the basis of a direction issued by Justices N. Kirubakaran (since retired) and B. Pugalendhi last year. He also sought time to get further instructions on the issue from the government. Accepting his request, the judges adjourned the matter to January 31. The two litigants before the court had pointed out that the 2013 Act specifically states that it had been enacted to carry out the directions issued by the Supreme Court on September 22, 2006, in Prakash Singh’s case related to large scale police reforms across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clarify-doubts-on-police-commission/article38327221.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four held for house break-ins||The Perumbakkam Police on Tuesday arrested four persons for their involvement in house break-ins in Perumbakkam, Guduvanchery and Urapakkam. On instructions from Commissioner of Police, Tambaram M.Ravi, a special team was formed to trace the suspects who were involved in the house break-ins in Perumbakkam. The special team nabbed four accused — H.Durairaj, 25, V. Dhanus alias Damal, 19, S.Veeramuthu, 19, and S.Nagaraj alias Nagu, 24, of Kannagi Nagar. Police said they admitted to have been involved in the house break-ins in Perumbakkam, Guduvanchery and Urapakkam. Stolenproperties worth Rs. 3 lakh were recovered from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-house-break-ins/article38327099.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested with fake appointment orders||The Nungambakkam Police on Tuesday arrested a 30-year-old man who was in possession of fake appointment orders and roaming in a ‘suspicious manner’ on the School Education Directorate premises. Police said Shankar, a staff of School Education Directorate, alerted the police that a man was caught roaming inside the campus in a suspicious manner. He was also found possessing fake appointment orders as if they were issued by the School Education Department. Job aspirants cheated The man was identified as S.Rajendran, 30, of B.V. Koil Street. He was running a photocopy shop in Teynampet. He had cheated several job aspirants by giving them fake appointment orders after receiving money from them. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-with-fake-appointment-orders/article38327094.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||7 selected for Padma Shri Awards||Seven persons from the State have been chosen for the Padma Shri Awards this year. Four of them have been selected for their contribution to arts and one person each in the fields of literature and education, medicine and social work. Those who have been selected for the award are Sirpi Balasubramaniam (literature and education); Veeraswamy Seshiah (medicine); and S. Damodaran (social work). In the arts category, the awards will be given to S. Ballesh Bhajantri, actor Sowcar Janaki, A.K.C. Natarajan and R. Muthukannamal respectively. Dr. Seshiah completed MBBS from the Madras Medical College, and in 1962, he volunteered to serve during the Indo-China War, where he joined as a Lieutenant in the Indian Army Medical Corps. He also served during the Indo-Pak. war and the Uri-Poonch Bulge. He was decorated with the Samar Seva Star in 1965 and the Sainya Seva Medal. After his stint in the war, he completed his MD in Medicine from the Stanley Medical College. In 1979, he started a separate clinic for pregnancy and diabetes in the Government Hospital for Women and Children in Egmore with support from his professor and mentor G.P. Moses and teacher M. Viswanathan. In recognition of his work in the field of diabetes in general and diabetes in pregnancy (gestational diabetes mellitus), Dr. Seshiah’s birth date March 10, has been declared as National GDM Awareness Day by the Government of India. Revolutionary test Dr. Seshiah’s single test procedure for GDM has been revolutionary. It is done by giving 75 mg of oral glucose, irrespective of meal time, after which blood sugar is measured two hours later. It is a simple, economical, evidence-based and easily doable test approved by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and is even recognised by the World Health Organisation, the International Diabetes Federation and the International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-persons-selected-for-padma-shri-awards-from-tn/article38327120.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:01 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gangster surrenders||Gangster ‘Padappai’ Guna, wanted in many criminal cases in Kancheepuram district, surrendered before a Metropolitan Magistrate Court in Saidapet on Tuesday. Around 12 noon, he surrendered before the magistrate. ‘Padappai’ Guna, also known as N.Gunasekaran of Maduramangalam near Padappai in Kancheepuram district, has more than 30 criminal cases for offences, including murder, kidnap and extortion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gangster-surrenders/article38327100.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chennai police arrest man for abusive phone call||The police arrested Subbiah, 54, a native of Tiruvannamalai, for allegedly making an abusive phone call to the State’s modern control room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-police-arrest-man-for-abusive-phone-call/article38327478.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation draws plan for areas excluded from UGSS||Even as it goes about completing the construction of sewage treatment plant in Nanjundapuram and laying pipeline to convey sewage to the Ondipudur treatment plant, the Coimbatore Corporation is also drawing a plan to implement underground sewerage scheme (UGSS) in areas excluded within the old city. Sources said the Corporation that had implemented the UGSS about a decade ago under the then Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission had omitted a few areas for various reasons. One of the reasons was that the areas were underdeveloped with very few houses. This was in the old city area, which is now spread over 60 wards and called the core city. But in the last 10 years and since the implementation of the UGSS, those areas had developed and were without underground drainage. With a view to implement UGSS in those areas the Corporation had drawn up a proposal, said sources familiar with the issue. The first proposal that the Corporation had readied was for those wards that were excluded in the JNNURM UGD Package III and that included Wards 44, 45, 47, 39, 37, 38, 40, 41, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65 and 66 in part or full. The proposal would bring over 33,000 houses under the scheme in those wards by laying pipeline for 142 km, the sources said and added that the Corporation had drawn the proposal for Rs. 175 crore. The Corporation would take the sewage from those wards to the Ondipudur sewage treatment plant. The sources further said that there were similar excluded wards in the JNNURM Package I and II area and that the Corporation would draw separate proposal for those. The rough estimate for those areas could be around Rs. 300 crore. As for the Rs. 175 crore proposal, the Corporation had written to the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services for funding. Once it received the go-ahead, the Corporation would float tender to start the work. The sources also said that the Corporation had also made progress in the work to convey sewage to the Ondipudur treatment plant through the main sewer line on Trichy Road. Of the five km pipeline to be laid, the Corporation had completed work for two km and work was in progress to complete the remaining three km.  The civic body has written to the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services for funding||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-draws-plan-for-areas-excluded-from-ugss/article38327157.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Micro units seek lower interest for bank loans||The micro units in Coimbatore district have demanded lower interest for bank loans. In a memorandum to the Finance Minister, the Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association (COTMA) said the micro units are the worst hit during the pandemic. They are struggling to repay the loans and hence require credit at lower interest rates. The Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT) demanded loans at 5 % interest for micro units. In a memorandum to the Reserve Bank of India, it said banks and all financial institutions should give one year moratorium to the micro units for repayment of loans. The banks should not levy and those who levied should cancel the penal interest for micro units for the pandemic period. Further, the banks should extend loans to the units irrespective of their CIBIL score. The banks should not take action on the defaulters as the units are hit by the pandemic. The COTMA said the GST for job working micro units should be reduced to 5 % from 12 %. Further, high raw material prices continue to hurt the tiny enterprises. Hence, the government should issue MSME cards on the lines of Kisan cards so that the MSMEs can buy accessories and inputs using the card. The Central government should also establish a large-scale public sector enterprise here, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/micro-units-seek-lower-interest-for-bank-loans/article38327150.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Search on for those who vandalised saint’s statue in Coimbatore church||The police on Tuesday continued their search for the two persons who vandalised the shrine and statue of St. Sebastian on the compound of Holy Trinity Cathedral, Ramanathapuram, here on Sunday night. A senior police officer said the investigation team had got certain leads on the persons involved in the incident. The vandalism took place around 10 p.m. on Sunday. Surveillance camera visuals collected by the police showed the duo, both wearing helmets, coming to the entrance on a two-wheeler and one of them scaling the gate. The intruder broke the glass plane of the shrine and defaced the saint’s statue using a brick. Suspects questioned Sources said the police had managed to trace the registration number of the two-wheeler from surveillance camera visuals. They questioned a few suspects on Monday. Condemned On Tuesday, devotees assembled in front of the shrine and recited prayer. They held placards and banners condemning the vandalism. AIADMK MLAs S.P. Velumani, Amman K. Arjunan, S. Damodaran and V.P. Kandasamy visited the shrine and spoke to the church authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/search-on-for-those-who-vandalised-saints-statue-in-coimbatore-church/article38327164.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery stolen from house||A total of 29 sovereigns of jewellery were stolen from the house of an engineer at Ondipudur when the family members were off to the Nilgiris. The police said that the theft happened at the residence of Syed Ibrahim at Senthil Janatha Nagar. Mr. Ibrahim and family members were at the residence of his wife at Coonoor in the Nilgiris for the past 10 days. They had gone there to take care of his father-in-law. Mr. Ibrahim returned to Coimbatore on Monday evening and found that there was a break-in at the house. He found the shelves open and 29 sovereigns of jewellery missing. After being alerted by him, the Singanallur police visited the house. The police have registered a case and launched an investigation.They have collected visuals from surveillance cameras in the locality for leads to trace those who were involvedin the burglary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-stolen-from-house/article38327159.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Free agri power connections||As many as 14, 557 free agriculture connections will be given to farmers in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, and the Nilgiris districts under the scheme of one lakh free power connections during the current financial year. A press release from Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation said that efforts are on to provide the 14,557 connections in Coimbatore division. When the applicants approach the officials to submit applications, if they face hurdles or unnecessary delays, they can contact the Superintending Engineers or Chief Engineer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-agri-power-connections/article38327149.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees 3,763 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 3,763 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. The Health Department said that 2,384 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 26,178 active cases on Tuesday. Two more persons from the district died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 2,548. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 27.8 % on Monday when it reported 3,786 cases. The daily COVID-19 caseload of Tiruppur district saw a slight decline for the second consecutive day as 1,490 cases were reported on Tuesday, which was lower than Monday’s caseload of 1,504. The Health Department did not report any new deaths. The district had a total of 7,935 active cases and 864 patients recovered on Tuesday. The Nilgiris reported 407 new cases on Tuesday. A total of 2,219 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-3763-new-covid-19-cases/article38327152.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. Commissioner inspects COVID Care Centre||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara on Tuesday inspected the COVID-19 Care Centre that the civic body had established at a wedding hall on the Singanallu-Uppilipalayam Road in Ward 64. A release from the civic body said that he checked the facilities provided, number of beds the Corporation placed and other facilities. Earlier, he visited the Urban Primary Health Centre in Udayampalayam in Ward 66 to check on the antenatal and postnatal treatment and care provided to women, the vaccinations administered there and other services provided there. The release said he also checked the records to ensure that women registered received all government-given benefits. The Commissioner also visited a few houses in R.S. Puram (Ward 23) to check on the quality of service that the Corporation provided at doorstep to people in home isolation due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-commissioner-inspects-covid-care-centre/article38327156.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||National Voters’ Day pledge administered||District Collector G.S. Sameeran on Tuesday administered the National Voters’ Day pledge to the staff at the Collectorate. A press release said that January 25 was observed as the National Voters’ Day to encourage young voters to exercise their franchise and consider it a duty. As a part of the Day, an awareness campaign was conducted to ensure 100% polling and to ensure that all those aged above 18 voted. The objective behind such exercises was to strengthen democracy, the release said. He presented certificate of appreciation to electoral registration officers in recognition of their exemplary work. At the Coimbatore Corporation, Deputy Commissioner M. Sharmila administered the pledge to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-voters-day-pledge-administered/article38327148.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani workers booked||A total of 361 Hindu Munnani workers, including district level office-bearers, were booked by the city police for staging protests at various locations on Monday demanding a CBI inquiry into the death of Lavanya, a class XII student from Michaelpatti in Thanjavur, who died by suicide on January 19. The protesters alleged that the girl ended her life following “religious conversion attempt”. They demanded the arrest of those involved in her death and a CBI investigation into the incident. The cases were registered against the workers by Kattoor police (15), Ramanathapuram police (157), Selvapuram police (150), Podanur police (20) and Saravanampatti police (19). (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.) Case registered against woman The Variety Hall police have booked a woman, coordinator of ‘Q7 TV’ channel, for making alleged derogatory remarks against Hindu Makkal Katchi (Tamilagam) leader Arjun Sampath. The police said that a case was registered against the channel coordinator Faridha for offences under Sections 153 A (1) (a) and 505 (2) of the IPC for promoting enmity between different groups. According to the police, sub-inspector Arulperumal happened to see her speech in the channel and he lodged a complaint. The police said that Ms. Faridha’s speech about Mr. Sampath was derogatory in nature and it could create communal disharmony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-munnani-workers-booked/article38327151.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Disruption in water supply||Kavundampalayam and Vadavalli residents will face disruption in water supply from January 27 to 29 as the Coimbatore Corporation is taking up maintenance work in the in-take well at headworks that is filled with dry leaves and twigs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disruption-in-water-supply/article38327158.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:54 IST,TAMIL NADU||30 tonnes of ration rice seized, one person held||The Cuddalore police on Monday night arrested a 28-year-old man for attempting to smuggle rice meant for supply under the Public Distribution System. The police seized 30 tonnes of ration rice that the accused and his associates were loading on to two lorries. According to police sources, a special team was on patrol at Thopurapuram when they received information that a group was attempting to smuggle ration rice. The team found three persons loading the rice on to two lorries at an open space near Thopurapuram. The police arrested A. Manikandan of Ulundurpet in Kallakurichi district. A search has been launched to nab two others who fled the scene. A preliminary inquiry revealed that the accused had smuggled the rice from the Vriddhachalam Co-operative Society godown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-tonnes-of-ration-rice-seized-one-person-held/article38327471.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:54 IST,TAMIL NADU||Preventive action against 106 persons ahead of R-Day||Ahead of Republic Day celebrations, the Cuddalore district police invoked preventive action against 106 persons, including former accused and suspects. According to a press release, two absconding accused were arrested, and 106 persons were bound over under Section 110 of the Cr. PC. Under the Section, which deals with habitual offenders, such persons are required to show cause why he/she should not be ordered to execute a bond, with sureties, “for his good behaviour for such period, not exceeding three years, as the Magistrate thinks fit”. The police have also beefed up security in the district. As many as 32 check-posts have been set up across the district and over 2,000 police personnel led by Additional Deputy Superintendent of Police S. Ashok Kumar deployed. Security has also been stepped up at vital installations, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/preventive-action-against-106-persons-ahead-of-r-day/article38327476.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects Hogenakkal to prepare DPR for Phase II of drinking water project||Collector S. Dhivyadarshini inspected Hogenakkal to begin the preparatory works on a Detailed Project Report for the proposed Phase II of the Hogenakkal Integrated Drinking Water Project announced by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin last week. Earlier, the Chief Minister announced the second phase of the Hogenakkal Fluorosis Mitigation and Drinking Water Distribution Scheme that would envision augmenting the capacity of distribution and increased coverage at Rs. 4,600 crore. The district administration was asked to prepare a DPR for Phase II. In pursuant of the announcement, the Collector inspected Hogenakkal to explore the site for setting up head water storage reservoir, water purification plant and distribution tank that were part of Phase II expansion works. Officials were asked to expedite the exploratory study and prepare the DPR. The project was implemented at Rs. 1,928.80 crore under multilateral funding through Japanese collaboration to mitigate fluorosis contamination in the drinking water and provide potable water for the town panchayats in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts. The two districts were worst hit by fluorosis contamination in drinking water that called for urgent intervention. At present, the project is being implemented to provide drinking water to three municipalities, 16 town panchayats and 7, 639 villages of Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-hogenakkal-to-prepare-dpr-for-phase-ii-of-drinking-water-project/article38327227.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Villagers ‘hand over’ petition to Gandhi||Frustrated over the inordinate delay in Chief Educational Officer turning up at his office to receive a complaint against the headmistress of a local school here on Monday, people from a village in Vedasandur taluk ‘handed over’ the complaint to the Gandhi statue on the CEO office premises. M. Ganesan, a shopkeeper in the village, complained that when the village elders went to the Panchayat Union School last month to enquire about the infrastructure of the school, the headmistress could not give a proper account for the school building maintenance funds received in the past. When she started complaining about the students’ poor behaviour, some of the students reportedly told the elders that the headmistress used to behave in an inappropriate manner on the school premises. Hence, the villagers came to the office of the CEO to lodge a formal complaint against the headmistress. When asked, the CEO, S. Karuppasamy said that he received the complaint from the villagers late in the afternoon.“ I have instructed DEO to conduct an enquiry into the allegation.Based on the report, action will be initiated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-hand-over-petition-to-gandhi/article64945731.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sathyamangalam Reserve bags award for doubling tiger count||The Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) in Erode district has been given the prestigious TX2 award after its tiger numbers doubled to 80 since 2010. Apart from the STR, the Bardia National Park in Nepal has won this year’s TX2 award for doubling the population of wild tigers. The awards are presented by the Conservation Assured Tiger Standards (CA|TS), Fauna and Flora International (FFI), Global Tiger Forum (GTF), IUCN’s Integrated Tiger Habitat Conservation Programme (ITHCP), Panthera, UNDP, The Lion’s Share, Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) and WWF. They celebrate the 10thanniversary of all 13 tiger range countries committed to doubling the global population of wild tigers by 2022. The award acknowledges the efforts by the State governments and the local communities which have played one of the most important roles to turn a relatively new tiger reserve into one of the source populations of tigers in India. Sathyamangalam wildlife sanctuary was declared a tiger reserve in 2013 and the reserve that spread across 1,411.60 sq km is an important link between the Nilgiris and Eastern Ghats landscape. The Nilgiri biosphere landscape that this reserve is part of is currently the home to the largest tiger population in the world. It is connected to other well-established tiger habitats like Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, Bandipur Tiger Reserve and BR Hills Tiger Reserve. A release from WWF India said that the adjoining areas like Erode Forest Division, Coimbatore Forest Division and Malai Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary were also emerging as important tiger habitats, creating a mosaic that allows the big cats to easily move in search of food and new territory. Ravi Singh, Secretary-General and Chief Executive Officer, WWF India, said,“The TX2 awards celebrate the remarkable contributions made by government bodies, NGOs, and local communities to strengthen tiger conservation. To honour a recently notified tiger reserve like Sathyamangalam with the award is a step forward to inspire others to work towards preserving this magnificent species and its habitats.” In September this year, tiger range countries will convene at the second Global Tiger Summit in Vladivostok, Russia, to assess progress towards the ambitious TX2 goal, i.e. double the number of tigers in the wild, and identify tiger conservation priorities for the next 12 years. The release said that the TX2 goal was one of the most ambitious conservation targets ever set for a single species in the world. In 2019, STR bagged the national award for showing the highest increment in the Management Effectiveness Evaluation (MEE) for registering the growth of over 30% in tiger population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sathyamangalam-tiger-reserve-bags-award/article64945674.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||National Voters’ Day celebrated in Erode||National Voters’ Day celebrated at the Erode Collectorate on Tuesday. District Collector H. Krishnanunni administered the National Voters’ Day pledge to staff here. As part of the event, the Collector distributed new voter identity cards to 10 persons. The Collector also distributed awards to 17 students who won in painting, elocution, slogan writing competitions. In Salem, Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj administered the oath to Corporation staff. In Salem Collectorate, District Revenue Officer (in-charge) R.Kavitha administered the oath to staff and distributed certificates to school students who won in various competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-voters-day-celebrated-in-erode/article38327229.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||VCK cadre deplore atrocities against Dalits in Melur region||Cadres of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi on Tuesday staged a demonstration protesting against atrocities unleashed against Scheduled Caste people in Melur region. The protest was led by the party Madurai North district secretary Selva Arasu in the presence of south district secretary V.P. Inqulab. Mr. Inqulab said that caste Hindus took objection to the Pongal festival celebrations organised by people belonging to SC community in Uchcharichchanpatti and Pazhayurpatti on January 14 and 15 respectively. The caste Hindus could not stomach the song praising Ambedkar and VCK leader Thol. Tirumavalavan played over public address system. Dalit youths were beaten up and tied up in public places in both the villages. In Uchcharichchanpatti they were let off only after their parents sought apologies from the caste Hindus. “In Pazhayurpatti an ambulance that came to pick up the injured Dalit youths was turned away,” he said. While the police arrested all the four Dalits named in the counter case, only two out of the 14 caste Hindus who were booked have been arrested so far. Stating that elected representatives were also supporting such atrocities and the police personnel who belonged to the dominant caste were ignoring such atrocities, in a petition to the Collector, S. Aneesh Sekhar, the VCK leaders demanded action against the perpetrators of the crime and wanted to transfer police personnel who failed to act promptly. Party leaders Kathiravan, Kaniamudhan, Attralarasu and Ellalan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-cadre-deplore-atrocities-against-dalits-in-melur-region/article64945732.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks response on safety at amusement parks||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday sought a response from the State government on whether rules and regulations had been framed for the safety and security of the people visiting amusement parks. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and S. Srimathy impleaded Secretary of Tamil Nadu Tourism Department as party to the case. The court sought response with regard to first aid, doctors available at the amusement parks and the periodical maintenance of such parks. The court sought the response on a public interest litigation petition filed by J. Razul Mydeen of Palayamkottai, Tirunelveli district. She said that there were no specific laws governing the amusement parks in India though licences and safety audits were mandatory. To ensure the safety and stability of rides, permanent theme parks follow detailed guidelines formulated by the Indian Association of Amusement Parks and Industries. These guidelines have been adopted by the Bureau of Indian Standards, she said. While the certification provided by the Bureau was valuable, it was not mandatory. In many places, the government agencies do not have experts to inspect rides and ensure that the standards are met, she said. According to the Indian Association of Amusement Parks and Industries, the ratio of victims of the major joyride accidents to visitors was among the lowest in the world. However, many fatal accidents in amusement parks have taken place in the recent past in India, she said. She said that in Tirunelveli too amusement rides were being operated in hotel premises. This was a safety threat to the people. No norms were followed and people’s lives were at stake, she said and sought a direction to the authorities to take necessary action. The court adjourned the hearing in the case by four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-response-on-safety-at-amusement-parks/article38327205.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pudukkottai shooting range has been permanently closed, State tells High Court||The State government on Tuesday told the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that the shooting range in Pudukkottai district from where a stray bullet hit an 11-year-old boy, causing his death, has been permanently closed. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and S. Srimathy were informed by the State that the police shooting range has been permanently closed since December 31, 2021, and it would not be used for shooting practice. Taking note of the submission, the judges closed a petition filed by Kavivarman alias Suresh Kanna, of Aranthangi in Pudukkottai. The petitioner, a district secretary of CPI(M), sought a direction to the authorities to close the shooting range in Narthamalai village. He said the shooting range in Pudukkottai was set up about 20 years ago, and It was mandatory for the duty officers-in-charge to ensure that necessary precautionary measures were followed before the start of shooting practice. Before commencing, the authorities should alert the nearby villagers by sounding an alarm, hoisting red flags or by informing the residents. Back in 2001, Murugesan, a person from a nearby village, was also injured by a stray bullet fired from the shooting range, Mr. Kavivarman said. The authorities failed to follow safety measures. No compensation was provided to Mr. Murugesan, and he had to spend from his own pockets for his medical treatment. The negligence on the part of the authorities had taken away the 11-year-old boy’s life in Narthamalai, he added. The authorities should have taken steps to shift the shooting range after the 2001 incident. But, they failed to do so, the petitioner said and sought a direction to the authorities to shift the shooting range from its present location to a remote place.  Back in 2001, Murugesan, a person from a nearby village, was also injured by a stray bullet fired from the shooting range Kavivarman District secretary, CPI(M)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pudukkottai-shooting-range-has-been-permanently-closed-state-tells-high-court/article38327126.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||200-year-old inscriptions, temple, ‘chathiram’ found near Madurai||R. Praiya and S. Rajagopal, assistant professors, Department of History, Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College, Madurai, have discovered a few inscriptions, a temple and a chathiram that are believed to be over 200 years old. The discovery reveals philanthropic activities of the Chervaikarars of Pothumbu village, who used to provide shelter and food for travellers. Among their discoveries are nine inscriptions, a Vinayakar temple and an adjoining chathiram amidst a field about two km from the village of Pothumbu in Madurai West Panchayat Union. The temple is now known as Marudaiya Temple and Shenbagavinayakar Temple. During their field visit, the professors chanced upon the inscriptions which they verified with retired Assistant Director of Archaeological Survey of India, S. Santhalingam. Both the chathirams were in the area, which was once a public thoroughfare frequented by travellers. The tired travelers were fed and sheltered in the chathirams, said Dr. Praiya. Mr. Santhalingam said the stone chathirams could be older than 200 years, and were similar to many along Madurai- Srivilliputtur highway that served travelers. “This is the first time these chathirams and the inscriptions have come to light,” he said. The inscriptions talk about Chervaikarars of six generations. One Subramanyam Chervaikarar belonging to the sixth generation had converted one chathiram into a temple for general public worship. While seven inscriptions were found in the temple, two were in the chathiram. The temple and the chathiram are surrounded by fertile farmlands which were safeguarded by the Chervaikarars identified as Maniyan Chervaikkaran, Kumara Irulappa Chervaikkaran, Muthirulandi Chervaikkaran, Kumara Sonai Chervaikkaran, Alagayi, Virai, Chennammal Kumaran, Veeran Chervaikkaran and Kumaran Subramania Chervaikkaran. The Tamil words chathiram, kinaru (well), thoppu (farm), oorani (waterbody), Sivam and Vinayagan Thunai are found in the temple built by Kumaran Subramania Cheruvaikkarar. In memory of these Chervaikarars, who dedicated their lives in meticulously safeguarding the lands, the sculptures of the Servaikarars are found along with their spouses. The upper part of the temple is adorned with bas-relief sculptures where there are stone carvings of a four-foot fish, a bird swallowing a snake, and a devotee. Dr. Rajagopal said several such rare inscriptions found in the district should be identified and recorded to know the rich history of Tamils.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/200-year-old-inscriptions-temple-chathiram-found-near-madurai/article64945734.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Life term for murder confirmed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday confirmed life sentence imposed on a man from Thoothukudi district for murder. In 2010, M. Muthuvel hacked M. Thangavel to death over a property dispute. The convict, Muthuvel attacked Thangavel with a billhook causing his death. When Palaniraj, son of Thangavel tried to intervene to save his father, Muthuvel criminally intimidated him. In 2011, the II Additional Sessions Judge, Thoothukudi sentenced him to life imprisonment. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran confirmed the sentence and dismissed the appeal filed by Muthuvel. The court took note of the fact that the accused and the deceased had previous enmity over a land The two had previous enmity over a land owned by one Mookammal. It was being cultivated by Thangavel. It is said that Muthuvel had acted as a broker and arranged for the sale of the property to Kamatchi alias Gandhi. Kamatchi tried to evict Thangavel from the land. However, Thangavel refused to vacate and claimed his right over the property. Later, Muthuvel attacked Thangavel with a billhook near a library and caused his death. The court took note of the confession statement given by Muthuvel. Muthuvel said that even after the sale of the property Thangavel was using the property. He feared that Thangavel would kill him. Therefore, he attacked Thangavel, he said. The court held that it was a case of culpable homicide amounting to murder and the charge for the offence punishable under Section 302 (Murder) of IPC was well proved. Therefore, the life imprisonment is confirmed, the judges said. The appellant who was enjoying suspension of sentence was directed to surrender before the trial court within three weeks failing which the police shall secure him and produce him before the trial court for committing him to prison to undergo the life sentence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-confirms-life-sentence-to-man-for-murder/article38327215.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Thewaterlevelon Tuesday in Periyar dam stood at 136 feet (maximum permissiblelevelis 142 ft) with an inflow of 182 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, thewaterlevelstood at 69.52 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 437 cusecs and a discharge of 869 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,405 mcft. Vaigai dam recorded 0.2 mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article64945729.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stress on brackish water shrimp farms||The Fisheries Department is looking forward to expanding the number of farms for brackish water shrimp aquaculture by rolling out a subsidy scheme under Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) launched in 2020. There are about 900 brackish water shrimp farms in Nagapattinam-Mayiladuthurai belt. Area-wise, the cumulative spread of the shrimp farms will exceed 5,000 hectares, official sources said. A district-level committee will approve applications after factoring in the views of Agriculture, Forest and other departments related to environment. A flagship scheme for focused and sustainable development of fisheries sector in the country, the Fisheries Department has been publicising the PMMSY scheme among inland fishers in the district. The States have been given necessary impetus through sanction of proposals for leveraging innovative technologies. Significant growth Studies indicate that the last few decades have witnessed significant growth in brackish water shrimp aquaculture; production of farmed shrimp has risen from 20 MT in 1970 to 7.47 lakh MT in 2020 at the national level, thereby contributing to a major export share of Rs. 46,662 crore. The studies state that only 13% of the brackish/saline area has been utilised. Saline water aquaculture is being promoted to transform ‘wasteland into wetlands’, according to Fisheries department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thrust-for-brackish-water-shrimp-aquaculture/article38327201.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three of a family found dead in Namakkal||Three members of a family died by suicide near Tiruchengode here on Tuesday. According to the police, the deceased were identified as Venkatachalam (55), his wife Nilambal (50) and daughter Shalini (17), studying Class 12. The police said Venkatachalam owned a weaving mill at Vayakad in Kumaramangalam and he had given it on lease. He also ran a finance business. Venkatachalam's elder daughter Preethi lives with her husband at Rasipuram. On Tuesday evening, Preethi tried to reach family members over phone and since there was no response, she asked her cousin Saran to check upon them, the police said. Saran found the house locked and when he checked through the window, he saw Nilambal dead. Saran broke open the door along with neighbours and found Venkatachalam also dead. Shalini’s body was found in another part of the house, the police said. On information, the police rushed to the spot. Senior police officials visited the place. The Tiruchengode police have registered a case and are investigating. (Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-of-a-family-found-dead-in-namakkal/article38327238.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minister issues job orders||Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan handed over job orders to six persons to work in Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited, on compassionate grounds. The job orders were given to the heirs of six employees of Tangedco who died while in duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-issues-job-orders/article38327228.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stray bullet hits roof of house near Perambalur||Perambalur police have launched an investigation into a freak incident of a stray bullet hitting the asbestos roof of a house at Echangadu village situated nearly two km away from the police firing range at Naranamangalam near Padalur in the district. No one was injured, but the incident triggered tension in the village, coming as it does a few weeks after a stray bullet fired from the Pasumalaipatti firing range in Pudukottai hit a minor boy causing his death. Residents of Echangandu suspect the bullet could have been fired from a weapon from the Naranamangalam police firing range, which is under the control of the Perambalur District Police. Although the incident is said to have happened on Monday, the occupants of the house came to know of it only on Tuesday when they noticed a hole in the asbestos roof and sunlight streaming through it. A couple and their child and parents reside in the house. A member of the house found a bullet lying on the asbestos sheet, said police sources. Superintendent of Police, Perambalur, S. Mani accompanied by the jurisdictional police officers inspected the firing range and the house at Echangadu on Tuesday.The firing range is surrounded by hills on three sides and the house is situated about two km away from the range, said the police.  Mr Mani told The Hindu that the seized bullet was 7.62 mm in size and would be sent for forensic examination to determine the weapon from which it was fired.  Police say that a 7.62 mm bullet could be fired either from an AK-47 assault rifle or a Self Loading Rifle. However, a clear picture would emerge only after examination by forensic experts, he added. Police said a Railway Protection Force (RPF) team from Tiruchi had carried out firing exercises for four days from January 21 to 24 at the Naranamangalam firing range after obtaining permission from the Perambalur DistrictPolice. Perambalur police, meanwhile, termed as false claims in social media that the incident occurred when the Tamil Nadu Police were conducting firing exercises. Mr. Mani said a case would be registered in connection with the incident and a detailed probe conducted. Summons would be issued to the RPF team to ascertain from them to find out who all had carried out the firing exercises and the type of weapons used.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stray-bullet-hits-roof-of-house-near-perambalur/article38327166.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:54 IST,TAMIL NADU||Non-appointment of full-time L-G shows Centre’s indifference: ex-CM||Flagging the non-appointment of a full-time Lt. Governor as yet another sign of the “Centre’s indifference towards the Union Territory”, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said this lacuna would be conspicuous during the Republic Day on January 26 when Tamilisai Soundararajan would unfurl the national flag in Telangana as its Governor before rushing to do the honours in Puducherry where she holds additional charge as Lt. Governor. Addressing a virtual press conference, Mr. Narayanasamy said instead of going to such lengths to lead the events at Telangana and Puducherry, Ms. Soundararajan should seek Central sanction to delegate the task to Chief Minister N. Rangasamy for the function in the Union Territory. The intent of Ms. Soundararajan to unfurl the flag here on January 26 is both “amusing and unacceptable”, Mr. Narayanasamy said. Instead, she should have led the event in Telangana and let the Chief Minister hoist the flag in Puducherry. “Otherwise, this can only be interpreted as another example of the Centre and its designees arrogating to themselves all trappings of power as well as a clear case of abandoning the democratic features of an elected government,” he said. Already, a perception was gaining ground that all important decisions were being taken at the Raj Nivas and it was a “dummy government” in place in Puducherry, Mr. Narayanasamy charged. The Congress leader pointed out while this was not the first time that someone was holding additional charge of Lt. Governor of Puducherry, it would certainly be unprecedented for someone to unfurl the tricolour for the Republic Day at two places. When Virendra Kataria was removed as Lt. Governor in 2014, Lt. General (retd) A. K. Singh who was the Administrator of Andaman and Nicobar Islands was entrusted with the additional responsibility of Lt. Governor of Puducherry in 2014. However, when Mr. Singh unfurled the flag at Andaman during the Republic Day celebrations in 2015, the honours to hoist the flag was assigned to then Chief Minister N. Rangasamy. Claiming that the dual responsibility was preventing Ms. Soundararajan from devoting her full attention to either Telangana or Puducherry, Mr. Narayanasamy said the right thing to do for the Centre was to immediately appoint a full-time Lieutenant Governor for Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/non-appointment-of-full-time-l-g-shows-centres-indifference-ex-cm/article64945677.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thavil exponent elated over Padma Shri||Thavil exponent Kongampattu A.V. Murugaiyan is among the recipients of the Padma Shri awards announced by the Ministry of Home Affairs on Tuesday night. The 58-year-old thavil vidwan, who was born in Kongampattu village in Villupuram district and is settled in Puducherry, was chosen for the honour in the Art category. He is the only Padma recipient from Puducherry in this edition of the civilian awards. Expressing joy over the award, Mr. Murugaiyan said: “Looking back at my several decades of experience in this field, I can say that my birthplace has become associated with thavil”. “We are elated that he was chosen for this honour at this stage of his life,” a member of his family said. Since the news broke on TV, the phone has not stopped ringing in their house in Muthialpet, he said.  Mr. Murugaiyan has played alongside several stalwarts of thavil, such as his guru Valaiyapatti A.R. Subramaniyam, Thirunageswaram T. R. Subramaniam, Nadhaswara vidwans Namagiripettai K. Krishnan and Thiruvizha R. Jayasankar, and the famed Carnatic vocalist-duo Soolamangalam Sisters.  He enjoyed the title of ‘aashthana vidwan’ at Shri Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham and Sri Lakshmi Narayani Golden Temple . He has also performed ‘thavil isai’ for 25 years at Thiruchendur Senthilaandavar Devasthanam. He was an A+ (top grade) artist at All India Radio and featured in several national broadcasts. A winner of various awards, including the Kalaimamani in 2006, Mr. Murugaiyan cherishes playing alongside violin maestro L. Subramaniyam and tabla maestro Ustad Allah Rakha at the Mumbai Air India-California (U.S.) festival. He has represented the ‘Festival of India’ in Paris and performed in Germany too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thavil-exponent-elated-over-padma-shri/article64945552.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 deaths in U.T. rise to 1,912||The Union Territory recorded four more COVID-19 deaths while 1,911 new cases were detected from over 5,100 tests on Tuesday. The cumulative toll in the Union Territory went up to 1,912.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-deaths-in-ut-rise-to-1912/article38327477.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:57 IST,TAMIL NADU||Virtual public hearing on tariff revision on Jan. 28||The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) for Goa and Union Territories will conduct a public hearing in virtual mode on January 28 on the proposal to revise tariffs.A press note from the Superintending Engineer, Puducherry Electricity Department, said the hearing was being called for in view of the “proposal for Aggregate Revenue Requirement and tariff petition submitted by the department for 2022-23 and the business plan petition for the 2022-25 financial year period”. Those who wish to participate should intimate the Secretary, JERC of their mobile number and e-mail ID by sending them to the address secy.jercuts@gov.in at least two days prior to the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virtual-public-hearing-on-tariff-revision-on-jan-28/article38327483.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers encouraged to use biofertilizer||At a time when the price of chemical fertilizers was skyrocketing, Ramanathapuram district farmers have been advised to go for biofertilizer to reduce cost on production. Joint Director of Agriculture, Tom P. Silas said that 500 ml of liquid bio-fertilizer which would cost only Rs. 150 can be used for one hectare of land. The biofertilizer laboratory in Ramanathapuram has produced 50,000 litres of liquid biofertilizer with a new technology and it was being supplied to the farmers through Agricultural Extension Centres. Stating that macro nutrients like Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potash were important for the growth of crops, Mr. Silas said that farmers can use Azospirillum and rhizobium bio fertilizer for nitrogen and phosphobacteria biofertilizer for phosphorus. Last year, the laboratory had introduced Potash in liquid bio fertilizer form and this can help in developing immunity for the crops and for increasing the weight of grains. Stating that the soil in Ramanathapuram district had only 2% of potash, Dr. Silas said that the liquid Potash biofertilizer can ensure adequate potash for the crops. Stating that farmers were getting ready for the second crop in the district, the Joint Director said that 50 ml of liquid biofertilizer should be used for seed treatment for each acre of black gram, green gram, gingelly and cotton. Besides, 200 ml of biofertilizer should be added with compost manure before sowing. Usage of bio-fertilizer depending upon the crop will help in reducing the cost on chemical fertilizer by 25%.Besides, it would preserve the soil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramanathapuram-farmers-encouraged-to-use-biofertilizer/article64945781.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||New bird, butterfly varieties identified in Salem Forest Ranges||Many new bird and butterfly species were recorded during the recently concluded bird and butterfly survey at Salem Forest Ranges. The survey was conducted between December 17 and 19 across nine ranges, Shervarayan North, Shervarayan South, Yercaud, Danishpet, Mettur, Kalvarayan, Vazhapadi, Attur and Thammampatti. As many as 40 personnel from the Forest Department and 83 volunteers from Salem Nature Club took part in the survey. Enthusiasts spotted Orange-breasted Green Pigeon for the first time in Salem ranges. According to Forest officials, the bird is found across tropical Asia South of the Himalaya, across parts of the Indian Subcontinent and Southeast Asia. It feeds mainly on small fruits. They may be found in pairs or in small flocks, foraging quietly and moving slowly on trees. A team of college students, Suryaprahasan. R, Puliraja. N, Sivagnanam. R and Tamilliniyan. D, spotted the bird at the foothills of Shevaroy Hills in Danishpet Forest Range. A team of enthusiasts Poornima K.P., Vishnupriya N.M., Narmatha V and Sneha S recorded the presence of Indian Cabbage White at the foothills of Shevaroy Hills. The butterfly is found in India, Nepal and Indochina. According to butterfly experts, the species is a higher altitude butterfly and this is the first known record of the variety outside Western Ghats. A total of 225 birds and 147 butterfly varieties were recorded during the third survey in Salem Forest Ranges. In 2020, experts recorded 214 birds and 136 butterflies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-bird-butterfly-varieties-identified-in-salem-forest-ranges/article64945770.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Solatium handed over to policeman’s kin||Salem City Police Commissioner Najmul Hoda handed over solatium of Rs. 14.02 lakh to the family of a deceased police personnel Kumar here recently. Kumar, a head constable, died of cardiac arrest in December last year. Police personnel from 1999 batch made the contribution of Rs.14.02 lakhs to the deceased personnel’s family. City Police Commissioner Najmul Hoda presented the solatium to the family of deceased personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solatium-handed-over-to-policemans-kin/article38327235.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level drops at Mettur dam||The water level at Mettur dam reduced to 109.9ft against a total scale of 120ft on Tuesday. According to officials from the Public Works Department, the stored capacity of water at the dam was 78,267 tmcft and the dam received an inflow of 827 cusecs. The discharge from the dam to Cauvery river was maintained at 8,000 cusecs. At Bhavani Sagar dam, the water level was 98.81ft against a total scale of 105ft. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 27.80 tmcft and the dam received an average inflow of 986 cusecs of water. 800 cusecs of water was discharged through Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs was released intoBhavaniriver for drinking water purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-drops-at-mettur-dam/article38327234.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure water release in Adavinainar Dam’s Maettukkaal channel’||Farmers having their ranches under the Maettukkaal irrigation system of Adavinainar Dam have urged Collector S. Gopala Sundararaj to ensure discharge of water from the reservoir till March-end to bail out the farmers, who transplanted paddy saplings in December due to heavy downpour during last November. The Vadakarai Keezhpidaagai Maettukkaal irrigation system feeds 1,066 acre with the water being released from Adavinainar Dam in Maekkarai in Shencottai taluk. During the ‘pisanam’ paddy season (the second crop season), the farmers would start their farming operations in mid-October or first week of November depending upon the start of northeast monsoon and the crop would be ready for harvest in February. As the farmers getting water from Maettukkaal irrigation channel could start transplanting the paddy saplings in their fields only in December due to the continuous rain in November during the last northeast monsoon, the 120-day-crop will be ready for harvest only in March. “Now, the crop is only 45-day-old and in some places it is just 30-days-old. The standing crop will be in need of water till March-end for good harvest. Considering this situation, the Collector should accept our plea for release of water from Adavinainar Dam till March-end,” says farmer Vadakarai S.T. Shaik Maideen of All India Kisan Sabha. If the release of water for the Maettukkaal irrigation channel is to be sustained till March-end, discharge of water to the crops being fed by the Karisalkaal channel of Adavinainar Dam should be regulated since the reservoir now has water for only 80.25 feet against the maximum storage level of 132 feet. “If the water being released in the Karisalkaal is regulated and judiciously used, the farmers who have cultivated paddy in both the Karisalkaal and the Maettukkaal will get benefited. If not regulated, the Maettukkaal channel farmers will have to face serious crop loss due to water shortage. The Collector should consider our request in the best interest of the farmers who have cultivated paddy on over 1,000 acres,” says Mr. Shaik Maideen. The farmers urge the Collector to visit their ranches under Maettukkaal irrigation channel along with the officials from the Departments of Agriculture and Water Resources Organisation to study the situation and ensure the release of water till March-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-water-release-in-adavinainar-dams-maettukkaal-channel/article64945570.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not undermine Cauvery Water Management Authority’||The Coordination Committee of All Farmers Associations in Tamil Nadu has urged the State government not to indulge in any activity that might reduce the importance of Cauvery Water Management Authority. Talking to reporters at Mannargudi on Sunday, Committee president P. R. Pandian said the Authority had come forward to function autonomously after the appointment of the permanent Chairman and all dams in the Cauvery Basin in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu had been brought under its purview. A Monitoring Committee had also been formed, but the Karnataka government was trying its best to cripple the functioning of the autonomous body. Such being the case, it would be better to avail the consent of the CMWA before initiating or implementing any drinking water project in the basin though there was no bar in execution of such schemes under the Cauvery Tribunal order. Urging the State government to set an example in availing the legitimate rights over the Cauvery water by the people of Tamil Nadu, Mr. Pandian exhorted senior officials to provide proper guidance to the government. If the Tamil Nadu government decided to avoid getting the Authority’s consent, it would definitely pave way for Karanataka to adopt the same route by going ahead with its objective of constructing a dam across the Cauvery river at Meketadu. The policymakers and the bureaucrats in Tamil Nadu should refrain from indulging in any activity that might bring disrespect to CWMA and, thereby, provide an opportunity to Karnataka in achieving its ulterior motive to impound even the surplus water flow into Tamil Nadu, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-undermine-cauvery-water-management-authority/article38327222.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||Girl’s death: mobile phone handed over to DSP||A mobile phone used to shoot a video of a Class XII girl, who was studying in a Christian missionary-run school in Thanjavur district before she died by suicide recently, was handed over to the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Vallam, R.Brindha,on Tuesday, as per the directions of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. In the video, shot by P. Muthuvel, who hails from Ariyalur, the girl claimed that two years ago, her parents were asked by the school authorities to convert her to Christianity. The Madras High Court, Madurai Bench, which is seized of the matter, had directed that the mobile phone be handed over to the DSP for a forensic investigation. After complying with the court’s direction, Mr. Muthuvel told mediapersons that he had recorded the statement on January 17 as the parents of the deceased girl wanted him to do so.  When asked whether he was a relative of the girl, he replied in the negative and said he was a family friend. He did not disclose further details, saying the case was before the court.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)  In the video, the girl claimed her parents were asked by the school authorities to convert her to Christianity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girls-death-mobile-phone-handed-over-to-dsp/article38327145.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||MGR bust dislodged from pedestal, one held||Tension prevailed in Thanjavur for sometime on Tuesday after a bust of former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran was dislodged from its pedestal on North Street in the town. According to AIADMK sources, the party’s Karanthattankudi unit secretary, Arivudai Nambi, and fort unit secretary, Punniyamoorthy received information that the cement bust of MGR installed by the party cadre two decades ago was dislodged. The bust was found near a roadside mobile eatery on the same street. Subsequently, the AIADMK cadre gathered at the site and placed the bust on the pedestal by placing boulders to support it. A complaint was also lodged with the Thanjavur west police, he said. The police, after going through CCTV camera footage collected from the shops functioning in the area, arrested Antony, employed in a sawmill in the Vadakkuvasal area. In one of the footages, he was seen removing the bust from the pedestal and discarding it on the roadside. Incident condemned AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday deplored the desecration of the bust of the party founder and former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran. Through their Twitter handles, they called upon the government to book those who were responsible and take steps to prevent recurrence of such incidents. V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the AIADMK, called for measures to protect the statues of leaders. AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran said such “continued humiliation” of the leaders should be stopped. Meanwhile, Mr. Panneerselvam expressed relief at Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s assurance to Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari over the expeditious implementation of projects of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in Tamil Nadu. He, however, said that in the light of concerns expressed by Mr. Gadkari earlier, people suspected that the DMK government had not functioned with alacrity. It was because of the cooperation extended by the previous AIADMK regime that a number of projects, including the construction of 11 medical colleges, were planned and taken up. “This is the best example of federalism. Instead, not cooperating with the Central government for development projects is not acceptable. It is condemnable,” Mr. Panneerselvam said, urging the Chief Minister to monitor frequently the level of the State’s cooperation with the Central government for implementation of projects. Girl’s death In a separate statement, Mr. Panneerselvam held the management of a private school responsible for the suicide of a girl student in Thanjavur. He demanded that those responsible for her death be punished and her family be paid Rs. 25 lakh in solatium.  ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 )   The police, after going through CCTV camera footage collected from the shops functioning in the area, arrested Antony, employed in a sawmill||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mgr-bust-dislodged-from-pedestal-1-held/article64945579.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hindu devotees seek MLA’s support for conduct of Masi Magam festival||A group of devotees on Tuesday approached Kumbakonam MLA K. Anbalagan and sought his help to obtain permission from the State government for celebrating Masi Magam festival in 14 temples at Kumbakonam.  Memorandum The devotees, who gathered under the banner ‘Sri Mandirapeeteswari Bakthargal and Mahamaga Sivalaya Bakthargal’, submitted a memorandum to Mr. Anbalagan in this regard. Holy Flag They said the festival would be celebrated for 10 days with the hoisting of the Holy Flag on February 8 at Aadhikumbeswarar temple, Someswarar temple, Kalahastheeswarar temple, Kasi Viswanathar temple, Abhimukeswarar temple, Gowthameshwarar temple, Sakkarapaniswamy temple and Aadhi Varahaperumal temple. Theerthavari  The annual festival will end on February 17 with theerthavar i at Mahamagam tank where the decorated idols of Shiva temples will be brought for theerthavar i, the annual festival of the Vaishnavite temples will conclude with theerthavar i on the banks of the Cauvery.   On the same day, the decorated idols of the presiding deities from Sri Nageswarar temple, Sri Banapureeswarar temple, Sri Kotteeswarar temple, Sri Ekambareswarar temple, Sri Aadhi Kambatta Viswanathar temple and Sri Amirthakalasanathar temple will also be brought to the Mahamagam tank on February 17 for performing theerthavari , they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-seek-mlas-support-for-conduct-of-festival/article38327199.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:25 IST,TAMIL NADU||Demo held||A demonstration condemning ‘Hindutva religious bigotry’ was held in Thanjavur on Tuesday. Cadre of political parties and outfits participated in the demonstration coordinated by the CPI(M) near the railway junction. The demonstrators raised slogans accusing the the BJP of stoking religious and communal hatred over the death of the Vadugampalayam schoolgirl. They also exhorted the State government to ensure that the case was investigated in a fair manner and the culprits were brought to book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demo-held-against-religious-bigotry/article38327185.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:31 IST,TAMIL NADU||Solid waste management project averts bird-hit threat to flights||Collector K. Senthil Raj has created an effective solid waste management system at Kumaragiri near Pudukottai for converting the degradable garbage into manure, which effectively averts bird-hit incidents in the nearby Thoothukudi Airport besides creating revenue for the rural local body by selling the manure. The garbage getting generated in five village panchayats around Thoothukudi Airport, which is undergoing rapid expansion with longer airstrip to handle wide-bodied aircraft, is being dumped at different places – mostly on private patta lands - by heads of these rural local bodies. This callous management of solid waste management causes health issues besides triggering minor law and order issues in the villages as the owners of the lands on which the garbage is dumped and the residents living closer to these nauseating yards object to this practice. Moreover, birds being attracted by the degradable waste getting dumped in the spots closer to the Thoothukudi Airport pose serious threat to the aircraft during landing and take-off. Dr. Senthil Raj designed a solid waste management programme exclusively for these five village panchayats. As he persuaded the Airports Authority of India to fund this solid waste management programme, the AAI released Rs. 90 lakh from its Corporate Social Responsibility Fund for implementing this scheme. As per this project, several tonnes of solid waste getting generated in all the five village panchayats is brought to the integrated solid waste management yard at Kumaragiri near Pudukottai. After segregating the refuse into degradable and non-degradable waste, the degradable waste is being converted into manure while the non-degradable waste like plastics is shredded to be used for other purposes. Since the non-degradable waste is converted into manure, it no longer attracts the birds that pose threat to the aircraft landing and taking-off at Thoothukudi Airport. At the same time, the Kumaragiri village pancahyat gets decent revenue by selling the manure to the residents, who use it for their homestead gardens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solid-waste-management-project-averts-bird-hit-threat-to-flights/article64945569.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hospitalisation goes up in private hospitals||As the number of fresh cases of COVID-19 continue to rise in the district, hospitalisation of patients with respiratory problems and co-morbid conditions has gone up in private hospitals. The number of fresh cases, which hovered between 10 and 20 till the first week of January, began to increase gradually and went up to 150 within a week. It crossed the 500-mark in the third week of January and stood at 742 on Monday. There were 4,713 active cases as of Monday. Of them, 428 patients were in hospitals and 4,271 in home isolation in the district. According to a Health official, the number of unaccounted COVID-19 patients, who do not come forward to disclose the illness to health authorities, must be at least a few times more than the accounted ones. Since they feel that the COVID-19 virus has little impact on those vaccinated, most of them prefer to be in home isolation after consulting doctors. “It is a wave. Nearly 10% of positive cases require treatment in hospitals. Patients with comorbidities and the unvaccinated are the ones who mostly require hospitalisation,” says a health official. During the first and second wave, several private hospitals were hesitant to open their outpatient’s section. However, none of them has closed the section this time around. The OP sections are flooded with people with COVID-19 symptoms. “We get a large number of patients with complaints of fever, sore throat, body ache, tiredness and diarrhoea. More than 50% of OP patients have COVID-19 symptoms. We do get critical cases and refer them to big and corporate hospitals,” said S. Sethuraman of Mangalam Hospital in Thillai Nagar. Dr. Sethuraman is also the chairman of the Association of Physicians of India’s Tamil Nadu chapter. Sources said the COVID-19 wards in many of the leading hospitals in Tiruchi were full. Most patients had comorbidities and above sixty years of age. “We have allotted a floor for admitting patients. Their number continues to rise and the ward is almost full. However, the situation of denying beds to critical patients similar to the previous waves does not arise this time. Almost all of them return home safely after getting cured,” said S. Manivannan, Managing Director of Kauvery Hospitals, Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospitalisation-goes-up-in-private-hospitals/article64945584.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||Language martyrs remembered||Functionaries and cadre of DMK, AIADMK and other political parties and organisations on Tuesday paid floral tributes to the language martyrs who sacrificed their lives during the struggle against imposition of Hindi in the State. While the members of various organisations and fora visited the memorials of the language martyrs such as Keezhapazhur Chinnasamy and Viralimalai Shanmugam at Anna Nagar in Thennur and paid tributes to them, the DMK and the AIADMK chose to offer tributes to the portraits of the martyrs at their offices due to COVID-19 restrictions. District secretaries of the DMK (Tiruchi north) N. Thiyagarajan and M. Vairamani (Tiruchi central) were among those who paid tributes to the language martyrs at the office of the Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru in Thillai Nagar in the city. AIADMK cadre led by former Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan recollected the contribution of the language martyrs in their spirited struggle against the imposition of Hindi. They garlanded the portraits of the martyrs at the AIADMK office at Anna Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/language-martyrs-remembered/article64945583.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 3,000 cases recorded in delta||The central districts on Tuesday reported 3,186 fresh COVID-19 cases. Five persons, one each from Tiruchi, Karur, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts, succumbed to the infection, according to the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Thanjavur district continued to report a high number of cases. According to the bulletin, 1,104 cases were reported in the district on Tuesday (slightly down from 1,117 on Monday), while Tiruchi reported a decrease with 732 cases (down from 742 on Monday). In the other districts, Karur reported 234 cases, while Thiruvarur had 216 new cases on Tuesday. Nagapattinam had 215 cases, and 209 persons tested positive in Pudukottai. Mayiladuthurai saw a big rise in numbers from 88 cases on Monday to 185 on Tuesday. In Ariyalur district, 183 persons tested positive, while Perambalur reported 108 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-3000-cases-recorded-in-delta/article38327194.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:22 IST,TAMIL NADU||R-Day honour: IG, Central Zone, awarded Police Medal for Meritorious Service||Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, V. Balakrishnan has been awarded the prestigious President’s Police Medal for Meritorious Service on the occasion of Republic Day. Along with Mr. Balakrishnan, 17 other police officers from Tamil Nadu have been awarded the medal by Government of India, a press release from the office of the Director General of Police said. A. Venkadesh Babu, Assistant Commissioner, Customs (Preventive) Zone, Tiruchi, has been selected for grant of Presidential Award of Appreciation Certificates and Medals for ‘Specially Distinguished Record of Service’ on the occasion of Republic Day. C. Sivanarul, Inspector of Police, Special Branch CID, Thanjavur, has been awarded the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service. The medal has been awarded by the Government of India to Mr. Sivanarul on the occasion of Republic Day 2022. Distinguished work Police officers are selected at the all India level for their distinguished work and the medals are awarded twice a year on RepublicDay and Independence Day. The awards are given given taking into account overall performance, achievement and reputation, according to the press release from the office of the Director General of Police, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/r-day-honour-ig-central-zone-awarded-police-medal-for-meritorious-service/article38327186.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hindu outfits seek justice for suicide victim||Members of Hindu organisations on Monday staged a demonstration here demanding justice for the Ariyalur schoolgirl who recently died by suicide. The demonstration was called by Hindu Munnani. Cadre of the Hindu Munnani, BJP, Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Akila Bharata Vidyarthi Parishad participated in the demonstration that was held in front of MGR statue at Marakkadai. The demonstrators led by Hindu Munnani district general secretary Manoj Kumar demanded the arrest of the real culprits behind the death of the girl and sanction of compensation of Rs. 1 crore to her family. They also wanted enactment of an anti-conversion law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-outfits-seek-justice-for-suicide-victim/article38327188.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rail users for MEMU trains in electrified section||The Nagore Nagapattinam Rail Users Association has appealed to Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to introduce MEMU (Mainline Electrical Multiple Units) trains between Tiruchi and Karaikal. Since the broad gauge railway line from Tiruchi to Karaikal has been electrified, MEMU trains can be introduced instead of DEMU (Diesel Electrical Multiple Units) trains. The railways could establish a MEMU shed with pit line and maintenance facilities at a suitable place in Nagapattinam or Karaikal, association secretary MMAA. Sithiq said in a memorandum to the Minister. The association has also urged the railway administration to consider carrying out a survey for doubling the Nagapattinam - Thanjavur broad gauge stretch at the earliest. Seeking restoration of all trains that were suspended due to COVID-19, the association has also appealed for introduction of daily overnight express train between Bengaluru and Velankanni or Karaikal via Salem, Namakkal, Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rail-users-for-memu-trains-in-electrified-section/article38327516.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||13-year-old girl ends life||A 13-year-old girl allegedly ended her life at her apartment in Cantonment police station limits here on Monday evening. The class VIII student resorted to the extreme step when her mother was away at work. Police sources said the girl’s grandparents were in another room in the apartment when she ended her life.Cantonment Police have registered a case. Assistance for overcomingsuicidalthoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicideprevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-year-old-girl-ends-life/article38327198.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur Dam stood at 109.75 feet on Tuesday against its full level of 120 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article38327193.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||New voters get photo identity cards||Distribution of Electors’ Photo Identity Card to the first-time voters commenced here on Tuesday in view of the ‘National Voters’ Day’. District Revenue Officer A. Perumal, who administered ‘National Voters’ Day’ pledge to the collectorate staff, distributed to the EPIC to five young voters. In Thoothukudi district, where 3,798 new voters have been enrolled, 4 ‘narikoravas’ received their EPIC from Tahsildar Justin on Tuesday. In Tenkasi district, Collector S. Gopala Sundararaj administered the pledge to the staff and distributed the EPIC to first-time voters. Kanniyakumari Collector M. Aravind administered the pledge to the Collectorate staff and distributed EPIC to the new voters. The Collector informed that 12,932 new voters had been added to the voters’ list and appealed to all eligible voters to verify their names in the electoral rolls by visiting National Voters’ Service Portal or through Voter Helpline App. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy inaugurated the kiosk on the occasion of 12th National Voters Day on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-voters-get-photo-identity-cards/article38327524.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||President’s medal for Tirunelveli SP||Superintendent of Police P. Saravanan has been selected for the President’s Medal for his meritorious service. When he was serving as Additional Superintendent of Police (Prohibition Enforcement) in Dharmapuri district, which was known for bootlegging, he took stringent measures to crush spurious liquor trade. During his tenure as Deputy Commissioner in St. Thomas Mount, T. Nagar and Myalpore in Chennai between 2012 and 2018 on getting promoted as Superintendent of Police, his team recovered over 3,500 sovereigns of gold ornaments stolen by the burglars. Residents of T. Nagar and nearby areas recall his work during the flood in 2015. The illicit sand miners of Cuddalore district had to abandon their operations after he assumed office as Superintendent of Police. The mobile app developed for the police during the Assembly election held in last April was his brainchild.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/presidents-medal-for-tirunelveli-sp/article64945572.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thisaiyanvilai town panchayat election: AIADMK to go it alone||The AIADMK candidates will contest on its ‘Two Leaf’ symbol in all 18 wards of Thisaiyanvilai Town Panchayat in the urban local body polls, party’s organising secretary and former chairman of Thisaiyanvilai Town Panchayat A.K. Srinivasan has said. “We’ll not face the ensuing election for urban local body with the BJP’s alliance as we want to ensure the victory of all 18 candidates,” he said. Preparatory meeting While addressing the urban local body election preparatory meeting held at Thisaiyanvilai on Tuesday, he said the AIADMK candidates would be fielded in all 18 wards. “Since we want to ensure the victory of the AIADMK candidates in all the 18 wards, we’re not in need of the electoral alliance with the BJP,” he said. Since the 18 wards house significant number of Christian and Muslim voters, they backed the DMK candidate M. Appavu in the Assembly polls held in April last. Mr. Srinivasan, who has understood the electoral matrix as he was the chairman of the townpanchayat during the last tenure, has announced that the AIADMK would go it alone in this urban local body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thisaiyanvilai-town-panchayat-election-aiadmk-to-go-it-alone/article38327200.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Search continues for leopard near Avinashi||The search operation by the Forest Department to locate and capture the leopard, which attacked two residents and one anti-poaching watcher near Avinashi in Tiruppur district, continued for the second day on Tuesday as efforts to tranquillise the animal were carried out. According to the officials present in the field, Field Director of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) S. Ramasubramanian visited Pappankulam village in Avinashi taluk on Tuesday morning to review the operation. He was accompanied by ATR Deputy Director (Udumalpet) S.N. Thejasvi. Around 100 personnel from the Forest Department, including Assistant Conservators of Forest M. Krishnasamy and K. Ganeshram and forest range officers from Tiruppur district, were at the location where the leopard attack took place on Monday. The location, which comprises a coconut grove and a maize farm, was combed using camera traps and drone camera on Tuesday. However, the leopard was not sighted till afternoon, the officials said. Mr. Krishnasamy said the search operations were halted from 6 p.m. Monday to 6 a.m. Tuesday, during which the location was monitored closely by the personnel. Two cages with meat and water have been prepared and nets have been placed around the maize field to trap the leopard, he said. “We will continue our search operation for the next two to three days,” he said. Veterinary Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division A. Sukumar and Veterinary Assistant Surgeon of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve K. Rajesh Kumar led the efforts to tranquillise the carnivore. The Forest Department suspects the leopard might have escaped from the maize field in the early hours of Tuesday, hence the personnel have alerted the residents of the Pappankulam village to report any sighting of the leopard. “We are alert and vigilant to the public’s response,” he said. The big cat attacked daily wage labourers Varadharaj (60) and Maran (65) at the maize farm in Pappankulam around 7 a.m. Monday. Following this, it attacked anti-poaching watcher Manikandan around 5.30 p.m. when it was sighted by the Forest Department. On Tuesday, members of NGOs Coimbatore Wildlife Conservation Trust, Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust and Nature Conservation Society, along with honorary wildlife warden Nandhini Raveendran, visited the village. A group of personnel from the Forest Department went to Perumanallur on Tuesday evening following an input from the Tiruppur District Police that the leopard was sighted near a private bakery within the limits of Perumanallur police station. Officials said the sighting would be ascertained by the personnel. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police – Tiruppur district G. Shashank Sai appealed to the public in a tweet to take precautions and inform the authorities “in case of a confirmed sighting” of the leopard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/search-continues-for-leopard-near-avinashi/article64945777.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four held for murder attempt||The Tiruppur City Police on Tuesday arrested four men on charges of attacking five persons, including a man and his son, with sharp weapons following an altercation near Nallur in the city late on Monday. The accused were identified as R. Prasanth (22), S. Pradeep (22), G. Rajesh (25) and N. Honest Raj (27). Around 7 p.m. on Monday, Prasanth was allegedly quarrelling with another person at Pudupalayam when K. Kalimuthu (60), a daily wager who visited a shop in the locality, questioned him. The youth left after a heated exchange of words with Kalimuthu, the police said. Later in the evening, he returned to the spot with three other youths and allegedly picked a fight with Kalimuthu’s son Selvaraj (27). The gang of four then allegedly proceeded to attack him with sharp weapons, according to the police. Following this, Kalimuthu and neighbours Babu (29), Manikandan (24) and Ramachandran alias Prathap (27), who attempted to confront the gang, were also attacked and the four accused absconded after assaulting them. While Selvaraj suffered cut injuries on his head, his father suffered stab injuries. The other three also suffered bleeding injuries and all five were rushed to the Government Medical College in Tiruppur. On a complaint from Selvaraj, the police booked the four accused. They were nabbed on Tuesday and were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-murder-attempt/article38327163.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||99 % of adult population in Nilgiris is fully vaccinated: Collector||Almost 99 % of the entire Nilgiris district’s eligible population for the COVID-19 vaccine has received their second dose and are fully vaccinated, said District Collector S.P. Amrith on Monday. While the entire population in the district was deemed to have gotten the first dose of the vaccine in August of last year, around 99 % of the more than 5.3 lakh eligible persons had received both doses of the vaccine now, officials from the Health Department said. Possibly as a consequence of being vaccinated, very few of the people who are testing positive for COVID-19 are requiring hospitalisation, they added. In fact, the Nilgiris Collector clarified on Monday that though 1,413 people were recovering from COVID-19 on Monday, only 26 people were currently in hospital requiring treatment, while 900 people were in COVID care centres. He said that though the number of infections being recorded every day was quite high, with an average of more than 400 cases being recorded in the last week each day, most people had very mild symptoms or were asymptomatic. The Collector also said that students eligible for the vaccine were being encouraged by the School Education Department to get vaccinated. As a section of the students studying in the Nilgiris were students of residential schools, they had left for their hometowns. The School Education Department was reaching out to them to get vaccinated prior to their return to the Nilgiris, the Collector said. Meanwhile, 9,000 eligible people, including frontline workers, have received their booster dose of the vaccine, he added. Teams of police as well as personnel from the Health Department have been posted at eight interstate check-posts to ensure that people travelling to the Nilgiris have been fully vaccinated and do not have any symptoms associated with COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/99-of-adult-population-in-nilgiris-is-fully-vaccinated-collector/article38327153.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:33 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore, nearby districts on high alert||The district administration in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur are on high alert for the 73rd Republic Day celebrations, with around 1,500 police personnel to be deployed as part of security arrangements on Wednesday. Due to the pandemic, the celebrations will be a low-key event with the general public not allowed to participate in the event that will be held in the parade ground at the Vellore, Ranipet and Tiruvannamalai Collectorates. In Tirupattur, only 50% occupancy will be allowed in the celebrations. “Students will not put on cultural programmes this year due to the pandemic. However, appreciation certificates and benefits of government schemes will be distributed,” said Amar Kushwaha, Tirupattur Collector. Apart from the distribution of benefits, officials said the Chief Minister’s Police Medals will be handed out as part of the celebrations. However, participants, including government officials, police personnel and special invitees, should be fully vaccinated. Thermal scanning will be done for other visitors, who also have to compulsorily wear masks. As a norm, freedom fighters were usually honored by the Collectors during such occasions. This year, however, due to the pandemic, Ranipet Collector D. Bhasakara Pandian has ordered tahsildars to honor the freedom fighters in their houses on Wednesday. As far as security arrangements are concerned, the police said around 1,500 personnel were roped in to provide security during the celebrations. Vehicular movements at checkpoints bordering Tirupattur, Tiruvannamalai and Chittoor in Vellore have come under intense surveillance for the past few days. Key checkpoints, including Christinapet and Serkadu, are being monitored by police personnel and health officials due to a rise in the number of daily COVID-19 cases in the district. At present, the district has a total of six checkpoints — Christinapet, Serkadu, Paththalapalli, Paradarami, Sainagunta and Ponnai (Madhanakuppam). Major railway stations, including Katpadi, Jolarpet, Tiruvalam, Ranipet, Ambur and Walajah, have come under the scanner of the Railway Protection Force and the Government Railway Police. Sniffer dogs have also been roped in to check the baggage of commuters in these stations and bus termini.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-nearby-districts-on-high-alert/article64945553.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:54 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kazhuveli, Oussudu sanctuaries set for bird count on Jan. 28, 29||The Villupuram Forest Department will conduct the synchronised two-day annual bird census at the Kazhuveli bird sanctuary and adjoining areas in the Yedayanthittu estuary and Oussudu bird sanctuary in the district, on January 28 and 29. The annual census will be done by the Forest Department with the coordination of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) and technical support from the Universal Eco Foundation and Indigenous Biodiversity Foundation (IBF), a non-profit organization. According to Villupuram District Forest Officer Sumesh Soman, a 50-member team of volunteers from colleges in Mayiladuthurai and Tiruchi districts and students from Pondicherry University will carry out the census from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. on January 28 and 29. “The participants will be divided into groups and will undertake the census simultaneously in Kazhuveli sanctuary, Yedayanthittu estuary and Oussudu bird sanctuary. We have planned 12 transect lines including eight in Kazhuveli and two each in Yedayanthittu and Oussudu,” he said. Representatives of institutions like Federal Bank, too, will be joining in as volunteers. Each group will consist of at least one subject expert, and the data will be recorded in a scientific manner. The census will also be covering important bird areas adjoining the sanctuaries and will be conducted in accordance with international norms. The data will be compiled in two days, said a Forest Department official. Mr. Soman said that about 17,565 birds belonging to 47 species were spotted in Kazhuveli during the pre-bird census conducted by a team led by BNHS scientist Dr. S. Balachandran on January 14 and 15. The highest number was that of the Ruff (10,000), followed by Blue-tailed Godwits and Sand Plovers during the pre-bird census. Last year, more than 25,000 birds belonging to 57 species were spotted in the sanctuary. The second phase of the bird census will cover inland water birds while the third phase will cover terrestrial birds. The dates for this will be finalised soon, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kazhuveli-oussudu-sanctuaries-set-for-bird-count-on-jan-28-29/article64945676.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Voters can get duplicate EPIC, says Collector||Voters who have lost their voter ID cards (EPIC) or want to replace their EPIC with black and white photograph with that of a colour photograph can get duplicate EPIC from EPIC kiosk on Virudhunagar Collectorate premises. Collector J. Meghanath Reddy inaugurated the kiosk on the occasion of 12th National Voters Day on Tuesday. Those who want to get the duplicate EPIC card can make online application through http://www.nvsp.in by filling up E-001 application.After registration, they would get an OTP and QR Code on their registered mobile number, which has to be produced the kiosk to get the plastic EPIC. The Collector also distributed EPIC to 20 new voters and certificates of appreciation to officials and employees who had put in special efforts in special summary revision of voter list. Prizes and certificates to students who had won in various competitions held in connection with National Voters’ Day were distributed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-voters-can-get-duplicate-epic-says-collector/article38327212.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:30 IST,TAMIL NADU||Condemned vehicles to be auctioned||A total of 7 two-wheelers and 47 two wheelers belonging to Virudhunagar district police that were condemned would be auctioned on February 2. In a statement, Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police M. Manohar said that those interested to take part in the auction can inspect the vehicles from 10 a.m. on January 29 till the time of auction. Interested persons should register themselves by submitting a copy of their Aadhaar card and payment of earnest money deposit of Rs. 2,000 from January 29. The successful bidders need to pay the bidding amount along with GST immediately on February 2, the statement said. Madurai district police will also auction 51 two- wheelers and 22 four-wheelers on January 31. Inspection of vehicles can be done between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. on January 29 and 30 at district Reserve Police Ground. Those interested to take part in the auction should register themselves between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m. on January 31 on production of a copy of Aadhaar card and Rs. 5,000 deposit. Madurai city police will auction 5 two-wheelers and 10 four-wheelers on January 31 at the Madurai City Reserve Police Ground. Inspection of vehicles can be done from 10 a.m. on January 28 till the time of auction. Interested persons should register themselves by paying Rs. 2,000 for two-wheelers and Rs. 5,000 for four-wheelers on January 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/condemned-police-vehicles-to-be-auctioned/article38327207.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem district reports 1,087 new COVID-19 cases||Salem district reported 1,087 new COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday. According to health officials, 883 cases were indigenous and 435 cases were reported in the Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 783 cases were reported. Erode district reported 1,229 indigenous cases. Death As per bulletin, two deaths were reported in Salem district. Krishnagiri reported 923 new cases and one death. The total number of active cases in the district stood at 5,444 as of Tuesday. A total of 52,893 cases were reported in Krishnagiri so far. Dharmapuri saw 417 fresh cases. The number of active cases stood at 2,578. As of date, a total of 32,954 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-reports-1087-new-covid-19-cases/article38327233.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC throws out pleas to put off urban local body polls||However, the judges decided to monitor compliance with the COVID-19 protocol by the candidates and the political parties during the campaign and directed the High Court Registry to list the cases 10 days after the election notification was issued. The court noted that the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission had on December 10 imposed elaborate restrictions and ordered that campaigning in large groups would not be permitted and only three persons at a time should go for door-to-door campaign. It had also insisted on physical distancing while candidates canvassed for votes. Therefore, any violation of the protocol could be brought to the notice of the court, the first Division Bench said. The litigants’ contention that the COVID-19 wave was not at its peak when the Supreme Court passed the order and therefore the High Court could interfere with the elections now did not cut ice with the Bench. When the judges wanted to know why the litigants had not approached the Supreme Court directly, counsel for the litigants replied that they were not parties to the case before the top court. Counsel also argued that the State Election Commission ought to have approached the Supreme Court to get the elections deferred by apprising it of the high number of COVID-19 cases being recorded in the State. Not in agreement with this submission, the Bench said the State Election Commission could not be compelled to approach the Supreme Court when it had already given an undertaking to conduct the elections within four months and had now taken all precautions against the pandemic. The judges even rejected the litigants’ plea to pass an interim order deferring the elections by just two weeks so that they could approach the Supreme Court, in the meantime, and obtain an order deferring the elections by three to four months.  The court noted that the State Election Commission had on December 10 imposed elaborate restrictions and ordered that campaigning in large groups would not be permitted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-throws-out-pleas-to-put-off-urban-local-body-polls/article38327202.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:09 IST,TAMIL NADU||Track and trail||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/track-and-trail/article64945796.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ensuring safety||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensuring-safety/article64945783.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||BJP gears up for BBMP polls in April-May||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is getting ready for the much-delayed elections to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) council which it expects to be held in the last week of April or by May first week. The party kicked off a three-day brainstorming session over BBMP polls on Tuesday, where it started work on its manifesto for the polls. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who also holds charge of Bengaluru Development, chaired the inauguration of the three-day session at his residence. “The Chief Minister told us that the Supreme Court order on the election petition is expected by mid-March. In that case, elections to the civic body will be held in the last week of April or the first week of May, by which time the third wave of the pandemic will also be over,” said a senior city leader part of the meeting. The elections will be held for 243 wards as per the new Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Act, 2020. The CM instructed party leaders to come up with two narratives - what has the party done for the city when it has held power in the State and in the civic body, and a manifesto for the upcoming civic polls over the next ten days. “We will speak to some urban experts sympathetic to our party and come up with a manifesto soon,” said one of the presidents of the party units in the city. BJP has also decided to form a screening committee comprising prominent ministers from the city, led by party president Nalin Kumar Kateel, to select candidates to be fielded for the elections, sources said. “The party high command is very keen on winning the Bengaluru civic polls and will oversee electioneering through some observers, like it did for Hyderabad in 2020,” said a source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-gears-up-for-bbmp-polls-in-april-may/article64945831.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:41 IST,KARNATAKA||State records nearly a fourfold rise in recoveries in one week||Despite a steady surge in cases, Karnataka has recorded nearly a fourfold rise in recoveries in the last one week. On Tuesday, the number of recoveries exceeded new cases for the first time in the third wave with 53,093 people getting discharged. On Monday, the State recorded 41,703 recoveries. Previously, 35,140 recoveries were recorded on January 22. In fact, the number of people recovering saw a steep rise from January 19 onwards. From 8,353 recoveries on January 18, it shot up to 23,209 on January 19. Since then, the State has been reporting over 20,000 recoveries. Following this, the weekly recovery rate has shot up from 14.36% (last week) to 52.13% (this week) in the State as of January 24. While Dakshina Kannada has the highest weekly recovery rate at 77.97%, Chickballapur has the lowest at 20.93%, according to data from the State War Room. Till January 24, 70,609 infected persons of the total 3,59,074 active cases were undergoing treatment for more than seven days. These include 50,487 under home isolation, 3,317 in hospitals and 274 in COVID Care centres (CCCs). As of January 24, only 1.44% of the total 3,62,487 active cases in the State have been hospitalised, indicating that the disease severity is not as high as it was during the second wave. Experts, who pointed out that the infection has largely been mild during this wave, said infected people are generally recovering within a week. The few who are requiring treatment beyond seven days are those with comorbidities and the elderly. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force and member of the State’s Clinical Experts Committee, said the duration of infection has largely been between three to five days during the third wave mainly because there is no lung involvement. “It is because of this that people are getting discharged within a week. Earlier, people used to be under treatment for seven to 10 days as many developed shortness of breath and needed oxygen,” he said. Asserting that steroids are not being used in the treatment of COVID-19 patients now, Dr. Manjunath said: “As the disease severity is low, managing comorbidities, especially diabetes is easier. However, people should be watchful post recovery and look out for symptoms such as shortness of breath, undue tiredness. Because there are chances of some people developing reinfection,” he added. S.N. Aravinda, Consultant - Internal Medicine at Aster RV Hospital said, “Most of the cases we are seeing are mild infections. Cases where the recovery time is increasing could potentially be a different variant such as Delta.” Other factors that could be leading to prolonged recovery time could be severely compromised immune system or other comorbidities. Longer recovery time could also be a sign of long COVID-19 where the major part of the illness has been overcome but other symptoms such as fatigue, brain fog, etc. still persist. However, K.V. Trilok Chandra, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) said not many long COVID-19 cases are being seen during this wave. Patients under both home isolation and hospitals are recovering fast and as of January 24 only 138 people in the State are on ventilators, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-records-nearly-a-fourfold-rise-in-recoveries-in-one-week/article64945684.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:03 IST,KARNATAKA||Brain health initiative launched||Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Tuesday launched the Karnataka Brain Health Initiative, a first-of-its-kind programme in the country, undertaken by NIMHANS in association with Niti Ayog. At the virtual launch programme here, the Minister said that, to begin with, the initiative was being rolled out in Bengaluru, Kolar, and Chickballapur districts on a pilot basis. Doctors would be trained in screening and treating mental health patients. “Ever since the beginning of the pandemic, the Government, in association with NIMHANS, has been helping people cope with mental health issues. We have conducted thousands of mental health counselling sessions with COVID-19-infected persons and their families,” he said. “Since mental health has a bearing on physical health and overall wellness of the individual, we need to ensure that everyone is aware of mental health issues and NIMHANS is doing a very good job in taking mental healthcare to the people. Under this brain health initiative, even general physicians will be trained on mental healthcare,” the Minister said. There was a need to screen even newborn babies for mental health issues. Due to various socio-economic factors, genetic, and family issues many people suffer from mental health issues. This would have an impact on their day-to-day lives and quality of life. Therefore more doctors need to be trained in mental healthcare, said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nimhans-launches-brain-health-initiative-with-niti-ayog/article38327065.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||Five from diverse fields win Padma Shri from State||Dalit poet Siddalingaiah, who passed away in June 2021, has been posthumously awarded the Padma Shri by the Union Government on Tuesday. He is among the five from Karnataka to figure in the list of Padma awards announced on the eve of Republic Day. The other awardees are Gamaka exponent H.R. Keshavamurthy, agricultural scientist S. Ayyappan, innovative farmer Abdul Khader Nadakattin and farmer Amai Mahalinga Naika. Dalit voice Siddalingaiah emerged as one of the prominent Dalit voices in the State and was one of the co-founders of Dalit Sangharsha Samiti. He was known for his fiery poetry, though the tone of his writing changed to wry humour in later years. He taught Kannada at Bangalore University and was a recipient of Pampa Award, the highest literary award of the state. He lost his battle to COVID-19 in 2021 at 67.  Gamaka exponent H.R. Keshavamurthy, 87, hailing from Hosahalli village, Shivamogga district, has been practising the unique art of rendering classical epics through music for over five decades. With the late Mattur Krishnamurthy, he had given several television programmes as well. Speaking to The Hindu, he said he was happy that the Gamaka art was recognised at the national level. “I have only tried to do what best I could and the rest is all God’s grace. I wish more youngsters learn Gamaka and keep this art alive,” he said.  Research honoured  Agricultural scientist S. Ayyappan, former Director General of Indian Council of Agricultural Research, told The Hindu that the award was a recognition of aquaculture and its contribution to the nation. Hailing from Chamarajnagar, Dr. Ayyappan is an alumnus of University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru. His areas of research have been fisheries, freshwater aquaculture and aquatic microbiology. Joining the Agriculture Research Service of ICAR in 1978, he served in various capacities including as its Director General.  Innovative farmer Abdul Khader Nadakattin from Annigeri in Dharwad district, who spent his entire life designing and producing farm equipment and tools that made farming easy is also among Padma Shri recipients from State. He spent close to five decades in designing farm tools and equipment fighting against odds, and now runs Vishwashanthi Agri Research Centre. Himself a farmer, Mr. Nadakattin says he designed tools based on the difficulties he experienced in various farm activities. Low-profile farmer Keeping with the trend of awarding low-profile achievers, the Union Government has recognised the sheer grit and determination of Amai Mahalinga Naika, 76, who single handedly drilled seven tunnels on a hill slope for years and successfully brought water to his field near Mangaluru. An expert in climbing areca and palm trees, he was given two acres of land by a farmer with whom he was working as a labourer. But given the land was a hill slope and had no access to water source, Mr. Naika began drilling tunnels. After decades of working single-handedly and drilling seven tunnels he finally got water to his two acre farm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-from-diverse-fields-win-padma-shri-from-state/article64945690.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:41 IST,KARNATAKA||Discontent over district in-charge allocation simmers among Ministers||The allocation of district-in-charge responsibilities for Ministers has led to dissatisfaction among many, as their biggest demand for allocation of their home districts has been given a go by. Several Ministers, including K. Sudhakar, N. Nagaraju (MTB), Anand Singh and C.C. Patil, spoke to the Chief Minister and tried lobbying to be allotted their home districts, but the Chief Minister has been firm, sources said. The only exception seems to be B. Sriramulu, elected from Chitradurga district, being given Ballari, his home district. Several Ministers have also reportedly pointed out that under B.S. Yediyurappa, many of them were allotted their home districts. However, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said that the decision had been taken after consultation, and that no one is dissatisfied. “I have spoken to Ministers before the list was announced and also after the announcement. The decision of not allotting home districts was taken in line with the party’s national policy,” the Chief Minister told reporters here. Party sources said a decision was taken to not allot home districts to any Minister as this had encouraged them to “rule over their districts like fiefdoms,” running roughshod over other BJP MLAs leading to factionalism in most districts. “The party can ill afford it in the run-up to the Assembly polls. Now that Ministers are in-charge of other districts, they should work together with BJP MLAs,” a senior party functionary said. Senior Ministers R. Ashok and J.C. Madhuswamy, only two Ministers not made in-charge of any district, are also reportedly upset. Mr. Madhuswamy speaking to mediapersons said it would be false if he said he was not pained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/discontent-over-district-in-charge-allocation-simmers-among-ministers/article38327077.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||HC upholds detention of businessman||The High Court of Karnataka has upheld the detention of a businessman under the provisions of the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974 to prevent him from further indulging in smuggling, abetting smuggling and dealing with smuggled goods through shell companies. A Division Bench comprising Justice Alok Aradhe and Justice M.G.S. Kamal passed the order whileupholding detention of Gurmeet Singh Kohli by the Central Economic Intelligence Bureau. “From the order of detention, it is evident that the detenu has propensity and potentiality to engage in the offences and despite service of summons has indulged in commission of offences,” the Bench observed while dismissing a habeas corpus writ petition filed by the detenu’s daughter. The detenu has played a key role in smuggling goods into the country and has caused severe harm to the exchequer, Madhukar Deshpande, advocate for the Bureau had contended while referring to various proceedings initiated against him by different statutory authorities for violation of law. The Bureau has alleged that Gurmeet Singh Kohli is an important member and mastermind of a ‘well-organised smuggling syndicate’, which involves his son Aman Puneet Singh Kohli (who has also been detained on the same charges) and others, involved in availment of inadmissible duty drawbacks and other export incentives of several crores in violation of law by setting up more than a dozen shell companies to smuggle goods through misdeclaration of export goods in the guise of exporting ‘Indian Hand Knotted Silk Carpets.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-upholds-detention-of-businessman/article64945830.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||PSI exam candidates cry foul, demand revaluation||Many candidates from within the Police Department, who appeared for the Karnataka State Police PSI written examination, have demanded a revaluation after the results were announced on Thursday, on the grounds that there were irregularities in the marking system.The examination was held in September 2021, and the results were announced last week. One candidate, Mohan Kumar, alleged that a large group of aspirants from one particular centre in Kalaburagi cleared the written exam, posing serious doubts on the credibility of the examination. In his complaint to the Additional Director-General of Police (recruitment and training), Mr. Kumar also pointed out that those selected had scored the maximum marks in paper-II which was relatively tougher than paper-I where the same set of candidates had minimal scores. Many frustrated unsuccessful candidates also vented their ire on social media tagging Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood demanding an explanation. Another allegation There are also allegations that 56 candidates who had reported to a centre in Afzalpur had access to bluetooth devices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/psi-exam-candidates-cry-foul-demand-revaluation/article38327063.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Businessman found dead||A 31-year-old businessman was found dead at his residence Basaveshwaranagar on Monday night. The police suspect that is is a case of suicide. “The deceased, Chand Pasha, ran an automobile spare parts and services centre. He left behind a suicide note,” said a police officer. The incident took place on Monday night while his wife was asleep. His body was discovered in the hall. Preliminary investigations revealed that he had remarried four months ago after divorcing his first wife. (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/businessman-found-dead/article38327068.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||35 trains operated by SWR reach faster||Under the ‘Mission Raftaar’ initiative, the South Western Railway (SWR) has claimed that it hasmanaged to provide many train services with more speed thereby helping passengers reach their destination much earlier. In the current financial year, a total of 35 trains are arriving at their destinations much earlier than their previous scheduled times. Train number 16546 between Kacheguda to Yeshwanthpur, for instance, is reaching 145 minutes earlier than the previously scheduled time. Another train (17309) operated between Yeshwanthpur and Vasco–da-Gama is arriving 100 minutes earlier. Through a press release, Chief PRO (in-charge) of SWR E. Vijaya said, “The SWR had undertaken track renewal and engineering works in a big way to improve sectional speeds, improve speeds on loop lines at stations and to eliminate permanent speed restrictions. This is paving way for long restriction-free stretches thereby increasing the speed potential of trains.” The release further stated that over 317 route km of South Western Railway, sectional speed has been increased. Some of the sections include Arsikere-Tumakuru, Davangere-Tolahunse, Harihar-Devargudda, Chickballapur-Kolar, Yelahanka- Oddarahalli, Makalidurg-Devarapalle, Chikkodi Road-Raybag-Kudachi, Gadag-Binkadakatti, Jumnal-Vijayapura and others.  The SWR had undertaken track renewal and engineering works in a big way to improve sectional speeds, improve speeds on loop lines at stations and to eliminate permanent speed restrictions. E. Vijaya Chief PRO (in-charge) of SWR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/35-trains-operated-by-swr-reach-faster/article38327058.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Discarded masks, test kits posing risk to pourakarmikas||The rampant use of self-test COVID-19 kits is proving to be a health hazard for pourakarmikas collecting dry waste from households as well as those who segregate them at Dry Waste Collection Centres. Since January, there has been a rise in discarded masks, including the reusable kind. Now, home test kits are also found mixed with household waste instead of being set aside as bio-medical waste. Kumuda, who works at a waste collecting centre in J.P. Nagar, posted a video saying: “Women working in our centres are afraid to segregate waste, and many of them have fallen sick.” She suggested that pharmacies selling self-test kits inform customers that they should discard them separately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/discarded-masks-test-kits-posing-risk-to-pourakarmikas/article38327067.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Three arrested for stealing bikes and mobile phones||The Byatarayanapura police on Monday arrested three persons for allegedly robbing two-wheelers and robbing pedestrians. The police recovered 25 stolen motorcycles, 65 grams of gold jewellery and 24 mobile phones from the accused – Kabir Pasha (20), Syed Kaleem (30) and Aftab Pasha (20). According to the police, they stole bikes parked in front of houses and used them to target pedestrians, snatching their gold chains and mobile phones. Following a series of bike theft cases, a police team led by Inspector Shankar Naik tracked down Kabir and arrested him. Based on the information he gave them, they arrested Syed and Aftab, and recovered the stolen goods. “In one case, they had also stolen a bike and held a victim at knifepoint, and made off with a gold chain and Rs 11,000 cash,” said the police. The police are now trying to track down the owners of the bikes and phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested-for-stealing-bikes-and-mobile-phones/article38327064.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:40 IST,KARNATAKA||Police officers to get medals||A total of 21 police personnel including three IPS officers from Karnataka have been awarded Police Medals by the Union Home Ministry. The Centre on Tuesday, the eve of Republic Day, announced 939 police medals for Gallantry, Distinguished Service and Meritorious Service. B. Dayananda, Director, State Intelligence Bureau, and R. Hitendra, Additional Director General of Police (Crime and Technical Services) have been selected for the Police Medal for Distinguished Service.B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner (Traffic, Bengaluru) is among the 19 officers selected for the Police Medal for Meritorious Service. Other medallists posted in the city include Kumara D., ACP, Halasuru sub-division, Shekhara B.K., Dy.SP, CID, Bengaluru; K.N. Yashawantha Kumar, Dy.SP, Cyber Crime, CID; Krishnamurthy S, Police Inspector, KLA, Bengaluru; C.S. Simpi, Special Assistant Reserve Sub Inspector, 1st Battalion, KSRP, Bengaluru; H R Munirajaiah, Assistant Sub Inspector, Crime Section, Joint Commissioner Office, G.V. Venkateshappa and Head Constable, State Intelligence, Bengaluru. Across Karnataka, officers selected include Janardhana R, Commandant, 5th battalion, KSRP, Mysuru; Ravi Prasad P., Dy.SP, Hunsuru subdivision; Venkatappa Nayaka H. Olekar, Dy.SP, Sindhanur sub-division, Raichur district; Malleshaiah M., Dy.SP, Anekal sub-division; BM Gangadhar, ACP, CCRB, Kalaburagi city; Shankar Rao Maruthi Rao Shinde, Head Constable Khade Bazaar police station, Belagavi; and Lingarajappa, Head Constable, N.R. Sub Division, ACP Office, Mysuru, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medals-for-21-police-officers/article38327072.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:55 IST,KARNATAKA||24-year-old found dead on railway track||A 24-year-old engineer was found dead on the railway track in Malleswaram on Tuesday. The police, who have not revealed the identity of the deceased, suspect it is a case of suicide as they found a note on the body. “The victim was being blackmailed for sex on Instagram. We are probing this, and are analysing call record details and social media accounts,” said a police officer. (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/24-year-old-found-dead-on-railway-track/article38327062.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:41 IST,KARNATAKA||CM favours small buses||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday favoured small buses to be deployed for public transport within city limits and urged authorities to induct them into their fleet. He was speaking here during the review of the Transport Department on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-favours-small-buses/article38327078.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:41 IST,KARNATAKA||41,400 new cases, 52 deaths||The State on Tuesday reported 41,400 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 36,05,508. Of the new cases, Bengaluru Urban alone reported 19,105. With 52 deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,666. This is apart from 30 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. A total of 53,093 people were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 32,16,070. The State now has 3,50,742 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 26.7%, the case fatality rate (CFR) touched 0.12%. A total of 1,55,054 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,03,312 RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/41400-new-cases-52-deaths/article38327079.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:41 IST,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah slams restriction on ragi procurement||Urging the State Government to remove restrictions on procurement of ragi under support price regime, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah asked the Government to also increase support price for ragi to help farmers affected by unseasonal rains in 2021. He said that the State Government has restricted the quantum of ragi to be procured as the Centre has restricted the total procurement to 2.1 lakh tonnes. The Agriculture Department has estimated ragi production in Karnataka to be about 15 lakh tonnes this season, he added. In fact, the Government had procured 4.7 lakh tonnes of ragi in 2021, he pointed out. This year, Mr. Siddaramaiah said that ragi has been cultivated in about 17.5 lakh acres in Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagaram, Kolar, Chickballapur, Mandya, Hassan, Chitradurga, and Chikkamagaluru districts. The former Chief Minister said that ragi production in Karnataka had increased after farmers replaced eucalyptus groves in their fields. “The Centre that speaks about doubling farmer’s income has directed the Karnataka Government to procure only 2.1 lakh tonnes following which restriction has been put in place. It includes maximum procurement of only 20 quintals from each farmer,” he said. The former Chief Minister said that farmers normally keep 50% of the produce for their personal consumption, and that the Government should purchase whatever quantum that farmers bring to the procurement centre. “Otherwise, they end up selling below market price outside,” he said. Meagre increase He slammed the Government for a meagre increase in support price and said that the increase is just about Rs. 82 per quintal. “While Rs. 3,295 was being given per quintal in 2021, the amount is just about Rs. 3,377 this year. However, cost of ploughing the field using tractor has gone up from about Rs. 750 an hour to about Rs. 1,200 per hour. The crop harvester machine cost has also gone up, along with other agri input costs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-slams-restriction-on-ragi-procurement/article38327075.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||Two schools in each district to get ‘Netaji Amrutha’ tag||To mark the 125 birth anniversary of Subhash Chandra Bose, celebrated on January 23, the government has decided to identify two schools in each district–a total of 75–as Netaji Amrutha Schools. NCC units will be launched in these schools. Hundred students in each school will be roped into the NCC. A training cost of Rs. 12,000 for each student totalling Rs. 9 crore will be granted for this project. As many as 78,000 NCC units already exist in the State across 44,000 schools and 34,000 colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-schools-in-each-district-to-get-netaji-amrutha-tag/article38327069.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||Electric cables worth Rs. 23 lakh stolen||Thieves took away electric cable drums worth over Rs. 23 lakh from Yettinahole project site at Valalahalli near Sakleshpur. The incident came to light recently when the engineers of the private company entrusted wit the package-4 of the project verified the stock available. Umesh S., an engineer of GVPR Engineers Ltd, in his complaint to the police recently said that the project work was stopped in June 2021 as the rains started. The materials procured for the work were kept at the stock yard at Valalhalli and security guards were posted. However, the theft came to light when the company decided to shift the stock from Valalahalli recently. As many as 11 drums worth over Rs. 23 lakh were stolen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/electric-cables-worth-rs-23-lakh-stolen/article38327416.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Debate over reshuffle of Ministers unnecesary’||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has defended the appointment of outsiders as Ministers in charge of districts in Karnataka. “It was necessary for the party’s growth,” he said. “It does not matter which district you are in charge of. It is like carrying god’s palanquin. Whether you are on the left or right of the palanquin does not matter. What matters is we are all doing the government’s work. Discussions over districts allotted to Ministers should not have happened, and it is unnecessary,” he told mediapersons in Shivamogga on Tuesday. Mr. Eshwarappa, who was in charge of Shivamogga district, his native place, has been allotted Chikkamagaluru district. He said the decision to appoint outsiders as Ministers in charge is a good move and in the interest of the party. “It would be helpful for an outsider to assess the party’s situation in the district. When an outsider comes to Shivamogga, he will analyse my relationship with the party workers in my constituency. Now, I am in charge of Chikkamagaluru, where we have our MLAs in all constituencies, except one. There, I will analyse the party’s situation,” he said. He hoped that differences over the reshuffle of Ministers would die down soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/debate-over-reshuffle-of-ministers-unnecesary/article64945713.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:03 IST,KARNATAKA||Associate professor of Hassan medical college suspended||The Department of Medical Education has suspended an associate professor of Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences on the charge of sexually harassing a house surgeon. Naveen Raj Singh, Secretary of Medical Education, suspended Dr. H.C. Lokesh, pending a departmental inquiry against him. Dr. Lokesh, Associate Professor in the Department of General Medicine, allegedly misbehaved with a house surgeon while on duty on January 12 in the presence of other students and later kissed her forcefully in the lift. He had threatened her of dire consequences if she complained to senior officers against him. The girl complained to Dr. M.R. Suresh, Head of Department of General Medicine on January 13. The same was forwarded to Dr. B.C. Ravi Kumar, the Director of the institute, who reported the matter to the Department. Naveen Raj Singh issued the order suspending the accused as per the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/associate-professor-of-hassan-medical-college-suspended/article38327418.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:03 IST,KARNATAKA||DC to hoist tricolour in Hassan||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish will hoist the national flag at the district stadium in Hassan on Wednesday. The DC got the chance to hoist the flag as K. Gopalaiah, Minister in-charge of the district will be taking part in the Republic Day programme at Mandya. He is in-charge of both the districts. Elected representatives and senior officers of the district will take part in the event. The district administration has chosen achievers from different fields and COVID-19 warriers for felicitation on the day. The public taking part in the event has been asked to follow COVID-19 restrictions. RDPR Minister K.S.Eshwarappa will hoist the tri-colour in Chikkamagaluru. Minister for Sericulture and Youth Empowermet K.C.Narayanagowda while unfurl the flat in Shivamogga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-to-hoist-tricolour-in-hassan/article38327423.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:03 IST,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga reports 343 fresh cases||Shivamogga reported 343 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, increasing the total active cases to 3,050. Of the fresh cases 124 were reported in Shivamogga taluk, 60 in Bhadravathi, 22 in Thirthahalli, 51 in Shikaripur, 35 in Sagar, 18 in Hosanagar, 17 in Sorab and 16 more patients were from other districts. Of the active cases, 2,944 were under home isolation, 22 people at dedicated COVID Health Centre and 11 undergoing treatment at private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-reports-343-fresh-cases/article38327427.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:28 IST,KARNATAKA||Pedestrian killed||A pedestrian was killed after he was hit by an unknown vehicle at Sriramanagar in Belagodu Hobli in Sakaleshpur taluk on Monday afternoon. The police gave the name of the deceased as Raghu, 37, a resident of Sriramanagar. He was hit by a vehicle while he was on the way his house. The relatives took him to government hospital at Ballupete and from there he was shifted to another hospital in Mangaluru. Later he succumbed to injuries. Raghu’s mother Krishnaveni has filed a complaint with Sakleshpur Rural Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pedestrian-killed/article38327417.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:03 IST,KARNATAKA||Murder accused arrested||The Sakleshpur Police, on Monday, arrested a person, who allegedly murdered an aged woman and took away a gold chain from her at Haralli in Sakaleshpur taluk recently. The accused, addicted to alcohol, murdered Mallamma, 80, by throwing a boulder on her head and took away a gold chain weighing 20 grams. According to the police, he murdered the woman, who was staying alone, as he wanted to money to purchase alcohol. The incident had left the residents of the village in shock. Yeslur Police had registered the case. Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda had constituted special teams to nab the accused. Anil Kumar, DySP, K.M.Chaitanya, CPI, Byataraya Gowda, Kasturi, PSIs and their staff members were involved in the investigation. The SP has appreciated the efforts of the policemen in arresting the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/murder-accused-arrested/article38327425.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:03 IST,KARNATAKA||1,498 new cases of COVID-19 in Hassan||Hassan reported 1,498 fresh cases of COVID-19 and two deaths due to the infection on Tuesday. With that, the number of active cases increased to 11,734 in the district. Since the outbreak of the pandemic 1,394 people have died in the district. Among the fresh cases, 587 were reported in Hassan taluk, 98 in Alur, 154 in Arakalgud, 135 in Arasikere, 166 in Belur, 140 in Channarayapatna, 92 in Holenarasipur, 120 in Sakaleshpur and six more patients were from other districts. Of the infected 11 are in the intensive care unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1498-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-hassan/article38327424.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||Refraining from voting tantamount to abstaining from one’s duty, says judge||“Only active participation by citizens in the electoral process will strengthen democracy andensure the election of a strong democratic government,” Principal District and Sessions Judge Umesh Adiga has said. He was inaugurating the National Voters Day programme organised by the Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP), the Dharwad District Administration and the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) in Dharwad on Tuesday. Mr. Adiga said that every citizen who has completed 18 years of age should compulsorily get one’s name enrolled in the voter list.This apart, he should exercise his franchise compulsorily. Refraining from casting one’s vote will amount to abstaining from exercising one’s rights and fulfilling duties envisaged in the Constitution, he said. “Elections are the lifeline of a democratic set-up and to elect an eligible politician, every vote polled by voters holds the key. Therefore, to keep alive democracy and elect a government of one’s choice, 100% participation in polling is necessary,” he emphasised. Presiding over the programme, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that Voters Day should be celebrated as a national festival. Voting being the biggest weapon given to citizens by the Constitution, every citizen should understand the significance of it and exercise it cautiously, he said. Mr. Patil said that exercising one’s vote is the bounden duty of all and people should become stakeholders in the progress of the country by casting their votes. 8,000 new voters He said that the process of enrolling names in the voter list is conducted throughout the year. Last January, there were 15.40 lakh voters in the district and the number has increased to 15.48 lakh voters now. Nearly 8,000 new voters have enrolled themselves in the voter list, of which 4,725 are male and 3,258 female.Of the total population 21.70 lakh in Dharwad district, there are 15.48 lakh voters now, which is 71.08%, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/refraining-from-voting-tantamount-to-abstaining-from-ones-duty-says-judge/article64945695.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||NSS volunteers collect 300 bags of rice, donate 101 bags||Amid the pandemic, NSS volunteers from a Hubballi college have set an example for others to emulate by collecting over 300 bags of rice to be given as donation to mutts, old age homes and organisations to feed the needy. On Monday, they donated 101 bags of rice to Siddharoodh Mutt in Hubballi. The initiative, Ondu Mushti Akki (A fistful of rice), was taken up by volunteers of National Service Scheme (NSS) from J.G. College of Commerce in Hubballi and over 300 bags of rice were collected in a span of 11 days. The rice donated to Siddharoodh Mutt on Monday was for dasoha (mass feeding). In a simple function on Monday, Chairman of Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti handed over the 101 bags of rice to the Siddharoodh Mutt Trust Committee in the presence of Sri Mallikarjun Swami of Murugha Mutt, Dharwad. Director of Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Limited Mallikarjun Savakar, Director of KLE Society Shankranna Munavalli, NSS coordinator of Karnatak University M.B. Dalapati and others were present. Principals of the PU and Degree sections of the college, S.A. Gani and D.V. Honagannavar, respectively, spoke. The plan is to donate the remaining bags of rice to Moorusavir Mutt, Sai Mandir, Manu Samiti of Dharwad, Kalyanapur Mutt of Kundgol, schools for visually challenged, destitute homes and orphanages in the surroundings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nss-volunteers-collect-300-bags-of-rice-donate-101-bags/article64945692.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||‘There is no question of closing down Akkamahadevi varsity’||Negating reports about attempts to close down Karnataka State Akkamahadevi Women’s University, Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol has categorically stated that there is no question of closing down the university. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, Mr. Karjol has said that the Akkamahadevi Women’s University was established with an objective of bringing development in North Karnataka in general andfor providing easy access to higher education to women from the region in particular. “There is no question of closing down the university which was set up for providing higher education in the region and making women more educated and become self-reliant,” he has said. He has said that as an elected representative of the region, he had the privilege of working for the development of the region and in accordance with the aspirations of the people. He has said that in all, colleges in 13 districts of the region functioned under the University and the credit of paying tribute to 12th Century reformer Akkamahadevi, who immensely contributed to the Vachana literature, by renaming the university after her should go to the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-no-question-of-closing-down-akkamahadevi-varsity/article38327251.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||Rs. 5,000 fine for dumping waste in vacant spaces||In a bid to discourage people from dumping waste in vacant spaces in the twin cities, the administration has decided to impose a fine of Rs. 5,000 on those who continue to litter even after a warning. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, who, along with HDMC Commissioner B. Gopalkrishna and IAS Probationer Madhav Gitte, cycled around Dharwad on Tuesday morning, made this announcement after visiting various localities and interaction with civic workers. Mr. Gopalkrishna said that people had a tendency of dumping garbage in open sites which should be discouraged. He said that it was the responsibility of such owners to see that their open sites are kept clean and if they fail to discourage people from dumping waste in their sites, then they will also be penalised, he said. He said that the municipal corporation has identified over 250 black spots in the twin cities which are being used as dumping yards by residents. Nearly 100 such black spots have already been cleaned and saplings have been planted to discourage people from dumping waste, he said. Mr. Gopalkrishna said that banners with contact numbers of health inspector and zonal officer have been put up at these places to enable responsible citizens to alert the corporation in case anyone is found dumping waste at such sites. Earlier, Mr. Patil, along with Mr. Gopalkrishna and Mr. Madhav, cycled to Subhas Road, where they had tea with the pourakarmikas who were engaged in their routine work of sweeping the road and clearing garbage. The three officers then visited Azad Park, Line Bazaar and surrounding localities, inspected the condition of public toilets and also the black spots where people usually dump garbage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-5000-fine-for-dumping-waste-in-vacant-spaces/article38327431.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||SDM College signs MoU with ITI India||SDM College of Dental Sciences and Hospital, a constituent college of SDM University, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with ITI (International Team of Implantologists) India Private Limited for facilitating collaboration in dental implantology services. On Tuesday, Vice-Chancellor of SDM University, Dharwad, Niranjan Kumar and a representatative of ITI India Nikhil Deshpande signed the MoU and exchanged the documents at a simple function in Dharwad. Pro Vice-Chancellor of the university S.K. Joshi, Registrar Lt. Col. U.S. Dinesh, Director Administration Saketh Shetty, principal of the college Balaram Naik and others were present during the signing ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sdm-college-signs-mou-with-iti-india/article38327250.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||Madhav Gitte takes charge||Madhav Gitte, IAS, assumed charge as Joint Commissioner of Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation on Tuesday. An IAS Probationary Officer of 2020 batch, Mr. Gitte was under training in Dharwad. As per a government notification, Mr. Madhav Gitte took charge on Tuesday, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/madhav-gitte-takes-charge/article64945696.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||Debt-ridden farmer found dead||A 55-year-olddebt-ridden farmerended his life by consuming poison at his farm in Alur village at Yadrami taluk in Kalaburagi district on Monday, the police said. According to the police, thefarmer, identified as Basappa Naganur, who had suffered loss due to crop failure on his 3.29 acres of land last year, could not repay Rs. 8 lakh loan taken from banks, a cooperative society and private moneylenders.A case has been registered at the Yadrami Police Station  ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/debt-ridden-farmer-found-dead/article38327430.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||Process to get online trade licence further simplified||Mayor Premananda Shetty on Tuesday said that the Mangaluru City Corporation has further simplified the process of online renewal of trade licence enabling traders to get provisional trade licence without any delay. Mr. Shetty told reporters here that over 14,000 traders who had renewed their licence in 2021-22 using the mobile application, MCC-Trade License, will soon get short message (SMS) notification on their registered mobile phone numbers. They may log in to the mobile App or website, www.mcctradelicence.com, and provide the file number at “track status” or “pending payment” window to complete online payment. After payment is confirmed, applicants may download the Provisional Trade Licence from the App or the website that will be valid for a fortnight. During the fortnight, either the applicant or the health inspector can raise objections regarding incorrect/ invalid entries and if no objection are received, applicant can download the final licence. If there are any objections, they will be reviewed by the zonal officer or the health officer, the Mayor said. Mr. Shetty said that traders need not visit the corporation offices for licence renewal as the entire process is done digitally. After the introduction of the online system last year, trade licence fee collection has almost doubled compared to the previous year’s. It has touched Rs. 10 crore so far. The Mayor noted that there are still about 7,000 traders who are not able to renew their licence for various reasons and efforts are on to bring them under the tax net. Mr. Shetty said that not all property owners in the city are able to make online property tax payment as the corporation is yet to have a comprehensive data base of property. Those who have bought new property may submit a copy of change of Khata to the corporation to help them pay tax online. Corporation personnel too will visit property to assist owners make online payment, during which time they will also verify self-assessment system of calculating tax. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that nearly 23,000 property owners have paid Rs. 7.04 crore tax since the online system was introduced in November last.  Traders need not visit the corporation offices for licence renewal as the entire process is done digitally Premananda Shetty, Mayor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/process-to-get-online-trade-licence-further-simplified/article64945719.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Use voting right prudently to elect a responsible govt.’||With the Election Commission celebrating the National Voters Day across the country, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Tuesday said that voting is a Constitutionally guaranteed right to every citizen that has to be used prudently even as his Udupi counterpart M. Kurma Rao said that every eligible citizen should cast his vote to strengthen democracy. The two Deputy Commissioners of the respective districts, who are also electoral officers, were speaking at Voters Day celebrations organised jointly by the respective District Legal Services Authorities in Mangaluru and Udupi. While everyone speaks about the menace of corruption, many forget they can help eradicate it, if one exercises one’s franchise wisely without falling prey to inducements, Dr. Rajendra noted. Authority member-secretary Prithviraj Vernekar, Zilla Panchayat CEO and District SVEEP Committee Chairman Kumara and others were present. In Udupi, Mr. Rao said that new voters should exercise their right without falling for any inducement thereby helping find ways to solve problems being faced by the young generation. This should also be followed by all voters so as to strengthen democracy. The new voters should encourage their peers to get enrolled in the electoral rolls thereby becoming stakeholders of democracy. Authority member-secretary S. Sharmila spoke. ZP CEO and District SVEEP Committee Chairman Y. Naveen Bhat said that every voter should exercise his franchise as even a single vote has its value. Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhana said that holiday declared on the day of polling should be used to elect the right representative and not for any other purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/use-voting-right-prudently-to-elect-a-responsible-govt/article64945717.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana artist Muliyala Bhima Bhat passes away||Eminent artist of the Thenku Thittu Yakshagana Muliyala Bhima Bhat passed away at Kanthavara in Karkala taluk on Tuesday morning due to age-related illness. He was 85. His father, Kechanna (Keshava) Bhat, too was a Yakshagana artist. Bhima Bhat began his career in Yakshagana through the Dharmasthala Mela in 1951 under the tutelage of Late Kuriya Vittala Shastri. Later, he joined the Kateel Mela in 1958 and performed the role of Devi in Devi Mahatme Prasangas. Bhima Bhat, who used to completely involve himself in the role, was fondly called “Devi Bhatru” by Yakshagana patrons and devotees of Sri Durgaparameshwari, the presiding deity of Sri Kshetra Kateel. He donned the roles of Prameele, Shashiprabhe, Meenakshi in certain prasangas. He also donned the male roles of Athikaya, Thamradhwaja, Karna, Drupada, Krishna and Hanumantha. Recently, he was felicitated with the Pathala Yaksha Kala Mangala Award at Dharmasthala. Bhima Bhat is survived by his wife and a daughter. After Bhima Bhat retired from active performance, he servedthe Kantheshwara Temple at Kanthavara for about 20 years. As the temple fair is in progress, Bhima Bhat’s last rites were conducted in the neighbouring Beluvai village under the guidance of temple trustee Jeevandhar Ballal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yakshagana-artist-muliyala-bhima-bhat-passes-away/article64945723.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||Strict action sought against those who erected banner in Ullal during jatra||Member of Legislative Assembly U.T. Khader on Tuesday urged the police to initiate stern action against those who erected a banner declaring that only Hindus can open temporary shops during a jatra at Ullal. Mr. Khader told reporters here that the banner had come up at Ullal Bail where the Dompada Bali Fair was scheduled on Wednesday. Though the police pulled down the banner, ostensibly displayed at the behest of Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal, the matter needs to be investigated and stringent action has to be taken, Mr. Khader demanded. The banner read, “Only those who worship the Gods of this land are allowed to set up shops here”. It also said that business one gives should not benefit communities that disrespect Hindu Gods. While the jatra organisers have distanced themselves from the banner a query from the MLA, Mr. Khader said that such banner displays had taken place earlier too in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/strict-action-sought-against-those-who-erected-banner-in-ullal-during-jatra/article38327399.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||Visual art workshop and exhibition inaugurated||A three-day Visual Art Workshop and Art Exhibition was inaugurated at the Art Kanara Trust in Kodialguthu Centre for Art and Culture in the city. The former MLC Capt. Ganesh Karnik, M. Prashanth Shet from S.L. Shet Jewellers and Diamond House and Karnataka Bank’s Assistant General Manager Srinivas Deshpande were present at the inauguration. The workshop is supported by Karnataka Bank and S.L. Shet Jewellers and Diamond House, Mangaluru, said a release. Titled Re-looking at Depiction of Land/Landscape in Visual Art, the workshop is specially conducted for art students and emerging artists of rural Karnataka to hone their skills by giving exposure to contemporary art world. Shanthamani Muddaiah, a senior and well-known contemporary artist from Bengaluru, is mentoring the workshop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/visual-art-workshop-and-exhibition-inaugurated/article38327404.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||Brain-dead Davangere woman donates vital organs||The vital organs of a 57-year-old woman from Davangere district, who was declared brain dead at Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, were harvested and provided to needy patients at different hospitals on Monday. B.M. Indramma, wife of H.N. Nanjundappa, was seriously injured in a road accident that occurred near Davangere on Saturday and was brought to Kasturba Hospital for treatment the next day. The patient did not show any signs of recovery despite the best efforts of doctors. The prognosis was poor, said Hospital Medical Superintendent Avinash Shetty in a statement here. She was declared brain dead twice at an interval of six hours on Monday under the 1994 Protocols and Procedures of the Human Rights Act. Subsequently, Indramma’s husband expressed his willingness to donate the vital organs. Accordingly, the donor’s heart, heart valves, liver, two kidneys and two corneas were harvested to help save the life of six people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vital-organs-of-brain-dead-woman-from-davangere-harvested/article38327395.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||R-Day celebrations||Newly appointed district in-charge Ministers V. Sunil Kumar and S. Angara will hoist the tri-colour to mark the Republic Day celebrations at 9 a.m. on Wednesday in Mangaluru and Udupi, respectively. No other programmes are being organised in view of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/r-day-celebrations/article38327398.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:16 IST,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Power supply in some areas in Udupi will be disrupted from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Thursday. The affected areas are Guddeyangady, Pitrodi, Hejamady, Padebettu, Nadsalu and Tenka Nandikur.     MESCOM will conduct a meeting of consumers under its Belthangady and Ujire sub-divisions at Belthangady sub-division office from 11 a.m. to noon on Friday. It will be in the virtual mode and through telephone. The link to participate is: https://me- et.google.com/wiq-trap-xcm. Call Ph: 08256-232095.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article64945720.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:03 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 cases in Mysuru dip||The number of COVID-19 cases in Mysuru witnessed a dip on Tuesday with the district reporting 1,494 cases. The slump in the number of COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday came after Mysuru reported over 4,000 cases during each of the last three days. According to a bulletin by the district administration on Tuesday, 4,650 samples were tested out of which 1,494 cases were positive, indicating a test positivity rate of 32.1%. Mysuru city accounted for the highest number of cases with 1,051. While H.D. Kote reported 25, Hunsur reported 97, K.R. Nagar 75, Mysuru taluk 61, Nanjangud 68, Periyapatna 50, Saligrama 12, T. Narsipur 46, and Saragur reported nine cases on Tuesday. While two persons died due to COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the cumulative death toll in the pandemic to 2,457, as many as 2,750 persons were discharged. The total active cases in Mysuru on Tuesday were put at 17,588 out of whom 17,214 were isolated at home. It may be recalled here that Mysuru had reported 4,601 cases on Saturday followed by 4,359 on Sunday, and 4,105 on Monday. However, Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham attributed the sudden spurt in numbers in the district to “backlog” cases that had been added to the daily reports of the last three days. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Tuesday, Mr. Gautham said there was a backlog of positive cases that were pending and the same had been added to the daily reports during the last three days. He assured that steps had been taken to ensure that the number of positive cases will be reported on a daily basis henceforth. Mr. Gautham, who had also tested positive and returned to duty after completing the isolation period, said the district had already reached its peak in the number of cases and expressed hope that the pandemic will begin to subside in the coming days. With regard to reopening of schools amid the pandemic, Mr. Gautham said the decision to open schools was taken following a government order. However, he said a committee had been constituted to taken a decision on closing down institutions whenever COVID-19 clusters were found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-cases-in-mysuru-dip/article64945661.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:03 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 patients asked to download esanjeevaniOPD app||The Department of Health and Family Welfare in Mysuru has appealed to those testing positive for COVID-19 to download the esanjeevaniOPD app for free teleconsultation. A statement issued by the Mysuru district administration on Tuesday said those, who are expected to remain in isolation, can consult medical experts through the app for free. Patients can consult experts between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. The esanjeevaniOPD app can be downloaded from Google Play Store.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-patients-asked-to-download-esanjeevaniopd-app/article38327421.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:03 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru girl shortlisted to lead NCC contingent at Republic Day parade||Pramila Kunwar, a student of first year BSc at Maharani’s College of Science in Mysuru, has been shortlisted to lead NCC’s marching contingent at the Republic Day parade in New Delhi on Wednesday. If her selection is finalised, she will head the NCC marching contingent comprising cadets from all the 17 Directorates of NCC of the country. Sources in NCC in Mysuru said selection of the cadet to lead the contingent will be finalised on Wednesday morning. However, Ms. Kunwar’s father Pratap Singh, who runs a tea stall on Kalidasa Road in the city, was confident of her daughter’s selection. If selected, it will be for the first time that a cadet from Mysuru Group will be leading the NCC marching contingent at the Republic Day. “It will be a matter of pride for the entire Mysuru Group NCC”, said sources. A resident of V.V. Mohalla in Mysuru, Ms. Kunwar is the daughter of Mr. Pratap Singh and Pushpa Kunwar couple. She studied from Class I to X at Nirmala Convent in Mysuru before doing her PU at St Joseph’s Collee in Jayalakshmipuram in the city. She had enrolled herself with Bharath Scouts and Guides in 2015 and had led the contingent during the 2018 Dasara procession and gave the guard of honour to the then Governor Vajubhai Vala and then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa at the Torch Light Parade, said Mr. Pratap Singh. Ms. Kunwar, who had also participated in the Republic Day parade of 2019, is among the 19 NCC cadets from Mysuru group, who is in New Delhi to participate in the Republic Day parade. She is among the 54 NCC cadets selected from NCC Directorate of Karnataka and Goa for this year’s Republic Day parade. Her father said Ms. Kunwar, who has participated in various NCC camps, had also served as a frontline COVID-19 warrior during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-girl-shortlisted-to-lead-ncc-contingent-at-republic-day-parade/article38327426.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:03 IST,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath backs inclusion of Ramdas in Ministry||Amidst the ongoing clamour for expansion of the State Cabinet, former Minister and BJP MLC A.H. Vishwanath has backed the inclusion of senior party MLA S.A. Ramdas into the Ministry. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Monday, Mr. Vishwanath, however, clarified that he was not in the race for the ministerial berth. But, said Mysuru should mandatorily receive representation in the Cabinet. Experience He said Mr. Ramdas, who represents Krishnaraja Assembly constituency in Mysuru, was an “experienced and senior” person, who was eligible to become a Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vishwanath-backs-inclusion-of-ramdas-in-ministry/article38327428.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:39 IST,KARNATAKA||Pride in flag||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pride-in-flag/article64945697.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:06 IST,KERALA||2,561 new cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 2,561 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. The Health Department has not released the test positivity rate for the day. It registered nine COVID-19 deaths. The new cases include 2,460 people who contracted the disease through local transmission. Twenty-seven health staff also tested positive for the disease. The source of infection of 74 people remains unidentified. Meanwhile, 822 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 10,982. District Collector A. Alexander on Tuesday issued an order constituting joint squads in six taluks for conducting checks to ensure COVID-19 rules are followed in public places. The squads are headed by respective tahsildars. It consists of personnel from the police, revenue and local self government institutions. The squads will conduct inspections at markets, business centres, theatres, bars, beaches, tourism centres, banks and government institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2561-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article38327366.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:06 IST,KERALA||2,259 families of victims receive aid||The distribution of financial assistance of Rs. 50,000 each to the next of kin of COVID-19 victims is progressing in Alappuzha district. Officials said here on Tuesday that as many as 2,259 families in the district had so far been provided with the aid. Authorities have received a total of 2,597 applications in the district. A committee led by District Collector A. Alexander approved 2,289 applications. Of these, money has been transferred to the bank accounts of 2,259 beneficiaries. The process is on to transfer money to the rest 30 beneficiaries. The committee, meanwhile, rejected 258 applications filed without supporting documents. The applicants have been asked to submit relevant documents immediately for reconsidering their claims for financial assistance. Of the 2,597 applications received, 50 are under scrutiny in various village offices, said an official. The applications forwarded from village offices are examined by a three-member team consisting of the Collector, deputy collector (disaster management) and finance officer. The final nod is given by the District Disaster Management Authority led by the Collector. Mr. Alexander urged all those families eligible to receive the COVID-19 financial assistance to immediately submit applications. Besides the one-time financial assistance, applications submitted by 238 people for a monthly pension of Rs. 5,000 have been approved. The State government last year announced an ex gratia of Rs. 5,000 a month to the next of kin of COVID-19 victims from below the poverty line (BPL) families. The beneficiaries will get assistance for three years as a direct benefit transfer. Applications for the one-time financial assistance of Rs. 50,000 and the pension scheme should be submitted through the online portal relief.kerala.gov.in. If the details of victims are not found on the COVID-19 death information system, relatives can lodge an appeal through the portal..  The applications forwarded from village offices are examined by a three-member team consisting of the Collector, deputy collector and finance officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2259-families-of-victims-receive-aid/article38327365.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:06 IST,KERALA||P. Prasad to hoist tricolour||Agriculture Minister P. Prasad will hoist the national flag on the occasion of Republic Day at Alappuzha Police Parade Ground on Wednesday. The celebrations will begin at 9 a.m. District Collector A. Alexander and District Police Chief G. Jaidev will receive the Minister. After hoisting the flag, Mr. Prasad will inspect the Republic Day parade and address the gathering. Public not allowed Republic Day celebrations will be a relatively muted affair in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The public is not allowed at the venue. The traditional march past has been avoided. The parade will be conducted with three platoons of the police, one platoon of the Excise, and the band wing of Kerala Armed Police second battalion. Cherthala police inspector Vinod Kumar is the parade commander. Officials said the maximum number of attendees had been restricted to 50.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/p-prasad-to-hoist-tricolour/article38327367.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:03 IST,KERALA||Conference on Gerontology to be held in SD college||The Research and Postgraduate Department of English, SD College, Alappuzha will host a virtual international conference on Gerontology on January 27 and 28, 2022. It will be inaugurated by Shashi Tharoor, MP. A pressnote issued here todya said Canadian writer Sharon Butala, Gayathri Devi, Professor of English at Sevana School of Art and Design, United States of America, Priya K.Nair, Research Officer, Kerala State Higher Education Council and Rekha Sree of NSS College, Pandalam will speak at the two-day conference, the pressnote said. P. Krishna Kumar, manager, SD College will preside over the inaugural function. Kerala University Pro Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar will speak on the final day, the pressnote added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conference-on-gerontology-to-be-held-in-sd-college/article38327357.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:06 IST,KERALA||Two killed as lorry falls into gorge in Idukki||Two persons were killed when a mini-lorry fell into a 300-ft gorge near the Valara waterfalls on the Kochi-Dhanushkodi National Highway on Monday night. The victims were identified as Neryamangalam residents Siju and Santhosh.The accident occurred at 8 p.m. and the bodies were recovered after a long operation by the police, Fire and Rescue Services personnel, officials of the Forest Department and local people..Though a crane was brought to the spot, it could not lift the vehicle due to the difficult terrain. A portion of the vehicle was cut and the bodies were recovered . The bodies were moved to the Adimali taluk hospital for autopsy, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-killed-as-lorry-falls-into-gorge-in-idukki/article38327370.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:19 IST,KERALA||‘SilverLine will cause ecological harm’||The SilverLine rail corridor project will cause long-term and irreversible damage to ecological sustainability of the State, environmentalist and former chairman of the Kerala State Biodiversity Board V.S. Vijayan has said. Speaking after inaugurating the Wayanad chapter of the K-Rail Virudha Janakeeya Samiti through videoconferencing on Tuesday, Embankment Mr. Vijayan said that while the government was trying to construct 8-m high embankment along 293 km for the project, the loss ofecological value of wetland in those regions would be very huge. According to a recent study, a hectare of wetland was performing ecosystem service worth Rs. 98 lakh a year, Mr. Vijayan, a member of the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel (WGEEP), said. Total loss According to the study, the total loss due to destruction of wetlands if the project was executed would come to around Rs. 28,714 lakh crore a year, Mr. Vijayan said at the videoconferencing meet . The loss owing to mining of raw materials from the Western Ghats for the project and the massive destruction of biodiversity in the area would be immeasurable, Mr. Vijayan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silverline-will-cause-ecological-harm/article38327363.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:16 IST,KERALA||Vayalkilikal leader Suresh Keezhattur rejoins CPI(M)||Suresh Keezhattur, leader of the Vayalkilikal, is back in the Communist Party of India (Marxist) fold. Vayalkilikal was a collective of local people that spearheaded an agitation against the proposed national highway bypass through paddy fields. The Vayalkilikal’s agitation against the bypass, which it feared would destroy paddy fields of Keezhattur, was the rallying point for various activist groups and environmental organisations. The stir launched by the group, comprising mostly CPI(M) workers in defiance of the party leadership in the district, drew public and media attention.  “We were never against the highway but our protest was against the destruction of paddy fields and wetlands at Keezhattur,” Mr. Keezhattur told The Hindu . The farmers who protested here were not against development but only sought the State and Central governments to change the alignment of the bypass through the wetland.  Removed from party Following the agitation, he along with others was removed from the primary membership of the party. Mr. Keezhattur said the collective only demanded the protection of the wetland and environment, which the Left party and the State government should have taken up. Later, the Centre issued a notification and the court ordered that the work be started only after paying compensation. In such a situation, they had no choice but to accept implementation of the project. Regarding K-Rail, he said the semi-high-speed rail project would help in development of the State. Unlike the national highway, which came up by destroying the environment, K-Rail was coming up on pillars in wetlands, which would limit destruction of environment. However, the government should also understand Kerala’s fragile environment, which has seen calamities in recent years. It should look into how various projects could be implemented by protecting the environment, Mr. Keezhattur added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vayalkilikal-leader-suresh-keezhattur-rejoins-cpim/article64945612.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Sexual abuse victim found dead||A 19-year-old victim of sexual abuse was found dead at her house in Kannur on Monday evening. In 2020, she was sexually abused by a man she met on social media. He had also reportedly threatened her, saying that he had video footage of the incident. After a complaint was lodged, the accused, Rahul Krishna, 20, was arrested by the police in April 2021. The victim had been unable to recover from the trauma, said the police. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s helpline 104, Maithri 0484-2540530, Thanal 0495-2760000 and DISHA 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sexual-abuse-victim-found-dead/article38327296.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:03 IST,KERALA||A public library that goes the extra mile||The Mulanthuruthy Public Library has won the EMS Prize for the most outstanding public library in the State, the highest honour for a public library which is 50 years old or more. That the prize has been won by the library in its 90th year doubles the joy of the achievement, said Saji Mulanthuruthy, president of the library on Tuesday. The Mulanthuruthy library outshone its counterparts across the State by walking an extra mile. It has not only catered for the ever-growing needs of the avid reader but also carries out a slew of activities that are strictly not within its mandate. For instance, the library has been at the forefront of the fight against use of plastic and has empowered women to stich cloth bags and distribute them through the Vanitha Vedhi, an outlet run by the library. The library has more than 3,500 members, said Mr. Saji. The book collection has gone up to about 25,000 and is a fitting winner of this year’s prize. “The library’s functioning is impressive. They are dedicated and disciplined in all their activities,” said Dr. P.K. Gopan, convener of the committee that judged libraries for the EMS Prize. The books in the library will be barcoded soon and book distribution is fully computerised, the library president said. The library also binds all the new books before they go into circulation, he added. The performance of the library has seen local government bodies like the Mulanthuruthy Grama Panchayat and the Ernakulam District Panchayat support it. Besides, the MLA has been forthcoming in supporting the library, added Mr. Saji. He said over Rs. 20 lakh had been received by the library over the past five years. The money has gone into improving infrastructure. The library raised Rs. 2.5 lakh on its own for computerisation of the library.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-public-library-that-goes-the-extra-mile/article64945740.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||Modern vehicles for waste management soon||A fleet of electric autorickshaws, tipper autorickshaws and compactors are likely to hit the Kochi roads in a couple of months, giving a sophisticated touch to the waste management process in the city. The civic authorities of Kochi have submitted a wish list of vehicles to Cochin Smart Mission Limited to augment the collection and transportation of refuse from city roads to the waste management centre at Brahmapuram. The proposal is to provide 15 electric autorickshaws that can collect and transport waste from each of the 74 divisions. These vehicles will be involved in the door-to-door collection of waste from the divisions. The civic body has also asked for 50 tipper autorickshaws, which can mechanically lift garbage containers from autorickshaws and unload them. As many as 15 compactors, which can lift and press-pack garbage, will also be added to the fleet. The city presently owns 12 such vehicles, said T.K. Ashraf, chairman of the Health Standing Committee of the Kochi Corporation. Once the proposals are accepted, the vehicles are likely to be delivered by April. The effort is to give a touch of modernity and sophistication to waste management in the city. The vehicles will have a colour code, which will help quickly distinguish them. It’s time for the city to move over to a modern waste management system and the introduction of the vehicles is part of it, he said. The current line of thought among the civic authorities is to ensure the effective operation and maintenance of these vehicles by introducing a service package for them. The civic body has got the post of a mechanical engineer approved and an engineer recruited to oversee the operation and maintenance of these vehicles, he said. The compactors, which are being operated in the city, will have to be pulled out of service next year as they would complete 15 years of service by then. None of the carriage autorickshaws that were introduced earlier are in operation. The city administration is in the process of compiling a list of vehicles, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/modern-vehicles-for-waste-management-soon/article38327320.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||HC gives 10 more days to examine witnesses||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday extended by 10 more days the deadline stipulated for completing the examination of five additional witnesses in the actor sexual assault case in which actor Dileep is an accused. Justice Kauser Edappagath, however, declined the plea for extending the deadline till the completion of the further investigation being conducted in the case relating to the conspiracy to do away with the investigation officers in the case. Allowing the prosecution plea to examine the additional witnesses, the court had earlier directed the prosecution to ensure that examination of witnesses and production of documents were done within 10 days. The time granted by the court would end on January 27. When the petition was taken up for hearing, T.A. Shaji, Director General of Prosecution, submitted that three witnesses had already been examined and two more witnesses remained to be examined.. In its petition seeking more time for the examination of the witnesses, the prosecution submitted that it was not sure whether the investigating agency would be able to serve the summons to all the witnesses. Travel permt The prosecution pointed out that as one witness hailed from Telangana and another from Tamil Nadu, written permission had to be obtained from the controlling authority to travel outside the State. Therefore, it was not possible to complete the examination of the witnesses within the time given by the court. Besides, further investigation in the case based on the revelation of director Balachandrakumar was on and it would take some more time to complete. Therefore, the prosecution pleaded that the examination of the witnesses be deferred till the submission of the final report on the further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-gives-10-more-days-to-examine-witnesses/article64945587.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||Installing high-mast lights in well-lit areas flayed||With high-mast lights, which entail prohibitive capital and operational expense, being installed even at locations where alternative lighting is available, the Kochi Corporation has decided to curb the practice. “Often times, these lights, each of which cost approximately Rs. 5 lakh, are installed at places which already have functional high-mast or regular lights. These lights adorn even narrow roads which are just wide enough for two-wheelers. This practice cannot be allowed to continue, especially so since the Corporation ought to set apart around Rs. 27 crore for the power bill of street lights,” said Sunitha Dixon, the chairperson of the civic body’s Standing Committee for Public Works. Citing an example, she said a high-mast light was put up over a year ago beneath the metro corridor at Champakkara at a place which was already well-lit. It has been decided to relocate it to an ill-lit bus stop at Vyttila Junction. Ultimately, the Kochi Corporation would end up paying the power bill of all street lights and it also has to find additional funds to maintain them. Referring to contractors, entrusted with the upkeep of street lights, often submitting prohibitively high financial estimates, Ms. Dixon said this would end shortly since the civic agency’s technical advisory group (TAG) has been vested with the responsibility. This would also curb corrupt practices. The group could also vet proposals for high-mast lights, to avoid unnecessary expenditure on their capital and maintenance, she said. There are places like Kathrikadavu, where high-mast lights put up using MP/MLA fund co-exist with those of the Kochi Corporation. This is wastage of public funds, said K.S. Dileep Kumar, president of Ernakulam Vikasana Samity. The chairman of the city committee of Ernakulam District Residents Associations’ Apex Council, D.G. Suresh, said there are innumerable ill-lit and accident-prone junctions in the city, which need high-mast lights. “This is in contrast with places where they are set up unnecessarily, solely with the aim of garnering votes. Residents’ associations and others must be heard while installing them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/installing-high-mast-lights-in-well-lit-areas-flayed/article64945751.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:19 IST,KERALA||Spotlight on tribal storytellers||An initiative by the National Book Trust (NBT) to bring out children’s books based on the stories told by raconteurs from eight tribal groups in Kerala is expected to help the mainstream literary world explore tribespeoples’ rich traditions of spinning a yarn. A two-day workshop organised by NBT in Kochi ended on Tuesday after storytellers from Kurumba, Kuruchya, Oorali, Vettakkuruma, Kattunaikkan, Paniya, Thachanad Mooppan and Pathinayka communities interacted, among others, with tribal poet Dhanya Vengacheri and Kanakashree prize winning poet D. Anilkumar. During the interactions, tribal storytellers, who can neither read nor write, told their stories to those from within their own tribes, who then took down the stories using the Malayalam script. Mavilan tribe Ms. Dhanya, who has a postgraduate degree in Malayalam, hails from the Mavilan tribe in Kasaragod and writes poetry in Tulu. She said tribal languages did not have their scripts and the stories would be published using the Malayalam script. She said the stories she listened to were interesting and would be liked by readers. The stories will be brought out as eight books by NBT with a compressed Malayalam translation at the end. The project is part of the efforts to bring out bilingual books as part of the new national education policy, said a communication issued by NBT here. There will also be pictures to go with these books, said E.N. Nandakumar, NBT executive member. According to the Tribal Welfare department, there are 37 tribal groups in Kerala. They live mostly in the forests and mountains in the Western Ghats on the borders of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Their population is around four lakh. Literacy rate is very low among them and they live mostly in the districts of Wayanad, Palakkad and Idukki.  Tribal storytellers, who can neither read nor write, told their stories to those from within their own tribes, who then took down the stories using the Malayalam script.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spotlight-on-tribal-storytellers/article38327315.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Synagogue Lane at Jew Town to be restored||The 120-metre-long Synagogue Lane at Jew Town in Mattancherry – home to the 450-year-old Paradesi Synagogue which is the second popular heritage tourism attraction in Kochi after the Chinese fishing nets — is set to be restored to its past glory by mid-February. The added attractions which further the lane’s heritage value would include street lights designed like the Star of David and part covering of the historic lane with shreds of roof tiles that are said to date back to 400 years. They were unearthed a year ago when the surface of the lane was scooped out as part of the restoration/upgradation work which also included laying of a utility duct through its centre. Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), which was tasked with a project to upgrade roads and drains in Mattancherry and Fort Kochi heritage towns, heeded to the demand from heritage enthusiasts and took up the Synagogue Lane work as well. A 45-ft clock tower at the far end near the synagogue is yet another attraction on the street, which still has houses where a handful of Jews reside. Arriving at a decision on the design of street lights and the laying of underground cables alone took multiple stakeholder consultations. A plan to install lights on the exterior of heritage buildings and shops that dot the narrow lane, in order to do away with the need for lamp posts on the narrow lane, was given up following a few concerns and a decision was taken to have lights designed like the Star of David fixed atop cast iron lamp posts, official sources said. Semi-polished cobble stones have been laid on the street for guests who walk to the synagogue and the clock tower, while polished cobble stones have been laid on one side for wheelchair access.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/synagogue-lane-at-jew-town-to-be-restored-by-mid-february/article64945594.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||PCB report raps Kalamassery municipality for fires at dumping sites||The Kerala State Pollution Control Board has stated that the Kalamassery municipality failed to initiate measures to check repeated incidents of fire and violation of the solid waste management norms at the civic body’s dumping yard in North Kalamassery. A preliminary report prepared by the board’s regional office in Ernakulam recalled that directions were given to the secretary of the municipality to take extra precaution to prevent fire incidents at the site. Similar fire breakouts had occurred on March 30, 2020, and March 17, 2021, it said. A major fire broke out at the site around 3 p.m. on January 18. “There were specific directions to install CCTV cameras but we heard that the cameras were under repair at the time of the latest fire episode. It is unfortunate to note that no protection has been provided there, though several instructions were given to the authorities. They have also not provided enclosed sheds for storing plastic waste, which in turn allow the leachate to percolate into the stream nearby,” according to the board’s report. Even though the surveillance team of the board’s regional office in Eloor had rushed to the site immediately after the fire, they could not carry out monitoring of the gas and other emissions in view of the heavy fire and thick smoke. The reason for the fire breakout has not yet been ascertained. It may be noted that there is every chance of methane type inflammable gas formation due to the waste dump at the site. Heavy temperatures outside can also trigger a fire, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-report-raps-kalamassery-municipality-for-fires-at-dumping-sites/article38327326.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||No nod for sale of Thar, Devaswom tells HC||The Guruvayur Devaswom Commissioner has not yet accorded sanction for the sale of the Mahindra Thar received as offering from a director of Mahindra and Mahindra in auction and the vehicle is still in the custody of the Devaswom, the Guruvayur Devaswom Managing Committee has informed the Kerala High Court. The submission was made when a petition filed by the Hindu Seva Kendram, Ernakulam, challenging the auction conducted by the Devaswom and seeking to restrain it from transferring the ownership of the vehicle came up before the court. The Bench comprising Justice Anil K. Narendran and Justice P.G. Ajith Kumar also directed the Devaswom to furnish the details of the Mahindra Thar received as offering from Anand Mahindra, Chairperson of Mahindra and Mahindra, and later auctioned off by the Devaswom to Amal Muhammed Ali of Ernakulam. Court observation The court noted that as per subsection (1) of Section 11 of the Guruvayur Devaswom Act, no movable property of non-perishable nature in the possession of the committee and the value of which was more than Rs. 5,000 and no jewellery shall be sold, pledged, or otherwise alienated unless it is sanctioned by the Commissioner. Before giving sanction, the Commissioner shall publish the particulars relating to the proposed transaction and invite objections and suggestions . The petitioner pointed out that serious irregularity and illegality were perpetrated by the Guruvayur Devaswom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-nod-for-sale-of-thar-guruvayur-devaswom-tells-high-court/article38327306.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||Woman held for abandoning infant||The Elamakkara police arrested a woman on the charge of abandoning her 10-month-old child and eloping with a man from Pathanamtitta, on Tuesday. Her lover too has been arrested. The duo were remanded. The arrest was on the basis of a complaint by the woman’s mother. Fake currency The anti-terror squad of the Kerala Police and Elamakkara police on Tuesday arrested two youths on the charge of printing fake currency. They are Vipin Tomy (25) of Elamakkara and Suhail (26) of Deshabhimanu Road, Kaloor. Printing equipment They were in possession of 20 fake notes of Rs. 500 denomination, while another Rs. 42,350 worth of fake notes and the printing equipment were seized from their houses. Both have been remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-held-for-abandoning-infant/article38327319.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Archbishop comes under criticism||Ernakulam St. Mary’s Cathedral Basilica members of Sabha Samrakshana Samithi have slammed Metropolitan Vicar of the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese Archbishop Antony Kariyil for “becoming a toy in the hands of those rebelling” against the decision of the Synod of Bishops of the Syro-Malabar Church. Cilia Antony, president of the outfit and Baby Pottananiyil, secretary, alleged at a press conference here on Tuesday that the Archbishop had lied that all the members of the archdiocese had demanded fully congregation-facing Mass. This was an attempt to isolate the archdiocese from the global Syro-Malabar Church and it would not be allowed, they said. There was a big group of believers, who totally supported the Church and the synodal decision for a uniform code of Mass celebration. The samithi would not tolerate or agree with those who deployed “un-Christian” modes of protest, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/archbishop-kariyil-comes-under-criticism/article38327314.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||Restrictions tightened as district logs 9,405 cases||Ernakulam district reported a total of 9,405 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Around 6,847 persons were infected through contact. The source of infection was not confirmed in 2,538 cases. Among those infected, 20 were health workers. Around 6,800 persons were placed in home isolation on Tuesday. The total number of persons under this category was around 54,790, according to an official communication. The number of active cases in the district was 45,929. Regulations as per category ‘B’ listing came into effect in Ernakulam on Tuesday. No social, political, cultural, and religious programmes will be allowed as part of the restrictions. The religious functions/ceremonies have to be done online. Only 20 persons will be allowed for weddings and funerals. The election for the community development societies under the Kudumbashree, scheduled for Tuesday, was postponed as the district was listed under the ‘B’ category. The district administration has set January 31 as the target for achieving 100% vaccination coverage for teenagers. The Department of General Education will work with the Health and other departments to step up the programme. About 53% teenagers have received the first dose in the district. The district Health wing recommended steps to avoid overcrowding, especially in malls and public places. Despite repeated warnings, it was found that many were not complying with the sanitise, mask use and physical distancing protocol. Those under home isolation should not venture out of the homes before the end of their mandatory quarantine period, according to health officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-tightened-as-district-logs-9405-cases/article64945750.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:52 IST,KERALA||Seychelles Naval vessel calls at Kochi||The Seychelles People’s Defence Force Ship Zoroaster is on a goodwill visit to Kochi on January 25 and 26. 2. The ship was received by senior Indian naval officers on Tuesday. Zoroaster is a Fast Attack Craft constructed by Garden Reach Shipbuilders Engineering, Kolkata, and was presented to Seychelles in 2021. The ship had visited Kochi during her maiden passage to the Seychelles in March, 2021. The ship will depart for Visakhapatnam on Wednesday to take part in the multilateral exercise Milan-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seychelles-naval-vessel-calls-at-kochi/article38327316.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:03 IST,KERALA||4 youths held||Raids conducted at multiple locations in Kochi on Tuesday to nab drug peddlers resulted in the seizure of MDMA and ganja from four youths at Panampilly Nagar. The first arrest was made after a lodge at Panampilly Nagar was raided. Jacob Sachin, 23, of Palluruthy who was employed at a Bengaluru-based IT firm and Mithun Murali, 22, of Ravipuram were nabbed. The police seized 11.89 gm of MDMA and 6.8 gm of ganja from them. Based on their statement, Alwin, 23, of Thoppumpady and San Delicious John, 24, of Mundamveli were arrested from a car parked near the Regional Passport Office. They were in possession of 3.9 gm of MDMA. A special team has been constituted to nab well-educated drug peddlers, the police have informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-held-for-drug-peddling/article38327325.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||COVID data not being shared in public domain in Kozhikode||At a time when fresh COVID-19 cases continue to go above 4,000 every day, the Kozhikode district administration has not been releasing data about the situation at the local level or the total number of infected persons. The Public Relations Department had not released district-level data on the pandemic situation on Sunday and Monday. Officials attributed it to some technical issues with the Health Department web portal. Only the number of newly infected persons and recoveries, which had already been released by the Health Minister’s office, was shared with the media. On Tuesday, though the PRD issued a media release, it did not have details such as the active caseload in the district and a break-up of the number of people being treated at government and private hospitals. The Health Department had stopped releasing details about the daily test positivity rate (TPR) some days ago, after Minister Veena George clarified that the TPR was not the only indicator of disease transmission. During the first and second waves of the infection, details such as the TPR and the number of infected persons in local bodies and large COVID clusters were shared in the public domain. It is believed to have helped the local bodies devise local containment measures. This time, however, many local bodies are in the dark. According to sources, there has also been a sharp drop in the number of tests being conducted in government hospitals. More people are apparently depending on private hospitals and labs for their COVID test. It is not clear if the details are shared with the Health Department and promptly uploaded on to the website. Meanwhile, department authorities have claimed that the details about vacancy of beds and intensive care units (ICU) can be found on the COVID Jagratha portal. According to the portal, 116 hospitals in the district are offering treatment. At around 8 p.m. on Tuesday, 119 of the 219 ICU beds and 93 of the 128 ventilators were occupied. There were only 89 patients with severe symptoms in the district and only six in critical condition. Of the 2,286 beds, excluding ICU, 1,307 were occupied. At the same time, after reports emerged that the Government Medical College Hospital is suffering from a severe staff shortage, mainly due to health professionals getting infected, the government on Tuesday announced that staff would be recruited. The sources said that more than 50 doctors, including resident doctors, had so far tested positive for the virus there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-data-not-being-shared-in-public-domain-in-kozhikode/article38327299.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Fresh trouble brewing in INL||Enraged over a fresh round of infighting between two groups in the Indian National League (INL) in the Kerala unit, the national leadership has asked its State leaders to summon the party working committee meeting immediately. In a letter addressed to State president A.P. Abdul Wahab and general secretary Kasim Irikkoor, INL president Mohammad Suleman expressed anguish about the future of the party in Kerala. He had instructed the State leadership, including Minister for Ports Ahammad Devarkovil, who is also the party all-India general secretary, to call a meeting of the State working committee to regain the lost image of the party in view of the disastrous happenings in the last six months. Sources said the unfortunate incidents on July 25 in which supporters of the two warring factions came to blows in Kochi and Mr. Devarkovil had to be escorted out of a hotel amid the melee had made the party a laughing stock before the public. The national committee had taken the matter seriously and it would not be a mute spectator to the lethargy and passivesss, they said, adding that the last working committee meeting was held on July 2. The occasional bouts of disputes between the Wahab and Kasim factions in the INL,a constituent of the Left Democratic Front (LDF), has already dented the image of ruling front. Now the fresh development comes over sharing of State boards and corporations, sources said. Consensus on posts A four-member committee had reached a consensus on the chairmanship of the State government company Sitaram Textiles Ltd. and members on five other boards and corporations. Besides, retaining some existing posts in the Waqf board, madrasa committee, and agricultural and maritime boards, it was also decided that those leaders who had earlier faced disciplinary action would not be given any posts. After the July incident, the Wahab and Kasim factions had decided to bury the hatchet following talks of rapprochement initiated by Sunni leader Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar in September. Top leaders of the CPI(M) also had to intervene to broker a ceasefire between these groups.  Regain the lost image of the party in view of the disastrous happenings in the last six months. Mohammad Suleman INL president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-trouble-brewing-in-inl/article38327294.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||More power to Indian systems||Registered practitioners of Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Sowa-Rigpa are now authorised to issue medical fitness certificates, the National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (NCISM) has said. An order in this regard was issued to the commissioners of the Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) Corporation, New Delhi, and Kerala on January 20 by Rakesh Sharma, president, Board of Ethics and Registration, NCISM. The Transport department recently started allowing registered Ayurveda doctors to issue medical fitness certificates for driving licence. Earlier, only MBBS graduates or postgraduates in Ayurveda were allowed to do so. It is pointed out that those who have cleared BAMS are equal to graduates in modern medicine. Ayush Ministry stand Mr. Sharma said in his order that some organisations such as the ESI had been considering Ayush practitioners “unauthorised” to issue the certificate. The commission was then asked by the Union Ayush Ministry to issue a clarification. He claimed that “Ayush practitioners are entitled to sign or authenticate a medical certificate or any certificate required by law to be signed or authenticated by a duly qualified medical practitioner.” Mr. Sharma said it was a statutory right for those who have registered under a State or National Register under Section 34 (1) (c) of the NCISM Act, 2020. Mr. Sharma clarified that the term “duly qualified medical practitioner” shall also encapsulate the practitioners of Indian systems of medicine. He also said the Medical Council of India has no regulatory control over those practising Indian systems of medicine. The NCISM is a complete code in itself that is valid across the country and one that deals with regulations of its practitioners, including their rights. The NCISM Act, 2020 also overrides all other general acts. The authorities should consider practitioners of Indian systems of medicine with “credibility”, said Mr. Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-power-to-indian-systems/article38327379.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Doctors warn against unwarranted medication||Azithromycin, an antibiotic drug to treat bacterial infections, is reportedly being widely used by people who have mild symptoms for COVID-19 in the ongoing third wave of the pandemic spurred by the Omicron variant of the virus. Doctors have flagged the use of such inappropriate medicines and unwanted hospitalisations, saying they are likely to result in more harm. According to sources, there is a rise in the number of people using azithromycin following suggestions by local healthcare workers and Accredited Social Health Activists. Senior health professionals too are prescribing it to some patients. Health experts point out that it is not an over-the-counter-drug that can be freely used. It has not been included in the guidelines prepared by the World Health Organisation and the Union and State governments. Curbs sought Meanwhile, the Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics, a wing of the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad, has approached the State Drugs Controller, requesting imposition of curbs on the sale of the drug. A group of doctors from across the country, in an open appeal to Health Ministers, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), and medical professionals, said that “unwarranted medications, tests, and hospitalisations that are inappropriate for the clinical management of COVID-19” were continuing. No medication They said a vast majority of infected persons, who were asymptomatic or with mild symptoms, would require little to no medication. They claimed that several COVID-19 kits and cocktails were part of the medical prescriptions they reviewed in recent weeks. The prescribing of vitamin combinations, azithromycin, doxycycline, hydroxychloroquine, favipiravir, and ivermectin was irrational, they said. “Such wanton use of drugs is not without harm as the Delta wave has shown. Outbreaks of opportunistic fungal infections like mucormycosis in India, and aspergillosis in Brazil were attributed to the widespread abuse of inappropriate medications,” they said. COVID-19 is a viral infection, that is not caused by a bacteria, seems to be the bottom line. This group of doctors include Rajeev Jayadevan, who is part of the COVID task force of the IMA, and Cyriac Abby Philips of The Liver Institute, Rajagiri Hospital, Kochi. A study titled ‘Bacterial co-infection and secondary infection in patients with COVID-19: a living rapid review and meta-analysis’ published by Bradley J. Langford and others had said that “bacterial co-infection is relatively infrequent in hospitalised patients with COVID-19. Peer-reviewed study  The majority of these patients may not require empirical antibacterial treatment.” The peer-reviewed study was published in Clinical Microbiology and Infection , a monthly publication of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctors-flag-unwarranted-medication-in-covid-fight/article64945601.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Entry restricted to 50 persons at Republic Day parade||Tourism Minister P.A. Mohammed Riyas will received the guard of honour at the Republic Day parade to be held at Vikram Maidan at 9 a.m. on Wednesday. The armed forces platoons of Kozhikode City District Headquarters and Rural District Headquarters, Excise and Forest Departments will take part in the parade. City Traffic Police Inspector V. Jayachandran Pillai will be the parade commander while sub inspector Muraleedharan will be the second commander. The parade will be held in compliance with COVID protocol and the entry is banned for the public. Only 50 persons are allowed inside the parade ground. In Wayanad, Sports Minister V. Abdurahiman will be the chief guest at the celebrations to be held at SKMJ Higher Secondary School ground.. The entry is restricted to 50 persons. President’s medal Kannur KAP4 Deputy Commandant Shyam Sunder has been selected for the President’s Police Medal for Meritorious Service. He is among the 10 police personnel in Kerala who will receive the medal on Republic Day. Mr. Sunder is the son of the former Superintendent of Police Special Branch North, K. Raghavan Nair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entry-restricted-to-50-persons-at-republic-day-parade/article38327303.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:03 IST,KERALA||Protest mounts against quarrying||The protest against a stone quarry at Anappara in Keezhariyoor grama panchayat in Kozhikode district is gaining strength after several houses and a temple in its vicinity developed cracks, allegedly due to high intensity explosions at the site. The local people have been staging a protest at the quarry for the past one week, preventing explosions, which they claim, are shaking their houses to their core. The tiff between the local people and the quarry management intensified on Tuesday after which the local police invited both the parties for a discussion on Wednesday. The quarry has been active for years, but for the past two years, the explosions have become very severe, creating widespread damage to houses, the temple and wells in the vicinity. “At least 27 houses have developed cracks on them, of which the condition is very bad for five houses. One house is on the verge of collapse. Besides, six wells have also developed cracks”, said K.C. Babu, member of the action committee and one of the affected house owners, who has been knocking on one door after another seeking help to shut down the quarry. No reply “I have complained to the District Collector, but there has been no reply. The replies I received for my petitions under the RTI Act show that the quarry has violated many environment-related rules”, Mr. Babu said. Several other local people have filed petitions in the Kerala High Court, seeking the closure of the quarry. “The police are unable to help us as the quarry owners have the required licence. But how they acquired that licence is a mystery, as there are quite a few violations”', Mr. Babu said. He said there was no road to the quarry, except for a path which was less than 5 metres wide. As per the norms, heavy vehicles should not ply on such a pathway. Besides, the traffic on the pathway was blocked whenever there was an explosion. Besides the cracks in the houses, the damage caused to the 150-year-old Nellyadi Naduvathur Maha Siva Kshethram has riled the local people. The Malabar Devaswom Board, which manages the temple, has taken note of the damage and is planning to approach the High Court as a separate party against the quarry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-mounts-against-quarrying/article64945742.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:15 IST,KERALA||BJP alleges graft motives||BJP State president K. Surendran alleged that the LDF government is bringing the amendment only to indulge in rampant corruption. In a statement here on Tuesday, he said the government is trying to dilute the powers of the Lok Ayukta which could order the removal of a public servant found guilty of misuse of power. The LDF government would go to great lengths to protect the corrupt, he charged. ‘Bid to protect CM’ BJP leader and Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said the government had attempted to dilute the powers of the Lok Ayukta via an Ordinance on the eve of the Assembly session to protect Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Higher Education Minister R. Bindu from prosecution in corruption charges. He said CPI (M)-backed legislator K.T. Jaleel had to resign from the Cabinet after the Lok Ayukta found him guilty of nepotism. The move to promulgate an Ordinance is to prevent such a situation from happening again, Mr. Surendran said. Besides, the Lok Ayukta was considering some of the biggest corruption scandals in the government, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-alleges-graft-motives/article38327329.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||School managers misleading people: forum||Functionaries of the Kerala Federation of the Blind have accused the Kerala Aided (Primary) School Managers Association of misleading people about a High Court order on reservations for differently abled persons in aided schools. Three per cent reservation was mandatory for the differently abled under the People With Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995, from February 7, 1996. Under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, the quota was raised to 4% from April 19, 2017, with retrospective effect. ‘Stay not vacated’ Federation president K.J. Varghese said on Monday that the court had not vacated the stay on grant of approval for appointments in aided schools. In an interim order on December 23, 2021, the court clarified that there would not be any embargo in granting approval to the appointments in posts which are not identified for disabled persons. The stay order continues and the writ petition filed by the Federation is pending in the court, Mr. Varghese said. The earlier mentioned order also had said that any approval would be subject to the result of the above writ petition. In an order on September 6, 2021, the Director of Public Instruction had sought to clear all the appointments to aided schools made by July 15, 2021 by September 24. The court stayed this order after the Kerala Federation of the Blind filed a petition alleging that the 4% quota for persons with disabilities had not been implemented. It was the KASMA functionaries who filed another petition opposing the stay order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-managers-misleading-people-forum/article38327508.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||DFO for acquisition of land at Thusharagiri||The Divisional Forest Officer of Kozhikode has recommended that the State Government may acquire the disputed land at Thusharagiri to protect the forest around the waterfalls. Responding to a petition submitted by Varghese Mathew, Director of Movement for Tribal Heritage and Environment Research, India (Mother India) to the President of India demanding intervention in the matter, the DFO said that following the Supreme Court order to hand over the 23.83 acres of land in the Thusharagiri forest to its original owners, will not affect the Thusharagiri ecotourism project or the road towards it in any manner. The land in dispute is slanted and is not suitable for any sort of construction either, including resorts. However, the forest in the said land is the source of the water that enriches the three waterfalls in the region. Hence it is better to acquire the land for the conservation of the waterfalls, the report says. Further, the DFO recommends to the State Government to make a decision on whether to acquire the land paying the required compensation or not. The report has been submitted to the custodian of EFL for further action.  Supreme Court order will not affect ecotourism project Divisional Forest Officer, Kozhikode||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dfo-for-acquisition-of-land-at-thusharagiri/article38327300.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||Tathva’ 21 registrations||Registrations for Tathva’ 21, one of South India’s biggest techno-management festivals conducted annually by the National Institute of Technology, Calicut (NIT-C), began on Monday. Tathva’21, to be held from February 18 to 20, will have ‘Metaverse’ as its theme this year, exploring versatile possibilities in the virtual world. NIT-C Director Prasad Krishna launched the Tathva official website, www.tathva.org., last week. It was the first time that an institute had a virtual campus as the website user interface, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tathva-21-registrations/article38327301.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||SSK launches tinkering labs in schools||The Kozhikode office of the Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) has launched a tinkering lab project for schools in the district to modernise science learning. According to SSK sources, Rs. 10 lakh has been allocated to each school to set up tinkering labs. SSK district project coordinator A.K. Abdul Hakeem said in a release on Tuesday that REC Government Higher Secondary School, Chathamangalam, N.N. Kakkad Memorial Government Higher Secondary School, Avitanallur, and Government Sanskrit Higher Secondary School, Meppayil, Vadakara, would launch the facility in 2022. Students with a scientific bent of mind in Classes 7 to 12 would have equipment to learn about artificial intelligence and robotics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ssk-launches-tinkering-labs-in-schools/article38327302.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Child rights commission seeks report on POCSO victim’s death||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has registered a case on its own in connection with the death of an 18-year-old girl at Tenhipalam who had been raped by different men in the last two years. Commission member Babitha Balraj has sought report from the Child Welfare Committee and the District Police Chief of Kozhikode in connection with the girl’s death. There were half a dozen cases involving various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in connection with the sexual exploitation the girl under went during the COVID-19 lockdown. Although the police had registered cases against those who abused the girl at different places, including Feroke and Kondotty, she was not apparently sheltered by the authorities. Her mother alleged that she had not been given any treatment, including counselling, after she showed signs of depression and suicide tendencies. Her mother said she had attempted to end her life three times as a result of depression. A note written by the girl about a year ago was circulated on social media after her death last Thursday. The note accused the station house officer of Feroke Police Station of vilifying her family as part of investigating the case. The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights said that it would act on the case soon after getting the reports of the District Police Chief and the Child Welfare Committee. The District Child Protection Officer of Kozhikode has also been asked to give a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rights-panel-seeks-report-on-pocso-victims-death/article38327293.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:15 IST,KERALA||She kindled light of knowledge in many||After a lull of nearly a decade, K.V. Rabiya, a village woman from Vellilakkadu, near Tirurangadi, who kindled the light of knowledge to hundreds of illiterate men and women despite being confined to wheelchair for life, shot to national limelight one again. Excitement was palpable on Ms. Rabiya as she found her name on the list of Padma Shri awardees announced on Tuesday night. “Alhamdu Lillah,” she said, while trying to adjust her position in her waterbed. India had celebrated Ms. Rabiya in the 1990s and the 2000s by bestowing many an honour on her. Fight against odds But life has not been any kind to her. Struck by polio, she has not walked since she was 14. Having survived a cancer attack at age 32, she broke her backbone in a fall five years later. After the fall she suffered 18 years ago, she began seeking recourse in spiritual path. She hardly attends any functions these days. But her heroic fight against odds has found its way to the school textbooks. The knowledge imparting movement she began nearly two decades ago pulls on today, though not with the same verve and vigour. The organisation called ‘Chalanam’ she gave shape to has made a lasting impact in the region. She could mobilise 60 neighbourhoods as part of a programme she initiated for women’s empowerment well before the Kudumbashree became popular. The village of Vellilakkad owes much to Ms. Rabiya for facilities like road, power and water supply it got some years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/she-kindled-light-of-knowledge-in-many/article64945614.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Withdraw Bill on women’s marriage age: Samastha||The Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama (SKJU), the largest body of Islamic scholars in the State, has demanded that the Union government withdraw the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021 meant to increase the marriageable age of women to 21 years. A joint statement by Samastha president Sayed Mohammed Jifri Muthukoya Thangal and general secretary K. Alikutty Musliar on Tuesday said that increasing the marriageable age of women to 21 years would cause a serious social impact. It was a violation of people’s personal freedom, they said. The Samastha statement came in the wake of the parliamentary standing committee concerned seeking public opinion about increasing women’s marriage age to 21 years. ‘Register opinion’ The Samastha leaders called upon khatibs (preachers) to spread awareness about the matter during juma (Friday prayers) on Friday next. They called upon the people to register their opinion on the Rajya Sabha website by opening a link titled ‘committees’. The Samastha leaders also asked the mahals to set up help desks for collecting public opinion about the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marriageable-age-samastha-seeks-withdrawal-of-bill/article38327295.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Tribal youth’s lynching: court raises concern||The Special Court for SC/ST Atrocities Act Cases at Mannarkkad on Tuesday raised concern at the absence of a government prosecutor in the sensational mass lynching case of a tribal youth named Madhu in Attappady on February 22, 2018. The court adjourned the case to February 26 as none appeared for the prosecution when the case came up for hearing on Tuesday. Although the government had appointed V.P. Raghunath as special public prosecutor for the case, he excused himself expressing health reasons. However, the Director General of Prosecutions insisted that Mr. Raghunath continued as the special prosecutor. According to Mr. Raghunath, he has not decided to continue as the special prosecutor. Meanwhile, Madhu’s family expressed disappointment at the laxity of the legal system in bringing those who lynched him to book. It is alleged that there were political pressures on to save the accused. It was on February 22, 2018, that Madhu, who lived in penury in a cave at Pottikkal, near Mukkali in Attappady, was lynched by a mob that charged him with theft. The case assumed sensational status, and the government appointed a special prosecutor. The first prosecutor resigned soon after being appointed. Although Mr. Raghunath was appointed in August 2019, he never appeared for the case in court. Instead, he deputed a junior lawyer practicing under him. However, Mr. Raghunath maintained that he had not taken up the post. There are 16 accused in the case. The key accused are Husain Mecheriyil, Marakkar Kilayil, Shamsuddin Pothuvacholayil, Radhakrishnan Thazhuseril, Najeeb Viruthiyil, Jaijumon Mannambattayil, Siddik Karikkalil, and Aboobacker Pothuvacholayil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lynching-case-court-concern-at-prosecutors-absence/article38327364.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Leopard cub found in rubber plantation dies||An eight-month-old leopard cub was found abandoned by its mother in a rubber plantation at Kalladikkode near here on Tuesday. However, the baby leopard died soon after the forest officials began attempts to rescue it. The female leopard cub was found in the rubber plantation owned by Suneesh Parakkaladi. The animal was on the verge of death when tapping workers found it. Forest officials, after a necropsy, said that the cub had not taken any food in the last several days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leopard-cub-found-in-rubber-plantation-dies/article38327469.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Enhanced restrictions in place||Intensified restrictions came into effect in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday after the government included the capital district in Category C on account of the increasing COVID-19 hospitalisation rate. Many commercial outlets, including cinema theatres and gymnasiums, have been closed. Swimming pools have also been closed for the time being as part of the government’s efforts to rein in the COVID-19 spread. Classes, except those of final-year students in colleges and Class 10 and 12 students in schools, have also shifted to the online mode. Despite such efforts, traffic and public movement largely remained the same in the capital. While some commercial outlets revived the COVID-19 norms, the city witnessed crowding in many places, including shopping malls. Government offices too witnessed a considerable influx of employees and applicants for most part of the day. Validating criticisms raised by various quarters on the selective closure of businesses, Bevco outlets, bar hotels and restaurants teemed with customers with no visible curbs enforced on entry to such outlets. Cinemas closed Film exhibitors were a dismayed lot as their enterprises were among the casualties of the new set of restrictions. Shutters came down on cinemas three months after they were reopened following the COVID-19 lockdown. Girish Chandran, partner of Sree Padmanabha Theatre, said the curbs could not have come at a more inopportune time. Despite occupancy being restricted to 50% of total capacity, cinema theatres all over the State were in a recovery mode with the release of high-profile films that attracted several movie-goers. The exhibitors had to follow government diktat despite the efforts made by the Film Exhibitors United Organisation of Kerala to ensure continued business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/enhanced-curbs-come-into-effect-in-capital/article64945624.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||People seek end to quarrying||Nearly 200 residents of Neelimala in Anavoor village of Neyyattinkara taluk have submitted a signature petition to the District Collector seeking a stop to quarrying in the region. The petition has also been submitted to the Deputy Collector (Disaster Management), Pollution Control Board, Mining and Geology Director, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural), tahsildar, and the panchayat secretary. Razing hillocks The Anavoor-based Neelimala Samrakshana Samiti has alleged that the quarry mafia, after using enticements and coercion, was acquiring land there and razing hillocks. Drinking water and fields had become the casualties of the mafia activities, and the residents lived without any security for their lives, property, health, or livelihood. Anti-social elements who were involved in criminal cases were those behind the quarrying. Nine quarries, with and without licences, have been functioning here for the past 10 years in violation of norms, courtesy a nexus with officials. Besides the threat to health and livelihood, the quarrying posed a threat to the environment too. The people, a samiti statement said, had decided to protest against the quarrying collectively, and the signature petition was a precursor to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/people-seek-end-to-quarrying/article38327510.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||R-Day fete adhering to COVID protocols||The State-level Republic Day celebrations are set to be held at the Central Stadium here under stringent COVID-19 protocol on Wednesday. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan will hoist the national flag and deliver the Republic Day message at the ceremony that will commence at 9 a.m.. He will receive the salute from the Armed Forces contingents and the National Cadet Corps (NCC). An Indian Air Force helicopter will pay floral tributes to those who laid down their lives for the nation by showering floral petals. Participation limited The General Administration Department has laid down the guidelines that have limited the number of participants for the Republic Day functions across the State. While the ceremony in the State capital will have a maximum of 100 attendees, the celebrations being organised at the district centres can have only 50 participants. Similar programmes at the subdivisional and block panchayat levels too cannot exceed the limit of 50 people, whereas only 25 people each can attend the programmes organised at the panchayat, municipal and Corporation levels. A similar limit has been fixed for programmes organised by government institutions and other offices. District Police Chiefs have been directed to prevent crowding at the venues. Masks, distancing The public will not be permitted to attend the functions owing to the restrictions. The use of masks and hand sanitisers and physical distancing are mandatory at the function. The ceremonies will adhere to green protocols with the use of plastic items strictly prohibited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/r-day-fete-adhering-to-covid-protocols/article64945631.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Steps to solve shortage of staff in hospitals: Minister||The Health department is moving swiftly to resolve the acute shortage of human resource in hospitals, precipitated by the intense transmission of COVID-19 amongst health-care workers, by taking in additional staff on temporary basis. Health Minister Veena George said here on Tuesday that with a large number of health-care workers falling sick, the government would be issuing orders to recruit 4,971 temporary workers to be deployed ion hospitals wherever the shortage was acute. Preference would be given to those who were part of the COVID-19 brigade earlier. In order to reduce the extent of nosocomial spread of COVID-19, hospitals had also been directed to put in place clear infection control protocols so that the chances of disease transmission amongst staff could be minimised. Accordingly crowding should be avoided at all costs in hospitals and a patient could not have more than one bystander, who should preferably be the same person during the entire period of hospitalisation, she said. Ms. George said that it had been decided to open control rooms in all medical college hospitals (MCH) in the State so that there was a two-way communication channel with the District Programme Management Support Units (DPMSU), which regulated hospital admissions. Though patients requiring admission were directly managed by the DPMSUs, there was also situation wherein Category A or mild patients, who required only home care and monitoring, went to medical college hospitals on their own. ICU occupancy Ms. George reiterated that only 42.7% of the ICUs and 14% of ventilators in the State were currently occupied by COVID and non-COVID patients. Hospital admissions, ICU/Ventilator occupancy was not rising alarmingly and only 0.7% of the active cases required oxygen beds. She said that disease transmission was highest amongst the 20-30 years age group. As disease transmission intensified, it was not necessary that everyone should undergo testing. However, the Health department had not issued any orders to that effect. The guidelines issued by the Centre had clarified that only those with symptoms needed to test. Also, primary contacts of positive persons need not go on quarantine. However, the person who tested positive should be kept in room isolation inside homes, she added. Vaccination The State, at this intense phase of disease transmission, was trying to complete the administration of the second dose of vaccine as fast as possible. So far, 84% of the eligible population in the State had been fully vaccinated. Vaccination of children in the 15-18 years , which had crossed 68%, also needed to be taken up at a faster pace. The Health department and the Education department jointly launch a drive to increase the vaccination coverage of children. Ms. George said that a high-level meeting had been held to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the capital district, where hospital admissions had shown a rising trend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-solve-shortage-of-staff-in-hospitals-minister/article38327506.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:12 IST,KERALA||Ration supply to revert to normal timings||The Food and Civil Supplies department has decided to revert ration shops to their normal timings from January 27. The public distribution outlets will function from 8.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and from 3 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. District-wise timings had been in place for ration distribution since January 13 after ration supply was affected owing to a server glitch that led to e-PoS (electronic point of sale) machines malfunctioning at ration outlets. Snag resolved This prompted the government to finalise specific time slots for districts and halve the working time for ration shops until the issue was resolved. According to Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil, a videoconference that was attended by senior officials of the department and experts of the National Informatics Centre, which streamlined the public distribution system, observed the technical snag has been resolved and there is no need to persist with the restrictions. The Minister added that 50,62,323 ration card holders — 55.13% of the total beneficiaries — had received their ration supplies for January as on Thursday. This is considerably higher than the ration delivery rate of 52% that had been recorded on December 25. As many as 4,46,440 people in the State received their ration supplies on Thursday alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ration-supply-to-revert-to-normal-timings/article38327378.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:12 IST,KERALA||Five arrested on charge of theft||The Kadakkavoor police have arrested five people, including a woman, for numerous cases of alleged gold and vehicle theft that had taken place recently. The police identified the accused as Shameer, 21, of Pallipuram; Abin, 21, of Kadakkavoor; Akhil Preman, 20, of Vakkom; Harish, 19, of Chirayinkeezhu; and Jernisha, 22, of Nilamel in Kollam. They were caught in connection with the purported snatching of a gold necklace from an 80-year-old woman early on January 22. It later emerged that the alleged perpetrators, Shameer and Abin, had stolen the motorcycle used for the crime from near the Government Medical College Hospital here the same day. 30 vehicle thefts The duo was aided by Akhil and Harish who purportedly provided them safe refuge and assisted them in altering the motorcycles they used to steal. They have been allegedly involved in nearly 30 cases of vehicle theft, the police. Jernisha, who used to work as an assistant manager in a private firm at Chalakudy, is suspected to have sold the ornaments stolen by the gang. They are believed to have undertaken similar thefts in Kanyakumari, Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam in the past six months. They used to apparently lead luxurious lives in Goa and Bengaluru after selling the stolen items, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-arrested-on-charge-of-theft/article38327494.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Capital logs 8,606 fresh cases||The capital district recorded 8,606 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. The active cases stood at 48,907 even as 8,267 patients recovered on the day. As per official statistics, 252 people were hospitalised in the district on the day. With this, the number of people undergoing treatment in hospitals rose to 2,169. As many as 96,684 people are under quarantine. Solatium disbursed The district administration has disbursed solatium to the dependents of 3,063 people who died after contracting COVID-19. In a statement here on Tuesday, District Collector Navjot Khosa said Rs. 15,31,15,000 had been distributed to the beneficiaries till January 22. While 4,250 applications had been received by the district authorities so far, the rest were in various stages of examination, she said. Application As many as 6,764 deaths have been attributed to the disease in the district (as on January 24). Those eligible for the financial assistance can submit applications through relief.kerala.gov.in or at village offices. The death certificate of the deceased, the death certificate issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) or death declaration certificate; copies of ration card, Aadhaar card and bank passbook of the applicant; and documents that prove the relation between the deceased and the applicant will have to be attached along with the application. Those who have not received death declaration certificates can apply using the certificate number alone. The following control rooms can be contacted to obtain details regarding the COVID-19 compensation. District Control Room number: 94977 11281, 0417-2730067/107745, Thiruvananthapuram taluk control room: 94977 11282, 2462006, Neyyattinkara taluk control room: 94977 11283, 2222227; Kattakada: 94977 11284, 2291414; Nedumangad: 94977 11285, 2802424; Varkala: 94977 11286, 2613222; Chirayinkeezhu: 94977 11287, 2622406.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-logs-8606-fresh-cases/article38327502.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:12 IST,KERALA||Complete public works projects on time: Collector||Public works projects in the district should be completed in a time-bound manner, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. She was speaking at an online meeting of the District Infrastructure Coordination Committee (DICC) on Tuesday to review the progress of public works projects. Follow-up needed Ms. Khosa who is the chairperson of the committee said continuous follow-ups and concerted efforts from various department were needed to prevent delay in project implementation. The meeting discussed in detail various aspects, including land acquisition for projects, particularly Public Works Department projects above more than Rs. 5 crore. These include road construction, national highway development, Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board projects and construction of bridges and buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/complete-public-works-projects-on-time-collector/article38327493.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Measures to check misuse of painkiller||The Union government will be asked to bring Tydol (50 gm and 100 gm), widely used as a painkiller, under the Schedule Drug of NDPS and Cosmetic Rules Act, 1985, and make amendments necessary for the same, Minister for Excise M.V. Govindan has said. As Tydol tablets currently came under Schedule H Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945, they were sold as sleeping pills through medical stores. Potential misuse They were available easily in the State and outside. Tapentadol, an analgesic, was its main chemical component, with potential for misuse. There had been reports that Tydol was being widely abused by the youth. Continuous use of this medicine in large amounts affected the nervous system. Side-effects It could even lead to extreme sleepiness, breathing problems, and loss of consciousness. Hence, steps were being initiated to check its misuse, the Minister said.  Tydol tablets are available easily in the State and outside and there are reports that the drug is being widely used by youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-check-misuse-of-painkiller/article38327361.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:15 IST,KERALA||President’s medal for 10 State police officers||As many as 10 police officers from Kerala have been selected for the President’s police medal announced on the eve of Republic Day. They include City Police Commissioner, Kochi, Inspector General Nagaraju Chakilam, Superintendents of Police B.Krishnakumar and Jayasankar R., DySPs K.H. Muhammed Kabeer Rawther, K.R. Venugopalan and Gopalakrishnan M.K., Deputy Commandant T.P. Shyam Sunder, Sub-Inspector Sajan K.George, and Assistant Sub-Inspectors Sasikumar L. and Sheeba A.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/presidents-medal-for-10-state-police-officers/article64945615.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Corporation to the aid of COVID-hit||The city Corporation intensified its COVID-19 containment efforts to ensure timely delivery of assistance to those infected. In a statement here on Tuesday, Mayor Arya Rajendran said the ambulance service of the civic body transported 43 patients to hospitals on the day. The ambulance service has been functioning on the basis of directions from the COVID-19 war room and information provided by the councillors. Control room The call centre at the Corporation’s control room received 61 calls from COVID-19 patients on the day. The medical team attached to the control room attended to four callers. Ten others were provided guidance through tele-consultation. While the medical team comprised 14 people, the Corporation would soon deploy more people for such activities, the Mayor said. The control room can be contacted by dialling 0471-2377702, 0471-2377706 or 94464 34440.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-to-the-aid-of-covid-hit/article38327503.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Increase in number of private colleges in State||The State has witnessed an increase in the number of private colleges in the past five years. Around 70% of institutions granted no-objection certificates (NOC) during the period comes under the self-financing sector. The Save University Campaign Committee has accused the government of commercialising the higher education sector. Information gathered by the organisation under the Right to Information (RTI) Act has proved that nearly three-fourths (75.57%) of the colleges affiliated to six universities — Kerala, Calicut, Kannur and Mahatma Gandhi Universities; Cochin University of Science and Technology (CUSAT); and APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) — belonged to the self-financing sector. These included 829 out of the 1,097 colleges affiliated to these universities. According to forum secretary M. Shajar Khan, the government provided NOCs to 49 colleges between 2016 and September 2021. Among these, 34 are self-financing colleges and the rest government and aided ones. Over 93% of the colleges affiliated to the KTU are self-financing colleges. There are no State-run professional colleges affiliated to Calicut University in Malappuram and Wayanad districts. All except one of the 25 colleges in Thrissur are in the private sector. In Kozhikode, 21 out of the 25 colleges are self-financing, official documents revealed. Fee burden Accusing the government of neglecting the need to enhance the State’s role in higher education, the forum alleged that the rise in the number of private colleges had degraded academic standards in the State. Several students had been unable to enrol in private colleges owing to high fees, the forum claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/increase-in-number-of-private-colleges-in-state/article38327358.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Stand united: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has warned the public against replacing secular national consciousness with a majoritarian outlook. In his Republic Day message, Mr. Vijayan says federalism is under threat. Attempts are afoot to usurp the powers of States and hence democratic forces should rally to protect constitutional values. He says unity is imperative for national development. Kerala has stood as one to counter the ravages of climate change and the COVID-19 pandemic. The people have rejected the falsehoods and defamatory campaign orchestrated by a set of vested interests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stand-united-pinarayi/article38327383.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:15 IST,KERALA||Due reward for Vechur cattle conservation||Sosamma Iype, whose pioneering work played a significant role in the conservation of the small-sized Vechur cattle breed, has won the Padma Shri for her contributions. Dr. Iype retired from the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) in 2002 as Director, Centre for Advanced Studies in Animal Genetics and Breeding, but continues to be active in the Vechur Conservation Trust which was formed in 1998. She has been selected for the Padma Award in the 'Animal Husbandry' category. Although her work is widely praised today, it was not so in 1989 when she and a handful of students at KAU set out to conserve the breed. The government policies of the time favoured crossbreds for boosting milk production. Local breeds were frowned upon. But looking back, Dr. Iype does not outrightly blame those policies, even when she strongly argues in favour of local breeds such as the Vechur.  ''Perhaps, that was a requirement of those times. Ours was a voluntary effort at biodiversity conservation. In those days, it was also quite difficult to come across the Vechur cow. Of course, things have changed now,'' Dr. Iype, who lives at Mannuthy, Thrissur, told The Hindu on Tuesday.  Dr. Iype is a strong advocate of the concept that research should be farmer-oriented. Hailing from Niranam, Dr. Iype did her post graduation in animal breeding in the U.K., and her PhD from the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI). She joined the KAU in 1977 after a stint with the Animal Husbandry Department, Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/due-reward-for-vechur-cattle-conservation/article64945616.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||SCERT invites best academic models||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has launched a project for identifying best academic models in schools, recognising them, and amplifying them to ensure academic excellence in the public education sector. Government and aided schools with pre-primary to higher secondary and institutions offering Diploma in Elementary Education (DElEd) can include novel projects they are implementing or have implemented. Last date Nomination with projects and their details, including pictures and digital documentation, should be sent by January 31 to the Director, SCERT, Poojappura, Thiruvananthapuram- 695 012 or to the email scertresearch@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scert-invites-entries-for-best-academic-models/article38327377.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Plus One admission for3.85 lakh students||As many as 3.85 lakh students have taken Plus One higher secondary admission this year. This is 16,948 more than the number of students who took admission last year. A statement from the office of the Minister for General Education on Tuesday said 14,756 seats were vacant in government schools, 7,377 seats in aided schools, and 24,695 in unaided schools. In 2020-21, 3.68 lakh students had received Plus One admission. A marginal seat increase had led to 30,043 students taking admission to government schools and 24,291 in aided schools. Additional batches Seventy-nine additional batches had been sanctioned and 4,561 students had taken admission to the 5,105 seats in them. The statement pointed out that Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty had assured the State Assembly during a discussion that all those eligible for higher studies after the SSLC examinations would be ensured Plus One seats and he had kept his word.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-admission-for385-lakh-students/article38327384.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:15 IST,KERALA||Contributions to literature, education get recognition||Poet and literary critic P. Narayana Kurup has been awarded the Padma Shri for his contribution to the field of literature and education. The 87-year-old poet, a resident of Peroorkada here, said he was very happy to have received the national honour, especially for poetry that has a very distinct idiom and fewer readers. Though it came as a surprise, he was glad that his work was getting recognition among readers. The poet who continued to write even now has several awards to his name, including the Kerala Sahithya Akademi Awards for poetry and literacy criticism and the Odakkkuzhal award.  Born in Haripad to Parameswara Pillai and Parukutty, he began his career as a schoolteacher before joining Central government service. He has authored 10 collections of poems, including Asthramalyam , Apoornathayude Soundaryam,Bhoopalam, and Nishagandhi ’ that bagged him the Kerala Sahithya Akademi Award for poetry and the Odakkuzhal award. Another collection is titled Dashapushpam .  Kaviyum Kavithayum was a collection of critical essays.   His first collection of poems Kadalasu Pookal was for children. One of the poems in it, titled Ayyappasankaran, was very popular and included in the school Malayalam textbook.   The poet, who considered N.V. Krishna Warrier, as a mentor has translated a number of works into Malayalam. These include Goethe’s Faust , Shakespearean works, and Hindi poems. He has also authored biographies on Jawaharlal Nehru and Jayaprakash Narayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/contributions-to-literature-education-get-recognition/article64945617.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:19 IST,KERALA||Minimum wages in electronics industry revised||The government has revised the minimum wages for workers in the electronics industry. The minimum wage rates have been revised for posts from cleaner/sweeper to manager, as per an order signed by Minister for Labour V. Sivankutty. Salary to be protected Employees who currently receive more wages than that was decided in the notification will be eligible to continue receiving the higher wages. A subcommittee had been appointed under the minimum wages advisory committee to study the matters. The recommendations of the subcommittee had been handed over by the minimum wages advisory committee to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minimum-wages-revised-in-electronics-industry/article38327495.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Held for chain snatching||The Kilimanoor police arrested Sujith, 40, of Eroor in Ernakulam in connection with two cases of chain snatching. The accused had allegedly stolen ornaments from elderly women on January 14 and October 3 last, the police said. The police subsequently traced his whereabouts to a retreat centre in Muringoor in Thrissur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/held-for-chain-snatching/article38327509.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||AVSM for SAC chief||Air Marshal J. Chalapati, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Air Command (SAC), has been awarded the Presidential award Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (AVSM) on the eve of Republic Day 2022. It is the second highest peace-time military award in the country conferred in recognition of distinguished service of the most exceptional order and life-time achievements in the service of the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/avsm-for-sac-chief/article64945628.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:19 IST,KERALA||NSS units to come up at BEd colleges||Higher Education Minister R. Bindu has said that National Service Scheme (NSS) units will be launched in teacher education colleges from this academic year. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, Dr. Bindu said that the initiative would instil valuable lessons in community service among the teachers of tomorrow. New model The decision to permit units in BEd colleges affiliated to various universities in the State was taken by the State advisory committee of the NSS. The move is bound to bring considerable pedagogical changes and enable teachers to evolve new models of social service. Colleges that are interested in launching NSS units have been directed to submit applications to the State NSS officer through the university concerned, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-units-to-come-up-at-bed-colleges/article38327362.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Meeting to decide on education during COVID||A high-level meeting of the General Education department will be convened on Thursday to decide on education during the current COVID-19 situation, sources said here. The meeting, to be held at 11 a.m., will discuss online education for classes 1 to 9, matters related to teachers’ presence in school, conduct of classes for students of classes 10, 11, and 12, progress of vaccination in children, and conduct of examinations. Deputy Directors of Education, Regional Deputy Directors, and Assistant Directors will attend the online meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meeting-to-decide-on-education/article38327376.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Attack: one arrested||The Valiyathura police arrested one person on Tuesday for allegedly assaulting a woman recently. The police identified the accused as Shaji Charlie of Kannanthura. The accused, along with another person, had allegedly attacked the victim on January 22. They had apparently gone to her house to collect money that had been taken by her father as loan. The perpetrators assaulted her after being informed that her father was not at home. Efforts were under way to nab the other accused, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-one-arrested/article38327507.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:19 IST,KERALA||Install quality cameras at Kuthiran: Minister||Revenue Minister K. Rajan has asked the National Highways Authority of India to install quality cameras in the twin tunnels of Kuthiran, an important trading corridor between Kerala and Tamil Nadu. He was interacting with mediapersons recently after visiting the tunnels and a toll plaza. More than 100 lights and cameras in one of the twin tunnels were damaged recently after a lorry with lifted carriage tried to move through it. Lack of clarity of CCTV footage was noticed at the time of investigation. The authorities concerned have been asked to repair the damaged lights. Good quality cameras should be installed at the tunnel. Collection of toll will be allowed only after finishing all works listed in the contract. Many works are yet to be completed at the tunnel, he said. “The National Highways Authority of India [NHAI] has the responsibility to ensure safety of the vehicles and passengers at Kuthiran. The image of the number plate of the lorry which caused the accident was not clear in the footage. The poor quality cameras should be replaced. There should be scientific examination of it. The district administration and the police have raised concern about the quality of the cameras. The NHAI and the contract company should take steps to ensure the safety of passengers and vehicles,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/install-quality-cameras-at-kuthiran-minister/article64945605.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:15 IST,KERALA||An ambassador for Kalaripayattu worldwide||Sankara Narayana Menon Chundayil, who has been honoured with Padma Shri, is one of the senior-most martial art practitioners in the country. At 93, Menon, popularly known as Unni Gurukkal, still starts his training at the Vallabhatta Kalari, Chavakkad, from 5.30 a.m. The family of Unni Gurukkal — Mudavangattil family — holds the legacy of leading the army of the King of Vettathu Nadu in Malabar. The Vallabhatta Kalari has disciples across the word. Strict trainer Age has not dampened his spirit, says his son Krishnadas Gurukkal. “He comes to the kalari at 5.30 a.m. every day and supervises training till 8.30 a.m. until he goes for breakfast. His discipline and meticulous practice keep him healthy even at this age. As a martial art trainer, he is very strict,” says Krishnadas. Unni Gururkkal started practising Kalari Payattu at the age of six. He is the seventh generation kalari practitioner in the Mudavangattil family. His legacy is kept alive by his children and grandchildren. Vallabhatta Kalri has played a major role in popularising Kalariparyattu across the world. Unni Gurukkal and his children have travelled extensively and started kalari centres in many countries, including the U.S., U.K. and France. They have more than 5,000 disciples across the world. Unni Gurukkal had won many awards, including the Kerala Folklore Akademi Award, for his contributions to Kalaripayattu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-ambassador-for-kalaripayattu-worldwide/article64945613.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Restrictions on elephant parade for festivals||In the wake of a spurt in COVID-19 cases, only one elephant will be allowed for procession in festivals in Thrissur district. If there are two idols in the temple, two elephants can be paraded with the permission of the Deputy Forest Conservator of the Thrissur district social forestry division. Category B As Thrissur falls in Category B, no public meetings are allowed in the district. Religious events have to be held online for devotees. If the attendance in education institutions is less than 40% for three days in a row, it will be considered as a cluster and the institution will be closed for two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-on-elephant-parade-for-festivals/article38327470.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:13 IST,KERALA||Balancing act||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/balancing-act/article64945629.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:15 IST,KERALA||One in two tests positive||Disease transmission has reached a level in the community wherein any acute respiratory infection during this period of the pandemic should be treated as COVID-19 itself and rather than wait for test results, patients just need to go into self-isolation at home till symptoms resolve, public health experts say. The State’s active case pool increased to 2,85,365, of whom, 3.8% are currently admitted to hospitals or field hospitals . The number of recoveries reported on the day was 30,226. The Health department’s data say that during January 18-24 the average active cases were 2,15,059, out of which an average of around 0.7% were admitted in oxygen beds and 0.4% in ICUs. New cases increased by 143% (1,57,396 cases), while active cases increased by 171% during this period, in comparison to the previous week. Hospitalisations increased by 106% and ICU occupancy by 62%. Oxygen bed requirement rose by 138%. Hospitalisations continue to rise and on Tuesday 1,387 persons were newly admitted to hospitals. Total number of patients admitted with moderate or severe COVID in hospitals increased to 10,342. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 52,141, with the State adding 154 deaths to the official list. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 57,25,086 cases. Ernakulam tops Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 9,405, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 8,606, Thrissur 5,520, Kollam 4,452, Kozhikode 4,432, Kottayam 3,672, Palakkad 3,550, Malappuram 3,138, Kannur 2,578, Alappuzha 2,561, Idukki 2,452, Pathanamthitta 2,311, Kasaragod 1,728 and Wayanad 1,070.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-in-two-tests-positive/article64945619.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:03 IST,KERALA||His daily bread||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/his-daily-bread/article64945741.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Preparing for R-Day celebrations||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/preparing-for-r-day-celebrations/article64945604.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:20 IST,KERALA||Up-close with nature||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/up-close-with-nature/article64945593.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:47 IST,KERALA||A patch of sunshine||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-patch-of-sunshine/article64945759.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:46 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sandalwood stolen from forest godown recovered||The police on Tuesday recovered 92 bags of sandalwood worth Rs. 44 lakh, and 16 kg of sandalwood oil and arrested seven persons on the outskirts of Penugonda town. The property recovered from a hideout at Sivamogga was reportedly stolen from the forest department’s godown at Penugonda on January 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sandalwood-stolen-from-forest-godown-recovered/article38327446.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Talk of political realignment in Karnataka picks up pace||With more than a year to go before the Assembly polls in the State, the talk of political realignment and defections has already picked up pace. While Congress leaders and BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal have been speaking of defections from the ruling party to Congress, Ramesh Jarkiholi, who defected from Congress to BJP and was key in formation of the government in 2019, claimed on Tuesday that 16 Congress MLAs were in touch with him and he would “get them over to BJP if high command permits.” Mr. Jarkiholi’s claim comes a day after KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said several Ministers in the BJP government were calling Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, hinting that they were ready to defect. Mr. Yatnal had said several “migrant” Ministers had already “booked their tickets” in the Congress. “We were a team of 36 MLAs in the coalition government, but only 17 of us came to the BJP. There are 19 more in touch with me, of whom three are from JD(S) and 16 from Congress. I won’t touch any MLA from JD(S) as we have cordial relationship with H.D. Kumaraswamy, but if high command permits, I will get 16 Congress MLAs. The situation is going to drastically change a month ahead of elections,” Mr. Jarkiholi claimed, indicating a Uttar Pradesh-like political realignment ahead of Assembly polls in the State too. ‘BJP a sinking ship’ Reacting shortly after this, Mr. Siddaramaiah said BJP was a sinking ship and nobody will switch to BJP from Congress at this point of time. Mr. Shivakumar said it was not possible to reveal names of leaders who were in touch with Congress, adding that Mr. Yatnal knew the list and the media should ask him. Senior Congress leader G. Parameshwara on Tuesday speaking to mediapersons in Tumakuru said several BJP MLAs, ministerial aspirants and even Ministers were dissatisfied and would likely join Congress ahead of the Assembly polls. “After the ministry expansion, many who are unable to make it to the Cabinet will likely leave the party,” he said. Responding to a question, he said not just migrant Ministers but several BJP old-timers were also keen on switching sides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/talk-of-political-realignment-in-karnataka-picks-up-pace/article64945462.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Writers condemn growing intolerance in Karnataka||Ahead of Republic Day, a group of senior writers, academicians, scientists and artists have written an open letter to Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and all legislators expressing concern over ‘deteriorating governance and the frequent violence against religious minorities’ in the State. The letter is signed by 34 individuals, including historians Ramachandra Guha and Prof. Janaki Nair; sociologists A. R. Vasavi and Prof. Satish Deshpande; scientists Prof. Sharadchandra Lele, Prof. Vinod Gaur and Prof. Vidyanand Nanjundiah; Kannada writers Vivek Shanbhag, Purushottam Bilimale and K. P. Suresha, and activist Bezwada Wilson. “Over the past few months, the State has witnessed the brutal killing of youths, rampant hate speeches, public threats and disruptions of worship by religious minorities, honour killings, moral policing, misogynistic statements by legislators, and incidents of hostile encounters between various religious groups. These trends have been encouraged by the callous and unconstitutional statements made by legislators and the inability of the State machinery to rein in fringe anti-social groups,” they wrote. Such trends go against the long history of Karnataka as a progressive State that facilitated social harmony of a plural society. “Instead, the State is losing its identity on multiple fronts. On the fiscal, administrative, and political fronts, Karnataka is losing its federal strength. Recent legislations, such as the ‘cow protection’ and ‘anti-conversion’ Acts, are pogroms against the economic and cultural rights of religious minorities. No longer are harmony, peace, and tolerance the hallmarks of the State,” the letter says. The signatories warned that if these issues are not addressed, even the State’s reputation as a business destination is bound to be impacted negatively.  The State is losing its identity on multiple fronts. On the fiscal, administrative, and political fronts, it is losing its federal strength. Recent legislations, such as the ‘cow protection’ and ‘anti-conversion’ Acts, are pogroms against the economic and cultural rights of religious minorities. Letter to CM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/academics-writers-condemn-growing-intolerance-in-karnataka/article38326972.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||M.B. Patil to head Congress campaign||Former Water Resources Minister M.B. Patil was appointed president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) campaign committee on Tuesday. A communique from All-India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary K.C. Venugopal said that the appointment was approved by AICC president Sonia Gandhi. Sources said that the proposal to make Mr. Patil head of the campaign committee had been made about four months ago, and that the appointment came with the party moving into election mode. An important party position in an election year, Mr. Patil will be in charge of drawing up a strategy for elections and campaigning, identification of leaders for campaigning, communication and publicity. Sources said that he will be working closely with KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar. It is learnt that the candidature of Mr. Patil for the post had been pushed by Leader of the Opposition and Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah. Lingayat factor Mr. Patil’s elevation is being seen as Congress’s effort to woo back Veerashaiva-Lingayats, a community that backed the Bharatiya Janata Party due to B.S. Yediyurappa’s leadership. As part of wooing back Lingayats, the Congress has appointed Eshwar Khandre as one of the working presidents, and made him in charge of Kalayana Karnataka region. Party sources said that though Mr. Patil was seen in the forefront of the movement to demand separate identity for Lingayats, his elevation is part of the wooing back exercise to bring Lingayat votes to Congress in the changed political space where BJP is being seen as a party that replaced Lingayat strongman B.S. Yediyurappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mb-patil-to-head-congress-campaign/article64945470.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Old video clips of rowdy enjoying special privileges in central jail go viral||Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara, is once again in the news after old video clips, showing a rowdy living a rather princely life inside a cell, and prison canteen staff selling provisions to inmates, started doing the rounds on social media. Some of the clips show accused gangster Narayana sitting in a cell furnished with a fan, television set, a cot and multiple remotes and other paraphernalia strewn around. This, while he was in judicial custody three years ago, said sources. He is seen talking to a prison staffer, handing over cash and giving him a set of instructions. While the Home Minister has ordered a probe and the Chief Minister has sought for more details, sources in the prison department said that an enquiry had been conducted when the clips first came to light in 2019. It was found that four prison staff members who had allegedly borrowed money from Narayana were involved in the racket. They are yet to be reinstated.  “These video recordings date back to July 2019 when Narayana was in judicial custody. He was released on bail the next month in August 2019,” a source in the prison department told The Hindu .  Provisions misused Another old video clip circulating on social media shows canteen staff selling provisions to inmates in a set-up akin to a shop. One of the inmates had recorded the video on his mobile phone and circulated it . Sources admitted that in this instance, provisions from the Government itself to sell essentials like soap, toothpaste, etc to inmates shad been misused. “There are provisions for inmates to get newspapers and home-cooked food, but they have been misused. Canteen staff were found selling eggs, and action was taken. Since then the rules for the canteen have become more strict,” said a source. Promise of strict action Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said he has ordered an inquiry into irregularities at Parappana Agrahara Central Prison in Bengaluru. Speaking to the media in Shivamogga on Tuesday, the minister said he had taken note of media reports about the irregularities at the prison. During his visit to the prison, he had interacted with the inmates and collected information from them. “Prisons should not become centres for criminal activities. I have instructed officers to take stern action against those responsible for irregularities, he said, adding that he would hold a meeting with senior officers on his return to Bengaluru. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he would seek a report from the Director General of Prisons on Tuesday itself and issue directions for strict action to be taken. Director General of Prisons Alok Mohan has initiated a probe into the incident and also on why the videoes resurfaced again. In July 2021, the Central Crime Branch of the Bengaluru police conducted massive search operations at Central Jail. Teams recovered weapons such as daggers and knives, marijuana mobile phones and SIM cards from inmates. According to the police, the surprise raids were carried out after the CCB received information that gangsters were carrying out illegal activities from inside the prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/old-video-clips-of-rowdy-enjoying-special-privileges-in-central-jail-go-viral/article38326980.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB nabs five ‘drug peddlers’ in Bengaluru, Hyderabad||In a decoy operation, the State Task Force (STF) officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) busted a drug smuggling racket in West Godavari district, which has links to Telangana and Karnataka. SEB police conducted raids in Bengaluru and Hyderabad and nabbed five drug peddlers. They seized MDMA and LSD pills and hashish oil from them on Tuesday, said SEB Commissioner Vineet Brijlal. On information that a drug addict was receiving the drugs from neighbouring States, SEB formed decoy parties which trapped the suppliers in the two cities, said SEB Director P.H.D. Ramakrishna.  “The drug racket has links to Guntur, West Godavari and other districts. Police are trying to identify the customers,” Mr. Vineet Brijlal told The Hindu .  The drug peddlers targeted students of educational institutions and were supplying narcotics to them in small quantities and receiving payments through various apps, Mr. Ramakrishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-nabs-five-drug-peddlers-in-bengaluru-hyderabad/article38327460.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on study and work prospects of MBA in data science||An MBA in data science helps graduates or professionals to combine their analytical skills and business management knowledge. The course will enable them to convert data analytics into better business decisions. It is also a valuable addition for data scientists who are always eager to crunch numbers. Application process  At a webinar on Data science: study and work in USA/Canada hosted by The Hindu in association with the International School of Engineering (INSOFE) on Sunday, panelists discussed the process of applying to the course in INSOFE and careers in data science management.  INSOFE is recognised as Asia’s first data science education institute that provides research and consulting experience. It offers collaborative global programmes to students from diverse educational disciplines and professions. Dakshinamurthy V. Kolluru, founder and President of INSOFE, said, the institution offers bachelors, masters, doctoral and executive doctoral programmes in Artificial Intelligence and machine learning. Gaurav Agarwal, CEO, Soothsayer Analytics LLC, USA spoke about data science services, building product/framework for energy procurement, demand forecasting, fraud detection and what data science means in business terms. Soma Giri Parupalli, vice president of INSOFE, explained the process of entry into the institution and the study period in India. After finishing the subsequent semesters in the partner universities abroad, students can confirm their acceptance to the conditional offer letter. However, the job offer is non-binding and students are free to explore other employment opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-held-on-study-and-work-prospects-of-mba/article64945471.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:45 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Statue of Equality’ for a saint who took the Vedas to common man||The 216-feet tall ‘Statue of Equality’ of Swami Bhagavad Ramanujacharya, to be unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Muchintal, Hyderabad, on February 5, is seen as a befitting tribute to the saint, who is “a perennial source of equality and the Bhakti movement”. Made of five metals The statue is an architectural homage to the saint, who a thousand years ago brought the treasure of Vedic literature to the doorsteps of the common man, according to Tridandi Chinna Jeeyar Swamiji. The ‘Statue of Equality’ is made of five metals. Sri Ramanujacharya was born in AD 1017. A revolutionary philosopher “A thousand years ago, he was the courageous revolutionary philosopher who led thinkers of social order towards the inclusiveness of the moral order — a code of conduct where all beings are treated equally and accepted with love. He is the human manifestation of oneness, a star that lit the path of equality,” said the Jeeyar. ‘His ideology need of the hour’ “The world is fraught with divisiveness and populism. People are pitted against one another over conflicts of religion and economics. The word ‘equality’ has become just a slogan. The need of the hour is the effulgence of Sri Ramanujacharya’s ideology. His form and words will inspire society. What better time to experience this inspiration, than the millennium of His birth,” the organisers of the event stated. On February 13, President Ram Nath Kovind will dedicate a gold deity of Sri Ramanujacharya Swamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/statue-of-equality-for-a-saint-who-took-the-vedas-to-common-man/article38326990.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:39 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court orders removal of abusive content against judges||The High Court of Andhra Pradesh has ordered that all the abusive content against the judges of the court posted on various social media sites should be immediately removed.  During the hearing of a suo motu case filed against 49 persons, including an MP, the court expressed its displeasure over the attitude of Twitter, Facebook and Youtube for not adhering to the instructions to remove the posts.  The High Court said that the CBI letter to various agencies should be treated as an order and implemented.  In 2021, a Division Bench of Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and Justice Lalitha Kanneganti had issued suo motu notices to 49 persons, including a Member of Parliament and a former Member of Legislative Assembly, observing that they had made intimidating and abusive social media posts against judges.  Later, the court ordered the CBI to investigate the posts. The CBI took over the investigation and registered an FIR in the matter. It arrested a few persons responsible for the posts and issued lookout notices against some of them living outside India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remove-abusive-content-against-judges-ap-hc/article64945538.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kondaveedu fort gets a fillip||With the State government giving its administrative and financial nod to the developmental works last week, the Kondaveedu fort tourism is all set to get a fillip. The last bit of 0.75 km stretch of ghat road leading to the fort would be laid at a cost Rs. 11.80 crore, and the proposal received green signal from the State government. The Forest Department has also given the nod for development of a ‘nagara vanam’, a park to be built at a cost of Rs. 13.35 crore. The main connecting road from Phirangipuram through Solasa village had also been granted with an estimated budget of Rs. 24 crore. Chief Engineer, Roads and Buildings Department, Naeem Mulla along with his officers recently visited the fort and reviewed the development works. “After many years of persistent hard work and support from Chilakaluripet MLA Vidadala Rajani, we are happy that the development works have been given the nod by the State government,” said Kondaveedu Fort Development committee convener K. Siva Reddy. The foundation stone for the development works was recently laid by Minister for Forest and Environment Balineni Srinivasa Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kondaveedu-fort-gets-a-fillip/article64945547.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. ready for talks with unions: Sajjala||The Ministers’ Committee set up to resolve the stalemate with employee unions over the new Pay Revision Commission (PRC)on Tuesdayassured that the government is ready to hold talks with employees’ unions and stated that another set of discussionswould be held on January 27. Addressing reporters after holding talks with the PRC Steering Committee, Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said that the leaders of the steering committee had brought three demands to the notice of the government, which include putting PRC G.O.s in abeyance, the release of the Ashutosh Misra Report on PRC, and implementation ofthe previous pay scale. He stated that the government is ready to discuss the employees’ issues and invited them to talks. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that they would try to resolve the issues and asserted thatthere would be a stalemate if the employee unionsrefused toparticipate in talks. He reiterated that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy strove for the welfare of employees, which was why he hadannounced Interim Relief (IR), and increased payscalefor ASHA and Anganwadiorkers. He urged the employees to understand the situation and act accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-ready-for-talks-with-unions-sajjala/article38327456.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLC Ashok Babu booked||TDP MLC and former Employee JAC president Ashok Babu was booked by the CID on various charges including forgery for allegedly submitting false documents that he was a B.Com graduate, after being posted as an assistant commercial tax officer. Mr. Ashok Babu was booked under section 477A (officer or servant, wilfully, and with intent to defraud), 465 (forgery), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), at the CID police station in Mangalagiri on Monday. The cases were registered on the basis of a complaint from the Joint Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, D. Geetha Madhuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mlc-ashok-babu-booked/article38327458.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:45 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers obstruct convoy of BJP MP||Turmeric farmers in Nizamabad district allegedly obstructed the convoy of BJP-MP Dharmapuri Aravind, who was on his way to Nandipet mandal, at Isapally on Tuesday stating that the MP had deceived them on the promise of getting the turmeric board sanctioned to Nizamabad. According to the information reaching here, the turmeric farmers of Aluru and Degaon villages obstructed the MP’s convoy by placing old tyres of vehicles across the road and torching them at Gangupally first. A section of turmeric farmers also flaunted the copies of bond (non-judicial stamp) paper in which he promised to get the turmeric board sanctioned. During the run up to the 2019 elections to Lok Sabha, Mr. Aravind promised to the farming community in Nizamabad Lok Sabha constituency that he would get the turmeric board sanctioned to the district and also get proper minimum support price fixed for both turmeric and red jowar after getting elected as MP. In case he failed to keep both promises, he would quit as MP and participate in the farmers/people’s movement for the same. Mr. Aravind made the promise in writing on a judicial stamp paper in March 2019 and by signing it. His election team made copies of the promise and distributed it in villages where turmeric is grown in Nizamabad Lok Sabha constituency. At Isapally village, turmeric farmers stage a protest dharna against Mr. Aravind and his failure to keep the promise made to them. A section of the farmers obstructed the convoy there by holding placards. Although the MP’s convoy tried to proceed forward, the farmers prevented it from moving ahead forcing him to cancel his visit mid-way and return to Nizamabad. Reacting to the farmers’ protest, Armoor MLA (TRS) A. Jeevan Reddy said it was almost three years now for the BJP MP’s promise. He neither got sanctioned the turmeric board nor got fixed proper support price to turmeric and red jowar. Further, he had also belied on his promise of quitting as MP for failing to keep the pre-poll promise made to farmers. He justified the anger of turmeric farmers and said they would not allow him to visit villages in the constituency and question him on the turmeric board everywhere. He also denied the charges of BJP leaders that TRS activists obstructed and attacked the convoy of Mr. Aravind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-obstruct-convoy-of-bjp-mp/article64945461.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:33 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for thefts in jewellery outlets||The Kadapa police arrested two persons and recovered gold and silver ornaments on Tuesday. The sensational series of thefts witnessed in jewelry outlets in Kadapa city was followed up by the special teams with the help of CCTV footages, which helped them zero in on the culprits. Chappidi Mani alias Imran (29) of Penagaluru was arrested and 466 grams of gold and 5.5 kg of silver ornaments were recovered from his possession. The silver ornaments were alone estimated to be worth Rs. 25.5 lakh. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan inspected the recovered jewels on Tuesday and appreciated the special team for cracking the whip. Inter-State robber held Similarly, an inter-State criminal involved in several house breaking incidents was also arrested in Porumamilla and 231 grams of gold and 270 grams of silver ornaments worth Rs. 12 lakh were recovered from his possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-thefts-in-jewellery-outlets/article64945556.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:58 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||East Godavari SP Raveendranath Babu wins Police Medal||East Godavari Superintendent of Police M. Raveendranath Babu has won the ‘Police Medal (PM) for Meritorious Service-2022’, which is conferred by the Ministry of Home Affairs to various police forces in the country for their service and achievements. The Ministry of Home Affairs has released the list of winners on Tuesday. In 2021, Mr. Raveendranath Babu had been transferred from Krishna district to East Godavari and had played a pivotal role in preventing ganja trade in the tri-State borders of Andhra Pradesh with Chhattisgarh, Odisha, and Telangana. ‘Parivarthana’ initiative He had also played a key role in taking forward the ‘Parivarthana’ initiative, through which the tribals were persuaded to give up ganja cultivation and pursue other crops. Eluru Range Deputy Inspector General K.V. Mohana Rao, East Godavari ASP K. Kumar, and other officials congratulated Mr. Raveendranath Babu on the achievement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/east-godavari-sp-wins-police-medal/article38327439.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:58 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prisoner escapes from RTC bus||A 40-year-old inmate of Rajamundry Central Prison, S. Venkata Ramana, escaped reportedly by breaking an emergency window of an RTC bus during the journey from Visakhapatnam to Rajamahendravaram on Monday night. A native of Vizianagaram district, Venkata Ramana was undergoing imprisonment in a theft case. Venkata Ramana reportedly escaped from the two escort police personnel when the bus was stopped at a hotel under Gandepalli police limits in East Godavari district. While an escort police was with Venkata Ramana, another reportedly got down the bus to bring dinner at the time of the incident. According to Gandepalli Sub-Inspector P. Sobhan Kumar, the incident had occurred while Venkata Ramana was being brought from a hospital in Visakhapatnam. A case was registered and search is on to nab the prisoner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prisoner-escapes-from-rtc-bus/article38327444.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC in midnight sitting orders ‘arrest’ of vessel||For the first time, the Kerala High Court held a sitting online at 11.30 p.m. on Monday and ordered the arrest of a bulk carrier anchored in the Kochi waters, which had refused to pay the amount due to a water supplier. Justice Devan Ramachandran, during the hearing which continued into midnight, directed the Registrar General of the High Court to issue an order for arresting M.V. Ocean Rose, along with her hull, engines, machinery, boats, bunkers, and other equipment, which was anchored in the territorial waters under the Cochin port and also directed the Deputy Conservator of the Cochin port to effect the arrest or seizure of the vessel. The court passed the order in an admiralty suit filed by Grace Young International Company. Rs. 2 crore due According to it, the owner of the vessel owed it over Rs. 2 crore towards the supply of water to the vessel. The vessel called at the port carrying sulphur meant for Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore Limited in Kochi. The court ordered the hearing at 11.30 p.m as, according to the petitioner, the vessel has scheduled its departure at 5 a.m. on Tuesday. The court also ordered that the warrant of arrest would stand withdrawn in the event of the owner of the bulk carrier depositing Rs. 2,43,75,000 before the High Court towards the payment due to the petitioner company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-high-court-holds-midnight-sitting/article38326977.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala HC seeks govt. response to open theatres||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday sought the response of the State government to a plea by the Film Exhibitors’ United Organisation of Kerala for allowing to open theatres with 50% occupation, adhering to the COVID protocols. When the petition came up for hearing before Justice N. Nagaresh, counsel for the petitioners sought to stay the government orders directing to close down theatres. However, the court orally said it would not stay the order for the time being. In its petition, the organisation and a theatre owner from Thiruvananthapuram pointed out that the Malayalam film industry was in a crisis and had reported a loss of over Rs. 900 crore. The theatre owners were also the worst hit. In fact, the government had allowed opening of theatres in October 2021 after having closed down theatres for nine months in the wake of the first wave of COVID-19. The cinemas had thus started functioning with 50% occupancy following the mandatory protocol. However, the government had now imposed certain restrictions including Sunday lockdown in the wake of the surge in COVID cases. The order issued on January 20 said cinema theaters, swimming pools, and gymnasium would not be allowed to function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-hc-seeks-govt-response-to-open-theatres/article38326979.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||PM’s picture on vaccine certificate: HC dismisses plea||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed an appeal filed against a single judge's verdict rejecting a plea for a directive to remove the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from paid COVID-19 vaccine certificates. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali upheld the single judge's verdict while dismissing the appeal filed by Peter from Kottayam. The single judge had imposed a cost of Rs. 1 lakh on the petitioner. Dismissing the plea, the single judge had observed that it was a frivolous petition filed with ulterior motives and that once a Prime Minister was elected as per the Constitution, he was “the Hon’ble Prime Minister of our country and that post should be the pride of every citizen, whether the Prime Minister is X or Y.” When the country was facing a pandemic situation and the Prime Minister gave a message in the vaccination certificate with his photographs to boost the morale of the citizen, “I do not understand why the petitioner says before this court that it is an intrusion to his privacy”, the single judge had observed. The single judge had added that if the petitioner did not want to see his Prime Minister or if he was ashamed to see the picture of his Prime Minister, "he can avert his eyes to the bottom side of the vaccine certificate”. “The citizen need not be ashamed to carry a vaccination certificate with the photograph of the Prime Minister,” the single judge had observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pms-picture-on-vaccine-certificate-hc-dismisses-plea/article38326981.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dileep grilled for third day||Actor Dileep was interrogated for the third consecutive day on Tuesday by the special Investigation team (SIT) constituted to probe the alleged conspiracy hatched to endanger the lives of investigators who were probing the sensational actor assault case. The team grilled the actor at the office of the Crime Branch at Kalamassery. Some of the close relatives of the actor and a few others from the cinema industry were also grilled as part of the investigation. HC nod The interrogation began on Sunday as permitted by the Kerala High Court. It was following the revelation of filmmaker Balachandrkumar on the alleged conspiracy that the investigation was launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dileep-grilled-for-third-day/article64945467.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five boys held, booty worth Rs. 2.5 lakh recovered||Five minor boys were taken into custody on Tuesday for allegedly committing theft in a house in the town. Police recovered gold and silver ornaments worth about Rs. 2.49 lakh from them. The gang struck at a house at Kakaninagar Colony on January 22, and escaped with the valuables. A team led by Nandigama CI Kanaka Rao nabbed the juveniles and recovered the booty from them, said SP Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal. Studying eight standard “The Children in Conflict with Law (CiCL), were studying eight standard in a local school and were resorting to thefts during holidays,” said Nandigama DSP G. Nageswar Reddy. The minors would be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-boys-held-booty-worth-rs-25-lakh-recovered/article38327484.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:46 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter student’s talent lauded||Creativity of a 16-year-old-girl from Dargamitta here came to the fore as she painted miniature pictures of 73 freedom fighters on fig leaves, on the eve of the 73rd Republic day. Ujwala Kyati, a student of the Ameer Art Academy here and studying in a local junior college, took about nine hours to complete the painting of 73 freedom fighters that include Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, B.R. Ambedkar, Subash Chandra Bose, Tanguturi Prakasam Pantulu, Pingala Venkaiah, Alluri Sitaramulu, Uyalavada Narasimha Reddy on fig leaves using acrylic colours, said noted painter Sk. Ameer Jan. Members of the GenX should draw inspiration and contribute their mite in the building of 'young India', Ms. Ujwala Kyati said, who is aiming to etch her name in record books. She took about 7 minutes to complete each of the paintings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inter-students-talent-lauded/article64945681.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:45 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM should redeem his poll promise to govt. staff’||State Government employees in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh staged demonstrations in different cities and towns demanding a decent pay hike and scrapping of the Contributory Pension Scheme(CPS). Leading the protest in Ongole on a call given by the PRC Sadana Samiti, Non-Gazetted Officers Association Prakasam district secretary Sarath Babu expressed dissatisfaction over the paltry pay hike announced by the State government. It was time for Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to redeem his poll promise to the employees made during his long march before elections. “We will intensify our stir to press their demands including regularisation of the services of those working on a contract basis,” he said. In Nellore, a group of women employees drew the attention of passersby at the Collectorate entrance by singing a song and taking a dig at the Chief Minister for meting out a raw deal to the employees, who were promised big before elections but were given very little.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-should-redeem-his-poll-promise-to-govt-staff/article64945682.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:58 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solar drinking water units for tribal areas||ITDA-Rampachodavaram Project Officer C.V. Praveen Adithya on Tuesday stated that solar drinking water schemes would be set up in tribal habitations with Central funds under the Development of Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTG) scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solar-drinking-water-units-for-tribal-areas/article38327485.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:45 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala Lok Ayukta powers diluted: UDF||A controversial Ordinance seeking to “relegate the Kerala Lok Ayukta to a minor advisory role” is shaping up to be the next political battlefront between the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government and the Opposition ahead of the upcoming 2022 Budget session of the Assembly. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, in an open letter to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Tuesday, requested him to reject the Ordinance that soughtto “institutionalise corruption and close the final avenue for the public to appeal against nepotism and maladministration”. He would lead an Opposition delegation to meet the Governor at Raj Bhavan on January 27. Moreover, Mr. Satheesan said the Ordinance sought to diminish the stature of the Lok Ayukta by proposing to appoint lower court judges to the forum instead of a retired Supreme Court judge or a former Chief Justice of a High Court. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, MLA, said the move to “dilute the powers of the Lok Ayukta” was to forestall the administrative fallout of possible adverse judgments against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Higher Education Minister R. Bindu. The Lok Ayukta is investigating them on suspicion of corruption, nepotism and maladministration in separate cases. Mr. Vijayan is facing the charge of illegally diverting the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Funds. The Lok Ayukta is investigating Dr. Bindu for writing to the Governor to “unlawfully extend” thetenure of the Vice-Chancellor, Kannur University, beyond the retirement age. Mr. Chennithala said the LDF sought to undermine the forum’s authority by amending Section 14 of the Kerala Lok Ayukta Act, 1999. The provision empowers the Lok Ayukta to throw a corrupt official from office and deter the offender from holding public office again. Political executive Instead, the Ordinance seeks to empower the political executive, the Governor or Chief Minister as the case may be, to hold a further hearing on the Lok Ayukta’s verdict. Subsequently, the executive could decide whether to abide by the Lok Ayukta’s judgment or reject or moderate its ruling. Mr. Chennithala said the government was painfully aware that an unfavourable Lok Ayukta judgment in a nepotism case had cost Left independent legislator K.T. Jaleel his Cabinet post in the previous LDF government. The CPI(M) could politically ill-afford to have such a fate befall Mr. Vijayan or Dr. Bindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-lok-ayukta-powers-diluted-udf/article64945460.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ruling CPI(M) defends Ordinance||CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has defended the government’s decision to promulgate an Ordinance to curtail the powers of the Kerala Lok Ayukta. Mr. Balakrishnan said on Tuesday that the Advocate General (AG) had counselled the government last year that the Kerala Lok Ayukta Act, 1990 violated the fundamental tenet of Article 164 of the Constitution. The Constitutional provision mandated that the Governor appoint the Chief Minister and Council of Ministers. However, as per the current law, the Lok Ayukta could “destroy” a Constitutionally elected government by an adverse ruling. The State could not even appeal against the Lok Ayukta’s order which was final and binding. In other States Mr. Balakrishnan said Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Bihar and Congress-ruled Punjab had imposed reasonable restrictions on the powers of their respective Lok Ayukta. The proposed Ordinance did not restrict the right of citizens to move the Lok Ayukta against maladministration and corruption. The forum could not throw out those elected to public office. Such a decision required the concurrence of the Assembly. Law Minister P. Rajeeve said the AG had given the legal opinion that Section 14 of the Kerala Lok Ayukta Act violated Articles 163 and 164 of the Constitution. The amendment was as per the Constitution, Lokpal and similar laws in other States. As per the amended Ordinance, the Lok Ayukta should submit its report to the government. Right to appeal The government, Governor or the authority concerned should decide on the judgment within three months, he said. The Minister said the amendment would accord those who draw adverse verdicts from the Lok Ayukta the right to appeal in a higher judicial forum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ruling-cpim-defends-ordinance/article64945468.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rich philatelic collection languishing in racks for want of patronage||An impressive array of philatelic and numismatic collection, which can be spread on 200 tables, languishes in racks for want of patronage. After attracting public gaze in over hundred exhibitions, the antique property has seldom seen light in the last ten years. Septuagenarian Venkata Prasad Kachi ruminates the good old days when his ‘Bharani Exhibitors’ was reckoned as one of the top collectors of stamps, postage covers, antique coins and currency notes. He ended his stint as an administrative officer of a Bengaluru-based pharma company in the 90s and got down to full-time collection. Schools made a beeline seeking his exhibition back then. Apart from Roman, Portuguese and Dutch era, Mr. Prasad’s collection spans gold, silver, copper, nickel, bronze, aluminium and lead coins of the sixty Princely States. A specialist on Bahmani coins, his exhibits include Delhi Sultanate, Malwa, Jaipur, Maratha and Bengal Presidency, besides the same denomination coins released by Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Noida mints. In the currency section, his range has fancy series of same numbers, seven digits, ascending and descending series, telescopic numbers, same notes carrying the signature of successive RBI governors, misprint currency, wrongly placed numbers and freak notes (like half-printed, printed upside down etc). Rare collectibles  “Notes containing/missing the words ‘Satyameva Jayate’, image of parliament building with/without the flag, vignettes on agriculture on the backside of a note, British era notes losing colour, mules (new note with old Governor’s signature) and the image of George VI on post-independent note as a thanksgiving are a rarity,” Mr. Prasad told The Hindu . There are 200 folders of coins depicting the history pertaining to a year, which appealed to general knowledge loving students and thus attracted schools.  ‘Keeping them safe Herculean task’ The patronage started dwindling in the 2000s with a general fall in the hobby, fuelled further by addiction to television and mobile phones. “All these years, I have been reminding people about our national heroes, which the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav is doing today,” he remarks. The rise in the ‘perceived’ antique value led to the theft of coins and stamps during exhibitions. “Preventing the thousands of notes from getting crumpled, torn or infected by fungus is a Herculean task,” says Mr. Prasad, who insists on thorough security for future exhibitions. He can be contacted at kachiprasad@gmail.com or 98491 96796.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rich-philatelic-collection-languishing-in-racks-for-want-of-patronage/article64945549.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:46 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raising legal age of marriage suggested||Speakers at the webinar organised by Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) on Tuesday gave an overwhelming support to the decision of raising legal age of marriage for women. The event was organised by the varsity’s Department of Women’s Studies and Centre for Women Safety, in connection with ‘National Girl Child Day’. Aasha Ramesh, a Bengaluru-based women’s rights activist and a consultant on gender and development, acknowledged that enhancement of marriageable age could help a person take a right and matured decision, but simply bringing in such a legislation might not bring any change in reducing gender gaps and preventing child marriages. “The root cause of child marriages needs to be identified first and addressed in order to combat the problem,” she added. R. Jayasree, a retired professor of Women’s Studies at SPMVV, lauded the Central and State governments, besides the non-governmental organisations, for their efforts in empowering the girl child through various schemes. “As a result, change is taking place in the life of a girl, but there still exist gaps between men and women on various facets,” she said, attributing it to the ‘slow’ pace of change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raising-legal-age-of-marriage-suggested/article38327445.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders logs seized||The Red Sanders Anti Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) sleuths arrested six ‘smugglers’ and recovered nine logs on Tuesday. In the early hours of Tuesday, the sleuths sighted smugglers in the forest abutting the Tirupati-Bhakarapet ghat road. Property worth Rs. 30 lakh was seized from them. The arrested were identified as Ramesh (28), Dorai Swamy (35), Kumara Swamy (30), Ponnuswamy (56), Anandan (21) and Madhi Alagan (20), all hailing from Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-logs-seized/article38327461.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||History sheets opened on Tirumala touts||The Tirupati Urban police have opened history sheets against 17 middlemen involved in selling the Tirumala darshan tickets in the black market.The police stumbled upon some fake websites promising tickets for darshan at the Venkateswara temple, following which 39 such websites having dubious credentials were shutdown. Superintendent of Police Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu said the unsuspecting devotees booking tickets through such websites would find themselves conned only after reaching Tirumala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/history-sheets-opened-on-tirumala-touts/article38327457.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three from A.P. selected for Padma Shri||Three eminent personalities from the State were among the list of 128 people selected for the Padma awards, approved by President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday. Noted Avadhani and literary performer Garikapati Narasimha Rao (literature and education), orthopaedic surgeon Dr. Sunkara Venkata Adinarayana Rao (Medicine) and Gosaveedu Shaik Hassan (Art)were selected for the Padma Shri award. Shaik Hassan was selected for the award posthumously. Mr. Narasimha Rao stormed to the limelight after performing Avadhanam for 21 days in Kakinada in 1996 with 1,116 Pruchchakas (questioners). He regularly appears on Telugu TV channels giving discourses on ancient Hindu texts. Dr. Adinarayana Rao is an orthopaedic surgeon noted for his work for the poor and needy. He was born into a family of freedom fighters in Bhimavaram of West Godavari district. He is settled in Visakhapatnam and is a recipient of various national awards. After retiring as Superintendent of Rani Chandramani Devi Hospital, Dr. Adinarayana Rao, along with other like-minded friends, set up the Prema Hospital at Visakhapatnam. Gosaveedu Shaik Hassan was a renowned Nadaswaram exponent and wasthe ‘Ashthana vidwamsa’ of the Bhadrachalam temple. Film actress Sowcar Janaki was selected for the Padma Shri award in the field of art from Tamil Nadu. Sankaramanchi Janaki, known as Sowcar Janaki, hails from Rajamahendravaram. She has appeared in over 450 films, predominantly in Tamil, Telugu, and Kannada. She has also performed on stage in over 3,000 shows and was a radio artist during her earlier years. Shealso hastwo Nandi Awards to her credit. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan congratulated the Padma Shri award winners for the year 2022. The Governor said it was a matter of great pride for the people of Andhra Pradesh that three eminent personalities from the State have been selected for the prestigious honour. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy extended his congratulations to the winners of the awards, and lauded their contributions to their respective fields. Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan andTDP national general secretary Nara Lokesh were among those who congratulated the winners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-from-ap-selected-for-padma-shri/article64945528.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employees’ delegation meets Principal Secretary (HR) to break PRC deadlock||A delegation of the PRC Struggle Committee metPrincipal Secretary to Government (HR) Shashibhushan Kumar, who invited the Committee members for talks on Tuesday. TheStruggle Committee categorically said that consultations and negotiations would be possible only if the government accepted its three demands, including keeping the new PRC in abeyance until the issue was taken to a logical conclusion. The Steering Committee of the PRC Sadhana Samithi (Struggle Committee) authorised a 9-member delegation on behalf of it to place the demands before the government. The delegation submitted a letter requesting the State government to look into the employees’ demands. The Committee, in the letter, said that it was willing to and would come forward for negotiations / consultations after positive response from the government. The Committee demanded a copy of Ashutosh Mishra’s PRC report to the associations. It wanted the government to keep the G.O.s relating to the PRC in abeyance and make necessary arrangements for payment of pre-PRC 2022 salaries for January. Hope for a positive response: Committee “While appreciating the initiation from the government side, we, the representative bodies of lakhs of employees, teachers and pensioners look forward for a positive response on the above issues and for amicable settlement of the demands listed in our notice of strike,” the Committee said. Andhra Pradesh Non-Gazetted Officers Association president and chairman of AP Joint Action Committee, Bandi Srinivasa Rao,president, AP Government Employees’ Association and chairman APGEA Ikyavedika K.R. Suryanarayana, Andhra Pradesh Secretariat Employees’ Association and APGEF chairman K. Venkatarami Reddy, APRSA andchairman APJAC, Amaravati Bopparaju Venkateswarlu and others took part in protests organised in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/employees-delegation-meets-principal-secretary-hr-to-break-prc-deadlock/article38327454.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police foil BJP’s ‘Chalo Gudivada’ programme||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Somu Veerraju and other leaders were taken into custody on the city outskirts when they tried to proceed to Gudivada, on Tuesday. Alleging that a casino was illegally operated at Gudivada in Krishna district during the Sankranti festival, the BJP leaders plannedto travel to the town and organise the concluding programme of the ‘Sankranti Sambaralu’ in a traditional manner. However, when the BJP leaders reached Kalvapamula village, police stopped their vehicles and prevented them from going to Gudivada. Mr. Veerraju and other leadersentered intoan argument with the police and demanded that they be allowed to continue their travel to Gudivada. However, police did not accord them permission citing law and order issues. Police tookthe BJP leadersinto preventive custody when the latter attempted to go to Gudivada on foot. The BJP leaders raised slogans demanding the arrest of those who allegedly organised the casino at Gudivada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-foil-bjps-chalo-gudivada-programme/article38327459.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP promises grant for Eluru stadium||Eluru MP Kotagiri Sridhar has said that he would take steps to release grants under the MPLADS for renovation of the Weightlifting Training Hall at the State-Level Khelo India Centre, ASR Stadium in Eluru. The MP and Dendulur MLA Abbaiah Chowdary visited the centre on Tuesday.The MP expressed his satisfaction over the facilitieswhile speaking tothe centre in-charge D.N.V. Vinayaka Prasad. The MPsaid he wouldlook into the plan fora world-classsynthetic track and warm-up synthetic track at the stadium.The MP directed hisaide to get the estimation done by the government engineer to finalise the grant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-promises-grant-for-eluru-stadium/article38327529.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:39 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active COVID case tally crosses one lakh in A.P.||Andhra Pradesh reported 12 deaths due to COVID-19 and 13,819 fresh cases in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,561 and 22,08,955 respectively and the number of active cases crossed one lakh and reached 1,01,396 for the first time in 229 days since June 10. On December 28, the State had only 1,024 active cases, the lowest since the second wave and in less than a month it reached one lakh. About 26,325 patients recovered during the same period. During the past day, as many as 5,716 patients have recovered. The test positivity rate of the 46,929 samples tested in the past day was 29.4%. Chittoor, East Godavari, Kurnool, Nellore and Visakhapatnam reported two deaths each in the past day while Prakasam and West Godavari reported one death each. During the past week 47 deaths were reported in the State. Visakhapatnam reported 1,988 fresh cases in the past day. It was followed by Prakasam (1,589), Guntur (1,422), Anantapur (1,345), Nellore (1,305), Kurnool (1,255), Kadapa (1,083), East Godavari (1,001), Krishna (748), West Godavari (644), Srikakulam (568), Chittoor (436) and Vizianagaram (435). Of the one lakh active cases, 17,285 were in Visakhapatnam alone. Chittoor has 9,630 active cases while Guntur has 9,081. They are followed by Nellore (9,069), Prakasam (9,013), Anantapur (8,469), East Godavari (7,758), Kurnool (7,307), Srikakulam (6,193), Kadapa (5,910), Krishna (4,885), Vizianagaram (4,408) and West Godavari (2,389).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-covid-case-tally-crosses-one-lakh-in-ap/article64945540.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP writes to NCW on Dalit woman’s ‘torture’||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) wrote a letter to the National Commission for Women seeking an inquiry into the alleged torture of a Dalit woman in police custody. In the letter dated Tuesday, Vangalapudi Anita, State president of Telugu Mahila — a women’s wing of the TDP —alleged that the Chittoor Town police had summoned Umamaheswari, a Dalit woman, to the police station on two consecutive days and tortured her after accusing her of a theft. Ms. Umamaheswariworks as a maid at the house of Venugopal Reddy, Chittoor Jail Superintendent.Cash worth Rs. 2 lakhhad gone missing from Mr. Reddy’s house,and the police tortured Ms. Umamaheswari forcing her to confess to the theft. Later, itbecame known thatan acquaintance ofMr. Venugopal Reddy had taken the money. Even aftercoming to know of the development, the police continued to torture Ms. Umamaheswari,Ms. Anitaalleged. “It is to be noted that the police have ignored not only the principles of fundamental rights, but also went against judgments of the Supreme Court with regard to arrest of women and custodial torture,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-writes-to-ncw-on-dalit-womans-torture/article38327462.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM, Governor congratulate PM Rashtriya Bal Puraskar awardee||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan congratulated Gurugu Himapriya on winning the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar-2022 for her act of bravery, on Tuesday. The 13-year-old girl received the award from Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a virtual meeting on Monday. Himapriya, hailing from Ponnam village in Srikakulam district, was lauded for her extraordinary grit and courage during a terrorist attack in Jammu in February 2018, which, the Chief Minister said, will remain as an inspiration to many. Mr. Harichandan said that Himapriya is a role model for the country for the immense courage she showed during a terrorist attack at Sunjuwan camp in Jammu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-governor-congratulate-pm-rashtriya-bal-puraskar-awardee/article38327030.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:38 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Youth play pivotal role in protecting democracy’||Krishna district Deputy Collector J. Udayabhaskar Rao on Tuesday said youth had a pivotal role to play in protecting democracy. Addressing an awareness programme organised by the NSS wing of KBN College on the occasion of National Voters’ Day, Mr. Rao said voter played a significant role in a democracy. “A vote is an effective tool to elect a good government,” he said, adding that the objective of observing this day was to encourage more young voters to take part in the electoral process. Elaborating on the role of the Election Commission of India(ECI), he said students should spread awareness on the importance of exercising one’s franchise at the time of elections. College Principal V. Narayana Rao said every individual should make wise use of his/her vote to elect good leaders to power, as that is a surefire way to usher in development. Later, Mr. Rao gave away prizes to winners of various competitions organised on the occasion. A senior citizen, P. Krishna Murthy, who set an example of utilising his voting right by exercising his franchise in every election, was felicitated. NSS Unit-I Programme Officer J. Panduranga Rao, Unit-II Programme Officer V.S. Rao and others were present. At KL deemed to be University, students pursuing BA- IAS courses displayed placards with slogans on the significance of the vote. Slogans like ‘don’t cast your vote for money,’ ‘The ballot is stronger than bullet’ and ‘Your vote is your future’ sent out a message on the need to exercise one’s voting right with a great deal of caution. The event was organised under the supervision of the Head of the Department of Arts K.S. Venkateswara Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-play-pivotal-role-in-protecting-democracy/article38327531.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:39 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC to increase centres for engineering exam||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has decided to increase the number of test centre locations for the examination proposed to be conducted to fill 190 posts of Assistant Engineers in various engineering services, in view of the large number of applications it has received. The Commission has requested candidates to submit their test centre locations afresh on or before February 5 in the link provided, from January 27. “Any options filled in during the submission of applications earlier will be treated as null and void,” said Commission secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu, in a statement on Tuesday. Along with the test centre options, the candidates are also requested to fill in their subject and post their preferences within 10 days. The options exercised would be treated as final and February 5 is the last date for filling in the test centre location, subjects and post preferences, he said. The test centre allocation would be on a first-come-first-serve basis, he clarified and explained that a candidate should indicate his/her option for three locations in the order of priority. Selection of the three locations should be made with utmost care via the edit option, as no request for change of centre of examination would be considered later under any circumstances. Candidates who do not opt for location preference using the edit option now would be randomly allotted to a test centre as per the available capacity. The secretary said that the Commission reserves the right to cancel any centre and ask the candidates of that centre to appear at another centre due to administrative reasons, or divert candidates from one centre to another before the examination..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appsc-to-increase-centres-for-engineering-exam/article38327450.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister warns of action on school closure rumours||Education Minister Audimulapu Suresh on Tuesday warned of stern action against people who were resorting to a misinformation campaign on social media platforms circulating fake reports on closure of schools in the State. In a statement, the Minister said that schools were being run amidst strict adherence to COVID protocol. But certain ‘unscrupulous elements’ were spreading rumours using social media platforms stating that the schools had been given holidays and that the hostel students could go home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-warns-of-action-on-school-closure-rumours/article38327455.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTR Trust expands COVID telemedicine services||Following thespurt in infections during the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, the NTR Memorial Trust has begun extensive ‘telemedicine’ services for patients. The NTR Trust Zoom app video link is being shared to enable patients to make use of these services on a daily basis. A team of 12 doctors is rendering these services while the medicines are being delivered to the doorstep of needy patients. Of the 12 doctors, four are in the U.S. while theother eight are from Andhra Pradesh. The NTR Trust has set up six rooms for running the virtual hospital to render telemedicine service toCOVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntr-trust-expands-covid-telemedicine-services/article38327530.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:39 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM extends Republic Day greetings||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday conveyed his Republic Day greetings to the people of Andhra Pradesh. “As we enter the 73rd year of adopting our Constitution, which is the longest and the best in the world, it is imperative for everyone to understand every word engraved in the Preamble of our Constitution,” he said. ‘Ours being a Sovereign, Socialist, Secular Democratic Republic, besides social justice, the Constitution provides freedom of expression and faith to every citizen. It has also given the directive of equal status and equal opportunities to all,”the Chief Ministersaid. Honouring the guiding principles of the Preamble of the Constitution, our government has been taking them forward in the true letter and spiritin the past 31 months,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-extends-republic-day-greetings/article38327453.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||City will grow as a major tourist destination in State: Muttamsetti||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that Visakhapatnam city has all the advantages to grow as a major tourist destination in the State. Speaking at the National Tourism Day celebrations held at the VMRDA Children’s Arena here on Tuesday, the Minister said that the tourism policy was formulated and being implemented so as to put the State on the tourism map of the world. An AP Tourism App would be launched soon and plans were being prepared to develop a tourism circuit from Visakhapatnam to Rayalaseema. He said that there was vast scope for promotion of places of historical interest, temple tourism and adventure sports in the State. Alluri memorial He said that the Central and State governments were jointly developing the Alluri Sitarama Raju Memorial at KD Peta in the district. The Rushikonda Beach has already secured the coveted ‘Blue Flag’, an international recognition, for safe beaches. The Bangladesh ship, which got struck on Visakhapatnam beach, was being converted into a floating restaurant. He recalled that the Tourism Department had contributed to the supply of hygienic and healthy food to COVID hospitals during the pandemic. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna said that many tourism projects would come up in the district. The promotion of tourism would also contribute to the growth of allied sectors like hotel industry, tour and travel operators, resorts and generate employment for tourist guides, he said. AP Tourism Development Corporation Chairman Vara Prasad Reddy described the launch of Andhra Pradesh Tourism Trade Facilitation Portal 2020 as a progressive measure. The objective of National Tourism Day was to create awareness among the general public on the benefits of travel to tourist places. Araku MP G. Madhavi said there was vast potential for tourism in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district. Tourists could also learn about tribal culture and traditions, she said. The folk and classical dances, presented by tribal and classical dancers regaled the audience. Students, who won the essay writing and debate competitions, held in connection with National Tourism Day, were presented certificates. Zilla Parishad chairperson J. Subhadra, GVMC Commissioner Lakshmisha, Deputy Mayor Jiyyani Sridhar, Fisheries Corporation Chairman Kola Guruvulu, Minorities Corporation Chairman John Wesley, MLC V. Kalyani and MLAs K. Bhagyalakshmi, Chetti Phalguna and Tippala Nagi Reddy were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-will-grow-as-a-major-tourist-destination-in-state-muttamsetti/article38327538.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government employees take out rally against PRC||Government employees took out a rally from the Collectorate to Jagadamba Junction on Tuesday demanding cancellation of the G.O. on PRC and demanding a better PRC. The participants raised slogans against the injustice done to the employees by the State government in fixing the ‘fitment’ and ‘reducing the HRA’. The rally concluded in a rasta roko at Jagadamba Junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-employees-take-out-rally-against-prc/article64945478.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Public hearing will help in receiving feedback’||The idea of organising public hearing is to understand and study the consumers’ mindset and also solicit suggestions for correcting the policy on tariff, said Justice C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy, chairman of the Andhra Pradesh Energy Regulatory Commission (APERC). He was addressing the staff of the three Discoms and consumers who had tuned in for the public hearing on tariff, here on Tuesday, on the second day of the three-day public hearing being organised at the office of the APEPDCL. He said that virtual public hearing on tariff was probably being organised for the first time in the country, and appreciated APEDCL for making the arrangements keeping the COVID-19 pandemic in mind. Justice Nagarjuna Reddypointed out that APERC has the responsibility to look after the welfare and interest of the consumers, but at the same time it has the obligation to strengthen the economy of the DISCOMS “Without strengthening the economy of DISCOMS, discounts on charges cannot be made possible,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/public-hearing-will-help-in-receiving-feedback/article38327537.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 2 deaths and 1,995 new cases||The district recorded as many as 1,995 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, ending Tuesday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,81,834. During the same time period, two persons died taking the death toll to 1,130. On a positive note, as many as 1,127 persons recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,63,414. Active cases The number of active cases in the district has gone up to 17,290.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1995-new-cases-in-vizag/article38327032.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Centre trying to make VSP workers go for strike’||Workers and trade union leaders of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) have alleged that the Centre and the VSP management are deliberately trying to make the workers go for a strike to make the plant sick and pave the way for its strategic sale. The workersstaged a dharna on the VSP premises, on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-trying-to-make-vsp-workers-go-for-strike/article38327532.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||9,676 persons will benefit from YSR EBC Nestham in district, says Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that as many as 9,676 persons between age group of 45 and 60 years in the district are being benefited with the YSR EBC Nestham welfare scheme introduced by the State government. He along with Collector A. Mallikarjuna handed over cheque to the tune of Rs. 14.51 crore to the beneficiaries after the state-wide official launch of the programme by Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy from Tadepalli virtually. Speaking on the occasion, Mr Srinivasa Rao said that the government has been financially helping a number of the poor in a very transparent manner. He said that as part of the scheme, the beneficiaries will receive about Rs. 15,000 every year for over three years period. Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari, GVMC Commissioner G. Lakshmisha and a few others were present. Former BJP MLA P. Vishnu Kumar appreciated the scheme introduced by the State government. He said that the scheme would help in economic upliftment of poor women belonging to upper castes in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9676-persons-will-benefit-from-ysr-ebc-nestham-in-district-says-minister/article38327539.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Republic Day celebrations at Police Parade Grounds||The 73rd Republic Day celebrations will be held at the Police Parade Grounds at Suryabagh here on Wednesday. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna will unfurl the national flag at 9 a.m. and later receive the guard of honour. Later, he would present a report on the progress made by the district. Tableaux would be displayed by various government departments. Students would present cultural programmes. Invitees and participants have been asked to follow physical distancing norms and adhere to COVID appropriate behaviour in view of the pandemic situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/republic-day-celebrations-at-police-parade-grounds/article38327540.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Large hairball removed from boy’s stomach||A large ball of hair was successfully removed from the stomach of an 11-year-old boy at Seven Hills Hospital here recently. The boy was having pain in his abdomen for the past six month and was treated by Alok Mazumdar, HoD, Department of General Surgery and consultant general and laparoscopic surgeon. Hair measuring 15 x 5 cm was found the stomach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/large-hairball-removed-from-boys-stomach/article38327536.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja-laden car seized after hot chase, three arrested||Three ganja smugglers were nabbed by the police after a hot chase in Narsipatnam in the Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday. The accused, who were allegedly under the influence of ganja, wreaked havoc in Narsipatnam in the morning by ramming 15 vehicles, including an auto-rickshaw, with their car at various places and also injured two persons, when they were chased by the police. They also rammed stoppers which were placed by the district police to nab them at several junctions. On Tuesday morning, the Narsipatnam (Town) police received information that a car bearing Maharashtra registration number has escaped from Downuru Checkpost under Narsipatnam (Rural) police station limits by hitting the stoppers at a high speed. The accused finally stopped the car near a pond at Pedda Boddepalle. While two of them jumped into the waterbody in a bid to escape, one tried to run away. The police reached the spot and pulled out the two from the pond and caught the third after a brief chase. “We have seized about 250 kg of dry ganja from their vehicle. Moreover, they have damaged around 10 to 15 vehicles at various places in the town. Two persons received minor injuries also,” said Narsipatnam (Town) Sub Inspector G. Diwakar, who arrested them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-laden-car-seized-after-hot-chase-three-arrested/article38327533.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:39 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan credits Rs. 589 crore into accounts of 3.90 lakh women||“The government is committed to women’s empowerment and has partnered with top companies like ITC, Amul, Proctor and Gamble and Reliance to facilitate women with business opportunities,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. Such initiatives would boost confidence among women to run their businesses effortlessly and make them self-reliant. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the government was striving for the overall development of the State duly in accordance with the Constitution. He paid tributes to the constitution-makers as the scheme was being launched on the eve of the 73rd Republic Day. Women empowerment Recalling the two and a half years of governance, he said that Rs. 13,025 crore was spent on the Amma Vodi scheme benefiting over 44 lakh mothers. Almost 61.73 lakh people have been receiving social security pensions under YSR Pension Kanuka, and 78.75 lakh women have benefited through YSR Aasara scheme, he said. The government not just implemented welfare schemes for women but also appointed women in prominent posts like Legislative Council Vice-Chairperson, Deputy Chief Minister, Home Minister, State Election Officer and also brought 50% reservation for women in all nominated posts and nominated works, he said. Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, Chelluboyina Srinivasa Venugopalakrishna, and other senior officials were present at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-credits-rs-589-crore-into-accounts-of-390-lakh-women/article64945542.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:37 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patriotic fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/patriotic-fervour/article64945550.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:45 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Practice makes perfect||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/practice-makes-perfect/article64945459.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:44 IST,TELANGANA||LGS member surrenders||The outlawed CPI (Maoist) Charla Local Guerrilla Squad (LGS) member Vetty Jogi alias Jyothi, 19, surrendered before the district police officials in Kothagudem on Tuesday, police said. She hails from Bathinapalli village in Charla mandal of Bhadrachalam Agency. She decided to quit the banned outfit and return to the mainstream to lead a better life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lgs-member-surrenders/article38327274.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||Is Monoclonal Antibodies Cocktail a panacea?||Every time there is a new COVID wave, a few medicines become popular. The desperation to save family members or avoid severe forms of the infection makes hapless people opt for the ‘promising’ drugs. Currently, people are made aware of one such drug called ‘Monoclonal Antibodies Cocktail’, which costs around Rs. 60,000. However, several doctors from Telangana have underscored that the antibodies cocktail, available in India, are not effective against the Omicron variant. They have also stressed that 93% to 95% of the current COVID cases are of Omicron variant. Even if it is Delta variant, the drug cocktail has to be given within seven days of onset of the infection, and it is ineffective if the patient is in a severe stage of infection. Doctors said Remdesivir is suggested for patients with Omicron, after examining infection severity, presence of co-morbidities, immunity levels, and other factors. Antibodies Cocktail Antibodies developed in a lab are called Monoclonal Antibodies. The combination available in India is Casirivimab 600, and Imdevimab 600. So how does one arrive at a decision to give or take the antibodies cocktail? Doctors said that they have to know the variant, and antibodies’ levels in the patient before taking a call. In November 2021, AIG Hospital’s doctors had announced results of a study conducted on 285 high-risk individuals. They had claimed that Monoclonal antibody therapy reduces severe disease and death in high-risk individuals infected with Delta variant of SARS CoV 2 by 100%. Several doctors in Hyderabad said that the cocktail is not effective against Omicron. Consultant physician at AIG Hospitals Dr. Apoorva Munigela, who too gave the same opinion, said that Omicron variant has mutations in spike protein and Receptor Binding Domain, which cover the virus. “The Monoclonal Antibodies cocktail loses the function of neutralizing the virus because of these mutations,” said Dr. Aproova. In this situation, it becomes imperative to know the variant in a COVID patient before administering the drug cocktail. Genome sequencing is a conclusive method to know the variant. Another method is also used but as an indication. Usually, RT PCR test is done for N-Gene and ORF 1ab Gene. Private labs collect around Rs. 800 more to test for S-Gene, whose presence indicates Delta variant. Absence of the S-Gene indicates that the person might have Omicron. The method is called S-Gene Target Failure (SGTF). However, these tests will make the situation tricky.“The S-Gene is present in BA.2 sub-lineage of Omicron. This means that the presence of S-Gene does not necessarily mean a person has Delta, it could be the BA.2 sub-lineage,” said Dr. Apoorva. In such a situation, what can one do? The doctors said that all these details are explained to patients and their family members, who are then asked to take a decision. She and other doctors said that Remdesivir is given for Omicron. Consultant physician at Sunshine Hospitals Dr. Tudi Pavan Reddy said, “If somebody has Omicron, has persistent high grade fever, cough, oxygen saturation below 93, experiences difficulty in breathing, they have to consult doctors who decide if Remdesivir has to be given, or if the patient has to be hospitalised”. He said even if a youngster has Delta with mild symptoms, the antibody cocktail might not be required. The decision is taken after considering other factors. This drug is not administered at Gandhi Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/is-monoclonal-antibodies-cocktail-a-panacea/article64945648.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:09 IST,TELANGANA||BJP seeks Governor’s intervention||The Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has requested Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to “intervene” and “review” the tranfers made to government employees under the GO 317 by the TRS Government on Tuesday. In a memorandum submitted to the Governor at the Raj Bhavan, a party delegation led by former MLC N. Ramchander Rao, state convener of legal cell Ravinder Vishwanath and others, urged her to seek a report from the government to ‘rectify’ the “arbitrary” transfers by ordering for allotments based on “transparency and legally”. The party contended that the government had counted seniority from the date of transfers taken up in 2018-20 by the teachers on mutual consent or inter district transfers. Having lost their seniority for purpose of promotions, the officials concerned did not count their seniority based on their date of appointment for the current transfers and this was “illegal”, they maintained. Mr. Ramchander Rao and colleagues informed Dr. Soundararajan that at least eight teachers had committed suicide because of the ‘irregularities’ in the allotments made across the State. Teachers “without influence” had been transferred to places more than 100 km away from their families forcing them to travel as much distance daily and these transfers were based on a “tentative seniority list” without issuing a final one. The entire allotments were made without any transparency and at the instance of “union leaders” and “those with influence” got better placements. The nativity identity based on which the separate Telangana agitation was built on had come to a naught as transfers were “arbitrarily made based on date of birth or merit or seniority without any uniformity”, charged the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-seeks-governors-intervention/article64945642.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:44 IST,TELANGANA||Five from TS win Padma Awards||Bharat Biotech Limited Chairman and Managing Director . Krishna Ella and his wife Suchitra Ella have been conferred with Padma Bhushan award, one among the highest civilian awards, of the country. The duo has been selected for their distinguished service of high order in the category of trade. Under Mr. Ella’s leadership, Bharat Biotech had grown to become a global leader in innovative vaccines, especially with Covaxin, the country’s indigenous COVID-19 vaccine in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology (NIV). Mr. Ella is the CMD and Ms. Ella, the Joint MD of Bharat Biotech, which owns 145 patents and has delivered over 4 billion vaccines doses globally. Though well known for its work, the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker shot to prominence with Covaxin, the indigenous COVID-19 vaccine. Following the Padma award announcement, Raches Ella, their son, tweeted: “Congratulations to @Suchitra Ella/Dr. Krishna Ella & Dr. Cyrus Poonawalla for being awarded the Padma Bhushan! Tremendous recognition to India’s mighty vaccine industry.” Three others from the State also won the award and these included -Darshanam Mogalaiah, Padmaja Reddy, and Ramachandraiah in the field of Art. Darshanam Mogalaiah, the last of balladeer playing Kinnera, a stringed musical instrument, is yet another achievement for this tribal artist hailing from the old backward Mahabubnagar district. Mogalaiah belonging to the Dakkali tribe of Nallamala forest in Mahabubnagar district plays the 12-fret Kinnera, the rare instrument with three resonators. He was in limelight after the yet to be released Pawan Kalyan starrer Bhimla Nayak. Padmaja Reddy is a renowned Kuchipudi dance exponent with over 3000 performances in India and abroad. She also won the Sangeeta Nataka Akademi Award. Very little is known about Ramachandraiah, who won the Padma Shri award. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao congratulated Padma Bhushan awardees Krishna Ella and Suchitra Ella under trade and industry category, Padma Shri awardees Darshanam Mogalaiah, Ramachandraiah and Padmaja Reddy for getting award under Art category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-from-ts-win-padma-awards/article64945762.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:09 IST,TELANGANA||‘Centre usurping States’ powers’||CPI(M) polit bureau member Prakash Karat expressed anguish that the NDA government led by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi is bent upon puncturing the federal spirit of the constitution by fast diminishing the role and rights of the State governments. Addressing a media conference along with the party’s state leadership on the concluding day of the CPI(M) Telangana State Conference at Turkayamjal on Tuesday, Mr. Karat cited the Centre’s decision for the IAS cadre rule change as an example, and termed it an obliteration of the States’ rights, and an attempt to centralise the power. The rule change is aimed at keeping key officials in the Centre’s control, Mr.Karat alleged. Several states ruled by non-BJP parties had opposed the move, including Telangana, Bengal, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu. Telangana government, which had earlier often expressed support for the central government, was now fighting the same, Mr.Karat said, advising the state to keep up the opposition and work together with the non-BJP governments of the other States. Informing that the party’s central committee’s meeting which took place in city about 10 days ago, passed a resolution seeking to defeat BJP in the upcoming elections in five states, Mr. Karat said, in Uttar Pradesh, CPI(M) will work together with the Samajwadi Party towards this end. He demanded that the coming budget should be planned in such a way to improve the purchasing capacities of people, by allocating more funds for education and health. The party elected its new state committee, and new secretariat which re-elected Tammineni Veerabhadram as the new state secretary. The four-day state conference passed resolutions for improvement of health services in the State, 10 per cent reservations for the STs, declaration of COVID-19 as national calamity and allocation of funds in the coming budget, special package for Adivasis, recognition of podu rights, and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-usurping-states-powers/article64945639.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||Police step up investigation into Mahesh Bank server hack||Hyderabad city police’s cyber crime officials have stepped up investigation into Tuesday’s hacking of servers of A.P. Mahesh Co-operative Urban Bank Limited. The incident, police had said, was reported at around 12 noon after bank officials noticed unauthorised access and close to Rs. 12.50 crore were transferred to more than 100 bank accounts, in Telangana and outside. The police has already frozen close to Rs. 2.5 crore of the total value of the fraudulent transactions. It is learnt that the breach in security protocols was achieved through the bank’s main server and by targeting its three specific bank accounts. According to Addl. Commissioner (Crimes) A.R. Srinivas, four teams have been formed to investigate the case, and bank officials in the technical departments were inquired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bank-server-hack-being-probed/article38327271.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||TS adds 4,559 more COVID cases||Two days after recording less than 4,000 COVID cases in Telangana, 4,559 fresh cases were recorded on Tuesday, as over a lakh tests were conducted. Less than one lakh samples were tested on Sunday and Monday, which led to detection of less than 4,000 infections. On Tuesday, 1,13,670 samples were examined, and the results of 7,695 were awaited. 2 persons succumb Two more COVID patients died on Tuesday. More than 80% of the daily case load in the State was from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Rangareddy, and Medchal Malkjgiri districts for several days. Gradually, over 100 infections each are recorded in Hanamkonda, and Khammam. Nalgonda, and Karimnagar too, got added to the list, and six more districts recorded over 99 cases. The new 4,559 cases include 1,450 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 432 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 322 from Rangareddy, 201 from Hanamkonda, 145 from Khammam, 138 from Nalgonda, and 112 from Karimnagar. From March 2, 2020, to January 25 this year, a total of 3.15 crore samples were tested and 7,43,354 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 36,269 were active cases, 7,03,008 have recovered, and 4,077 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-adds-4559-more-covid-cases/article64945646.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||Housing pattas for the poor soon: KTR||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao has announced that the government will soon take up distribution of housing titles for the urban poor. If need be, the government orders issued earlier for regularisation of housing sites for the urban poor will be re-issued and implemented, he promised on Tuesday, after laying foundation for five sewage treatment plants at various locations in Qutbullahpur constituency. The five plants are part of the total 31 new STPs being built at a cost of Rs. 3,866 crore by the Hyderabdad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board across various points in the city. Located at Fox Sagar, Vennelagadda, Gayatrinagar, Pariki Cheruvu and Shivalaya Nagar, they have a combined capacity of treating 66 million litres of sewage per day (MLD), and cost Rs. 248.44 crore. Foundation stone was also laid for Fox Sagar nala development works at an estimated cost of Rs. 95 crore, in order to prevent flooding of the areas nearby. In a spree of events lined up in the day, Mr.Rama Rao also laid foundation for the flyover being built at Bachupally by HMDA at an estimated cost of Rs. 138 crore. He inaugurated an urban forest park named ‘Prana Vayuvu’ at Gajularamaram, built with an expenditure of Rs. 11.38 crore, along with the Minister for Environment & Forests A.Indrakaran Reddy. Foundation was also laid for development works of Chintal Cheruvu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/housing-pattas-for-the-poor-soon-ktr/article38327269.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||Department of Posts releases booklet on world heritage sites||Chief Postmaster General S. Rajendra Kumar on Tuesday, also celebrated as National Tourism Day, released a “Prestige Booklet” on UNESCO World Heritage Sites in India. According to officials of the Department of Posts, the idea behind the move is to encourage identification, protection and preservation of natural and cultural heritage. The Prestige Booklet contains information on stamps released on three types of sites: World Heritage Sites - I, which pertains to hill forts of Rajasthan, UNESCO World Heritage Sites - II, which has information on natural heritage sites, and UNESCO World Heritage Sites - III, which contains cultural heritage sites and three original miniature sheets. The booklet will be available for sale at Rs. 800 from January 27 by means of the Philatelic Bureau, Hyderabad GPO. It will also be available on https://eshop.tsposts.in. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Kumar said that the idea of releasing a Prestige Booklet was introduced in 1995. While the Stamp Booklet has original stamps, the Prestige Booklet contains information about the subject, as well as original stamps. The Department of Posts said that India has 40 world heritage sites, of which 32 are cultural heritage sites, seven are natural heritage sites and one is a mixed-criteria site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dept-of-posts-releases-booklet-on-heritage-sites/article38327260.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||CSIR-CCMB to collaborate with Institut Pasteur||Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) through the Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) will be collaborating with Institut Pasteur (France) in specific health research fields, including genomics of inherited diseases, which will lead to precision and personalised medicines. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between CSIR Ddirector general Dr. Shekhar Mande and Institut Pasteur president Prof. Stewart Cole on Tuesday to take the initiative forward. The question of infectious diseases and their ability to re-emerge, better understanding of antimicrobial resistance and research in the development of new models for drug screening are the other areas of collaborative research being planned. The pact is a follow up of Prof. Cole’s visit to CSIR-CCMB in January 2020 here when scientists of both research institutes had decided to collaborate on the subjects mentioned above. This is also a jointeffort to tackle potential new global health threats that could surface in future, said a release. The new collaboration perfectly fits with France Healthcare Innovation 2030 program whose overallambition is to make it a leading European nation in terms of healthcare innovation andsovereignty, particularly in terms of biomedical research, clinical trials and, more generally, disruptive innovations in the health sector. This is through the development of biotherapy and support for specialisthealthcare start-ups in order to achieve “a medicine that is more predictive, more preventive and moreinnovative. Such an ambitious plan would not be realistically achieved without intense and fruitfulinternational research collaborations”, it said. The hybrid event was witnessed by Ambassador Emmanuel Lenain and Director General for Research and Innovation at the Ministry ofHigher Education, Research and Innovation Claire Giry and others. Institut Pasteur is a non-profit private foundation dedicated to the study of biology, micro-organisms, diseases, and vaccines. For over a century, it has been responsible for discoveries to control diseases such as diphtheria, tetanus, TB, poliomyelitis, or influenza. It is located in 25 countries.CSIR – CCMB has also demonstrated very important achievements, for instance a collaborationleading to a low cost vaccine against Hepatitis B, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/csir-ccmb-to-collaborate-with-institut-pasteur/article38327259.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:09 IST,TELANGANA||Police biased, collapse of law and order: Cong.||Telangana police have been turned into a unit of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) by the government and their behaviour was reeking of bias, and it was high time Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan intervened and infuse confidence among the people, a delegation of the Telangana Congress party urged. The delegation led by Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka and MLAs T. Jayaprakash Reddy, D. Sreedhar Babu and D. Seethakka met the Governor at Raj Bhavan on Tuesday stating that the police was suppressing the democratic rights of the Opposition parties and blatantly biased towards the ruling party members. Mr. Vikramarka said the situation has come to a state where the police were taking orders from the TRS leaders and to get justice people have to be with the ruling party or else they have to face the police wrath. He said the Opposition party leaders, including the MPs and MLAs were placed under house arrest or their visits to meet the people were being stalled using force. This was a result of TRS turning the police into their party unit, he alleged and added that some police officers, taking action only to be in the good books of the TRS leadership, were bringing a bad name to the entire force. Stating that the law and order in the State has totally collapsed, the Congress delegation recalled the events over the past few years and how the government’s callous attitude to tackle even serious crimes was increasing fear among the common people about their safety. The representation listed out the incidents, including the recent suicide of a businessman in Paloncha due to the threats by the MLA’s son; brutal daylight murder of advocates Vaman Rao and Nagamani in Manthani; the killing of Congress leader Bodupalli Srinivas, husband of then Nalgonda Municipal Chairperson; rape and murder of Disha; rape and murder of a girl in Hazipur village in Nalgonda; lockup death of a Dalit woman Mariamma; lock up death of Seelam Rangaiah in Manthani were among a few. But no action has been taken against any of the accused so far, the delegation claimed while recalling that Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy himself admitted the rise in crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-biased-collapse-of-law-and-order-cong/article38327283.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:09 IST,TELANGANA||Bandi condemns ‘attack’ on Aravind||Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday strongly condemned the ‘attack’ on party Member of Parliament Dharmapuri Aravind at Nizamabad and squarely blamed the police for allowing a ‘free run’ to the TRS functionaries. “The pathetic law and order situation in Telangana can be gauged from this attack on our MP with the connivance of the police. When we tried to call Director General of Police Mahender Reddy, he did not take the call. I do not understand why the government gave him the phone facility,” he said, talking to the media at Nalgonda. Demanding the culprits behind the ‘attack’ be dealt with seriously, he wanted Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to respond to this crime immediately. The ‘autocratic and whimsical’ policy decisions of the Chief Minister is leading to the unfortunate suicide of highly educated yet unemployed youth across the State, he charged. The employees and teachers too are resorting to the extreme step unable to bear the “anxiety and grief” caused by GO 317 zonal transfers throwing aside the nativity and seniority issues, he said. “How many more people will be sacrificed and made scapegoats by this Chief Minister before he wakes up. If this GO 317 is not modified, we will take up a massive agitation,” warned the Karimnagar MP. “Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao does not seem to be bothered by difficulties of the people and opposition to his polices, but we will take it up with the Centre which is already seized of his scams and about diversion of funds,” he claimed. With regard to Minister for IT, Municipal Administration & Industries K.T. Rama Rao tweeting to Tesla CEO to invest in the State, Mr. Sanjay Kumar said while a car manufacturing company was welcome as it would create thousands of jobs, allowing a car showroom or warehouse would generate no other jobs except those of watchmen! “Our twitter minister does not even have this basic understanding and has been resorting to false propaganda against the Indian government on this,” he added. Senior leader Vivek Venkataswamy, Adilabad MP S. Babu Rao, MLAs T. Raja Singh, Eatala Rajender, vice president D.K. Aruna, general secretary G. Premender Reddy and other leaders too joined in condemning the attack on Mr. Aravind.Meanwhile, Mr. Aravind accused the police of being mute spectators when TRS partymen attacked him with rods and swords. The MP who staged a dharna on the main road, said he would complain to the Lok Sabha Privileges Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandi-condemns-attack-on-aravind/article38327273.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||Agritech start-up raises $6 m||Our Food, an agritech start-up into innovative, low-cost and decentralised mini food processing units, has raised $6 million. The funding round was led by existing investor 3Lines Venture Capital and a new investor, C4D Asia Fund. 3Lines India chairman and ex-CEO of Reliance Infrastructure Lalit Jalan will be joining its board, Our Food said on Tuesday. The company said it plans to ramp up operations, increase manufacturing capacity and improve the agricultural food supply chain that sees an estimated $5 billion annual post-harvest wastage in the country. “This capital infusion will help boost our capacity to over 6,000 operational franchises, gives us the right ammunition to significantly disrupt the food processing industry and position us for an IPO in 2024,” founder and CEO Bala Reddy said. Over 1,700 rural entrepreneurs have licenced Our Food’s farmer franchises, each operating a regional crop-specific processing unit that procures and processes raw material from over a hundred farmers from nearby villages. Each franchisee is powered with an end-to-end tech-enabled solution, starting with the establishment of a single mini food processing unit, access to equipment financing, training in processing, and marketing of the processed output, the start-up said in a release. Our Food has presence in 12 States, but primarily concentrates in AP, Telangana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Karnataka. It has processing units for over 15 crops, and plans to expand its crop portfolio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/agritech-start-up-raises-6-million/article38327258.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:09 IST,TELANGANA||Revanth to contest for next Assembly||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and MP A. Revanth Reddy on Tuesday announced that he would contest from Kodangal constituency in next Assembly elections. Speaking to his supporters at Kodangal, a constituency he represented earlier, Mr. Reddy exuded the confidence that he would win with a huge majority in the next elections. The TPCC chief got emotional while thanking the Congress cadre for achieving membership of 75,000 in the Kodangal constituency. With a huge membership of 75,000 Kodangal has emerged an ideal constituency for the Congress not only in Telangana but the entire country. He felicitated the Congress leaders and workers who enrolled more than 500 members in their respective polling booths at a function at Kosgi on Tuesday. He announced that these activists would also be honoured by AICC leader Rahul Gandhi. He said the party had introduced schemes like crop loan waiver free electricity for farmers, Aarogyasri, and 4% reservation to Muslims. The TPCC chief also said he brought drinking water to Kodangal at a cost of Rs. 350 crore. A 50-bed hospital was also set up in Kosgi. But after Mr. Narender Reddy was elected in 2018 the development had come to a stand still.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-to-contest-for-next-assembly/article64945636.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:42 IST,TELANGANA||Teacher held for harassment||Rachakonda police’s cyber crime officials arrested a private school teacher, Regonda Venkata Sai, of Jagityal for allegedly sexually harassing a girl student. He installed an app on his phone to generate virtual phone numbers to send text messages to the victim girl. He even sent abusive texts and obscene pictures to the girl and her mother, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teacher-held-for-harassment/article38327272.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||53 child workers rescued||Police of Medak have rescued as many 53 children working in various shops under Operation Smile – VIII. Superintendent of Police Rohini Priyadarshini said these children will be handed over to the district child protection officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/53-child-workers-rescued/article38327490.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:09 IST,TELANGANA||CM’s greetings on Republic Day||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao greeted people on the eve of 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday. The sovereign right of the people to elect their governments for self-rule was the hallmark of the Indian democracy, the largest democracy in the world. Unity in diversity was another major feature of the country where different cultures and traditions live together symbolizing the concept of universal brotherhood. The federal structure incorporated in the Constitution was aimed at decentralization of power which would strengthen the democratic foundations and the states had become the face of the country. Protection of the rights of the States in the country, a Union of States, would further enhance the prestige of the country, he said. The Chief Minister said Telangana, the newly formed State, was displaying the spirit of federalism right from its inception. Efforts had been made to ensure that politics did not interfere in the administrative process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cms-greetings-on-republic-day/article38327282.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:09 IST,TELANGANA||GRMB Chairman elevated as CWC Member||The Ministry of Jal Shakti has appointed J. Chandrashekhar Iyer, currently Chairman of Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) and Chief Executive Officer of the Polavaram Project Authority (PPA), as Member of Central Water Commission on Tuesday. According to an order issued by Under Secretary in the MoJS A.K. Das on Tuesday, Mr. Iyer will be Member (D&R) in the CWC with effect from February 1. The order also stated that Mr. Iyer will continue to hold the additional charge as Chairman of GRMB and CEO of the Polavaram Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/grmb-chairman-elevated-as-cwc-member/article38327281.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:42 IST,TELANGANA||Official booked for attempt to murder in family dispute||Superintending Engineer of Nagarjunasagar Project, Korra Dharma, was booked for attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy and extortion, based on a petition by his wife Boda Padmaja with the Saidabad police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/official-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-in-family-dispute/article38327270.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:10 IST,TELANGANA||Young unemployed graduate ends life||Frustrated over being unemployed, a 23-year-old graduate and a police job aspirant, allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a moving train in Khammam town in the wee hours of Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Muthyala Sagar, a native of Garla Bayyaram in Mahabubabad district. The tragic death of the young graduate, a NCC ‘C’ certificate holder, triggered widespread protests with activists of the PDSU, PYL, DYFI and a host of other youth organisations blaming the State government for its alleged failure to address the unemployment problem and disburse the promised unemployment allowance to jobless youth. The mutilated body of Sagar was found on the railway tracks near Mamillagudem in the town in the early hours of the day. The Khammam Government Railway Police (GRP) examined the scene and registered a case. Volunteers of the Annam Seva Foundation led by Srinivasa Rao shifted the body to the mortuary at the district headquarters hospital. Touching scenes were witnessed at the hospital as Badraiah, father of the deceased, cried inconsolably over the tragic death of his only son. A tense situation prevailed in front of the hospital when a group of PDSU and PYL activists staged a demonstration. Speaking to media persons, PDSU district president Namala Azad said Sagar hailed from a poor labourer’s family. He excelled in NCC activities while pursuing his Bachelor of Arts (BA) course at a local college and after completion of graduation he had joined a coaching center to secure a police job. However, the delay in release of job notifications and the COVID induced turbulent times shattered his hopes, Azad said. Azad said Sagar in his WhatsApp status on his mobile phone blamed lack of job notifications and COVID crisis for his resorting to the drastic step. The State government should sanction Rs. 50 lakh ex-gratia to the bereaved family and immediately release job notifications and also disburse unemployment allowance among jobless youth, the PDSU leader demanded. (Roshini — SuicidePrevention Helpline: 040-66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/young-unemployed-graduate-ends-life/article38327492.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:08 IST,TELANGANA||Republic Day fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/republic-day-fervour/article64945647.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:42 IST,TELANGANA||Republic Day get-up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/republic-day-get-up/article64945766.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:35 IST,||File FIR against Amazon: M.P. govt.||The Madhya Pradesh government has directed the police to register an FIR against officials of e-commerce giant Amazon and its owner for allegedly selling products, including shoes, with the image of the Indian national flag, Home Minister Narottam Mishra said on Tuesday. Amazon faced the ire of a section of Indian social media users over merchandising some products, including apparel and food items, that feature images of the Indian flag, with some saying that using the Tricolour in such a way is an insult and a violation of the country’s flag code. “It has come to my notice that our national flag is used on products being sold by Amazon. It is intolerable that even it (the national flag) has been used on shoes,” Mr. Mishra said. Prima facie, it is a violation of the National Flag Code, he said. “I have directed Director General of Police to file an FIR against Amazon’s officials and owner,” he added. This is not the first time that the M.P.’s Home Minister has directed the police to file an FIR against Amazon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/file-fir-against-amazon-mp-govt/article38327409.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:35 IST,||Himachal celebrates 52nd Statehood day||The 52ndStatehood day of Himachal Pradesh was celebrated on Tuesday with great fervour and enthusiasm across the State. The State-level function was held in Solan, where Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur unfurled the Tricolor. Addressing the people, Mr. Thakur said that the State has recently implemented new pay scales for employees of the State government ensuring benefits of about Rs. 6,000 crore to about 2.25 lakh employees. He said that it was felt that few disparities existed in the new pay scales of a few categories. He announced that now the employees would be given a third option besides the two options already given to them. “The pensioners would also be given pension as per the new pay scales of the government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/himachal-celebrates-52nd-statehood-day/article38327349.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:35 IST,||Parties begin BMC poll preparations||Two days after Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray asked his party workers and leaders to prepare for local body polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday said it is ready for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls. A meeting of the party leaders, MPs and MLAs from Mumbai was held to make strategy for the campaigning for the polls, which are likely to be announced soon. The polls were announced in the first week of January 2017 but have now been delayed due to the third wave of the novel coronavirus. “Our aim is to win this election. We discussed with our leaders on the campaign strategy and how to win as many seats as possible. We are confident that we will win as the ruling Sena has failed to deliver on the promises of development. We are ready for polls anytime,” said MLA and former Mumbai BJP president Ashish Shelar. The BJP’s meeting came two days after Mr. Thackeray asked his party workers and leaders to ensure Sena’s victory. Test of strength While there has been no clarity on when the polls will be held owing to the virus situation in the State, all parties have begun ground work as the elections to the municipal corporations and the zilla parishads are seen as mini-Assembly elections and a test of strength of all parties. A day after indulging in war of words over Hindutva, the BJP on Tuesday targeted the BMC for naming a garden in Malvani area of western suburbs as Veer Tipu Sultan. The area falls under the constituency of Congress MLA and Minister Aslam Sheikh. The programme is being scheduled on January 26. The BJP claimed that Tipu Sultan, a ruler of Mysore kingdom in 1780s who is known to have fought fierce battles against the British to save his throne, was anti-Hindu and killed them. “How can Shiv Sena allow this? Have they forgotten Hindutva?” asked BJP corporator Bhalchandra Shirsat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/parties-begin-bmc-poll-preparations/article38327410.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:35 IST,||Bombay HC reserves judgment in plea seeking to appoint permanent DGP||TheBombay High Courton Tuesdayreserved its order ona plea seeking direction totheMaharashtra government to appoint a permanentDirector General of Police as per recommendation made bytheUPSC. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and justice M.S. Karnik was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Datta Mane seeking direction to Maharashtra government to appoint a permanent DGP as per recommendation made by the UPSC. There was a meeting of the panel on November 2021 and then Chief Secretary (Sitaram Kunte) was party to the committee.He had then agreed to three recommendationsby theCommissionand now questions are being raised to include the acting DGP Sanjay Pandey in the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bombay-hc-reserves-judgment-in-plea-seeking-to-appoint-permanent-dgp/article38327348.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:16 IST,||8-year-old girl raped; two boys held||An eight-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two boys aged 10 and 12 in north-east Delhi’s Shastri Park area, police said on Tuesday. The boys have been apprehended and sent to a juvenile home. A senior police officer said that on Monday around 2 p.m., the victim was playing outside her house when she was lured and raped by a 12-year-old boy of the same locality. It was later found that another boy, who was also present at the spot, also raped her, the officer added. The victim is undergoing treatment at GTB Hospital. A case has been registered under Sections 363 (kidnapping) 376AB (rape) of IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The Delhi Commission for Women said, “Due to her critical condition, the girl was rushed to a government hospital where she went through a surgery. Her condition continues to remain critical as she is currently being treated in the ICU.” It has asked the police to produce a detailed action-taken report in 48 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/8-year-old-girl-raped-two-boys-held/article38327176.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:16 IST,||Govt. offices to have Ambedkar, Bhagat Singh portraits: CM||All Delhi government offices will only have portraits of B.R. Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh and no longer have photos of politicians, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday. “We are celebrating Republic Day. This occasion is synonymous with celebrating our freedom fighters. Dr. Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh have inspired and impacted my thoughts the most,” Mr. Kejriwal said while leading the Republic Day celebrations at Delhi Secretariat. Talking about COVID-related restrictions, Mr. Kejriwal said the country had seen three waves, but Delhi had seen five. “No State has faced what Delhi has,” he said. The government had to take tough decisions and implement curbs which have impacted the economy, he said. “I request everyone to keep faith in us and understand that we impose only the most necessary restrictions. We don’t want anyone to suffer,” he said. “We don’t want to hurt the economy. Protecting lives is paramount, ensuring public health is paramount,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal also urged people not to harbour any resentment against L-G Anil Baijal, especially after he deferred a government proposal to lift all curbs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-offices-to-have-ambedkar-bhagat-singh-portraits-cm/article38327179.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:16 IST,||BJP delegation asks L-G to lift curfew||A delegation of BJP MLAs met Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday demanding the withdrawal of restrictions on shops as well as lifting of night and weekend curfews in the Capital. “People are facing a lot of problems due to the rules imposed by the government in the name of controlling COVID-19,” said Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, urging that the curfew be lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-delegation-asks-l-g-to-lift-curfew/article38327178.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:16 IST,||6,028 fresh COVID-19 cases; positivity dips||The downward trend in COVID-19 cases continued in the city on Tuesday with the test positivity rate (TPR) falling to 10.55% from 11.79% on Monday, according to a Delhi government bulletin. The number of new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours increased to 6,028 on Tuesday from 5,760, a day earlier due to an increase in the number of tests. Thirty-one new deaths were reported, taking the total deaths to 25,681, as per the bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/6028-fresh-covid-19-cases-positivity-dips/article38327180.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:16 IST,||HC to reduce costs imposed on Juhi Chawla||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday proposed to reduce to Rs. 2 lakh the Rs. 20 lakh cost it had imposed on actor Juhi Chawla and two others. Ms. Chawla had moved an appeal against an order passed by a single Judge Bench in June, 2021 rejecting her lawsuit against the 5G rollout. The Bench, however, asked the actor to work for some public cause, considering her status as a celebrity. Senior advocate Salman Khurshid, representing the actor, consented to the court’s suggestion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-to-reduce-costs-imposed-on-juhi-chawla/article38327177.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:16 IST,||City records coldest day of the season||The Capital witnessed the coldest day of the season on Tuesday with the maximum temperature settling at 12.1 degrees Celsius, 10 degrees colder than the normal for the season. The minimum temperature settled at 6.2 degrees Celsius, one notch below normal. The IMD declared it a “severe” cold day as the minimum temperature was below 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was more than 6.5 notches below normal. It will be partly cloudy on Wednesday with strong surface winds for the next two days, the IMD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-records-coldest-day-of-the-season/article38327182.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:35 IST,||‘JPSC mains to be deferred’||The Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) on Tuesday told the Jharkhand High Court that the State civil services mains examination slated to be held on January 28 will be postponed to consider objections raised by some candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jpsc-mains-to-be-deferred/article38327408.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:35 IST,||Curfew unlikely in Valley on R-Day||The J&K administration is planning not to impose a curfew or restrictions in the Kashmir valley on the Republic Day on Wednesday, even as four persons, including a policeman, were injured in a grenade explosion in Srinagar on Tuesday, a day ahead of the functions in the Union Territory (UT). A top police officer said a fool-proof and multi-tier security grid is in place to ensure peaceful functions on the occasion of Republic Day in Kashmir. “There will be no curfew or restrictions on movement of people. However, any final decision on suspending the mobile internet services will be taken on the basis of intelligence inputs,” the officer said. A security blanket has been thrown around all the major venues of celebrations in J&K. Aerial surveillance through quadcopters and drones has been carried out. Multiple checkpoints have been set up on all the roads leading to the venues in the UT, especially in Srinagar and Jammu. Officials said J&K Lt. Governor Manoj Sinha will preside over a function in Jammu. His advisor R.R. Bhatnagar will attend a function in Srinagar. Meanwhile, four persons, including a policeman, were injured in a grenade explosion by suspected militants at Srinagar’s busy Hari Singh High Street market on Tuesday afternoon. Officials said a grenade was tossed towards a parked police vehicle at Hari Singh High Street in the afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/curfew-unlikely-in-valley-on-r-day/article64945707.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:59 IST,||‘Reopen schools, colleges in Bengal’||A campaign is on in West Bengal in favour of reopening of educational institutions, with many angry parents demanding to know why is it that always it is the students who are made to sit home whenever pandemic-related restrictions are imposed. Schools and colleges, which had reopened late last year, were to resume classes on January 2 after winter vacation but were shut again after the Omicron-driven third wave caused an explosion in the number of COVID-19 cases. As of now, they are to remain shut till January 31. However, there is no official word yet on whether they will reopen after that date. The campaign is reflecting online, with demands for reopening of institutions being made under the hashtag #openschoolcollegeuniversities. “There was a time when the closure was a necessity. But now that we are trying to normalise ourselves, why are the students being made to stay home?” asked Sunetra Mitra, a professor of history at the Ramakrishna Sarada Mission Vivekananda Vidyabhavan in Kolkata. “You see the young people go everywhere — on vacations, to malls, to restaurants, to pandals — they seem to be going everywhere except to their schools or colleges.” “Also, it is not possible for a vast majority of students to afford online classes. How many of them actually have access to a smartphone or laptop? Such students are eventually dropping out. In fact, we are creating an entire generation of dropouts. There seems to be a deliberate attempt to destroy the fabric of education,” said Prof. Mitra, who is the mother of a college-going daughter. Online slogans Slogans in Bengali, such as “No more Google/Zoom, give us back the classroom” are being shared online. Many of the parents demanding the return of offline education are teachers themselves. “The longer schools and colleges remain closed and the more we rely on apps, the very idea of the institution is going to be rendered useless, which in turn will severely impact the education system,” said college teacher Saubhik Bandyopadhyay, father of a teenager. “Technology is important, it can complement education, not replace classroom.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/reopen-schools-colleges-in-bengal/article64945745.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:59 IST,||Cattle smuggling drops along border||Cattle smuggling along the south Bengal border has dropped to a large extent, while the infiltration along the India-Bangladesh border remains a concern. In 2021, the South Bengal Frontier of the BSF seized 1,609 cattle heads, a sharp drop from 29,720 seized during 2019. Seizure of cattle heads is an indication of the extent of smuggling along the border. Unfenced border South Bengal Frontier of the BSF guards 913 km from Sunderbans in the south to Malda in the north and about 40% of the border is unfenced. About 363.930 km of the border is riverine, with dense population on both sides, making it one of the most challenging borders to manage. Over the past few years, the BSF along with Central investigating agencies has acted against those involved in organised smuggling rackets, including some personnel of the border guarding forces. Senior BSF officers of the frontier cautioned that any let down in the vigilance along the border can once again revive smuggling rackets in the region. In 2021, the border guarding forces apprehended 2,036 Bangladeshi nationals who had illegally entered the country. The same year, 860 Indian nationals were apprehended for illegally crossing the border. The question now being asked is if the border guarding forces are able to stop cattle smuggling, how are thousands of people able to illegally cross the border? There are certain hotspots like Swaroopnagar in North 24 Parganas where there is large scale illegal infiltration. While most of the infiltration is for economic reasons, there is ample evidence of exploitation, particularly of women and children. Victims rescued “South Bengal Frontier’s Anti-Human Trafficking rescued 33 victims (28 women and five minor girls) and 29 cases were registered during the year 2021. Along with this, 33 touts involved in human trafficking have also been arrested,” said S.S. Guleria, DIG and spokesperson of the South Bengal Frontier of the BSF. During the past year, 55 Bangladeshi nationals who had crossed over to India were handed over to the Border Guard Bangladesh as a “ humanitarian gesture”. Data shared by the BSF also indicated a decline in the smuggling of narcotics in the region. Border management has in the past few months become a political issue with the Union government’s notification to increase territorial jurisdiction of the BSF from 15 to 50 km and the West Bengal government opposing this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cattle-smuggling-drops-along-border/article38327356.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:59 IST,||TMC MLA escapes unhurt as mini-truck hits convoy cars||Trinamool Congress MLA Jakir Hossain had a close shave on Tuesday when two of the vehicles of his convoy were hit by a mini-truck in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district, a police officer said. Five people — three policemen who were part of the former Minister’s security team and the mini-truck driver and his assistant — were injured in the accident that occurred in Talai More area. Mr. Hossain, who was gravely injured in a bomb blast in a railway station in the district in February last year, alleged that there is a conspiracy behind the accident. “The MLA was travelling from Jangipur to his home this afternoon when a mini-truck hit two vehicles, including a pilot car. Both the vehicles were badly damaged. The MLA is unhurt,” the officer told PTI over the phone from Behrampur, the district headquarters. Policemen injured Three policemen, the driver of the mini-truck and his assistant were injured in the accident and were hospitalised. When contacted, Mr. Hossain said he demands a proper investigation into the matter. “I think there is some kind of conspiracy behind this. It happened days after one policeman was removed from my security team,” the former Minister of State for Labour said. Bomb blast Mr. Hossain and 22 others were seriously injured when a bomb, kept inside a bag, exploded at Nimtita railway station on the night of February 17 last year when he was waiting on a platform to board a train. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the investigation into the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tmc-mla-escapes-unhurt-as-mini-truck-hits-convoy-cars/article38327350.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:59 IST,||All decked up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/all-decked-up/article64945746.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:59 IST,||NIA takes over probe into Khejuri blast||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over the investigation into a bomb blast in which two persons, including a Trinamool Congress worker, were killed at Bhanganmari village in Purba Medinipur district earlier this month, an official of the agency said on Tuesday. “Our sleuths will be investigating the blasts. We have taken over the investigation from the State police,” a NIA officer said. On January 5, two persons were killed and three injured in the village within Khejuri police station limits after the bombs, they were allegedly manufacturing, went off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nia-takes-over-probe-into-khejuri-blast/article38327351.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:46 IST,||West is ‘united’ against Russia: Biden||U.S. President Joe Biden declared “total” unity among Western powers on Monday after crisis talks with European leaders on deterring Russia from an attack against Ukraine, while the Pentagon said 8,500 U.S. troops were put on standby for possible deployment to boost NATO. “I had a very, very, very good meeting — total unanimity with all the European leaders,” Mr. Biden told reporters shortly after finishing a one-hour-and-20-minute video conference with allied leaders from Europe and NATO. In London, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s office also said “the leaders agreed on the importance of international unity in the face of growing Russian hostility”. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said, “it is up to Russia to undertake visible de-escalation”, while NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg warned of “severe costs” if there is “any further aggression” by Moscow against Ukraine. Also on the call were the leaders of France, Italy, Poland and the European Union. In Washington, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said a force of up to 8,500 U.S. troops was on “heightened alert” for potential deployment to reinforce any activation of the NATO Response Force in the region, where there are growing fears of spillover from the Ukraine conflict. “What this is about... is re-assurance to our NATO allies,” Mr. Kirby said. “It sends a very clear signal to Mr. Putin that we take our responsibilities to NATO seriously.” NATO also said it was sending jets and ships to bolster its eastern flank. The French government announced that Russian and Ukrainian officials would meet, along with French and German counterparts, in Paris on Wednesday to try to find a way out of the impasse. French President Emmanuel Macron “thinks there is a space for diplomacy, a path to de-escalation,” an aide said, confirming that Mr. Macron would speak to Mr. Putin “in the coming days.” Washington is trying to maintain transatlantic unity to build a credible threat of sanctions as a deterrence against Moscow. However, members of the 27-nation EU have starkly differing approaches and ties to Russia, which supplies about 40% of the trade bloc’s natural gas supplies. NATO ‘on standby’ The U.S.-led NATO alliance said members were placing troops “on standby” and sending ships and jets to bolster eastern Europe’s defences, pointing to recent mobilisations by Denmark, Spain and the Netherlands. Mr. Stoltenberg said the alliance “will continue to take all necessary measures to protect” members. The Kremlin accused NATO of “hysteria.” It also claimed that Ukrainian troops fighting Russian-backed separatists in the east of the country could launch an offensive, prompting President Volodymyr Zelensky’s office to say that Ukraine will not “succumb to provocations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/west-is-united-against-russia-biden/article38326795.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:32 IST,||Police to probe ‘partygate’ in U.K.||The threat to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s position deepened on Tuesday, as police said they were investigating lockdown-breaking parties at his Downing Street office and government departments. Allegations that a string of parties were held at Downing Street while the rest of the country abided by the rules have shaken Mr. Johnson’s government, prompting the worst crisis of his premiership and calls for him to quit. The latest revelations came on Monday night and saw claims that Mr. Johnson broke lockdown rules by having a birthday party at Downing Street on June 19, 2020. London’s Metropolitan Police have faced widespread criticism for refusing to investigate a steady drip of allegations over the last two years. The force’s commissioner, Cressida Dick, confirmed to the London Assembly that had now changed, raising the prospect of formal interviews and potentially criminal sanctions. Internal probe A senior civil servant, Sue Gray, has already begun conducting an investigation into the claims and is expected to publish her conclusions in the coming days. Speculation has swirled that she would have to pause her fact-finding probe if the police become involved. London’s Mayor Sadiq Khan welcomed the police investigation. “No one is above the law. There cannot be one rule for the government and another for everyone else.” Ms. Dick declined to give a timeframe for the investigation or say whether the Met would be taking witness statements from police stationed at Downing Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/police-to-probe-partygate-in-uk/article38326793.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:46 IST,||Police yet to identify Manitoba victims||Almost a week after a family of four — including a teenager and an infant — were found frozen to death in Emerson, Manitoba (Canada), the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) say they have not yet established the identity of the deceased thought to be Indian. Several news reports had identified a family of four, originally from Gujarat thought to be those who had died.  “The RCMP continues to work to confirm the identities of the four victims who were located on Wednesday,” a statement released on January 24 said. The Hindu had approached the Canadian police on Wednesday asking for a confirmation of the identity and was directed to this statement.  “We are also in regular contact with Indian consular officials who have arrived in Manitoba. Once the identities have been confirmed, our priority will be to formally notify the next of kin,” they said. “We are aware that some media outlets are publishing the possible identities of the four victims. As a law enforcement organisation, we will not be in a position to confirm these names until we have 100% certainty of their identities and next of kin notification is completed,” the statement said. Seven Indians were located by U.S. authorities just within the countries borders on last Wednesday.  “All migrants who illegally entered the United States were administratively processed for removal and/or placed into removal proceedings as per the Immigration and Nationality Act,” Kris Grogan, a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) public affairs officer told The Hindu over email on Wednesday. In a press statement last week, CBP had said all seven were undocumented migrants.  The Hindu reached out to officers at the Indian Embassy in Washington and the Indian Consulate in Chicago on Tuesday for information on the case, but did not hear back from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/police-yet-to-identify-manitoba-victims/article38327007.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:46 IST,||Pfizer-BioNTech starts trials for Omicron-specific vaccine||Pfizer and its partner BioNTech have begun enrollment for a clinical trial to test the safety and immune response of their Omicron-specific COVID-19 vaccine in adults aged up to 55, the companies said in a statement Tuesday. Pfizer’s CEO Albert Bourla has previously said that the pharmaceutical giant could be ready to file for regulatory approval of the shot by March. ‘For the sake of caution’ The company’s head of vaccine research Kathrin Jansen said in a statement that while current data showed that boosters against the original COVID-19 strain continued to protect against severe outcomes with Omicron, the company was acting out of caution. “We recognize the need to be prepared in the event this protection wanes over time and to potentially help address Omicron and new variants in the future,” she said. Ugur Sahin, CEO of BioNTech, added that the protection of the original vaccine against mild and moderate COVID-19 appeared to wane rapidly against Omicron. “This study is part of our science-based approach to develop a variant-based vaccine.” Age group The trial will involve 1,420 people aged 18-55. A spokesperson for Pfizer said that it did not include people older than 55 because the goal of the study was to examine the immune response of participants dosed, rather than estimate vaccine efficacy. The trial is taking place across the United States and South Africa, and the first participant was dosed in North Carolina. The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine was the first Covid shot to be authorized in the West, in December 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pfizer-biontech-starts-trials-for-omicron-specific-vaccine/article64945835.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:46 IST,||Russia launches new military exercises near Ukraine border||Russia on Tuesday launched new military exercises near Ukraine and in annexed Crimea as it accused the U.S. of ratcheting up tensions by putting several thousand of its own troops on alert. With the West already accusing Moscow of amassing more than 1,00,000 soldiers on the Ukrainian border, the Russian military said it had launched drills involving 6,000 troops in the south and in the Crimean peninsula annexed by Moscow in 2014. The drills involve combat firing exercises with fighter jets, bombers, anti-aircraft systems and ships from the Black Sea and Caspian fleets, the ministry said. The West is accusing Russia of preparing a potential invasion of pro-Western Ukraine and tensions with Moscow have reached levels not seen since the Cold War. The U.S. has warned that Moscow could manufacture a “false flag” incident in Ukraine. Ukraine said on Tuesday it had dismantled a group of saboteurs “coordinated by Russian special services” who had planned a “series of armed attacks”. Ukraine’s SBU security service said it had seized weapons and arrested two residents, one of them a Russian citizen, operating in eastern and central Ukraine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-launches-new-military-exercises-near-ukraine-border/article64945839.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:45 IST,||Norway wants to put ‘tangible demands’ on Taliban at talks||Norway said it will put “tangible demands” on the Taliban during talks in Oslo on Tuesday, the last day of the hardline Islamists’ controversial first visit to Europe since returning to power in Afghanistan. A Taliban delegation led by Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi has been in Norway since Saturday for talks focused on humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. “This is not the beginning of an... open-ended process”, said state secretary Henrik Thune, who was to sit down with the delegation on Tuesday. Follow-up  “We are going to place tangible demands that we can follow up on and see if they have been met”, he told Norwegian news agency NTB .   The demands will include the possibility of providing humanitarian aid directly to the Afghan people, according to NTB .  It will call for human rights to be respected, in particular those of women and minorities, such as access to education and health services, the right to work, and freedom of movement. Norway is also expected to raise the plight of two women activists who went missing in Kabul last week after taking part in a demonstration. The Taliban have denied responsibility. “Norway providing us this opportunity is an achievement in itself because we shared the stage with the world,” Foreign Minister Muttaqi said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/norway-wants-to-put-tangible-demands-on-taliban-at-talks/article38326789.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:46 IST,||UN urges Burkina Faso military to free President||The United Nations on Tuesday deplored the military takeover in Burkina Faso and called for the immediate release of President Roch Marc Christian Kabore and other top officials. The UN human rights office said it was crucial to preserve democratic space in the West African nation. “We call on the military to immediately release President Roch Marc Christian Kabore and other high-level officials who have been detained,” spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani told reporters in Geneva. Soldiers in Burkina Faso on Monday announced that they had seized power following a mutiny over the civilian President’s failure to contain an Islamist insurgency. A junior officer announced the suspension of the constitution, the dissolution of the government and parliament, and the closure of borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-urges-burkina-faso-military-to-free-president/article38326794.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:45 IST,||Kurds locked in prison standoff with jihadists||U.S.-backed Kurdish forces tightened the noose around armed jihadists hunkering down inside a Syrian prison on Tuesday, with both sides facing a bloodbath or talks to end the five-day-old standoff. Around 100 Islamic State group fighters attacked Ghwayran prison in the northeastern city of Hasakeh on January 20. The ensuing clashes with the Kurdish forces have left more than 160 people dead, including 45 in Kurdish ranks, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Some of the estimated 3,500 IS prisoners inside the facility have already been bused out to other detention centres in recent hours but it was unclear how many remained holed up inside Ghwayran. Some of the hundreds of minors detained in the prison were transferred on Monday, the Observatory said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kurds-locked-in-prison-standoff-with-jihadists/article38326788.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:45 IST,||Moscow adds Navalny, allies to list of ‘terrorists’||Russia on Tuesday added jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny and a number of his allies to a list of “terrorists and extremists”, as authorities further clamp down on the opposition. Mr. Navalny and a number of allies, including key aide Lyubov Sobol, appeared on Tuesday in a database of banned individuals compiled by the Federal Service for Financial Monitoring. Almost all of his top allies have since fled the country. According to Mr. Navalny’s Anti-Corruption Foundation — which was declared extremist and shut down last year — a dozen Navalny allies were added to the list on Tuesday. They include anti-corruption investigator Georgy Alburov, lawyer Vyacheslav Gimadi and several former coordinators of Navalny’s regional offices that were also branded extremist last year. The decision puts them on a par with right-wing nationalist groups and foreign terrorist organisations, including the Taliban and the Islamic State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-adds-navalny-allies-to-list-of-terrorists/article38326790.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:32 IST,||Distorting history through a calendar||Built at the site of an infamous detention centre set up by the British government, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Kharagpur was the first IIT to be commissioned. Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, who gave a memorable convocation address at IIT-Kharagpur in 1956, said: “Here in the place of that Hijli Detention Camp stands the fine monument of India, representing India’s urges, India’s future in the making. This picture seems to me symbolical of the changes that are coming to India.” Notwithstanding the criticism of encouraging brain drain and generating intense admission competition among schoolgoing students, leading to the entrenchment of an unhealthy tuition culture, the premier IITs continue to have a transformative presence in India’s technical and science education system. Nehru was indeed right in saying that the IITs are India’s future in the making. But strangely, IIT-Kharagpur is in the news not for its role in shaping the future but for distorting our past to advance a particular social agenda. An unscientific narrative In its new calendar for 2022, IIT-Kharagpur’s new Centre of Excellence for Indian Knowledge System has propagated an unscientific narrative on the beginnings of our ancestry. Titled ‘Recovery of the Foundations of Indian Knowledge Systems’, this calendar presents a very confusing collage of symbols and images with patently distorted ideas. The intention of the calendar is to establish an alternate premise that the Aryans, the carriers of Vedic culture, were indigenous to the Indus Valley and surrounding regions. This premise advances the theme that these people were the custodians of the Indus Valley Civilization that had been active for more than 10,000 years and that eventually spread its cultural influence westwards from India. This is called the ‘out of India’ theory. As the historian Charles Allen stated in his book, such revisionism flies in the face of all the evidence — archaeogenetics, archaeological, linguistic, zoological, botanical, geographical and theological. The evidence informs us that the pre-Indian state’s civilizational beginnings are associated with the Harappans, the earliest settlers and belonging to a greater Indus Valley Civilization, whose culture extends from 7,000 to 2,000 BCE. The remnants of their settlements are located around the Indus River, Kutch, Saurashtra and parts of Balochistan and the Makran Coast. Engaged in agriculture and trade, they were adept at designing well-laid-out townships with a good system of water management. They used bullock-drawn carts. Predominantly centred on farming, these communities slowly declined as a result of increasing aridity and declining summer rainfall. The archaeological evidence also suggests that during the late Harappan period, the Rigvedic people entered the Indian subcontinent through present-day Iran and Afghanistan. These pastoral migrants and their grazing animals including horses came in from the Eurasian steppes into the Indus Valley region, in batches, to mingle with the dark-skinned settlers of the Indus Valley. Although not an ‘invasion’ in the classical sense, as the American archaeologist George Dales had noted, “Harappans met their end not with an Aryan bang, but with an Indus expatriate’s whimper”. But the ‘in-group-out-group’ dynamics that may have played out in such a cultural landscape may have encouraged caste-based social hierarchy, allowing the resourceful newcomers to dominate and forcing the earlier settlers to be marginalised and migrate possibly southwards. The results of excavations from Keezhadi in Tamil Nadu provide further evidence of the extended spread of the non-Vedic culture towards south India until 2,200 years ago. Recent archaeogenetic studies provide us a firmer scientific foundation to the theory of Aryan migration from the Eurasian steppes. For instance, the mitochondrial DNA (designated haplogroup R1a1a) of some of the social groups in India share a common genetic ancestral lineage with eastern Europeans. It is suggested that haplogroup R1a1a mutated out of haplogroup R1a in the Eurasian Steppe about 14,000 years ago. Thus, these studies support the ‘Out of the East European Steppes’ theory. It also means that the original form of Indo-European languages was first spoken in Eastern Europe, the ‘original’ homeland. It is likely that a group of nomads who shared the genomic subclade R1a1a left their homeland and moved east towards the Caspian grasslands, where they tamed horses, goats and dogs and learned to build horse-drawn chariots, essential for a nomadic life. Around 1,900 BCE, these people broke up and one group proceeded towards what is now Iran, and the other to India. Those who entered India, around 1,500 BCE, established the dominant civilization in the north-west. By then, much of the older Harappan settlers had either become marginalised or had moved to southern and central India, and even to parts of Balochistan. The newly settled people, the so-called Aryans, who worshipped fire, were not builders like the Harappans but are likely to have been better story-tellers. Two recently published scientific papers, reporting the archaeogenomic studies of the early settlers of central and south Asia, chart the genetic trail of the hunter-gatherers, Iranian farmers and pastoralists from the Caspian steppes, and explain how they may have intermingled to become the makers of some of the world’s earliest civilizations. Obtained from a skeleton of a woman from a 5,000-year-old Indus Valley Civilization settlement in the village of Rakhigarhi, in the Hisar District of Haryana, the companion paper tracks the lineage of the people who settled in the Indus Valley. The DNA from the skeleton shows no detectable ancestry from the “steppe pastoralists or from Anatolian and Iranian farmers, suggesting farming in South Asia arose from local foragers rather than from large-scale migration from the west”. This conclusion, with a caveat that a single sample cannot fully characterise the entire population, reinforces the prevailing notion on the origins of the Harappan settlers. It is also likely that there could be more genetic commonality between earlier settlers from Africa and the Harappan people. Retreat of reason The January page of the IIT calendar starts with a statement: “The tributaries of Indus as mentioned in the Rig Veda are sourced to the Siwalik ranges in the Central-Eastern Himalayas”. The Siwaliks are the low-altitude southern-most hill ranges of the Himalayas from where no major rivers are sourced. If this is not a deliberate distortion for the ease of false messaging, this apparent lack of geographical understanding for those who are pioneering the studies of Indian Knowledge Systems is shocking. That the calendar-makers resort to obfuscation of facts becomes obvious in other pages. For instance, as Meera Nanda pointed out, ‘Karmic’ retribution and the idea of rebirth are not part of early Vedic tradition but derived from the Buddha-Jaina streams of thought that was later incorporated in the Upanishads. If the IIT-Kharagpur 2022 calendar is an indication of how the Indian Knowledge System is going to be deliberated in our higher learning centres, we need to be wary of its impact on the future generations. Such a Centre signals the retreat of reason and free inquiry in education. C.P. Rajendran is an adjunct professor at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/distorting-history-through-a-calendar/article64945852.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:45 IST,||Why Republic Day is celebrated||The Preamble to the Constitution declares that India is a ‘Republic’. This self-description must be taken seriously: being a republic is integral to India’s political identity. Moreover, this is not just a descriptive but also a strong, ethical, normative claim. Being republican is an ideal to which we are meant to consistently aspire, and when we go astray, we should know that we have done something wrong, feel remorse, and make amends. If our political identity loses its republican character, we must quickly act to restore it. It is because we cherish being a republic that on every January 26 since 1950, we celebrate this founding moment. The parade and the ritual surrounding it are meaningless unless we get the spirit behind the event. Against monarchy What is meant by a republic and what is its significance? For a start, the primary collective intent behind a republic is anti-monarchical. The Greeks defined monarchy as the ‘rule of one (mono)’, a form of government where one person rules and all others obey; one is sovereign, all others his subjects. We usually associate it with the hereditary rule of Maharajas and Maharanis but in the Greek definition of the term, it also covers rule by modern dictators (autocracy). But what is wrong with the rule of one person? Why fear rule by one person? Perhaps the most pernicious quality about monarchy is that it subjects people to the whim and fancy of one person, to his arbitrary will. One day he likes us and gives us, say a land grant. The next day, he withdraws the grant and puts us in jail. All powers are vested in him. God-like, he becomes judge and jury, makes and executes laws, decides when they are violated, and rewards and punishes as he pleases. All these decisions affecting us are taken without discussion, mysteriously, privately, and expressed as revealed truth. The entire decision-making process remains close to his chest. Hidden from everyone, it brooks neither transparency nor accountability. It is this tyrannical potential of the rule of one person, the absolute and arbitrary use of power that we dread. Government by discussion What alternative does a republic offer? The English word ‘republic’ is derived from the Latin ‘Res publica’ — the public thing. This translates in the political domain into decision-making in the open, in full view of all. A republic then is associated with what we today call the ‘public sphere’, an open space where people put forward claims about what is good for the community, what is in collective interest. After discussing, debating and deliberating upon them, they reach decisions about which laws to have and what course of action to take. A republic is ‘government by free and open discussion’. The contrast between monarchical and republican forms of government could not be sharper. Monarchy entails surrender to the arbitrary power of another person, allowing whimsical intrusion in our choices, living at the mercy of the master. It breeds slavery. Those who live for long periods under subjection of others tend to develop slavishness, a mental torpor difficult to dispel. Silenced, they lose a vibrant sense of their own agency, are rendered without the capacity to think for themselves or take decisions about their own lives. For this reason, Gandhi used the idea of Swaraj to challenge not only political colonisation by the British, but the colonisation of our minds. It is because rule by one makes people unfree and enslaves them that the republic, its alternative, is strongly associated with freedom. To have a republic is to have a free people. This is why Gandhi’s swaraj is an important republican idea. And also why the republican tradition emphasises the importance of citizenship. After all, to be a citizen is to belong to a political community where one can express oneself and act freely. Citizens alone have political liberty. Without it, we are mere subjects.  For republic-lovers, political liberty means not unbridled freedom to do whatever one pleases (negative liberty), but to live by laws made by citizens themselves, that are a product of their own will, not the arbitrary will of others. This explains why republics have a constitution generated by a deliberative body of citizens which provides the basic law of the land, the fundamental framework of governance. The phrase “We, the People” in the Constitution is not a mere literary embellishment but central to a republican constitution. The willingness to live by self-made regulations but enforced by public power or the state also means that those who value a republic are not against states per se but against those that take away our political freedom.  ‘Republic’ and ‘democratic’ It appears from what is said above that the word ‘republic’ covers all that is meant by the term ‘democratic’. Our own Constituent Assembly initially took the view that since the word ‘republic’ contains the word ‘democratic’, it may be unnecessary to use both. This would have been in keeping with the French republican tradition where the two terms are used interchangeably. Yet, after announcing its commitment to sever its links with an external, imperial monarch, and with all existing and future claims of local rajas and make India a republic, B.R. Ambedkar and Jawaharlal Nehru conceded that since an undemocratic republic is conceivable, a separate commitment to democratic institutions is necessary. This decision was correct. It was wise to keep both terms in the Preamble. The idea of the republic conveys that decisions shall be made not by a single individual but by citizens after due deliberation in an open forum. But this is consistent with a narrow criterion of who counts as a citizen. Ancient Roman republics were not inclusive. Ancient India probably had aristocratic clan-republics which were far from democratic. In ancient Greece, slaves, women, and foreigners were not considered citizens and excluded from decision-making. Indeed, for many Greek thinkers, democracy had a negative connotation precisely because it was believed to involve everyone, including plebeians, what we contemptuously call ‘the mob’. What the term ‘democratic’ brings to our Constitution is that citizenship be available to everyone, regardless of their wealth, education, gender, perceived social ranking, religion, race, or ideological beliefs. The word ‘democracy’ makes the republic inclusive. No one is excluded from citizenship. For example, all have the right to vote. At the same time, if voting, for practical reasons, is restricted only to choosing representatives who, in the name of the people, make laws and policies, then citizens must at least have the right to be properly informed, seek transparency and accountability from their government. A republic must, at the very least, have perpetually vigilant citizens who act as watchdogs, monitor their representatives, and retain the right to contest any law or policy made on their behalf. By going beyond mere counting of heads, the term ‘republic’ brings free public discussion to our democratic constitution. It gives depth to our democracy. It is mandatory that decisions taken by the representatives of the people be properly deliberated, remain open to scrutiny, and be publicly, legally contested even after they have been made. When the farmers came out on the streets to peacefully challenge the three farm laws made by the current government, they exercised not only their democratic rights but also exhibited the highest of republican virtues. It is to celebrate such political acts of citizens that we have the Republic Day. Rajeev Bhargava is a political philosopher and Honorary Fellow and Director, Parekh Institute of Indian Thought, The Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/why-republic-day-is-celebrated/article64945843.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:45 IST,||A festival to salute India’s vibrant democracy||Republic Day is not only an occasion to take pride in our identity as Indians but also an occasion for the citizens of our country to reiterate our resolve to promote equality and brotherhood in the country. This year we are celebrating our 73rd Republic Day. This journey of our Republic had started on January 26, 1950 when we had resolved to abide by and remain faithful to the principles enshrined in our Constitution. On the day our Constitution came into force, India became a fully sovereign democratic republic. The Constitution has been our guiding force in the journey of the nation as a mature democracy among comity of nations. Much thought and work The task of drafting the Constitution of India was assigned to a seven-member committee under the chairmanship of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar. The Constituent Assembly undertook intensive deliberations over a period of two years, 11 months and 18 days spread over 11 sessions, during which the Constitution of India took shape which was then adopted on November 26, 1949. January 26, 1950 was the momentous day when, at last, decades of struggle for true Swaraj finally bore fruit and the supremacy of the sovereign will of the people was truly established. Our Constituent Assembly played a dual role after Independence, given the insurmountable task of nation-building. On the one hand, there was the task of framing an enlightened Constitution for an independent India and on the other, to play the role of a legislature for the nascent nation. The Constituent Assembly of India acted as the first Parliament of independent India. It is an interesting historical fact that Dr. Rajendra Prasad chaired the sittings of the House when it met as the Constituent Assembly while Ganesh Mavalankar presided over as Speaker when the House met as the legislature. Our Constituent Assembly had performed the functions of the provisional Parliament of India in the interval between the time our Constitution was enforced and the day when the new Parliament was formed following the first General Elections (October 25, 1951-February 21, 1952). May 13, 1952 was the historic date when the first sitting of the newly elected First Lok Sabha, representing the hopes and aspirations of the 36 crore citizens of India, was held. A beacon Since then, in the seven and a half decades of this glorious journey, our Constitution has not only upheld the hopes and aspirations of the 135 crore population but has also acted as an unwavering beacon of light, guiding us on the path of building a great and resilient country.  Representative institutions and democratic traditions have always been an integral part of our rich heritage. This is why when India adopted the modern form of a democratic structure of governance after Independence, it was a seamless transition which was much lauded the world over. Today, when we celebrate ‘ Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav ’ to mark the 75th anniversary of our independence, it is high time for us to evaluate the gains made so far and strive for a futuristic action plan of building a new India. We have to ensure that our institutions and governance ensure inclusivity and the participation of our population in our developmental journey, particularly our women, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and all other marginalised sections become equal partners in our growth story.  Our Parliament has been playing a pivotal role in the all-round development of the nation by adopting many parliamentary devices for ensuring free and fair discussions and dialogue. These devices have enabled the Members to raise the concerns of the people in the House and to draw the attention of the Government towards their satisfactory resolution, and also ensure transparency and accountability of the executive. Help for legislators, MPs To ensure that best legislative practices are shared, a national portal is being planned to serve as a repository of the proceedings of Parliament and all State/Union Territory legislatures in the country. At the same time, measures are being taken to provide support for capacity building of the Members of Parliament. Research support is being provided to Members to help them participate better and meaningfully in matters brought before Parliament. A dedicated parliamentary research team is being set up for the purpose. Efforts are on to reform and strengthen the parliamentary committee system to make it more effective. Our goal is to make our legislatures a forum where meaningful, positive and result-oriented discussions are held; a legislature where all sides are able to put forth their opinions; a legislature where we are able to arrive at a resolution through constructive dialogue while respecting divergent views. It is also time in the journey of our nation to take stock and review laws that were enacted during the pre-Independence era so as to make them more relevant to our current requirements and future challenges. For this, all political parties will have to enter into a constructive and healthy understanding through mutual dialogue. Republic Day is an occasion for people’s representatives and all citizens of this proud nation to reaffirm faith in the ideals enshrined in our Constitution. Baba Saheb Ambedkar, in his speech before the Constituent Assembly on November 4, 1948, had underlined that the basis of constitutional morality is to hold the values enshrined in the Constitution as paramount. Republic Day is also an occasion to contemplate as citizens our responsibility in the diligent discharge of our duties just as we continue to cherish our fundamental rights. A vision for the future Let us celebrate this Republic Day as a festival and firmly rededicate ourselves to the fulfilment of our duties to bring happiness, prosperity and a better quality of life for all our citizens in keeping with the vision of the Father of our Nation, Mahatma Gandhi — of creating an ideal democracy with morality at its core, discipline in the hearts of its citizen, and where everybody fulfilled their duties and the rights of all were protected. It is that vision which guides our Constitution, and it is the same vision that should be our guide for the future. With this belief, I wish all my fellow countrymen a very happy Republic Day. Om Birla is Speaker, Lok Sabha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-festival-to-salute-indias-vibrant-democracy/article64945847.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:32 IST,||Towards low emissions growth||Climate change is one of the defining challenges of this century. Without a global effort to rapidly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, average global temperatures are likely to exceed 2°C even with current policies in place. While many developing countries made net-zero pledges at COP26, they face enormous challenges in their attempts to grow in a climate-constrained world. In India, there is high youth unemployment and hunger for substantial investments in hard infrastructure to industrialise and urbanise. Unlike the energy-intensive growth trajectories of the industrialised world, India’s economic growth in the last three decades, led by growth in the services sector, has come at a significantly lower emissions footprint. But in the coming decades, India will have to move to an investment-led and manufacturing-intensive growth model. Can India do this with a low emissions footprint? A green industrialisation strategy While Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement that India will strive to reach net-zero emissions by 2070 is commendable, it is essential to follow through with short-, medium- and long-term guiding strategies to ensure that India can maximize developmental gains in this transition. What India needs is a green industrialisation strategy that combines laws, policy instruments, and implementing institutions to steer its decentralised economic activities to become climate-friendly and resilient. A market-steering approach rather than a hands-off approach would encourage private sector investments in technologies needed to industrialise under climate constraints. While India has provided high level of policy support to deploy renewable energy, its industrial policy efforts to increase the domestic manufacturing of renewable energy technology components have been affected by policy incoherence, poor management of economic rents, and contradictory policy objectives. Academic research provides evidence that policies to develop local innovation capabilities alongside linking with global production networks create the most job opportunities. China’s techno-industrial policy strategy to strategically align RD&D, manufacturing, and deployment of solar and wind technologies paid off not only in its global competitiveness to produce clean energy technologies but also in creating more domestic job opportunities than India’s approach to prioritising only deployment. China has created more jobs in manufacturing solar and wind components for exports than domestic deployment. India could have retained some of those jobs if it were strategic in promoting these technologies. Besides China, Korea’s green growth strategy and the U.S.’s Endless Frontier Act, passed in the Senate in 2021 to make significant RD&D investments in emerging future technologies, are examples of techno-industrial policy strategies. Recent decarbonisation modeling studies point to a significant role for battery, green hydrogen, carbon capture and storage technologies to decarbonise India’s transport and industry sectors. While India may have lost the bus in terms of catching up on solar PV innovations, technologies needed to decarbonise the transport and industry sectors provide a significant opportunity. However, India’s R&D investments in these emerging green technologies are non-existent. The production-linked incentives (PLIs) under ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ are a step in the right direction for localising clean energy manufacturing activities. Nevertheless, they still do not address Aatmanirbhar’s economic goal to move from incremental changes to quantum jumps in economic activities. Aligning existing RD&D investments with the technologies needed for green industrialisation is crucial for realising quantum jumps. Besides, India also needs to nurture private entrepreneurship and experimentation in clean energy technologies. An industrial policy approach is necessary for gaining development co-benefits from the structural transition that climate change demands. The way forward India’s energy transition should be development-focused and aim to extract economic and employment rents from decarbonisation. The government should neither succumb to international pressure to decarbonise soon nor should it postpone its investment in decarbonisation technologies. Instead, India should set its pace based on its ability to capitalise on the opportunities to create wealth through green industrialisation. India should follow a path where it can negotiate carbon space to grow, buying time for the hard-to-abate sectors; push against counterproductive WTO trade litigations on decarbonisation technologies; all while making R&D investments in those technologies. Easwaran J. Narassimhan is a Research Fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs and The Fletcher School at Tufts University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/towards-low-emissions-growth/article64945850.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:32 IST,||A renewed push for Hindutva||BJP leaders in Tamil Nadu appear to be zealously working to spot issues that could be woven into their Hindutva narrative. They have come a long way from the time the old guard would only sell the BJP “as a party with a difference and shorn of lumpen elements” and be reluctant to declare its pro-Hindu agenda. Back then, State politics was dominated by Jayalalithaa and Karunanidhi. The present crop of leaders is losing no opportunity to posture itself as a guardian of the Hindus, whose interests, it claims, are being compromised by the ruling DMK. Presently it has latched on to the death by suicide of a Class 12 girl, who was studying in a Christian missionary-run institution as a resident inmate in Thanjavur district. Though the police arrested a sexagenarian warden under the Juvenile Justice Act, as the girl alleged she was forced to do chores in the hostel, the issue took a political turn when a 45-second video clip surfaced. In the clip, the girl is heard saying that “two years ago”, her parents were asked if they would convert her to Christianity. A male voice is heard asking “so because you did not convert, they troubled you?” To this she responds, “could be”. Citing the video, the BJP has launched State-wide protests alleging that the school attempted to “forcibly convert” the girl and is “seeking justice” for a “Tamil Nadu Hindu girl”. BJP State president K. Annamalai has rejected Thanjavur Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya’s statement that there is no religious angle to the girl’s death. Party leaders want the school, where many Hindu students study, shut down. The issue is sub judice with the girl’s parents moving the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a CB-CID probe. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, acting on a BJP member’s complaint, has sought a report from the Director General of Police. Incidentally, three days before the girl died, BJP leaders were outraging over a satirical show on a Tamil television channel in which two children, donning the roles of a king and minister, mocked demonetisation and disinvestment. Mr. Annamalai said L. Murugan, his predecessor and now Minister for Information and Broadcasting (I&B), had assured him of action as the show “demeaned” the Prime Minister. The I&B Ministry issued notice to the TV channel citing a complaint from a BJP functionary. The credit for giving a renewed push to the Hindutva agenda goes to Mr. Murugan. Shortly after being appointed BJP State president during the COVID-19 pandemic, he had raked up the issue of a little-known Tamil YouTube channel insulting the Kanda Sashti Kavasam, a holy hymn sung in praise of Lord Muruga, regarded as a “Tamil Hindu God”. He launched a ‘Vetri Vel Yatra,’ going from one abode of Lord Muruga to another, hoping to consolidate “Hindu votes”. Many BJP leaders shared photos and videos of them performing ‘pooja’ for their newly purchased ‘Vel’ (Lord Muruga’s spear) in their households. Essentially, Lord Muruga replaced Lord Ram in Tamil Nadu for a limited purpose in the BJP’s scheme of things. Its ally, the AIADMK, in power then, declared a holiday for Thai Poosam (a festival when Lord Muruga is propitiated). Incidentally, the DMK has not tinkered with this religious holiday, perhaps not wanting to give the BJP another opportunity to accuse it of bias against Hindus. Given that the electorate had rejected attempts by Jayalalithaa to polarise Hindu votes and forced her to repeal an anti-conversion law and a ban on animal sacrifice in temples, it remains to be seen if the BJP’s efforts would pay political dividends now. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.) sureshkumar.d@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-renewed-push-for-hindutva/article64945851.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:45 IST,||Coup in Burkina Faso||Burkina Faso, once known as one of the most stable countries in West Africa, has been mired in a deadly cycle of jihadist violence since 2015. Monday’s coup, in which mutinous soldiers overthrew the democratically elected government of President Roch Marc Christian Kaboré, was a direct result of this growing instability which the government failed miserably to tackle. Mr. Kaboré was elected President in 2015 almost at the same time jihadists, belonging to al Qaeda and the Islamic State, were expanding across the Sahel region. They turned the vast countryside of this landlocked country bounded by Mali and Niger — both rocked by Islamist violence — into ungovernable territories. Over the last seven years, at least 2,000 people have been killed and over one million displaced in this country of 22 million people. The military and large sections of civilians saw the Kaboré government as ineffective, corrupt and out of touch with the ground reality. The coronavirus pandemic and the associated economic woes have also pushed the Burkinabe people further into misery. An uprising, touched off in the streets of Ouagadougou, the capital city, a few days ago, was followed by the mutiny. The soldiers moved in quickly, surrounding the presidential palace. West Africa has seen a series of successful coups in recent months. In September 2021, special forces in Guinea ousted the government and captured power. In Mali, the military staged a coup for the second time in less than a year, in May 2021. While in Chad, the President was killed in conflict in April, Sudan saw the military throwing out a power-sharing agreement it had reached with civilian revolutionaries and taking the levers of the state in its hands. The ease with which the generals captured power in all these countries should be a warning to other elected governments in the continent. While taking power, all these military leaders promised elections, but soon their focus shifted to tightening their grip on power rather than resolving the crises that they used to justify their power grab or allowing a transition to a legitimate government. The story of Burkina Faso is not different. The coup was reportedly welcomed by protesters in the streets of Ouagadougou. It is understandable because the people, fed up with the jihadist violence and the state’s inability in tackling it, may have thought the men in uniform could at least provide them better security. But this support could be short-lived as the power-hungry junta faces a terrorist machinery spread across the Sahel along with the post-coup political divisions and instability at home. Coups are hardly a solution to the many crises these countries face. Rather, the juntas, which lack political legitimacy, end up making them worse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/coup-in-burkina-faso/article38326774.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:45 IST,||For a civic solidarity||The NHRC has done the right thing in directing the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Arunachal Pradesh government to submit an action taken report against the racial profiling and relocation of the Chakma and Hajong communities in the northeastern State. They had fled their homes in the Chittagong Hill Tracts in erstwhile East Pakistan (present-day Bangladesh) after losing land to the construction of the Kaptai dam on the Karnaphuli river in the early 1960s. They had sought asylum in India and were settled in relief camps in Arunachal Pradesh. Since then they have been well integrated in villages in the southern and south-eastern parts of the State. In 2015, the Supreme Court directed the State to grant them citizenship, but this had not yet been implemented. In a judgment in 1996, the Court had stated that the “life and personal liberty of every Chakma residing within the State shall be protected”. In light of these orders and given that most of the Chakma/Hajong community members were born in the State and have been living peacefully, the Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister’s announcement, in August 2021, that they would be relocated outside the State and that steps would be taken for a “census” of the communities was clearly unwarranted. The so-called State-driven census would have amounted to a racial profiling of the two communities that have also been the subject of an antagonist and nativist campaign by organisations such as the All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union. The issue has not been helped either by statements made earlier by the Union Minister of State for Home, Kiren Rijiju, about relocation. It is difficult, but not impossible, for any State government in the northeast to balance the interests of native tribal communities and those of legitimately settled refugees and their progeny. Special rights guaranteed in the Indian Constitution in these States in order to protect the tribal people, their habitat and their livelihoods, have more than occasionally been misinterpreted as favouring tribal nativism with overblown demographic fears fanning hatred for communities such as the Chakma/Hajong in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. Unfortunately, political forces have also limited themselves to using ethnic fissures for power and sustenance. Uprooting communities that fled their homelands under duress and have since been well settled in their adopted areas, contributing to the diversity of culture and the economy, would be a violation of their rights and repeating a historic wrong. A dialogue between the State government, civil society and those of the Chakma/Hajong communities would go a long way in addressing concerns in implementing the Court judgment of 2015, rather than the course currently adopted by Itanagar. Implementing the NHRC directive should be a step in the process to reverse that course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-a-civic-solidarity/article38326775.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:32 IST,||Awards for Wadekar, Chandrasekhar||New Delhi, Jan. 25: Bombay-born A.L. Wadekar, who led India to the first-ever Test cricket victory over the West Indies and England last year, has been honoured with Padma Shri by the President, Mr. V.V. Giri, in the Republic Day awards to-night. Mysore’s freak leg-spinner B.S. Chandrasekhar, whose splendid bowling at the Oval clinched the series for India against England, has also been decorated with same award. Stylish left-hander Wadekar, who took over the captaincy from Mansur Ali Khan (Pataudi) two years back, was the chief architect of India’s historic victories in the Caribbeans and England with his admirable and inspiring leadership. Chandrasekhar, who recently completed 200 wickets in the Ranji Trophy, along with vice-captain S. Venkatraghavan and Bishen Singh Bedi tied the English batsmen into knots with his fast tantalising leg-breaks. His bowling was so fine that the English cricket critics unanimously acclaimed him as “one of the best exponents of wrist spin”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/awards-for-wadekar-chandrasekhar/article38326787.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:45 IST,||Letters||The article, “The devastating impact of school closure” (OpEd page, January 25), would also highlight the simple, inexpensive and an age-old method of learning — open air classes. India has a conducive climate for this and it can be done. For millions of schoolchildren who will not be going to schools, this is a simple and inexpensive way out. Learning online has its limitations and not all students have the luxury of Internet access. Reports suggest that students have regressed because of lost classroom time particularly in the core subjects and it is likely that there will be a lost generation. Physical interaction is also the best way to learn and communicate. H.N. Ramakrishna, Bengaluru    Why bring in a desi approach when it concerns ‘Abide with me’? For an overwhelming number of Indians, the hymn is associated with its tune and rhythm. A tune is a tune. And a tune that captivates one and all must be noted for why it captivates us. Its colonial past has no place in this. The perception is that this has more to do with the ruling party’s agenda to ease out the past.  Thomas K.E., Hyderabad Close on the heels of the controversy surrounding the Republic Day tableaux issue — which has yet to die down — comes another move by the Union Government: to drop a favourite hymn. The government of the day appears to be fond of dropping anything that does not gel with its agenda. Any tune or music score that is pleasant is acceptable. Music cuts across all barriers. Those who made the decision to drop the hymn must beat a retreat. V.N. Gopal, Chennai I am a septuagenarian and have been watching the Beating Retreat ceremony for years. It is an event of national pride and ‘Abide with me’ has been part and parcel of the Retreat ceremony. It is baffling what prompted the Government to replace this good old song in what is essentially a solemn occasion. P. Victor Selvaraj, Palayamkottai, Tamil Nadu There are so many other issues to focus on than to make unwarranted changes. The powers that be must also ponder over the idea of oneness and brotherhood. Shreya Bansal, Fatehabad, Haryana It is not important to know how many Indian tunes will be played during the ceremony. It is not a necessity to know whether Bollywood tunes or any other numbers are included. It is also immaterial to know how many buglers, trumpeters and drummers will be in the bands playing the tunes. The crux of the issue is that some tunes continue forever. Manoharan Muthuswamy, Chennai  The move deserves praise. ‘ Ae mere watan ke logon ’ is a pertinent song that evokes nationalism. There are many elements of the colonial era that must be changed.  Mohit Rawal, Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh   The explainer, “The need for shared parenting” (E-paper, ‘Text & Context’ page, January 24), has raised a very pertinent issue which needs redress. As a nation, we have failed miserably as far as the protection of child rights in matrimonial disputes is concerned. When one parent gains custody of their child, the child is often forcibly deprived of the love of the other parent and extended family. The parent without custody — in many a case — has to run to court, often fruitlessly, to gain access. Most family courts prolong the matter, and if some kind of physical access is awarded, the parent with custody often challenges the order in a higher court. The parental alienation syndrome is bound to hamper the mental health and holistic growth of the child concerned, which I highlight as a grandmother grappling with this issue. Sadhna Gupta, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/letters/article64945844.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,||Maruti Q3 net almost halves to Rs. 1,042 cr. as chip shortage bites||Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. on Tuesday reported a 47.8% fall in third-quarter consolidated net profit to Rs. 1,041.8 crore, mainly due to the adverse impact of the ongoing semiconductor shortage on production and sales. “Production was constrained by a global shortage in the supply of electronic components because of which an estimated 90,000 units could not be produced,” India’s largest carmaker said, adding that there was no lack of demand as the company had more than 2,40,000 pending customer orders at the end of the December quarter. Stock surges The stock surged 6.88% on the BSE to Rs. 8,600.60, the best performer on the S&P BSE Sensex, as investors cheered customers’ faith in the company’s offerings. “We expect domestic PV industry to record double digit volume growth in FY23 and FY24, which would support MSIL’s business,” said Mitul Shah, head of research at Reliance Securities. “Moreover, sales of premium products would further increase,” he added. Revenue from operations slid 3.4% to Rs. 23,253.30 crore. Maruti Suzuki said it sold a total of 4,30,668 units during the quarter, down from 4,95,897 units in the year-earlier period. “Though still unpredictable, the electronics supply situation is improving gradually,” Maruti Suzuki said. “The company hopes to increase production in Q4, though it would not reach full capacity,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-q3-net-almost-halves-to-rs-1042-cr-as-chip-shortage-bites/article38326755.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||BPCL to invest Rs. 10,000 crore in six new city gas networks||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL) on Tuesday said it will invest Rs. 10,000 crore over the next five years in setting up city gas distribution networks in the cities for which it secured licences in the latest bidding round. BPCL won licences to retail CNG to automobiles and supply piped natural gas for cooking purposes in six geographical areas or GAs bid out in the latest 11th bidding round of PNGRB. “After announcement of results of bidding, BPCL’s committed investment in city gas distribution (CGD) network, on a standalone basis, would increase to over Rs. 22,000 crore for development of 23 GAs, including Rs. 10,000 crore for the six new GAs,” BPCL said in a stock exchange filing. BPCL had won six GAs in 19 districts for setting up City Gas Distribution (CGD) networks, in the 11th bidding round of Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory (PNGRB). “The CGD footprints of BPCL, along with its JVs, will now extend to 48 GAs covering 94 districts in 18 states, across India. Currently, with presence in 63 districts, including prominent cities, BPCL along with its JVs together hold 33% market share in the CGD sector in the country,” it said. Of the 61 GAs that received bids in the 11th round CGD bidding, Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Ltd. got 15 licences, Adani Total Gas Ltd. got 14 and State-owned Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) high potential nine GAs. BPCL had city gas licence for 38 GAs prior to winning six in the latest bid round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bpcl-to-invest-rs-10000-crore-in-six-new-city-gas-networks/article64945518.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||Cairn ‘fulfils’ retro tax repeal steps, awaits Rs. 7,900 cr. refund||U.K.’s Cairn Energy on Tuesday said it has complied with all rules of the retro tax repeal law to now become eligible for about Rs. 7,900 crore refund of taxes that were collected from it to enforce a retrospective tax demand. As part of the settlement reached with the government in the seven-year-old dispute over the levy of back taxes, the company — which is now known as Capricorn Energy PLC — has withdrawn all cases that were brought to collect the tax refund ordered by an international arbitration tribunal after rescinding retrospective raising of demand, according to an advertisement it issued in Indian newspapers. The government had initially contested the December 2020 arbitration award but in August 2021 brought a law to scrap all retrospective tax demands and refund money collected, after it faced prospects of assets being seized overseas to recover the refund due. “The company has concluded all necessary steps under the rules of the India Taxation (Amendment) Act 2021 required for payment by the Government of India of a tax refund of approximately Rs. 7,900 crore,” the company said in an operational and trading update. “Payment is expected to be made in early 2022.” The company on November 26, 2021, initiated proceedings to withdraw lawsuits it had filed to enforce an international arbitration award, which had overturned the levy of Rs. 10,247 crore retrospective taxes and ordered India to refund the money collected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cairn-fulfils-retro-tax-repeal-steps-awaits-rs-7900-cr-refund/article64945517.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||Slash fuel tax, raise MGNREGS outlay to spur flailing consumption, suggests Crisil||The upcoming Union Budget for 2022-23 should include higher allocations for the rural employment guarantee programme, a new plan to generate urban jobs and fresh cuts in fuel taxes, to revive flailing consumption demand in the economy, credit rating agency Crisil said. Households’ consumption, which was already slowing down before the COVID-19 pandemic, remains in the red and ‘would not even have sighted’ 2018-19 levels by the end of this fiscal year, thanks to high inflation and income losses amid the pandemic, Crisil noted in a report titled ‘Undoing the Consumption Shock’. “With the pandemic affecting low-income segments the most, near-term measures to support incomes and private consumption are crucial to strengthen the bridge to the medium-term growth path,” the agency said, mooting a shift from the Centre’s preference in the last Budget to push growth through reforms and capital spending. ‘Worst hit’ Private consumption accounts for 55% of India’s GDP and is ‘the worst performer among the expenditure-side components of GDP’, lagging 2019-20 numbers by 3% as per the official national income estimates for 2021-22, Crisil observed. A rise in income inequality and lower allocations for the MGNREGS in 2021-22 had further dented households’ spending power that was already hit by lower income growth, job losses, high inflation in essential goods and services and an uptick in medical expenditure owing to the pandemic. Non-farm wage growth halved year-on-year in April to November 2021 to 3.2%, effectively recording a negative growth once the high inflation was discounted, it said. While the reduction in petrol and diesel excise duties in November 2021 was helpful, consumers could do with more relief now as easing the fuel tax burden ‘will augment disposable income while simultaneously trimming the input cost burden for producers’, it said. “The case for a national urban employment guarantee scheme has repeatedly been put forth by experts as well as the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour in its August 2021 report. The time is ripe for its realisation,” it underlined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/slash-fuel-tax-raise-mgnregs-outlay-to-spur-flailing-consumption-suggests-crisil/article64945513.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,||Hyundai unit’s exports of Creta grew 26% in 2021||South Korean carmaker Hyundai Motor India Ltd. (HMIL) posted a 26.2% growth in exports of its Creta Sport Utility Vehicle at 32,799 units in 2021 despite a global semiconductor shortage and intermittent lockdowns in markets. In total, HMIL exported 42,238 SUVs during the calendar year 2021, it said. Overall, HMIL registered cumulative exports of 1,30,380 units in 2021, achieving a significant growth of 31.8% over 2020. “Ever since its global debut, Creta has been a runaway success in domestic and international markets alike,” HMIL’s MD & CEO Un Soo Kim said in a statement. “It has been successful in evoking aspirations and has stood the test of time by retaining customer appreciation, thereby playing a strategic role in Hyundai’s Global SUV portfolio,” he added.  Besides Creta, the automaker also exported 7,698 units of Venue and 1,741 units of Creta Grand (Alcazar).  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hyundai-units-exports-of-creta-grew-26-in-2021/article64945524.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||Bharti said to mull roping in a ‘strategic investor’||Telecom operator Bharti Airtel is looking to onboard a strategic investor through allocation of preferential equity shares, which is scheduled to be discussed at its board meeting on January 28, according to sources. A source, who did not wish to be named, said the primary goal of the preferential share allocation is not influenced by any sort of liability pressure but is inclined towards onboarding a strategic partner aligned with the long-term business objectives of the company. Jefferies Equity Research, in a report, said Bharti Airtel’s announcement to consider an equity issuance on preferential basis had come as a surprise as there was no immediate need for capital, in its view. “An issuance to usher in a strategic investor that boosts its enterprise/digital offerings will be seen positively; however, any large acquisitions will be viewed negatively,” Jefferies noted. Bharti has notified the exchanges that its board will on January 28 consider issuance of equity capital through a preferential issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-said-to-mull-roping-in-a-strategic-investor/article64945519.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,||Rane Engine Valve records Rs. 3-cr. Q3 loss||Rane Engine Valve Ltd. has posted a net loss of Rs. 3 crore for the third quarter ended December against a standalone profit of Rs. 14 crore in the year-earlier period on account of chip shortage. Total revenue rose from Rs. 93 crore to Rs. 98 crore, an increase of 7%. There was an exceptional item relating to VRS of Rs. 2.7 crore, it said in a regulatory filing. “Q3 was a challenging quarter with semiconductor shortage impacting the supply chain across served customers and geographies,” said L. Ganesh, chairman, Rane Group. “The increase in employee costs and other costs impacted profitability,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rane-engine-valve-records-rs-3-cr-q3-loss/article38326756.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,||Govt. notifies Unity’s PMC Bank takeover||The Government of India on Tuesday notified the scheme for the amalgamation of the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank Ltd. (PMC Bank) with Unity Small Finance Bank Ltd. (USFBL). With this, the amalgamation has come into force with immediate effect, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said. All the branches of the PMC Bank will now function as branches of Unity Small Finance Bank Ltd. “USFBL is making arrangements to implement the provisions of the scheme. The scheme envisages takeover of the assets and liabilities of PMC Bank, including deposits, by the USFBL,” the RBI added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-notifies-unitys-pmc-bank-takeover/article38326752.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,||SEBI tightens norms for MD at listed firms||Putting in place stringent norms, SEBI has said that a person rejected by shareholders at a general meeting can be appointed or re-appointed as a managing director or whole time director or manager, only after providing detailed justifications and ensuring compliance with various conditions. “The appointment or a reappointment of a person, including as a managing director or a whole time director (WTD) or a manager, who was earlier rejected by the shareholders at a general meeting, shall be done only with the prior approval of the shareholders,” SEBI said in a notification on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-tightens-norms-for-md-at-listed-firms/article38326758.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,||Gems and jewellery exports up 71 pc during Apr-Dec to $28.9 bn||Gems and jewellery exports rose by 71% during April-December 2021 to $28.9 billion from $16.9 billion in the same period of the previous year, the Commerce Ministry said on Tuesday. In December 2021, the exports grew by 16.4% to $2.99 billion, it said. The sector accounted for 9.6% share of India's entire exports basket during the period under review.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gems-and-jewellery-exports-up-71-pc-during-apr-dec-to-289-bn/article38326757.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||upGrad moves majority of its IT infrastructure to AWS||Amazon Web Services (AWS) said online higher education technology provider upGrad has moved a vast majority of its information technology (IT) infrastructure to AWS to help bring online learning to people in more than 100 countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/upgrad-moves-majority-of-its-it-infrastructure-to-aws/article64945514.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:45 IST,||Nadal conquers pain and Shapovalov||Rafael Nadal dug deep into his immense reserves of resilience for the second match running to keep his dream of a 21st Grand Slam title alive at the Australian Open on Tuesday, as women’s top seed Ashleigh Barty powered into a semifinal against Madison Keys. Yet drop a set World No. 1 Barty steamrollered Jessica Pegula 6-2, 6-0 in 63 minutes to reach the last four at Melbourne Park for only the second time. Wimbledon champion Barty is yet to drop a set and has only given up 17 games in her five matches at Melbourne Park. She will face the unseeded Keys for a place in Saturday’s final after the American, ranked 51, upset French Open champion Barbora Krejcikova 6-3, 6-2. Nadal, 35, raced to a two-set quarterfinal lead against Denis Shapovalov but then began to feel unwell, needing medical attention for a stomach complaint before surviving a four-hour thriller 6-3, 6-4, 4-6, 3-6, 6-3. He will face Matteo Berrettini in the semifinal after the Italian seventh seed endured a rollercoaster five-setter of his own to overcome Gael Monfils of France 6-4, 6-4, 3-6, 3-6, 6-2. Berrettini grabbed a slice of tennis history by becoming the first Italian man to reach the last four at the Australian Open. Nadal won a warm-up tournament and continues to amaze even himself after being out for most of 2021 with a chronic foot injury. He then caught COVID-19 in December. A frustrated Shapovalov smashed his racquet after losing and had a running battle with the chair umpire over the time Nadal was taking to serve, at one point calling the official “corrupt”. “I started to feel not very well in my stomach so I just asked if they could do something,” said Nadal. “They just checked everything was all right and then I took some tablets to try to improve the situation. It was lucky that I was serving great in the fifth,” he added. On a roll Earlier, Keys continued her impeccable start to the 2022 season with a straight-sets destruction of fourth seed Krejcikova, who needed medical attention after being affected by the heat as the mercury topped 30° Celsius during the first set. Keys was a semifinalist in 2015 but endured a terrible 2021 where she tumbled down the rankings.  I don't believe that my future happiness is going to depend on winning one Grand Slam more than the others or if the others achieve more Nadalon chasing a record 21st Grand Slam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-conquers-pain-and-shapovalov/article38326992.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,||‘Tokyo Games a watershed moment’||Paralympic medallists, including shuttler Suhas Yathiraj, feel the Tokyo Games was a watershed moment for parasports in India as the country’s splendid show in the Japanese capital has encouraged people to make a career in sports, which is evident from the increased participation in national tournaments. The Indian contingent scripted history at the Tokyo Paralympics by winning 19 medals, including five gold, which helped it sign off 24th in the overall tally — the highest ever. “It was a watershed movement for badminton in Tokyo 2020. We have an important tournament coming up and I’m sure increased interest will auger well for the sport,” said Suhas, who is Gautam Buddh Nagar’s (Noida) District Magistrate, during a virtual media interaction on Tuesday. “If you look at the increase in participation in the National championships that were held in Odisha it was very high. The interest in badminton is extremely high because it is a very easy sport for beginners. So para badminton is reaching new heights in India and around the world,” he added. “This time more than 500 athletes had come for the Nationals, we were completely surprised by the number. Earlier there would be 300-350,” said shuttler Pramod Bhagat, who won gold at the Paralympics “Para-badminton is being redefined after Tokyo. We also achieved a milestone and the most important thing was we were kept on the same platform as Olympians,” Bhagat said. More participation Harvinder Singh, who became the first Indian to win a Paralympics medal in archery (a bronze), feels the people will now take up different para sports. “There are still a lot of events in which India has not participated in. The recognition we get after the medal will also help (in people taking up other para sports). “Our Nationals were postponed but the number of entries was huge thanks to the recognition of the Paralympics.” Suhas believes a lot can still be done in para badminton as well as other sports. “Pariticipation of India in a wheelchair category was zero. So we need to ensure that our wheelchair players are given an opportunity. “The State-level associations need to be run professionally. They need to tie up for funding with different things like CSR and identify talent at State and district levels and then give opportunities.” Finish in top three Three-time Paralympic medal winner javelin thrower Devendra Jhajharia feels India can finish in the top three in athletics at the Paris Games. The 40-year-old, who added a silver medal in Tokyo to his two gold medals, said, “China and Iran are ahead of us in athletics and at number three there several countries like Japan and Korea are there. “But I feel, with the government providing facilities and the way the kids are training, our target will be to finish in the top 3. We definitely can do well in athletics.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-games-a-watershed-moment/article64945526.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:01 IST,||Rahul Dravid and a period of necessary churning for Indian cricket||On December 30 last year, Indian cricket was sitting on top of the world, with a rainbow around the shoulders. They had won 2-1 in Australia, led 2-1 in England and had won a Test in Centurion for the first time. Sixteen days later, they had lost the Test series in South Africa, and in another eight days had been outplayed 3-0 in the ODI series. India’s dramatic slide in South Africa, a team much lower on the scale of talent and experience, means that transition — inevitable, inexorable, inescapable — might have been advanced by a couple of years. Good recovery It also means, of course, that the game in South Africa has recovered at a faster rate than expected. This is good for the game. Test cricket needs strong teams and robust competition. What happened to India too may be a good starting point for a team which had put off making some tough decisions on the back of recent victories. The fact that they were forced to go into the final Test and the ODI with an inexperienced captain indicated the authorities were not prepared for the transition. Things can happen very quickly in sport. ‘Be prepared’ is a fine motto both for the Scout Movement and for sports officials. The onus of rebuilding the team now falls on Rahul Dravid, and that is not such a bad thing. Virat Kohli might have overstayed his welcome as captain. Indian cricket needs a period of necessary churning. Dravid is tough without being boorish, and in his playing days was aggressive without being crude. Under Kohli many believed that since India were often boorish and winning, the two were related. After all, there was the example of Australia, ‘ugly’ and victorious, which was taken to mean that the latter was a consequence of the former. It was the old confusion between causation and correlation. The time had come for India to shake off its ugly image — which was being enhanced in every series — and delink bad behaviour from success. Whether the Board of Control for Cricket (BCCI) in India was conscious of this or indeed if the selectors were is difficult to tell. Dravid, an intelligent man who looks beyond the boundary, could not have been unaware of this, though. Powerful figure A cricket captain is a powerful figure. Kohli worked well with Ravi Shastri because the latter knew when to give in if his captain disagreed with him. Now we might see the beginnings of another relationship, one in which the coach is the most powerful man in the team. Not since Bishan Bedi in the 1990s has an Indian team where the coach calls the shots by right. Dravid is as diplomatic as Bedi was the reverse, and that means we are at the head of an interesting phase in Indian cricket. It also means that the next captain will have to handle the balancing act between the BCCI and the coach with the same acumen with which the coach will between the BCCI and the captain. India looked a jaded team in South Africa and once Kohli quit his job at the top, something went out of the team. Along with the bellicose behaviour, out went the necessary aggression too. The trick is to jettison the one while retaining the other. It is too early to judge K.L. Rahul as captain, but the team did look flat under him, and seemed to be out of ideas. Perhaps the reasons are all connected — the many days of cricket, the weeks and months spent in the security bubble, injuries to key players including captain-designate Rohit Sharma, and the selection ambiguities. The pandemic demands that all judgements be made with kindness, and with proper understanding of the context. The team deserves sympathy, not censure. Once the downward spiral began, it was difficult to arrest it; this happens often. India’s next three series in the different formats are all at home. Their next away game is in England in July for the fifth Test of the previous series that was postponed owing to Covid issues. Then there is the World T20 in Australia. Tough choice Should India use the home series to give the tried and tested another chance or blood youngsters to prepare them for more difficult battles ahead? It is a difficult choice, but the call is for blooding youngsters in preparation for future battles. This column has always maintained that seniors must be given a chance to fail while juniors must be given a chance to succeed. That is usually a good rule to follow. Often, however, choices are made on sentimental grounds. Defeat is not the end of the world, although victory might have taken India to a new world. One remarkably much like the old one. A shake-up was necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahul-dravid-and-a-period-of-necessary-churning-for-indian-cricket/article64945668.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||Zuccarelli primed to deliver in feature||Zuccarelli, who has been well tuned, is expected to score in the Kingfisher Ultra Derby Bangalore (2,400m), the stellar attraction of the races to be held here on Wednesday (Jan 26). There will be no false rails TOTALIZATOR CUP (Div. III) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 1-30 p.m.: 1. High Opinion (7) P.P. Dhebe 60, 2. Shining Rock (1) P. Surya 60, 3. Domina (9) S. John 59.5, 4. Magellan (6) Srinath 58.5, 5. Mark One (—) (—) 58.5, 6. Mystical Merkabah (11) Rajesh Kumar 58.5, 7. Only You (8) Shane Gray 58.5, 8. Speed Seven (4) A. Qureshi 58.5, 9. Striking Support (5) Likith Appu 58.5, 10. Immaculate (10) P. Sai Kumar 57.5 and 11. Lady Supremos (2) Vishal Bunde 57.5.  1. MYSTICAL MERKABAH, 2. ONLY YOU, 3. MAGELLAN SADDLE UP CUP (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 5-y-o & over, 2-05: 1. Birchwood (14) Naveen Kumar 62.5, 2. Ultimate Speed (5) S. Saqlain 62, 3. Unyielding (6) S. John 61, 4. Country’s Jewel (13) Neeraj 60.5, 5. Gazabo Talk (3) P. Siddaraju 60, 6. Handsome Rocky (8) Rajesh Kumar 59, 7. Tifanny (9) Shane Gray 58, 8. Sir Jersey (12) Antony 57.5, 9. Top News (10) Akshay K 57.5, 10. Konichiwa (1) Darshan 56.5, 11. Activated (11) L.A. Rozario 56, 12. Lady Nectar (4) Shreyas Singh 56, 13. Chinese Princess (7) Vishal Bunde 55.5 and 14. Bahurupah (2) Mark 55.  1. UNYIELDING, 2. HANDSOME ROCKY, 3. TOP NEWS TOTALIZATOR CUP (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 20 to45, 2-40: 1. Tactical Command (5) Srinath 61, 2. Thousand Words (—) (—) 61, 3. Three Aces (10) Darshan 60.5, 4. Aherne (4) Akshay K 58.5, 5. Douglas (9) Shane Gray 58, 6. Debonair (3) Neeraj 56.5, 7. Classic Charm (6) C.S. Jodha 55, 8. Alexis Zorba (7) Arshad 52.5, 9. Golden Wings (8) S. Saqlain 52.5, 10. The Adviser (2) Arvind Kumar 52.5 and 11. Super Kind (1) Jagadeesh 52.  1. DOUGLAS, 2. AHERNE, 3. ALEXIS ZORBA MYSORE RACE CLUB TROPHY (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-15: 1. Born King (6) Darshan 56, 2. Mighty Zo (3) Dhanu Singh 56, 3. Roudy (5) Sandesh 56, 4. Twilight Tornado (8) Antony 56, 5. Wild Emperor (7) Neeraj 56, 6. Arrowette (9) Akshay K 54.5, 7. La Reina (1) Shane Gray 54.5, 8. Stellar Gold (2) C.S. Jodha 54.5 and 9. Venetian (4) Trevor 54.5.  1. WILD EMPEROR, 2. MIGHTY ZO, 3. LA REINA INDIAN REPUBLIC TROPHY (1,200m), rated 60 to 85, 3-50: 1. Psychic Warrior (2) S. John 60, 2. Colonel Harty (6) Rajesh Kumar 56, 3. The Sovereign Orb (5) Suraj Narredu 55, 4. Star Carnation (1) Ashok Kumar 54.5, 5. Watchmystars (3) Akshay K 54.5 and 6. Griffin (4) L.A. Rozario 53.5.  1. THE SOVEREIGN ORB, 2. WATCHMYSTARS KINGFISHER ULTRA DERBY BANGALORE (2,400m), 4-y-o (Terms), 4-30: 1. All Attractive (3) Suraj Narredu 57, 2. Angelico (2) Akshay K 57, 3. Etosha (6) Sandesh 57, 4. Silvarius (4) Srinath 57, 5. Zuccarelli (5) Trevor 57, 6. Eternal Blaze (7) C.S. Jodha 55.5, 7. Kensington Court (—) (—) 55.5, 8. Revolution (1) P.P. Dhebe 55.5 and 9. Setareh (—) (—) 55.5.  1. ZUCCARELLI, 2. ANGELICO, 3. ALL ATTRACTIVE T.B. HANUMANTHARAJ MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 5-y-o & over, 5-10: 1. Recall Of You (11) Suraj Narredu 62.5, 2. Silver Dew (4) C.S. Jodha 60.5, 3. Kvasir (7) L.A. Rozario 57.5, 4. Schafenberg (3) Shreyas Singh 56.5, 5. Lucky Chance (8) Akshay K 55.5, 6. The Response (6) P. Sai Kumar 53, 7. Donna Bella (9) S. Shareef 52.5, 8. Musterion (2) Neeraj 52.5, 9. Aceros (1) Arvind Kumar 51, 10. Michigan Melody (5) Arshad 51 and 11. Perfect Rendition (10) Dhanu Singh 50.5.  1. RECALL OF YOU, 2. LUCKY CHANCE, 3. SILVER DEW TOTALIZATOR CUP (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 5-45: 1. Unique Style (1) Darshan 60, 2. Belvedere (6) Neeraj 55, 3. Scribbling Hopper (5) Akshay K 54.5, 4. Mega Success (4) Vivek 54, 5. Augusto (11) S. Shareef 53.5, 6. Clever Hans (9) P.P. Dhebe 53.5, 7. Divine Masculine (8) Rajesh Kumar 53.5, 8. Sunshine Prince (7) Antony 53.5, 9. Flying Quest (10) C.S. Jodha 53, 10. By The Book (3) Nazerul 52 and 11. Crimson Heart (2) Ajeet Kumar 51.5.  1. UNIQUE STYLE, 2. CLEVER HANS, 3. SCRIBBLING HOPPER  Days best: ZUCCARELLI  Double: THE SOVEREIGN ORB — RECALL OF YOU Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Treble (i): 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zuccarelli-primed-to-deliver-in-feature/article38326763.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:45 IST,||India eyes error-free show against Korea||Its campaign back on track after a below-par outing against Japan in the pool stages, defending champion India would look for an error-free outing against Korea in the semifinals of women’s Asia Cup hockey tournament here on Wednesday. Top-seeded India started its campaign on a resounding note, blanking Malaysia 9-0 before being stunned by reigning Asian Games champion Japan 0-2 in its next match. Raising its game India, however, raised its game by leaps and bounds to thrash a lowly Singapore 9-1 and qualify for the last-four round behind Pool A toppers Japan. Come Wednesday, and the Savita Punia-led women’s team, ranked ninth in the world, would seek an encore against the nimble-footed Koreans, placed 11th in the FIH rankings. A poor outing against Korea could also shatter the morale of the Indians in a busy calendar year comprising big events like the Birmingham Commonwealth Games, Asian Games, FIH World Cup, besides their debut appearance in the FIH Pro League. The Indians have been impressive in field play, scoring most of their goals through field efforts but penalty-corner conversions remain a cause for concern. Even though star dragflicker Gurjit Kaur slammed a hat-trick against Singapore, the Indians lacked execution from set pieces as they made use of just three out of 15 penalty corners. The Indian forwardline has shone bright in the three matches so far with Monika and young Jyoti scoring a brace each against Singapore. Besides, Vandana Katariya has been in fine form, and Navneet Kaur, too, scored two goals in the first match. However, the performance of the backline would worry India’s chief coach Janneke Schopman as the defenders have hardly been tested so far. The only time they were put under pressure, Japan came out on top. In the other semifinal, Japan will be up against China.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-eyes-error-free-show-against-korea/article64945453.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:45 IST,||‘We took the eye off Test cricket’||England recently had a disastrous Ashes campaign Down Under. Some of the blame for it has been laid at the door of the IPL by certain quarters.  Dominic Cork, however, begs to differ. “We will blame anything,” the former England all-rounder told The Hindu . “We will blame the IPL, The Hundred. The reason is that we just took the eye off Test cricket.”  He feels the reason is due more to the decline of the four-day domestic game in England. Lacking quality “We don’t have the quality we had back in the 1990s when we had top overseas players,” said Cork, who is here as television commentator for the Legends League Cricket. “We used to have Mohammed Azharuddin, Sachin Tendulkar, Michael Holding, Brian Lara and many others.” He said the current England batting also lacked the likes of Michael Atherton, Alec Stewart, Graham Gooch, Robin Smith, Allan Lamb and Mike Gatting. “They could bat all day,” he said. “I was lucky to play in that generation.” ‘Lillee-MRF began it’ India didn’t have that much depth in pace bowling at that time. “India has come along greatly in fast bowling,” he said. “Dennis Lillee and the MRF began it all. Then Duncan Fletcher as a coach ensured that India had the firepower.” He is impressed by India’s current pace battery. “I have seen them in the IPL and then developing into fine bowlers, like Navdeep Saini,” he said. “With spinners like R. Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja and all the pacers, India could bowl any side out.” He is not so sure about India playing four pacers in Tests. “That may be one too many as it weakens the batting,” he said. Cork believes the IPL is the best T20 league in the w. “India has got it absolutely spot on,” he said. “You have the best players, from overseas and domestic. It is well supported and you have full houses. The franchise cricket has worked well. The teams are adored by fans.” He said he enjoyed commentating on the IPL, especially in the Dugout. “It’s a great concept,” he said. “You have bowlers like Brett Lee and me explaining fast bowling and we have also players like Lara and Graeme Swann.” (The writer is in Muscat at the invitation of Legends League Cricket).  With spinners like Ashwin and Jadeja, and all the pacers, India could bowl any side out CorkFormer England all-rounder||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-just-took-the-eye-off-test-cricket/article64945451.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:01 IST,||Australia to tour Pakistan with full-strength squad||Australia is set to tour Pakistan with a full-strength squad as no player has so far expressed any reservation about travelling to the country which did not get to host top-flight international cricket for nearly a decade due to security concerns. The last time Pakistan had an ICC event on its soil was when it co-hosted the 1996 World Cup along with India and Sri Lanka. The terrorist attack on the Sri Lankan team bus in 2009 ensured Test cricket remained out of bounds until 2019. Last year, before the T20 World Cup, New Zealand and England had pulled out of the tour of Pakistan citing security concerns, the Kiwis withdrawing at the eleventh hour. However, Australia appeared to be on track for undertaking its first tour of Pakistan in 24 years, with national selector George Bailey terming the security plans as “very, very robust and very, very thorough”. “I believe the boards are still working through some of the minor details around that tour, so once that gets the formal tick of approval then we’ll announce the squad, but we’re reasonably well down the track,” Bailey told reporters on Tuesday according to Cricket Australia’s website. The last time Australia toured the Asian nation was way back in 1998, under Mark Taylor’s captaincy. All positive It’s all positive as far as the Pakistan tour is concerned but uncertainty hovers over the resumption of the Sheffield Shield season, even though the selectors may not be required to see performances there for picking the squad after Australia’s 4-0 Ashes win. “Whether we need to (see any Shield cricket) or not, I’m not entirely sure what opportunity we will get,” said Bailey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-to-tour-pakistan-with-full-strength-squad/article64945669.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:46 IST,||Rohit, Washington set to return||Rohit Sharma, Washington Sundar and Rishi Dhawan are set to return to India’s squad for the limited-overs series versus West Indies, starting in Ahmedabad on Feb. 6. The national selection panel, headed by former India pacer Chetan Sharma, is set to pick the squad this week for three ODIs and three T20Is. Having recovered from a hamstring injury that forced him to miss India’s tour to South Africa, Rohit will formally take charge of India’s ODI squad in the series opener. After taking over as the T20I captain versus New Zealand, Rohit’s absence with the willow, besides his leadership skills, was felt in South Africa. While Rohit’s injury had resurfaced just before the team’s departure for the Test series, Washington was diagnosed with COVID-19 prior to the ODI series. With the Tamil Nadu all-rounder having recovered, he is set to replace Jayant Yadav in the squad. Rishi Dhawan, meanwhile, is set to make a comeback to India’s squad after six years, thanks to his sterling show in Himachal Pradesh’s maiden Vijay Hazare Trophy title. He is likely to replace Venkatesh Iyer in the ODI squad. That the all-rounder duo of Hardik Pandya and Ravindra Jadeja unlikely to be available for selection could also work in the seasoned all-rounder’s favour. Interesting It will be interesting to see if the national selectors, in consultation with the team management, decide to rest Jasprit Bumrah for the series. The selectors and the support staff are understood to have been discussing rotation policy for key pacers. As a result, should Mohammed Shami be drafted in after being rested for the ODIs in South Africa, Bumrah may be given a break. Also, it is to be seen if the selectors persist with Bhuvneshwar Kumar who was lacklustre with the ball in South Africa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-and-washington-set-to-return-against-the-west-indies/article64945449.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:16 IST,||Engulfed in racism row, ECB ties up with Kick It Out||The England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) has forged a partnership with football’s leading anti-discrimination organisation, Kick It Out, to tackle racism in the sport while building a more inclusive cricketing environment. Part of action plan This alliance is part of an ECB action plan that comprises a wide range of recommendations including a review of dressing room cultures across English cricket. “... In addition, the ECB is working with Kick It Out, football’s leading anti-discrimination organisation, to carry out research and identify areas where they can offer expertise in developing and implementing plans to build a more inclusive cricketing environment,” the ECB said in its update of the action plan. “It is the first time Kick It Out has worked outside football and the partnership is supported by funding from Sky (British broadcasters).” Sky has pledged £100,000 to the project that comes after a parliamentary committee released a report earlier this month stating that racism in English cricket is “deep-seated” and the sport needs to “clean up its act”. The report followed former Yorkshire player Azeem Rafiq’s emotional testimony to the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) select committee about the racist abuse he faced during two stints at the famous club beginning in 2008 and ending in 2018. The ECB said that it is conducting a full review of dressing room culture in all men’s and women’s professional teams, both domestic and international. “The review will be led by Clare Connor, managing director of women’s cricket), with Ashley Giles, managing director of men’s cricket, first class Counties, the Professional Cricketers Association (PCA) and external experts. “It will examine dressing room culture(s) across elite cricket in England and Wales and make recommendations to address discriminatory attitudes and behaviours. “The review will commence in February and run across the 2022 season (when dressing rooms are active) with the final report due in September,” the ECB said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engulfed-in-racism-row-ecb-ties-up-with-kick-it-out/article38327308.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:01 IST,||‘Lack of red-ball cricket hampering players’ skills’||Saurashtra skipper Jaydev Unadkat feels the players’ skills against the red ball have started diminishing and potential cancellation of a second consecutive Ranji Trophy season will be a “great loss” for domestic cricket in India. After the COVID-19-forced cancellation of Ranji Trophy last year, a first in the tournament’s rich history, the postponement of the current season due to the third wave of the pandemic has left many players worried. The premier tournament was supposed to begin on Jan. 13 and lead pacer Unadkat and the rest of the Saurashtra players had started their preparations to defend the maiden title they won back in March 2020. ‘Players’ skills are being hampered. Two years in a row would be a great loss. One year itself was a great loss. When we started our pre-season camp before the eventual postponement, it felt like a whole new game,” Unadkat said. “Leaving the ball, bowling with pace and bowling long spells. All that had gone out of the picture. It is going to be difficult for sure if it doesn’t happen this year too. “I hear that BCCI is keen on staging it. If the virus situation doesn’t become threatening, we can have it in February with a stricter bubble and more vigilance,” said the left-arm pacer who picked a record 67 wickets in a memorable 2020 season. If February is not possible, then the BCCI must start the next season with Ranji Trophy, feels the pacer who has played one Test, seven ODIs and 10 T20Is for India. Enormous task The seasoned cricketer also understands that the BCCI has an enormous task at hand in staging a 38-team event amid the challenges posed by the pandemic. “It is disappointing but I feel this was bound to happen considering the COVID situation and the right decision taken was taken. Hopefully things get better and we can play at least half of it or the league stage before the IPL,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lack-of-red-ball-cricket-hampering-players-skills/article64945665.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 03:50 IST,||Bengaluru FC takes on Chennaiyin||Bengaluru FC, on a six-game unbeaten run, takes on Chennaiyin FC in the Indian Super League (ISL) at the Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Wednesday. BFC (14 points), with two wins and four draws in recent matches, trails Chennaiyin FC by four points. BFC is coming off a 1-1 draw against FC Goa in its previous encounter, while Chennaiyin FC edged out NorthEast United 2-1 on Saturday. Both contingents have been affected by COVID-19, which has forced personnel changes in the playing eleven. CFC goalkeeper Vishal Kaith tested positive, forcing the team to be in quarantine after the NEUFC match. Availability problem “It’s tough to not know which players I have available to me until three hours before we board the bus for the game. Some of my players exit their quarantine on the morning of the match, and these are only some of the problems we have faced. When you consider them, we did well under the circumstances against FC Goa. The boys have shown incredible mentality and character,” BFC head coach Marco Pezzaiuoli said. Chennaiyin FC head coach Bozidar Bandovic stated, “BFC is one of the best teams, with good quality players in their squad. They are very dangerous on offensive set pieces. We need to defend set pieces very well.”  It’s tough to not know which players I have available to me until three hours before we board the bus for the game Pezzaiuoli BFC head coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengaluru-fc-takes-on-chennaiyin/article38327035.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:01 IST,||‘Trying to get back to my old swing’||Collin Morikawa had plenty of thinking to do on the short drive up the coast from Abu Dhabi to Dubai. The British Open champion had just finished tied for 62nd at the Abu Dhabi Championship on Sunday and the guy with one of the purest swings in golf was concerned. “I didn’t know where the golf ball was going,” Morikawa said of his tough week on Yas Links when gusts of up to 64kmph caused havoc to a strong field. So, ahead of the Dubai Desert Classic that starts on Thursday, the No. 2-ranked Morikawa said he has hit the “reset button.” Deep dive “I had my agent and my caddie, and we were just literally sitting on the range for hours trying to figure out what to do,” Morikawa said of what he called a “deep dive” on his first day in Dubai. “We know what’s not working. It’s just trying to get back to my old swing and trying to get back to what I know I can do. So I still have a couple of things I’ve got to work out and feel, but I’m in a much better position right now, at least if I had to go play tomorrow or right now, versus where I was last week.” “Sometimes you just have to find the centre again. It happens,” he said. “Thankfully I was still able to learn a lot from it and show up this week with a fresh mind and ready to go.” Coming off a run of five straight top-10 finishes that included a win at the season-ending DP World Tour Championship on the European Tour, Morikawa shot four rounds in the 70s in Abu Dhabi and only made the cut on the number. He was 15 shots off the winner, Thomas Pieters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/trying-to-get-back-to-my-old-swing/article38327146.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:27 IST,||Focus shifts to knockouts||The business end of the ICC Under-19 Men’s Cricket World Cup 2022 has arrived and it is clear now who will contest the Super League stage and the Plate competition. Six of the eight Super League teams have previously won the tournament, with India, Australia, Pakistan, South Africa, England, and defending champion Bangladesh all through. Other teams Sri Lanka, which finished as runner-up in 2000, and Afghanistan are the two other teams still in with a chance of lifting the title at the Sir Vivian Richards Cricket Stadium on Feb. 5. Meanwhile in the Plate quarterfinals, host West Indies will look to bounce back from missing out on a Super League spot and finish its first tournament on home soil on a high. It will be joined by United Arab Emirates, Uganda, Ireland, Canada, Zimbabwe, Scotland, and Papua New Guinea in what is set to be an absorbing contest to decide the Plate winners. Four-time champion India enters the Super League stages in formidable form, having won all three of its games in Group B to finish top and set up a clash with Bangladesh. Huge centuries from Raj Bawa and Angkrish Raghuvanshi saw India conclude the group format with a thumping 326-run victory over Uganda having already beaten South Africa and Ireland. Bangladesh’s passage was not quite as stress-free, with the defending 2020 champion recovering from losing its opening game to England to finish second in Group A. An eight-wicket win over Canada was followed by a nine-wicket triumph (DLS) in a rain-interrupted game against UAE to set up a rematch of the final two years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/focus-now-shifts-to-knockout-matches/article64945577.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:46 IST,||Jhajharia chosen for Padma Bhushan||Star para athlete Devendra Jhajharia was on Tuesday named for the prestigious Padma Bhushan, the third highest civilian honour in the country, while Olympic-gold winning javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra was among the eight sportspersons named for the Padma Shri award. Neeraj was also honoured with the Param Vishisht Seva Medal. The 40-year old Jhajharia won two gold medals in the javelin competition of Paralympic Games, 2004 Athens and Rio 2016. He won a silver in the F46 event at the Tokyo Paralympics last year. Neeraj, the 24-year-old javelin thrower, made history at the Tokyo Olympics by becoming the first Indian to win a gold in track and field at the Games. The other Padma Shri awardees include 20-year-old para shooter Avani Lekhara, para badminton player Pramod Bhagat and para javelin thrower Sumit Antil. Also getting the honour was 93-year-old Kalaripayattu legend Sankaranarayana Menon Chundayil, former international martial arts champion Faisal Ali Dar, the 67-year-old former Indian football team captain Brahmanand Sankhwalkar and 29-year-old women’s hockey player Vandana Kataria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jhajharia-gets-padma-bhushan/article64945450.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:45 IST,||Sania bids adieu to Australian Open||Sania Mirza’s swansong at the Australian Open ended with a quarterfinal loss to local pair Jaimee Fourlis and Jason Kubler in the mixed doubles event here on Tuesday. Sania, partnering American Rajeev Ram, lost 6-4, 7-6(5) to wild-card entries Fourlis and Kubler in one hour 30 minutes. The 35-year-old Sania is India’s most accomplished woman tennis player, having won six Grand Slam titles, including three mixed doubles trophies. She was aiming to add a second Australian Open mixed doubles title to her kitty after making a first round exit in the women’s doubles event last week. The Melbourne Park has been a happy hunting ground for Sania, who recently announced that she would retire at the end of this season. Two of her six Grand Slam titles have come at the Australian Open. Apart from winning the mixed doubles title in 2009 with compatriot Mahesh Bhupathi, Sania also collected the women’s doubles trophy alongside Swiss great Martina Hingis in 2016, which was also her last Grand Slam win. With Sania’s defeat, the Indian challenge also came to an end in the first Slam of the year.  I'm not thinking about that [retirement] at every match. I am playing tennis to win matches and until I play, I am going to try and win every match. I'm still in it 100% rest of the year Saniaspeaking to Sony Sports Network||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-bids-adieu-to-australian-open/article64945456.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:31 IST,||India enters semifinal, books World Cup spot||Gurjit Kaur’s hat-trick and a brace each by Monika and Jyoti powered defending champion India to a 9-1 win over Singapore and helped the team qualify for the semifinals of the women's Asia Cup hockey tournament here on Monday. In the semifinals on Wednesday, Pool A runner-up India will take on Pool B leader Korea, while Pool A topper Japan will meet Pool B runner-up China. The final is scheduled for Thursday. The top four teams have qualified for this year’s World Cup to be co-hosted by Spain and Netherlands. Gurjit converted two penalty corners and also scored a field goal (8th, 37th, 48th), while Monika (6th, 17th) and Jyoti (43rd, 58th) scored two field goals each. Vandana Katariya (8th) and Mariana Kujur (10th) were the other scorers.  .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-enters-semifinal-books-world-cup-spot/article64945568.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:41 IST,||Priceless Gold lives up to billing in the main event||Rajesh Narredu-trained Priceless Gold (Suraj Narredu up) won the Bangalore Race Course 159th Year Commemoration Trophy, the chief event of the races held here on Tuesday (Jan 25). The winner is owned by Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd. rep. by. Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla, Mrs. Michelle Y. Poonawalla, Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole and Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala & M/S. DT Racing & Breeding LLP. Jockey Suraj Narredu won three races on the day. The results: 1. LUNI PLATE (1,600m), rated 00 to 25: LANTANA (S. John) 1, Dream Chaser (P.P. Dhebe) 2, Livisilla (Vishal Bunde) 3 and Royal Thunder (Akshay K) 4. Not run: Knotty Princess. 1-1/2, 3 and 1-3/4. 1m, 39.57s. Rs. 54 (w), 20, 19 and 12 (p), SHP: 45, THP: 74, FP: 626, Q: 273, Trinella: 2,297 and 626, Exacta: 7,624 and 16,337. Favourite: Livisilla. Owners: Manjri Horse Breed Farm Pvt Ltd, Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey, Mr. Mukul a. Sonawala & M/S. DT Racing & Breeding LLP. Trainer: Darius Byramji.  2. LAKSHMANA TIRTHA PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 5-y-o & over: GENERAL PATTON (S. John) 1, Raven Rock (Jagadeesh) 2, Commandpost (Angad) 3 and Stone House (Shreyas Singh) 4. Not run: Mr Humble. 3-1/2, 1-1/2 and 1-3/4. 1m, 13.74s. Rs. 23 (w), 15 and 28 (p), SHP: 40, THP: 56, FP: 81, Q: 61, Trinella: 842 and 627, Exacta: 2,334 and 593. Favourite: General Patton. Owners: M/s. Arun Alagappan Racing LLP, Mr. Chandrakanth Kankaria & Mr. Gurpal Singh. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.   3. GATEWAY OF INDIA PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45: FOUR WHEEL DRIVE (Srinath) 1, Pink Jasmine (Akshay K) 2, Electric Blue (Arshad) 3 and Sacrament (Shane Gray) 4. 2, Shd and 1/2. 1m, 37.96s. Rs. 34 (w), 15, 13 and 16 (p), SHP: 45, THP: 48, FP: 130, Q: 77, Trinella: 429 and 184, Exacta: 1,162 and 614. Favourite: Four Wheel Drive. Owners: Mr. Akshay Karan, Mr. Syed Nawas Hussain & Mr. V. Krishna Das. Trainer: S. Dominic.  4. TETRASOFT BANGALORE WINTER MILLION (1,200m), 3-y-o (Terms): IMPERIAL POWER (Suraj) 1, Disruptor (Akshay K) 2, Forseti (Darshan) 3 and Stormy Ocean (Srinath) 4. 6-1/4, 4-3/4 and 2-3/4. 1m, 12.80s. Rs. 17 (w), 12 and 16 (p), SHP: 29, THP: 37, FP: 38, Q: 21, Trinella: 139 and 70, Exacta: 177 and 37. Favourite: Imperial Power. Owner: M/S. Kunal Gupta Stud Farm LLP. Trainer: S. Narredu.  5. SRIKANTADATTA NARASIMHARAJA WADIYAR MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): STAR GLORY (Suraj) 1, Place Vendome (Trevor) 2, Tranquilo (Srinath) 3 and Chinky Pinky (Jagadeesh) 4. Not run: Desert Dance. 1-1/4, 4-1/4 and 1/2. 1m, 13.65s. Rs. 21 (w), 12, 11 and 15 (p), SHP: 30, THP: 31, FP: 42, Q: 22, Trinella: 66 and 47, Exacta: 805 and 570. Favourite: Star Glory. Owner: Mrs. Rohini Thuppal. Trainer: S. Narredu.  6. BANGALORE RACE COURSE 159th YEAR COMMEMORATION TROPHY (1,600m), 4-y-o & over, (Terms): PRICELESS GOLD (Suraj) 1, Electra (Antony) 2, Northern Alliance (Dhanu Singh) 3 and Automatic (A. Qureshi) 4. 1-1/2, 1 and Nk. 1m, 38.16s. Rs. 14 (w), 12 and 25 (p), SHP: 44, THP: 30, FP: 48, Q: 54, Trinella: 98 and 49, Exacta: 400 and 289. Favourite: Priceless Gold. Owners: Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd. rep by. Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla, Mrs. Michelle Y. Poonawalla, Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole and Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala & M/S. DT Racing & Breeding LLP. Trainer: Rajesh Narredu.  7. C. NARAYANA REDDY MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,400m), rated 40 to 65, 5-y-o & over: WHIZZO (Jagadeesh) 1, Caracas (Akshay K) 2, Garamond (Trevor) 3 and Ombudsman (Neeraj) 4. 1-1/4, Lnk and 3. 1m, 25.18s. Rs. 63 (w) 19, 18 and 11 (p), SHP: 38, THP: 57, FP: 367, Q: 314, Trinella: 692 and 290, Exacta: 9,082 and 6,487. Favourite: Garamond. Owners: Mr. Clinton Miller, Mr. Sujay Chandrahas & Mr. Dean Stephens. Trainer: Azhar Ali.  8. LAKSHMANA TIRTHA PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 5-y-o & over: CAPABLE (Sai Kumar) 1. Golden Vision (S. Hussain) 2, Gypsy (Ikram Ahmed) 3 and Morganite (Shreyas Singh) 4. 1/2, 3-3/4 and 3-1/2. 1m, 13.51s. Rs. 50 (w), 16, 25 and 19 (p), SHP: 69, THP: 45, FP: 681, Q: 290, Trinella: 5,393 and 770, Exacta: 7,667 and 4,107. Favourite: Copper Sunrise. Owner: Mr. G.S. Reddy. Trainer: Sharat Kumar.  Jackpot: Rs. 2,824 (21 tkts.); Runner-up: 193 (132 tkts.); Treble (i): 99 (63 tkts.); (ii): 484 (17 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/priceless-gold-lives-up-to-billing-in-the-main-event/article38326764.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:45 IST,||Irshad helps NEUFC hold Mumbai City||Mumbai City FC’s pursuit for a win extended to six games as NorthEast United FC held it to a 1-1 draw at the PJN Stadium in Goa on Tuesday. Des Buckingham’s side broke the deadlock initially, with Ahmed Jahouh, scoring from the spot in a match in which it missed its key striker Igor Angulo. MCFC began controlling the game from kick off and did not have to wait long for a breakthrough as Vikram Pratap Singh earned a penalty just before the cooling break in the first half. The Indian forward made a run into the NEUFC box and went down after kicking NEUFC defender Mashoor Shereef. The referee pointed to the spot instead of awarding a free-kick in NEUFC’s favour. Jahouh put Mumbai in front with a cool finish. After the goal, it was a tale of missed opportunities for Mumbai and some great goalkeeping from NEUFC captain, Subhasish Roy Chowdhury, who returned to action after over a month. Khalid Jamil’s men put their foot on the gas in the second half and got their results when ‘super-sub’ Mohamed Irshad buried the ball in the bottom corner, after receiving the ball from a corner kick, helping NEUFC share the honours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/irshad-helps-neufc-hold-mcfc/article64945452.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:01 IST,||Recent happenings won’t have an effect: Latif||Former Pakistan skipper Rashid Latif reckons that change of guard in Indian cricket won’t adversely affect its brand since the country has enough depth in talent apart from financial might to withstand the churning. The manner in which all the recent developments occurred and the controversy created presented a poor picture of Indian cricket. However Latif said none of it should adversely affect Indian cricket. “They have a strong base in the IPL and Indian cricket is now established as financially very strong so eventually I don’t think these recent changes or happenings should have any bearing on Indian cricket as a brand,” Latif said on the ‘Cricket Baaz’ Youtube channel. Depends on Rohit “I think a lot now depends on how Rohit Sharma handles the team but he has his own style of leading the side and has already achieved a lot with Mumbai Indians. “It remains to be seen how motivated he will be to captain in Tests. Kohli brought energy and purpose to his captaincy and team.” Latif though felt the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) erred in removing Kohli as captain of the one-day team. The former wicketkeeper-batsman said it was never easy to change a captain who has been around there as a leader for so many years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/recent-happenings-wont-have-an-effect-latif/article38327043.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:45 IST,||Santosh Trophy final phase put off||The All India Football Federation has postponed the final round of the 75th Santosh Trophy National football championship scheduled to be held at Malappuram in Kerala from February 20 to March 6. “In view of the rise in COVID-19 positive cases, the AIFF in consultation with the Government of Kerala has decided to defer the competition schedule,” said Kushal Das, the national federation’s general secretary, in a letter to the 10 teams that have qualified for the final phase. Review in February A review of the situation will be undertaken in the third week of February and new dates announced after that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/santosh-trophy-final-phase-postponed/article38326998.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:30 IST,||Arnav Paparkar advances||Qualifier Arnav Paparkar beat Rajeshwar Reddy 6-0, 3-6, 6-1 in the boys’ first round of the ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament at the Indore Tennis Club on Tuesday. In the pre-quarterfinals, Arnav will challenge the fifth seed Deep Munim.  The results (first round): Boys: Lakshya Chugh bt Anshul Satav 7-5, 4-6, 6-4; Arnav Paparkar bt Rajeshwar Reddy 6-0, 3-6, 6-1; Daksh Agarwal bt Tushar Mittal 6-3, 6-2; Tarun Korwar bt Debasis Sahoo 7-6(1), 6-2.   Girls: Priyanka Rana bt Siddhi Khot 6-2, 6-0; Harshini Nagaraj bt Samya Singh Sikand 6-2, 6-4; Chahana Budhbhatti bt Mrunmayee Joshi 6-1, 6-1; Maithili Mothe bt Gagana Mohan 6-0, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arnav-paparkar-advances/article38327172.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 04:13 IST,||Suryansh and Roshan shine in Aarbin CA’s win||Suryansh Sharma top-scored with 79 runs and Roshan Kumar Yadav picked up a five-wicket haul as Aarbin Cricket Academy beat Blooming Star Cricket Academy by six wickets in the Academy Cricket League Under-16 tournament.  The scores: BSCA 167/9 in 40 overs (Saksham Bharadwaj 48, Roshan Kumar Yadav 5/15) lost to ACA 169/4 in 28.5 overs (Suryansh Sharma 79) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suryansh-and-roshan-shine-in-aarbin-cas-win/article38327167.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:45 IST,||Spate of pullouts rock Odisha Open||The Odisha Open badminton tournament, with $75,000 up for grabs, has only limited international flavour, with not a single top seed across five sections showing up at Cuttack. The unprecedented number of last-minute withdrawals left the officials worried and the list could not be made public until close to 2 am on Tuesday. It was tough to find replacements for those pulling out of the qualifying as well as the main rounds. A fair number of no-shows played havoc with the schedule. The withdrawal of the seeded entries across sections was startling. In men’s singles, only three seeds remain after five seeds, including P. Kashyap, Sourabh Verma, Ajay Jayaram, withdrew. Third seed Subhankar Dey, sixth seed Xiaodong Sheng (Canada) and seventh seed Cheam June Wei (Malaysia) are the new favourites for the title. Only two seeds remain in women’s singles that has 30 Indians and two Americans of Indian origin, after top seed Saina Nehwal led the no-shows of six seeded players, including Supanida Katethong (Thailand) and Aakarshi Kashyap. Fifth seed Ashmita Chahila and eighth seeded Disha Gupta (USA) are the only survivors. In men’s doubles and women’s doubles, six seeded pairs withdrew. The favourite for women’s doubles, Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy, topped the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mass-withdrawals-play-havoc-with-odisha-open/article38326996.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 06:40 IST,||Karthikeya scores century||P. Anantha Karthikeya scored a century (104, 54b, 9x4, 8x6) to help Sakthi CC record a comfortable, 83-run win over Vijayawada Trophy Fighter in the KDCA B-Division T20 league cricket championship here on Tuesday.  The scores: Sakthi 184/4 in 20 overs( P. Anantha Karthikeya 104, B. Geeth 41, Sekar Babu 3/21) bt Vijayawada Trophy Fighter 101/8 in 20 overs (R. Aadarsh 3/11) .    TA Academy, Bhadrachalam, scored 32-run win over Crictrics Club in the GoSports Little Champs u-14 limited-overs cricket tournament here.  The scores: TA Academy, Badrachalam 148 in 42.3 overs (Ram Pardhava 35, Rayana Abhiram 4/31) bt Crictrics Club 116 in 42.3 overs (P. Sai Jaswant 3/25, Vislawanth Vineeth Pavan 3/25) .    M. Venkateswara Rao, former Secretary of Guntur District Cricket Association, passed away on Tuesday due to cardiac arrest at Guntur. He was 66. Rao served the Andhra Cricket Association in different capacities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karthikeya-scores-century/article64945527.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 07:46 IST,||Paratva and saulabhya||Yasoda had warned Krishna to keep away from butter, but Krishna did not pay heed. So, Yasoda wanted to teach Him a lesson. She decided to tie Him up to the mortar. But no matter how many pieces of rope she put together, she could not tie Him. Finally, Krishna made it possible for her. The rope suddenly became the right length to tie Him. Yasoda did not wonder about this, for Krishna made her forget the details. He can show His Paratva when He pleases and just as quickly, hide it through His saulabhya, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Krishna avatara was to show the world His saulabhya. Rama had the quality of sauseelya. Although He was a king’s son, He made friends with Guha, Sugreeva and Vibhishana. But saulabhya goes beyond sauseelya. Saulabhya means that a person in a superior position lowers Himself for the sake of those who can never be His equals in any way. Krishna was the Supreme One, and He chose to be scolded and tied up by a mere mortal. He was not only tied by a rope, but also tied up by Yasoda’s words. Yasoda challenged Him to break free. Krishna could easily have done so. But His aim was not to demonstrate His Supremacy, but His simplicity. And so He remained tied by the rope and by Yasoda’s words. Elephants, despite their extraordinary strength, obey the mahout’s orders. Kishna obeying Yasoda was akin to this. Both Paratva and saulabhya are important. The Meru mountain dazzles because it is made of gold. But human beings cannot see it. Of what use is such a mountain? A man may be anxious to give generously to others, but he may be a pauper. Of what use is his desire to be generous? Both the power to give and the ability to give are necessary. The Lord has power and the willingness to use it for our welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/paratva-and-saulabhya/article38326835.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 07:48 IST,||Sudoku — January 30, 2022||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-january-26-2022/article64945447.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:31 IST,||Now, drink from a rice bran teacup||Recently, a video of a man showcasing products made from rice bran went viral. In the video, posted on Twitter by Supriya Sahu, Principal Secretary of Environment Climate Change & Forests of Tamil Nadu, the man holds up eco-friendly food containers, cups and glasses. She wrote, “Food containers made out of rice bran are leak proof, affordable, disposable and earth friendly. Hotels, restaurants, food joints, it’s time for you to stop using banned plastic packaging in Tamil Nadu and switch to sustainable eco alternatives #meendummanjappai #Manjapai.” Later, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor retweeted and urged the Government to scale up production of such eco-friendly alternatives for daily use. “Madam visited our stall at an exhibition in Chennai organised by the Tamil Nadu Government to promote the Meendum Manjappai campaign. After she shared the video, I have been getting a number of calls. People are eager to know more,” says Kalyan Kumar, the man in the video. So far a millet exporter from Trichy has approached him to repurpose 12 tonnes of millet waste, a farmer from Panruti connected to find ways to upcycle rice straws, and several coir farmers from the Pollachi belt near Coimbatore have asked for ways to utilise coir waste. Reduce, recycle, reuse  Kalyan’s modest machinery unit, SPS Kalyan Machine Designers, located at Mathampallayam, 25 kilometres from Coimbatore, has been getting a steady stream of visitors ever since the video went viral. “Any chakkai (organic waste) can be upcycled using the multi-biodegradable machine that we make here,” says Kalyan, holding up a tray made from banana fibre. Along with rice bran and areca leaf plates stacked on his table, there are air-tight food boxes made using saw dust from teak wood. Tea cups made from discarded red chilli stalks also vie for attention. “This can be used to serve hot beverages like soups,” he adds.   Kalyan says the machine can recycle as many as 15 raw materials, including rice bran, rice husk, rice straw, wheat bran, and nine types of non-poisonous wood powder, tamarind seeds, and peanut shells. “Even vegetable waste like skin of stick tubers ( kuchi kelangu), banana tree, and discarded banana branches can become raw material,” he explains.  Over the last two years, he has supplied machines across Tamil Nadu as well as Sri Lanka, Australia, and Saudi Arabia. One of his latest machines will soon be dispatched to a customer in Belgium to repurpose beer waste into wine glasses and tea cups. “The ratio is 700 grams of organic waste to 300 grams of food grade solution, which I provide (he has patented this), to make the end product. Name any organic waste, I can give you a ready solution,” he says with an air of confidence. While initially they made machines that relied on a single raw material, for example areca leaves, to make plates and spoons, later he experimented with saw dust and rice bran, which are available across all seasons in South India. “Used rice bran tea cups can be easily converted into animal food or manure,” says Kalyan, adding that anyone can make a profit of up to Rs. 30,000 per month as the machines can be scaled up to make 2,000 cups (in 60 ml to 120 ml sizes) per day. The cost starts from Rs. 4 lakh and can go up to Rs. 40 lakhs. Caring for the environment is the key, reiterates Kalyan who also tapped into the demand for eco-friendly air tight-food containers during the pandemic. “If we have to cut down on use of paper and plastic cups, we have to constantly innovate. For tea cups, we can also provide a bottom guard to paste seeds and it can be used for mass dispersal of seeds for green drives. Cups made with rice bran and coir can be used for packaging glass items, especially for export markets.” Kalyan advocates recycling waste. “A used paper cup stays the same for three years. But the biodegradable products degrade within eight hours of contact with water. At meetings with tea shop owners we learnt that they prefer paper and plastic cups because of easy availability. An eco-friendly alternative like a rice bran cup (in which the beverage stays warm for up to 45 minutes!) can enter that space only with awareness and mass production,” he says, adding, “It is very encouraging when people come forward and buy such innovations. It gives us hope.” For details, call 9597715496  H.ead||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/now-drink-from-a-rice-bran-teacup/article64945709.ece
26 January 2022||January 26 2022 05:20 IST,||The travelling bun||“Master, oru tea!”: This command forms the background score at RMS Sweets Marimuthu Tea Stall, located at Gopalpatti. The small-town, 47 kilometres from Madurai, is popular for tamarind, fragrant senthooram mangoes, and a unique, fluffy sweet treat — paal buns.   We elbow our way into the crowded shop one evening — past a gaggle of schoolboys ordering vadas , farmers biting into murukku and khaki-clad bus drivers sipping tea — and arrive at the glass counter, where the buns await.   The shop, which has been around for almost three decades, has been making paal buns for 24 years now. It is among the town’s most popular haunts for the delicacy. “Maida, curd, cooking soda, and sugar,” lists M Shubash, the owner, explaining how the snack is made. “We knead the dough at around 10 am and let it ferment for half-an-hour. Then, we roll small sections, fry them in hot oil, and drop them into sugar syrup.”   Every tea shop at Gopalpatti, which has around 3,000 houses, boasts a hefty aluminium tray bearing the golden buns, each the size of a big lemon. Unlike at tea shops in other parts of Tamil Nadu where vadas and bajjis dominate, in this small town, most customers order paal buns first, following them with something spicy, before washing it all down with hot tea. The snack tastes like a squishy badhusha — soft and mildly sweet as you make your way into the centre.   R Raj Mohan, a driver at a local Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation bus, tells us that he has picked up the buns for several friends over the years. “The moment anyone hears I travel the Gopalpatti route, they ask for paal buns,” he smiles. Though they have been popular with the locals for over four decades, it is the tourists and travellers who made them popular.  “Gopalpatti is the only small-town in the vicinity for villagers nearby who want to shop for clothes or jewellery,” says Shubash. “Pilgrims who travel by foot to Palani from Madurai and Karaikudi too pass by,” he adds. Gradually, the snack travelled from the small tea shops of Gopalpatti.  A few blocks down the road, is Thamodharan Tea Stall. It is here that we trace the history of this snack. Between handing customers paal buns, K Narayanan, who runs the place describes how they have been making these buns for 40 years. “It all began in Alanganallur,” says Narayanan, pausing to drop coins into a drawer. He adds, “They make something similar at tea shops there. Many years ago, a ‘master’ from the town, arrived at Gopalpatti. He introduced it here and gradually, it caught the fancy of locals and tourists alike.”   N Suppuraja, the oldest employee at RMS Sweets knows the story well. He has been at the shop from the time it was started. “It didn’t move well the first day we put it up for sale,” says the toothless 75-year-old. But before he knew it, paal buns were disappearing off their trays. “It is called ‘paal’ bun of all things,” he chuckles. “But there is not a drop of milk in it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-travelling-bun/article64945716.ece
