27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Fewer hospitalisations in third wave, data from States show||With India continuing to be in the grip of the third wave of the coronavirus, hospitalisation trends from majors States suggest it is so far less pernicious than previous waves. On Wednesday, India reported 2,85,000 fresh cases bringing the active caseload to 22,23,018. States that account for a major chunk of these cases say that more than 95% of their available hospital beds are unoccupied, a far cry during previous waves when a scramble for even a single one — or having multiple occupants in a bed — was routine. Rajasthan has around 90,000 active cases with 84,000 beds available for treating COVID-19 patients. Medical and Health Minister Parsadi Lal Meena said this week that said only 2% of these beds were occupied. At the Rajasthan University for Health Sciences (RUHS) Hospital in Jaipur, which is the biggest government medical facility for COVID treatment in the State, 63 of the 895 oxygen-supported beds and 26 of the 305 ICU beds with ventilator were occupied as on January 25. During the peak of the second wave in April-end in 2021, almost all the beds available in the government and private medical facilities were occupied by the COVID-19 patients. Active cases in Kerala, which is reporting a massive spike in infections, have climbed to 2,60,000. However, around 3.5% have been admitted in hospitals and COVID first line/second line treatment centres. This is in stark contrast to the situation in the State during the Delta wave last April when around 22,726 — close to 8% — were hospitalised. The daily new admissions at the time was close to 4,500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fewer-hospitalisations-in-third-wave-data-from-states-show/article64945192.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:27 IST,||Governor hails efforts to contain COVID-19||Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot, who presided over the low-key Republic Day celebrations at Field Marshal Manekshaw Parade Grounds here on Wednesday, hailed the efforts and measures taken by the Karnataka Government to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. “We fought against COVID-19 even in 2021–22 very efficiently while the world struggled to handle it. We are entering 2022 with renewed vigour and optimism,” he said in his Republic Day address, his first since he took over as Governor in July 2021. Mr. Gehlot thanked doctors, nurses, police personnel, and other frontline workers for their tireless efforts. The COVID-19 war room, telemedicine, identification of those infected, and quarantine observation were managed efficiently with advanced technology. “This has resulted in less number of deaths in Karnataka when compared with other parts of the world,” he said. He outlined achievements made in various fields, citing the State Government’s approval of Rs. 1,472 crore development works for the benefit of farmers. To encourage education of their children in rural areas, Rs. 4.41 crore was transferred to the bank accounts of 16,176 students. For 2021–22, the Government allocated Rs. 26,000 crore for schemes under the Scheduled Caste Sub-Plan (SCSP) and Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) of which Rs. 11,000 core was spent till November 2021. A total of Rs. 3,710 crore has been allocated to the Social Welfare Department for implementation of various schemes towards welfare the Scheduled Castes of which Rs. 2,014 crore was spent up to November 2021. Karnataka, he said, has the second largest number of tigers (524), and also holds the number one position in elephant headcount. The Governor said that as per the census of 2017, Karnataka has 6,049 elephants, which constitutes 25% of India’s elephants. Smart City projects The Governor also spoke about the status of Smart City projects. In Bengaluru, 77 roads covering a distance of 158 km have been selected for white-topping, of which 31 main roads have been developed. Referring to measures taken to rejuvenate Bellandur and Varthur lakes, the Governor said upgrading of wastewater distillation units in Koramangala-Challaghatta Valley would be taken up. Due to the third wave of the pandemic and surge in COVID-19 cases, members of the public were not allowed to attend the parade, and invitees were limited to 200. This year, the Andhra Pradesh police participated in the parade along with teams from the Karnataka State Reserve Police, Border Security Force, Dog Squad, Traffic Wardens, Home Guards, and Fire and Emergency Services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-hails-efforts-to-contain-covid/article64945303.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:05 IST,||Rs. 4.62 cr. disbursed among 462 families hit by COVID-19||Emphasising the need for people to further support the government in its endeavour to curb the pandemic,Minister for Mines and Geology, Women and Child Development and Dharwad district in-charge Halappa Achar has said that Rs. 4.62 crore has been disbursed to 462 BPL families that lost members to COVID-19 in the district. Hoisting the tricolour at R.N. Shetty Stadium in Dharwad during the Republic Day celebrations organised by the district administration,Mr. Achar said that along with it, Rs. 50,000 each has been given to legal heirs of 1,143 people who died of COVID-19. This amount has been directly credited to their bank accounts, he said. The Minister said that the biggest inoculation drive in the entire world is being carried out in the country which has a population of 130 crore. And, along with it, various measures are being taken both by the Union and State Governments to check the spread of the pandemic, he said. “In Dharwad district, 15.50 lakh people have already been given the first dose of the vaccine, while 12 lakh people have received their second dose. Booster dose has been given to 10,000 people. Among students in the 15-18 age group, 73,000 have received the first dose so far. It is important that everyone received the vaccine to prevent contracting the infection,” he said. Crop loss The Minister said that after assessing crop loss caused due to floods and heavy rainfall, 1,21,135 farmers have been given compensation of Rs. 96.33 crore, in all. As a first installment for repair of severely damaged houses Rs. 37 lakh (Rs. 95,100 each) has been given to 670 households. Similarly, Rs. 6.26 crore has been disbursed for repair of 1,252 partially damaged houses, he said. Mr. Achar said that under the Raita Vidyanidhi programme launched by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Rs. 2.41 crore has been disbursed to children of farmers in the district. Listing outvarious programmes being implemented successfully in the district, the Minister said that requisite grants have been released to the district for educational training, under MGNREGA, Jaladhaare, Mane Manege Gange, Nagarotthana, AMRUT and other schemes. Housing He said that Rs. 460 crore is being spent for construction of 7,507 houses in the district under PM Awas Yojna. Apart from implementing new bylaws for solid waste management in the twin cities of Hubballi-Dharwad, a new project for waste disposal has been chalked out. The civil works have already been initiated under the project, he added. Earlier, a spectacular march past, led by Inspector of the District Armed Reserve Police B.R. Channammanavarin which contingents of Home Guards, Excise, Forest and Fire Services personnel participated, was taken out with the Police Band belting out patriotic numbers. Service awards On the occasion, 10 government officials and personnel — N.R. Purushottam, Sujata Hasavimath, S.M. Honakeri, Lakshmikant Lokare, Rajashekhar Dyaberi, Ishwar Hasabi, R. Raghavendra Nayak, Annapurna Sangalad, Rajashekhar Kanteppagoudra and Suresh Hiremath — were honoured with service awards. Felicitated Rajyotsava award winners S.R. Ramanagoudar, Mahendra Singhi and Vedavyas Deshpande, and five achievers, Umesh Bangari, Manjunath Halavar, Satish Irakal, G. Srushti Suresh and Chaitra Basavaraj Dollin, were felicitated. Member of Legislative Assembly Amrit Desai, Chairman of Karnataka Bal Vikas Academy Iranna Jadi, Chairperson of Silk Development Board Savita Amarashetti, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant, Municipal Commissioner B. Gopalkrishna and others were present. Earlier, the Minister visited Kargil Memorial and paid tributes to the martyrs. He then garlanded the statues of Deputy Channabasappa and K.G. Kundanagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-462-cr-disbursed-among-462-families-hit-by-covid-19/article64945325.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:51 IST,||Thrust is on agriculture, industry, tourism and culture: Sunil Kumar||District in-charge and Minister for Kannada, Culture and Power V. Sunil Kumar on Wednesday said that Dakshina Kannada district will see unique development with thrust on agriculture, industry, tourism and culture. Delivering the Republic Day message after unfurling the national flag here, Mr. Kumar said that it was because of a strong Constitution, the son of an ordinary school teacher like him became a Minister in the BJP-led State Government. The holy book of the Republic has withstood many attempts to weaken it with threats of terrorism, emergency, Naxalism and has proved that it is the supreme, he added. Development works will be taken up under agriculture-friendly, industry-friendly, tourism-friendly and cultural-friendly schemes. This responsibility is on him, Mr. Kumar said and added that people in the district known for their knowledge will join hands in development. The Minister said that with continuous expansion of arecanut, coconut and paddy growing areas, farmers are undertaking agriculture activities on over 11,000 hectares of land. Steps will be taken to double their income. He said over 1.54 lakh farmers have received over Rs. 219 crore benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Scheme, while children of 1,600 farmers received scholarships worth Rs. 4.2 crore under the Chief Minister’s Raitha Vidya Nidhi Scheme. Stating that the government is committed to providing water to people for irrigation and drinking, Mr. Kumar noted that Rs. 500 crore has been sanctioned for the Pashchima Vahini last year and another such sum will be sanctioned in the next year. Under Jaljeevan Mission to provide drinking water to every household, 458 works worth Rs. 149 crore have been undertaken last year, while 126 works worth Rs. 198 crore are being undertaken this year. Mr. Kumar said that the Government has released Rs. 33 lakh initial grants for developing a Go Shala on 98 acres of land in Ramakunja, Kadaba taluk. A substantial number of people are being enrolled for various social security schemes of the Union Government, he added. On the occasion, Mr. Kumar felicitated KSRTC drivers from Puttur Division who were chosen for the Chief Minister’s Gold Medal for an accident-free driving career. They are K. Harishchandra, S. Umesh, Praveen Salian, H.P. Raju, Vasantha Bangera, B. Keshava, Nanda Kumar, T.U. Satish, K.P. Mohammed, L. Gopalakrishna and P.A. Shivaram. Member of Legislative Assembly D. Vedavyasa Kamath and Y. Bharath Shetty, Member of Legislative Council Prathap Simha Nayak, Mayor Premananda Shetty, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar, Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/thrust-is-on-agriculture-industry-tourism-and-culture-sunil-kumar/article64945335.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:51 IST,||Grama One centre inaugurated at Udyavara||Udupi district in-charge and Minister for Fisheries and Ports S. Angara on Wednesday inaugurated a Grama One centre at Udyavara Gram Panchayat, said to be the first of a series of such facilities in the State, on the occasion of the Republic Day. Speaking virtually on the occasion, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that Grama One centres have been conceptualised to enable rural people to avail themselves of necessary government services on their doorsteps without the intervention of any middlemen. Over six lakh applications have been disposed of in four districts where the project is on pilot mode. Over 3,000 such centres became functional in an equal number of villages in 12 districts across the State on Wednesday. While Deputy Commissioners have to ensure proper functioning of these centres, district in-charge Ministers should compulsorily visit them during their district tours, Mr. Bommai said. As per Mr. Bommai’s direction, Mr. Angara handed over the first RTC of the system in the State-level at Udyavara. Mr. Angara said that Grama One centres provide 750 services from 48 government departments at the village level thereby helping people avoid visits to urban areas. People had to visit respective taluk headquarters to avail themselves of these services and also obtain documents while waiting for long periods. The Chief Minister therefore, directed opening of Grama One centres and accordingly, 105 such centres have been set up in Udupi district. The services available include Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka, e-stamping, banking, Sakala and RTI applications. Aadhaar services too will be made available in the coming days. Kaup MLA Lalaji R. Mendon, Udyavara Gram Panchayat president Radhakrishna Shriyan, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Y. Naveen Bhat, Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhana, Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu, Udupi Tahsildar Pradeep Kurdekar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/grama-one-centre-inaugurated-at-udyavara/article64945337.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Govt. plans to create 13 new districts||The State government on Wednesday issued a preliminary notification for creation of 13 new revenue districts in exercise of its powers underSection.3 (5) of AP Districts (Formation) Act of1974. It called for submission of objections and suggestions from persons residing in those districts in writing within 30 days of this notification. Once the final notificationis published, the total number of districts in the State will go up to 26.According to a G.O. issuedby Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma, the formation of new districts is to facilitate better administration and development of the areas concerned by diminishing/altering the boundaries of the respectivedistricts/revenue divisions.The proposed new districts and their headquarters given in brackets:Manyam district (Parvatipuram), Alluri Sitarama Raju district (Paderu), Anakapalli (Anakapalli), Kakinada (Kakinada), Konaseema (Amalapuram), Eluru (Eluru), NTR district (Vijayawada), Bapatla (Bapatla), Palnadu (Narsaraopet), Nandyal (Nandyal), Sri Satyasai district (Puttaparthy), Annamayya district (Rayachoty), Sri Balaji district (Tirupati).Sri Balaji district will include Tirupati division from Chittoor district and Gudur and Naidupet divisions from Nellore district.Eluru district will include Eluru and Jangareddygudem divisions currently in West Godavari district, and Nuzvid division from Krishna district. NTR district will consist of Vijayawada, Nandigama, and Tiruvuru divisions, all from the existing Krishna district.Nandyal, Dhone, and Atmakur divisions will form the Nandyal district. Sri Satyasai district will include Puttaparthy, Penukonda, and Dharmavaram divisions from Anantapur. Annamayya district will include Madanapalli division from Chittoor district and Rayachoti and Rajampet divisions from Kadapa district.Manyam district will have Palakonda and Parvatipuram revenue divisions carved out of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts respectively.Alluri Sitarama Raju district will include Paderu and Rampachodavaram divisions from Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts.Anakapalli and Narsipatnam divisions, both from Visakhapatnam district, will constitute Anakapalli district. Kakinada district will have Kakinada and Peddapuram divisions from East Godavari (E.G) Amalapuram and Ramachandrapuram divisions in E.ast Godavari will make the new Konaseema district.Bapatla district will have Chirala and Bapatla divisions from Prakasam and Guntur districts respectively. Palnadu comprises Gurazala and Narsaraopet divisions both from Guntur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-plans-to-create-13-new-districts/article38331496.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:16 IST,||Govt. to recommend school reopening at DDMA meeting||The Delhi government will recommend the reopening of schools in the Capital in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority meeting on Thursday. Pandemic-induced school closures have not only affected children’s studies but also their mental health and it is important for the institutions to reopen, said Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday. Physical classes needed He said that schools are being reopened in several countries and many Indian States. Stressing that online education can never replace physical classes, the Deputy CM said the government had closed schools when it was not safe for children, but excessive caution is now proving harmful. As COVID cases and positivity rate are on the decline in Delhi, he said it would not be prudent to keep children away from schools any longer. “In the past two years, schoolchildren’s lives have been confined to their rooms. Instead of going to schools and spending time in playgrounds, all their activities are now only on mobile phones. During COVID, our priority was children’s safety. But since various researches have now found that COVID is not so harmful for kids, it is important to reopen the schools, as now is the time for exams and related preparations,” Mr. Sisodia said. The Deputy CM met a delegation of parents which handed over a memorandum signed by more than 1,600 parents seeking reopening of schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-recommend-school-reopening-at-ddma-meeting/article64945386.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Best pay offered to employees: Governor||The State government announced the formation of 13 districts at the Republic Day celebrations on Wednesday. The new districts will come into force from Ugadi, Telugu New Year. Secondly, in an apparent manner, the government has hinted that there is no scope for upward revision of fitment. Strikingly, there was no mention of three Capitals issues in the Governor’s speech at the Republic Day celebrations. Neither, was there a mention of abolition of the Legislative Council. PM Kisan The government also chose to drop the “PM Kisan” words from Rythu Bharosa financial assistance. The Central government has categorically stated that PM Kisan being a central government scheme, it cannot be clubbed with the State government schemes. Governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan unfurled the Tricolour flag at IGMC Stadium Complex here. On the occasion, the Governor said that in line with the election manifesto promise made by the government for delivery of more efficient services to people and for good governance, 13 more districts in the State of Andhra Pradesh on the auspicious day of Ugadi were being created. Two districts would be exclusively for Tribal population, with this, the total tally of districts in the State would go up to 26, he said. The Governor, referring to the employees welfare, said the government had given the best possible Pay Revision Commission (PRC) possible in the present circumstances. “Let nothing come between the government and its employees. Together, we should work towards serving the people of this State,” he said in the backdrop of the indefinite strike call given by the State employees, teachers and pensioners over implementation of the new scales of pay. “In spite of COVID-induced economic distress, we are implementing the 11th Pay Revision Commission, which is going to put an additional financial burden of Rs. 10, 247 crore on the government’s exchequer,” he said. The Governor said in a first of its kind initiative in the country, the Government was extending YSR Rythu Bharosa assistance of Rs. 13,500 per year in three installments to each farmer. As on date, a total of Rs. 19,126 crores was distributed as Rythu Bharosa assistance, he said. The Governor’s remarks assume significance in the wake of Central government assertion that Rs. 6,000 paid by it under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi should not be clubbed with the Rythu Bharosa. National Education Policy The Governor said, as step towards theNational Education Policy, the government was introducing a 6 level school system. It was to develop physical, psychological and intellectual faculties of students, steps were being taken to have separate teachers to teach each subject, he said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-to-create-13-new-districts/article64945194.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:04 IST,||Rs. 1 lakh each given to 396 families hit by pandemic||The State Government has released a compensation of Rs. 3.96 crore to 396 below poverty line families whose members died of COVID-19 in Belagavi, district in-charge Minister Govid Karjol said in Belagavi on Wednesday. Each one of these families have received Rs. 1 lakh. The other 316 families of victims of the epidemic have been given Rs. 50,000 each that was given by the Union Government, the Minister said in his Republic Day speech. He said that out of the 763 claims made by families, tahsildars of various taluks have approved 735 cases for compensation. Of these, the Deputy Commissioner have approved 712 cases. He said that the State Government was taking all steps to contain the spread of the disease and it has stepped up checking at the inter-State borders. “We have 2,953 active cases in the district and they are all under observation of the Health Department,” he added. He said that officers have made great strides in the implementation of MGNREGA scheme. “We have achieved 117.08 lakh person days against the target of 125 lakh person days. That is an achievement of 93.67%. We have employed 4.49 lakh persons of 2.8 lakh poor families. As many as 7.31 lakh families have registered themselves under the scheme,’’ he said. He presented Sarvottam Seva awards to employees of different departments, including Shivanand Magdum, Shivanagouda Patil, Shankar Ganiger, Khaja Rubina, Namdev Bilkar, Ramesh Kulkarni, Sanganagouda Handral, Manjunath Janaki, Ravi Paravinaikar, Gangadhar Pattar, B.N. Tukkar, Vidyavati Bhajantri, I.P. Gadad, M.V. Hiremath and Basavaraj Hattigoudar. Member of Parliament Mangala Angadi, Regional Commissioner Amlan Biswas, Inspector-General of Police N. Satish Kumar, Superintendent of Police M.B. Boralingaiah, Police Commissioner Lakshman Nimbargi ans Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Darshan H.V. and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-1-lakh-each-given-to-396-families-hit-by-pandemic/article64945326.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:27 IST,||23,000 illegal water connections to get meters soon||For the first time, the Mysuru City Corporation has set aside a sum of Rs. 2 crore this year to regularie about 6,000 illegal connections. As many as 23,000 unauthorised water connections have been identified in Mysuru city and the MCC has proposed to fix meters to these connections in the next two-three years. A few days ago, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha had written to Mayor Sunanda Palanetra to take steps for installing meters to illegal connections for improving the MCC’s revenue amidst mounting water dues. The arrears have risen to a whopping Rs. 219 crore, including about Rs. 73 crore interest on the principal amount. He had urged the MCC not to hike water tariff. According to the MCC, the city has about 1,60,000 authoriSed connections and about 40,000 connections that lack meters but the consumers are said to be paying minimum tariff. About 23,000 connections were found to be illegal and the consumers don’t even pay the minimum rates for the water consumed.  MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy told The Hindu that the MCC has resolved to regularize all the illegal connections and get the consumers to pay up for the water consumed. So far, the water consumed by these connections was going unpaid and the MCC will ensure that all these connections are metered in the next two to three years, he added.  The MCC required about Rs. 10 crore for installing meters to the illegal connections. “We are ready to fix meters to the connections on behalf of the consumers. Once the meters are installed, the amount for the meter will be deducted in equated instalments every month in the monthly bill. Though the consumers have to get the meters fixed on their own if they need supply, the MCC was doing it on their behalf looking into various factors, including the consumers belonging to economically weaker sections,” the commissioner replied. On the mounting water dues, Mr. Reddy said the MCC has collected dues to the tune of Rs. 50 crore last year which is 40% more than the previous years. With the MCC going for the disconnection drive, the consumers are paying up the dues. The drive has helped us to recover dues though there was hue and cry earlier when the MCC resorted to disconnect connections for non-payment of bills. Now, with the MCC remaining firm on the drive, people are understanding the MCC’s plight and getting their connections legalised after paying the outstanding dues, he said. Mr. Reddy clarified that the MCC is not targeting consumers whose outstanding dues are minimal but those who have their dues in lakhs. The MCC started slapping notices on the defaulters for clearing at least some portion of the dues if not fully when the drinking water dues continued to mount and appeals from MCC for clearing the dues went unheeded. The MP had said the unpaid water bills have accrued to the tune of Rs. 219 crore, including Rs. 146 crore of principal amount and Rs. 73.6 crore interest accrued on the principal amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/23000-illegal-water-connections-to-get-meters-soon/article64945302.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:27 IST,||Over half of daily cases from outside Bengaluru Urban now||Bengaluru Urban, which had been reporting nearly 75% of the total caseload, is now seeing a steady decline in cases. In a trend reversal, districts other than Bengaluru are contributing over half of the caseload for the last one week. From an average of 24,000 cases a day since January 18, Bengaluru Urban had reported the highest single day spike on January 20 with 30,540 cases. Subsequently, there has been a decline in cases with 19,105 reported on Tuesday and 22,427 on Wednesday, further reducing its contribution to 45.8% of the total caseload. The daily TPR has been hovering around 20% in this district since then. As of January 25, three districts, Mysuru, Hassan and Mandya, together contributed nearly 15% of the total caseload while 53% was from Bengaluru Urban. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) was the highest in Mysuru at 38.09% followed by Tumakuru which recorded 38.35%. On January 23, Chickballapur had recorded the highest daily TPR at 50.43% followed by Mandya at 40.48%. The scenario was different a week ago (week ending January 18) when Bengaluru Urban reported 66% of the total caseload. Six districts. Mysuru, Tumakuru, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, Mandya, and Kolar, together contributed 15% of the caseload. On January 26 too these districts -Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Tumakuru - reported a similar trend recording over 2,500 cases each. The State’s seven-day running TPR stands at 21.83% as of January 25. This parameter (TPR) is higher than the State average in nine districts - Tumakuru, Mysuru, Mandya, Kolar, Hassan, Chickballapur, Bengaluru Urban, Ballari, Chamarajanagar, and Chitradurga. Tumakuru has recorded the highest seven-day running TPR at 38.15% followed by Mysuru at 37.70%. K.V. Trilok Chandra, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health), said going by the trend in the last four days, it looks as though cases are stabilising. “However, we need to wait and observe till the weekend to actually conclude that Bengaluru has crossed over its peak,” he said. State Health Commissioner D. Randeep said the caseload is stabilising in Bengaluru Urban now as it was the first to witness a surge in the State. “We have noticed that there is always a lag of two-three weeks between Bengaluru and the rest of Karnataka. It was a similar trend in the last two waves too,” he said. Attributing the surge in the rest of Karnataka now to movement of people between the State capital and other districts even when the weekend curfew was in place, the Commissioner said, “We expected this surge in the districts. Our District Health Officers (DHOs) are well prepared. We presume that the surge in the peripheral districts will start stabilising by the first week of February.” M.K .Sudarshan, chairman of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said the surge in districts is a spillover from Bengaluru, mainly due to movement of people. “This is a regular pattern.” As per projections, the third wave is likely to stabilise in the entire State by end of February, he added.. Decision on schools A decision on the reopening of schools in Bengaluru is likely to be taken at the next meeting of the TAC. Speaking to reporters during a visit to Kodagu, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh referred to the decline in cases and said there is a possibility of the Government deciding to reopen the schools after the meeting on January 29.  We expected this surge in the districts. Our District Health Officers are well prepared. We presume that the surge in the peripheral districts will start stabilising by the first week of February D. Randeep, State Health Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-now-over-half-of-daily-new-cases-from-outside-bengaluru-urban/article38331690.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:45 IST,||Urban local bodies polls to be held in single phase on Feb. 19||Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner V. Palanikumar on Wednesday announced that the urban local bodies polls for 21 municipal corporations, including Chennai, 138 municipalities and 490 town panchayats, will be held in a single phase on February 19. The polling will be held, by following COVID-19 protocol, from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. and in the last one hour, those infected with COVID-19 alone will be allowed to cast their votes, he told reporters. In Chennai, there will be 5,794 polling booths. The counting of votes will start from 8 a.m. on February 22 and the process will conclude on February 24, he said. The indirect elections [by newly elected councillors] for a total of 1,298 posts, including Mayor and Deputy Mayor, will be held on March 4. The elections are being conducted as per the directions of the Supreme Court. In Chennai, there are a total of 61,18,734 voters, including 30,93,355 female, 30,23,803 male, and 1,576 transpersons. As per the schedule released by Mr. Palanikumar, the elections will be notified on January 28. The filing of nominations will start from January 28 and continue till February 4, and will be accepted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. They will be reviewed on February 5 and can be withdrawn on February 7. The elected ward members will take charge on March 2. District election officials have been instructed to monitor the nomination process through CCTVs. The direct elections would be held for 12,838 posts. This includes 1,374 posts across 21 municipal corporations, 3,843 across 138 municipalities and 7,621 across 490 town panchayats. Overall the elections will be held across 31,029 polling stations, and instructions have been issued to ensure that necessary infrastructure is in place for differently abled to cast their votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/urban-local-bodies-polls-to-be-held-in-single-phase-on-feb-19/article38331524.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:16 IST,||Jahnu Barua’s films as a window into cultures of Assam||A book by a teacher of a private university in Uttar Pradesh has brought forth the diverse culture of Assam portrayed in movies by Assamese filmmaker Jahnu Barua.The book by Juhi P. Pathak, an academician from Assam working as an assistant professor with Sharda University, was released at a global education conclave recently.Barua has written and directed more than 15 films, mostly in Assamese, and has won 12 National Awards. His acclaimed films include Halodhia Choraye Baodhan Khai (1987) based on a book by the late Homen Borgohain, Firingoti (1992), Xagoroloi Bohu Door (1995), Maine Gandhi Ko Nahin Mara (2005) in Hindi, Konikar Ramdhenu (2003), Baandhon (2012), and Ajeyo (2014).  32-year span  “This book explores the man and his message through an in-depth analysis of his films from 1982 to 2014 spanning 32 years. I considered 12 of his Assamese feature films and excluded the Hindi feature films and other short films,” Ms. Pathak said of her book Film Appreciation on Cinemas (1980 to 1990) of Jahnu Barua: Social, Economic, Political and Cultural Perspectives .The entire research was conducted under a project of the Altruist Centre for Research, Training and Development, a wing of Captain Ayush Purusartha Foundation.She said the idea behind the book was to document and preserve Assamese culture and also help understand the various facets of the Assamese society in detail. It has tried to bring out the macro-environmental factors such as the representation of social, economic, political and cultural aspects of Assamese society.  ‘Road map for change’  Critics have said the book could generate content on social and economic disparity and discrimination for becoming a guiding tool for policymakers to set the road map for change.Mr. Barua appreciated Ms. Pathak’s “comprehensive analysis” of his films. “This book celebrated the rich customs and diverse culture of Assam. It will become a handbook for film students to understand how to appreciate films from multiple dimensions – not only from the perspective of cinema but also the rubrics of politics, economics, culture and society,” he said.Ms. Pathak has authored three other books — Introduction to Media Laws and Ethics , Television Advertising Ethics and Human Rights and Contemporary Media Discourses: Trends, Issues and Prospects .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jahnu-baruas-films-as-a-window-into-cultures-of-assam/article64945387.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:59 IST,||RTC slashes fare by 20% on Hyderabad routes||Festivals bring cheer to the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) primarily because they generate the much-needed moolah for the cash-strapped public transport giant. The recent Sankranthi festivities saw large crowds of commuters travelling from one place to the other to celebrate the festival with their loved ones. The 5,422 special buses the APSRTC operated during this period to places such as Hyderabad, Chennai and Bengaluru, and destinations within the State such as Visakhapatnam, Amalapuram, Rajamahendravaram, Palakonda, Bhimavaram, Kanigiri, Gudivada, Macharla, Nellore, Chittoor, Pulivendula, Nandyal and KadirI enabled the organisation earn a revenue of Rs. 144 crore for the corporation from January 7 to 18. But the happiness proved to be short-lived as the commuter traffic hit a slump post-festivities, bringing down the occupancy ratio in the buses. Resultantly, the organisation has decided to slash 20% on the ticket fares for RTC buses operating from parts of the State to Hyderabad till February 28. People travelling from the depots at Vijayawada, Machilipatnam, Autonagar and Gudivada to Hyderabad will have to pay 20% less towards ticket fare in all categories of AC buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rtc-slashes-fare-by-20-on-hyderabad-routes/article64945195.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:33 IST,||Shivannagudem celebrates its girl children||As the country celebrated Republic Day on Wednesday, an event that unfolded at Shivannagudem panchayat in Kondapur mandal to commemmorate the day, stood as an inspiration for other villages. Following the example set by Haridaspur village of the same mandal in Sangareddy district, on the occasion of Republic Day, the panchayat of Shivannagudem celebrated the birth of girl children. As many as 37 girls in the village aged below 10 years were identified and Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana (SSY) accounts were opened in their names at Sangareddy district headquarters post-office. L. Gopal Reddy, a resident of Pashamylaram, came forward to extend financial assistance to open these deposits. Mr. Gopal Reddy also promised to donate Rs. 5,000 to every girl child born in his village from now on. Earlier, Haridaspur village, with the active participation of Sarpanch Shafi and Panchayat Secretary Rohit Kulkarni, started celebrating the birth of girl children as a festival, which got nationwide attention. This was started on January 1, 2020 and as on date SSY accounts have been opened for 85 girl children in the village. Yeddumylaram in Kandi mandal followed suit and has opened accounts for as many as 75 girl children. Now Shivannagudem has joined the list of villages that began with Haridaspur.  As part of Republic Day celebrations, SSY account passbooks were handed over to mothers of girl children by District Rural Development Officer Ch. Srinivas Rao, Sarpanch Nenavath Hamnamma and others. Youth leader Vinod, panchyat secretary Dinesh, assistant project officer Praveen and others were present. “The villagers have recognised the importance of the girl child and have decided to follow the tradition initiated by Haridaspur. We feel proud that someone is following us,” Mr. Rohit Kulkarni told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shivannagudem-celebrates-its-girl-children/article64945284.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:51 IST,||Name board placed at Lady Hill Circle||Before the State Government notification naming the popular Lady Hill Circle after reformer Narayana Guru could come, a group of Bajrang Dal activists placed a name board saying Brahmashree Narayana Guru Circle along with the reformer’s photo at the circle here on Wednesday. A group from among the several Bajarang Dal activists who took part in the Swabhimaana Nadige came to the circle in the morning and placed the name board there. Amid opposition, the Mangaluru City Corporation resolved in January last year to name Lady Hill Circle as Brahmashree Narayana Guru Circle. Six months later, the council sent it to State Government for notification. Meanwhile, the State Government sought the opinion of the police. A few days ago, the police wrote to the Government stating that the circle does not have any name and it is popularly called as Lady Hill Circle. The police also stated that there will no law and order problem if the circle is named after Narayana Guru, which is a long-pending demand. Meanwhile, State president of Democratic Youth Federation of India Muneer Katipalla has accused district in-charge Minister V. Sunil Kumar of prompting Bajrang Dal activists to place the name board at the circle. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that he will discuss with officials and decide on the legal course of action against those who placed the name board at the circle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/name-board-placed-at-lady-hill-circle/article64945336.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:27 IST,||Mysurean leads NCC contingent at R-Day parade||It was a matter of pride for residents of Mysuru when a cadet from the city led the NCC senior wing contingent at the Republic Day parade in New Delhi on Wednesday. Senior under officer Pramila Kunwar from 3 KAR Girls Battalion was chosen to command the contingent on Rajpath. A first year BSc student at Maharani’s Science College in Mysuru, Ms. Kunwar is the daughter of Pratap Singh, who runs a tea stall on Kalidasa Road, and homemaker Pushpa Kunwar, who reside in V.V. Mohalla. “Ms. Kunwar had put her heart and soul in NCC training since 2020 and excelled in many NCC parades and events in Mysuru. But, her focus was on achieving the pinnacle of NCC training, i.e Republic Day camp in New Delhi.” “She trained hard at her battalion and her institution to get selected. Her hard war and dedication resulted in her being selected to command the contingent,” according to a statement from the NCC Mysuru group. The Republic Day parade had five girl cadets of Mysuru group. The others were corporal Suchitra L. and cadet Priya S. from 13 KAR Battalion, and senior under officer Roshini Marian and cadet Chaithra S. from 14 KAR Battalion. “The true spirit of NCC ‘Ankhon Mein Tej, Chehre Pe Muskaan’ was on display when the cadets saluted the tricolour and President of India Ram Nath Kovind,” according to the statement. A total of 19 cadets from Mysuru represented NCC’s Karnataka and Goa Directorate at the Republic Day camp this year. Apart from the cadets, Mysuru Group’s flag was kept high by Col. Manish Prasad, Officer Commanding, 14 KAR Battalion, who had been appointed as the Republic Day camp adjutant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysurean-leads-ncc-contingent-at-r-day-parade/article64945301.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Omicron-hit may escape reinfection with Delta||An Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study released on bioRxiv preprint server on Wednesday suggested that immune response induced by Omicron, which is currently the dominant COVID mutant in India, could make re-infection with Delta variant less likely. The study was conducted on 39 individuals, of which 25 had taken both the doses of AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, eight people had taken double dose of Pfizer jab, while six were unvaccinated. Also, 28 of these 39 were mainly foreign returnees from the UAE, South/West/East Africa, Middle East, the U.S. and the U.K,. and 11 people were their high-risk contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-hit-may-escape-reinfection-with-delta/article38331493.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:33 IST,||Chief Minister insulted Governor, charges BJP||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party has accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of ‘violating’ the constitutional norms and ‘insulting’ the Governor’s office by skipping the Republic Day flag hoisting ceremony at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday. “The Chief Minister did not bother to send any official representative on his behalf though the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police were present. He had hoisted the flag in Pragathi Bhavan and placed a wreath at the War Memorial in Secunderabad, so there is more to it as it appeares to be intentional,” said former Minister and MLA Eatala Rajender at a press conference in party office. No official word “The government has changed the venue from Public Gardens and the Chief Minister does not attend the function in Raj Bhavan with no official word. Is this the federal spirit which the CM keeps talking about? It is unfortunate and reflects the sad state of affairs prevailing in Telangana,” he rued. The BJP leader said “governments come and go, so do the chief ministers” but the constitutional conventions and traditions remain the same, but these seem to be thrown to the winds. “Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao should not forget that he was democratically elected to power because of the same Constitution for which Dr. B.R. Ambedkar has been the architect,” he remarked. ‘CM desperate’ The Chief Minister of late seemes to have become “desperate” as TS people no longer trusted his word and the fact he has been instigating his followers to physically attack political opponents is an indicator of his present plight. “He should remember this is Telangana and not Bengal. Our people always rose against tyranny and autocracy. If the government cannot protect MPs or MLAs, how will it give security to the common people,” he questioned with reference to the attack on Nizamabad MP D. Aravind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chief-minister-insulted-governor-charges-bjp/article38331912.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:27 IST,||State reports 48,905 new cases, 39 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 48,905 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 36,54,413. Of the new cases, Bengaluru Urban alone reported 22,427 cases. With 39 deaths, the State’s toll rose to 38,705. This is apart from 30 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 41,699 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 32,57,769. The State now has 3,57,909 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 22.51%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.07%. As many as 2,17,230 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,69,323 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 6,10,68,141. Decision on schools A decision on the reopening of schools in Bengaluru is likely to be taken at the next meeting of State’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on COVID-19. Speaking to reporters during a visit to Kodagu on Wednesday, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh referred to the gradual decline in the number of COVID-19 cases and said there is a possibility of the government deciding to reopening the schools after the meeting of TAC scheduled to be held on January 29. Though schools in most parts of the State are open, those in Bengaluru have remained closed after a spurt was reported in COVID-19 infections earlier this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-48905-new-cases-39-deaths/article64945297.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:04 IST,||Ramesh Jarkiholi can get any number of leaders for us, says Karjol||“Ramesh Jarkiholi is a powerful leader. He can get any number of Congress and Janata Dal(S) MLAs into the BJP,’’ district in- charge Minister Govind Karjol said in Belagavi on Wednesday. He told journalists that he had no idea about Ramesh Jarkiholi’s claim that 16 Congress MLAs and three from the Janata Dal(S) are in touch with him, wanting to join the BJP. “I don’t know who is in touch with him, but I know that he is a powerful leader and he can get any number of Congress and Janata Dal(S) legislators to our party,’’ he said. He said that some Congress leaders are trying to accuse the BJP of not going forward with the Mahadayi and other irrigation projects of North Karnataka. It is the Congress that did nothing for North Karnataka. “But its leaders are blaming us. We are taking sincere steps towards getting due clearances and going ahead with the Mahadayi and other projects,” he said. He said that the expansion of the State Cabinet is a matter of the Chief Minister’s discretion and that he will not comment on it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ramesh-jarkiholi-can-get-any-number-of-leaders-for-us-says-karjol/article38331878.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:17 IST,||‘Poor, Dalits, backwards will form SP government’||Senior OBC leader Swami Prasad Maurya, who recently quit the BJP to join the Samajwadi Party, said he was upset by the fact that the Uttar Pradesh government started appointing applicants from the general category instead of launching a drive to fill backlog vacancies of posts reserved for the Dalits, OBCs and tribals.  In an interview to The Hindu , Mr. Maurya said he had joined the BJP months before the 2017 Assembly election moved by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement that he was referred to as neech (lowly) because of being born into a backward caste. However, the party had indeed changed its face but “the nature of their work and thinking did not change”.  “The poor, Dalits, backwards and deprived sections of society have resolved to get together and uproot the BJP, teach them a lesson and form an SP government,” Mr. Maurya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/poor-dalits-backwards-will-form-sp-government/article64945383.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:04 IST,||Positivity rate over 20% in Dharwad||With the positivity rate increasing at a fast pace over the last week, Dharwad district has now become one among the top eight districts in the State with high positivity rate and according to experts, it is likely to surge further this week. Disclosing the development during a review meeting on COVID-19 chaired by district in-charge Minister Halappa Achar in Dharwad on Wednesday, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said that positivity rate, which was 11.25% a week ago, has jumped to 20.42% now and it is likely to increase further. “In the last seven days, the district has recorded 7,882 positive cases and at present, the number of active cases stands at 5,069. The District Health Task Force has warned that cases will further shoot up as the infection is at its peak in the district. It expects the peak to end next week,” he said, while emphasising the need for the general public to strictly adhere to COVID-19 protocol to break the chain. Mr. Patil said that out of the 38,603 people who were tested during the last week, 7,882 have tested positive. Of these patients, nearly 97% are in home isolation and medicine kits are being distributed to them on their doorsteps. The district administration is also extending telemedicine facility to these patients, he said. Considering the inflow of patients from other districts at KIMS Hospital in Hubballi, the capacity of the hospital has been stretched to 2,400 from 1,400 beds and there are a good number of doctors available to manage the situation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/positivity-rate-over-20-in-dharwad/article38331877.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||In sync||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-sync/article64945190.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:17 IST,||Majithia to take on Sidhu in Amritsar East||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday announced that former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia would contest from Amritsar East against Congress State president Navjot Singh Sidhu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/majithia-to-take-on-sidhu-in-amritsar-east/article64945384.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:27 IST,||Flood of applications for guest lecturer posts||The Higher Education Department has been flooded with applications for guest lecturer positions in government degree colleges across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flood-of-applications-for-guest-lecturer-posts/article38331964.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:16 IST,||‘A year on, no clarity on R-Day violence cases’||Over a month after farmer leaders were promised quashing of police complaints on the violence that erupted on Republic Day last year, no update has been received on that front, said a lawyer representing the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-year-on-no-clarity-on-r-day-violence-cases/article38331789.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:55 IST,||Bust of Dr. Rajkumar, nameplate stolen||A bust of Dr. Rajkumar at Lumbini Gardens on Hebbal Ring Road has mysteriously disappeared. The Amruthahalli police registered a case of theft on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bust-of-dr-rajkumar-nameplate-stolen/article38331689.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:55 IST,||Governor hails efforts to contain COVID-19||Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot on Wednesday, hailed the efforts and measures taken by the Government to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-hails-efforts-to-contain-covid-19/article64945412.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:27 IST,||Third wave hits workforce strength in MSMEs||The third wave is causing huge productivity losses and delayed deliveries for MSMEs in the State as upto 20% of their workforce is currently on sick leave due to flu or COVID-19, as according to industry players and trade body sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/third-wave-hits-workforce-strength-in-msmes/article64945299.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Shah reaches out to Jat leaders from U.P.||The BJP on Wednesday launched its big outreach programme to the Jat community of western Uttar Pradesh, with Union Home Minister Amit Shah promising to “keep in mind” demands from the community for timely payment of sugar cane dues and reservation in jobs, but more importantly, keeping a door open for the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) for a post-poll alliance.  A meeting with nearly 200 Jat influencers, panchayat and zilla-level leaders from western Uttar Pradesh was held at BJP MP Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma’s residence in New Delhi, where Mr. Shah emphasised the BJP’s “affinity” with the Jat community by stating that just as the “Jats fought Mughals for 650 years, so too was the BJP”. Significantly, he told the Jat leaders that RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary had “picked the wrong house” (RLD is in alliance with the Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh), but that possibilities could be explored after the polls. “ Samaaj ke log unhe samjhayein [people from the community should explain to him],” he said.  ‘Ready to help farmers’ “I started national politics from Uttar Pradesh, and in the three polls I fought, the Jat community supported me wholeheartedly. I think it was because a Jat doesn’t think for self, like the BJP, but for the nation. Jat thinks for the country’s security, BJP too,” he said. He said that it was the BJP which ensured that that there were three Jat Governors and nine MPs. “The Uttar Pradesh government cleared over Rs. 36,000 crore farm loans after it came to power, Rs. 1,35,000 crores was put into farmers’ accounts, Rs. 1,48,000 crores to sugarcane farmers. If there is anything missing, we will do it,” he said. He also asked whether there was any riot in the State after 2014. “If you get angry at me, come to my house with (Union Minister Sanjeev) Balyan, but don’t make any mistake with your vote, that sticks for five years,” Mr. Shah said. The BJP is anxious about its prospects in western Uttar Pradesh that goes to the polls on February 10 and 14 and has more than 130 seats in the 403-seat Assembly. The BJP has commanded the support of the Jat community in the 2017 Assembly poll and in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. This time around, the year-long agitation against the three contentious farm laws has queered the pitch for the BJP and Mr. Shah is anxious to make up that chasm. Not to me: Jayant After Mr. Shah’s statement that the BJP was open to a post-poll tie-up with the RLD, Mr. Chaudhary tweeted: “The invitation should have gone out to those 700+ families of farmers who lost a loved one in the farmers agitation, not to me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-reaches-out-to-jat-leaders-from-up/article64945184.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,||PM to hold Central Asia summit today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold the first India-Central Asia summit on Thursday, in a videoconference with five Presidents from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Government officials said the major areas of focus for the conference would be trade and connectivity, building development partnerships and enhancing cultural and people-to-people contacts, but it is clear that a number of global and regional developments will also form a large part of the discussions, set to begin around 4.30 p.m IST. During the conference, the countries are expected to propose ways to increase trade between India and the region, which is only about $2 billion at present, most of which comes from energy imports from Kazakhstan. India extended a $1 billion Line of Credit (LOC) for development projects in the areas of energy, healthcare, connectivity, IT, and agriculture in 2020 and proposes to increase the number of educational opportunities for students from Central Asian countries. In addition, India hopes to build on its trilateral working group on Chabahar with Iran and Uzbekistan to strengthen connectivity to the region. Meanwhile, other developments like the COVID-19 are expected to be discussed, and in particular rebuilding economies affected by pandemic. This has also been a major subject for the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) where India and the Central Asian countries are members along with Russia, China, Iran and Pakistan. The five leaders including Kazakhstan’s Kassym-Jomart Tokayev,Kyrgyzstan’s Sadyr Japarov, Tajikistan’s Emomali Rahmon, Turkmenistan’s Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov and Uzbekistan’s Shavkat Mirziyoyev were due to be chief guests at the Republic Day parade in Delhi on Wednesday, but their visits were cancelled due to the current wave of coronavirus cases in India. The growing tensions between Russia and NATO countries over the troop build-up on the Ukraine-Russia border, which Moscow says is in response to plans for NATO expansion in East Europe, will cast a shadow over the meeting as well, given the close strategic ties between Russia and the five former Soviet States, as well as Russian ties with India. During the recent uprising in Kazakhstan, President Tokayev had received support from Russian President Vladimir Putin, who dispatched Russian Army soldiers to help restore the situation. The situation in Afghanistan, which was discussed at length at the SCO, and in November by National Security Advisers at an India-Central Asia meet hosted by NSA Ajit Doval, as well as at the meeting of India-Central Asia Foreign Ministers in December will also come up. Despite statements from several multilateral groupings, the Taliban regime in Kabul is yet to agree to forming an inclusive government, restoring education for girls of all ages, and giving concrete guarantees on preventing terrorist groups from operating in Afghanistan. Not all Central Asian countries are on the same page as India on dealing with the Taliban, and with the exception of Tajikistan, all have exchanged high level diplomatic visits with Kabul, while at least two, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan have reopened their missions in Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-to-hold-central-asia-summit-today/article64945160.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:01 IST,||Flypast and State tableaux mark R-Day celebration at Rajpath||India celebrated its 73rd Republic Day across the country on Wednesday with the annual parade held at Rajpath here showcasing the nation’s cultural diversity and military might with a series of tableaux and cultural performances. For the second consecutive year, the celebrations were held without a chief guest due to the pandemic, which has seen a surge in cases of the Omicron variant. This year’s parade witnessed a half-hour delay to ensure better visibility, while the biggest fly-past comprising 75 aircraft was a scene to witness for the spectators. Only those who are fully vaccinated were allowed in limited numbers due to theCovid-19 restrictions in place. Compared to a turnout of nearly 25,000 spectators witnessed last year, around 6,000 people attended this year's event due to the ongoing pandemic restrictions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid homage to the armed personnel who lost their lives, at the National War Memorial, following which the celebrations kicked-off with the unfurling of the national flag and by a 21-gun salute. The number of tableaux at this year’s event had been reduced to 21 with States including the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Goa and Uttarakhand featuring 12 whilenine were featured by Ministries and Departments including the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Like every year, the tableaux of the Navy and the Air Force were also showcased. Last year’s celebrations witnessed 32 tableaux with 17 featured by Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, that were left out of this year’s event, raising strong opposition from State leaders. After conferring the Param Vir Chakra and Ashok Chakra, two of the highest gallantry awards, to their recipients, the much-awaited march past began with several Army contingents and indigenous–developed battle tanks charging the atmosphere at Rajpath. This was followed by a flypast performed by Advanced Light Helicopters developed by the Army Aviation Corps. Military might Thereafter, several marching contingents showed their prowess with the fabled Rajput Regiment, led by Lieutenant Varun Pratap Singh of 17 Rajput Regiment, carrying a weapon that was used during the Indo-Pakistan war of 1947-48. Amidst this, what caught the public’s eye was the Parachute Regiment, the paratroopers of the Army, dancing to the tunes of ‘Kadam Badaye Jao Kadam Milaye Jao’. They were sporting new combat uniform of the Army. In another first at the parade, the country’s first woman Rafale fighter jet pilot Shivangi Singh, was part of the Indian Air Force tableau, becoming the second woman fighter jet pilot to achieve the feat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flypast-and-state-tableaux-mark-r-day-celebration-at-rajpath/article64945173.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||‘BJP tampering with reservation, bypassing the constitutional system’||Swami Prasad Maurya, a senior OBC leader who recently quit the BJP and joined the SP, slams the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh for tampering with the reservation policy and says they have gathered all the scattered forces under the SP to wipe out the BJP, which has become an enemy of the Dalit, the poor, the backwards and the workers. Excerpts: Why have you raised the ‘85 vs 15’ slogan in this U.P. election?  In public meetings, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his pain that he had been called neech (lowly) because he was born in a pichdi jati (backward caste). This was the biggest reason for me to join the BJP.  But when the government was formed and I got a chance to be a part of it, I found that the BJP does exactly the opposite of what it claims. They crossed all limits when they started tampering with reservation and starting filling seats meant for reserved categories with people from general categories, bypassing the constitutional system arbitrarily. In the appointment of 69,000 teachers, on 19,000 reserved seats they handed appointment letters to applicants from the general category. What happened in the BJP government over the past five years that you had to resort to this formulation? This government did not run a special campaign to fill the backlog of reserved posts but of the general category. On many instances, I asked them that you talk of ‘80 vs 20’ but tamper with the reservation of the OBCs, the SCs and the STs, who voted for you in large numbers, don’t you consider them as Hindus? They did not have any reply to this. Whenever someone tries to hurt the interests of the Dalits and the OBCs, I not only oppose it but with a feeling of vengeance I also try to wipe out their existence. You say you have ideological differences with the BJP and despite this you worked as a Minister for five years. Your conflict, is this between Hindutva and Bahujan politics, Ambedkarite and RSS politics?  You (BJP) cannot destroy the constitutional rights of reservation for the SC, ST and OBC sections, by raising a slogan of Hindu-Muslim. You cannot tamper with and mock the constitutional arrangement. You cannot bury the 85% weaker sections and do politics over their body. This is why I exposed their wrong policies. And whatever allegations I have levelled against them, no BJP leader, big or small, could rebut. Because they are at fault.  But the BJP claims that it is the best party for the interests of backward caste people…  Even the backward castes were taken over by this fallacy. When Modi ji stated that people considered him neech (lowly) because he was born in pichdi jati (backward caste), I thought their chehra (face) and charitra (character) may have changed. But after working for five years, I felt that their face may have definitely changed but the nature of their work and thinking did not change. They want to make a brunch out of society and swallow the rights of those standing at the end of society, just like a python. And due to this, the poor, Dalits, backwards and the deprived sections of the society have resolved to get together and uproot the BJP and form a SP government.  Why didn’t you quit earlier and just before election? It is also being said that many of those MLAs who quit after you were already being denied ticket by the BJP. A public mandate is given for every five years. I honoured the public mandate. When the time for a new mandate came, I exposed their black deeds. The BJP sometimes also talks about the ‘60 vs 40’ formula. It mobilises the rest of the Hindu communities against Jatavs, Yadavs and Muslims. Will this equation work again?  BJP is the Indian British ( Bharatiya Angrez ). They follow the policy of divide and rule. They want to make backwards castes and Dalits fight each other by tearing them into two parts. But the response to their manipulations is the ‘85-15’. And about the ‘80 vs 20’, I want to ask BJP leaders, didn’t Ashfaqullah face the gallows for this country? Didn’t Veer Abdul Hamid destroy dozens of Pakistani tanks and achieve martyrdom? So why Hindu-Muslim, when Muslims have sacrificed their lives for the nation?  Does your new colleague Akhilesh Yadav also believe that this formula will be implemented? Because he hasn’t yet openly expressed his views on this. It was me who experienced and witnessed their (BJP’s) bad deeds. That’s why I am the one making the revelation and also damaging them. I will be the helping-hand in bringing them down. Under Akhilesh Yadav’s leadership, we will wipe out the BJP, which has become an enemy of the Dalit, the poor, the backwards and the workers. Everybody is suffering. U.P. Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who hails from the same community, says you have quit the BJP to jump into a sinking boat. Am I in a sinking boat or he is, we will find out on March 10 You have taken a dig at his situation in the BJP government… My fight is not personal with anyone. I mean he was made the BJP’s OBC face… He has been created. One who is created lives on mercy and grace. And the one who is made through struggles, not just thousands but even lakhs of Keshavs cannot compete with him. Sometimes politics of Hindutva and social justice go hand-in-hand. Isn’t this a big ideological contradiction? Sometimes it happens that even an Ambedkarite person like me joined the BJP. I didn’t join the BJP on their call but on the cry of the backward castes thinking that Modi’s heart would carry the pain suffered by the backward castes, poor and Dalits. But I saw that this face is cosmetic, it is a mask. There is something else inside. The training of the RSS speaks aloud. Your daughter and Lok Sabha MP Sanghamitra Maurya is still with the BJP. Why didn’t she resign?  I was a Minister in U.P. It was my personal decision. I welcomed those who resigned. I did not pressure those who did not. Every MLA or MP has the discretion to take their own decisions.   ( For full interview, visit https://bit.ly/SPMaurya )   They want to make a brunch out of society and swallow the rights of those standing at the end of society, just like a python||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-tampering-with-reservation-bypassing-the-constitutional-system/article64945183.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,||Don’t destroy property, will resolve concerns: Vaishnaw||The Railway Ministry on Wednesday announced a high power committee, chaired by Deepak Peter, Principal Executive Director (Industrial Relation), Railway Board, to look into the concerns and doubts raised by job aspirants. These actions come a day after the Ministry of Railways warned that job aspirants found indulging in unlawful activities may face lifetime debarment from obtaining a Railway job and that videos of such activities will be examined with the help of specialised agencies. According to PTI, a train was set on fire and demonstrations were staged at a couple of stations on Wednesday, marking the third day of unrest in Bihar against alleged anomalies in the tests conducted by the Railway Recruitment Board (RRB) for the NTPC category. At a press conference, Union Minister for Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw said, “We are listening to the students... They should not destroy their own property… we have followed all processes according to the notice…We will handle the issue with sensitivity. “The notice inviting for exams has a legal sanctity… Now that we have some grievances, we will have to find a solution in a manner that people who have been shortlisted, their career doesn’t get affected, but at the same time, grievances raised by students are addressed.” The Railways had received about 1.25 crore applications for 3,528 vacancies, of which 7,05,446 candidates were shortlisted. He also invited the students to formally put forth their grievances in the next three weeks, which will be examined by the committee and then submit recommendations by March 4. In a statement, it said the Committee will look into issues raised by candidates, including results of the 1st Stage Computer Based Tests (CBT) of Centralised Employment Notice (CEN) 01/2019 (NTPC) and methodology used for shortlisting candidates for 2nd Stage CBT without affecting existing shortlisted candidates, introduction of 2nd Stage CBT in CEN RRC 01/2019, and give recommendations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-destroy-property-will-resolve-concerns-vaishnaw/article64945158.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,||India’s total case tally reaches 4 cr.||The country recorded 2,71,434 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. The total number of infections has reached 4 crore, and the active cases have crossed the 22.2 lakh mark. The figures are based on the State bulletins released until 10 p.m. on Wednesday. However, Uttar Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Tripura, Jharkhand and Lakshadweep had not yet released data for the day. Kerala recorded 49,771 infections on Wednesday, followed by Karnataka (48,905) and Maharashtra (35,756). On Wednesday, 545 deaths were recorded in India, considerably higher than the average levels recorded in the last week. The total number of recorded fatalities has reached 4,91,180. Kerala reported the most deaths with 140 fatalities (77 were from a backlog), followed by Maharashtra (79) and Tamil Nadu recorded 47 deaths. On Tuesday, 17.6 lakh tests were conducted. The test positivity rate (the number of cases detected per 100 tests) was 15.3%. As of Wednesday, 91.8%of the eligible population has been vaccinated with at least one dose, while 68.1% have received both doses. In the 15-17 age cohort, 59% of the population have received their first dose. Altogether, 93,50,02,197 first doses, 69,38,17,114 second doses, and 92,46,213 booster doses have been administered across India. Andhra Pradesh reported nine more deaths due to COVID-19 and 13,618 fresh infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,570 and 22,22,573 respectively. The number of recoveries increased to 21,01,685 as 8,687 patients have recovered in the past day. The recovery rate remains at 94.56%. The daily test positivity rate of the 49,143 samples tested in the past day was 27.71%. The daily test positivity rate has come down from 36% on Monday to 29.3% on Tuesday and 27.7% on Wednesday contrary to the increase in the number of samples tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-total-case-tally-reaches-4-cr/article64945159.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:01 IST,||Debate over Padma award for Azad||The divide within the Congress over the Narendra Modi government conferring Padma Bhushan on Ghulam Nabi Azad was out in the open on Wednesday, with former Union Minister Kapil Sibal claiming that it is ironic that the Congress does not need Mr Azad’s services but the nation recognises his contributions to public life. The Congress officially maintained a careful silence on the issue but many from the Congress’ group of 23 leaders [G-23] – the group that wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi in 2020, seeking internal reforms – made a political point by welcoming the move on social media platforms. A senior Congress general secretary, however, claimed that the former Leader of the Opposition (LoP) in the Rajya Sabha was “practically in the other camp” and recalled how the Prime Minister had got emotional while speaking at Mr. Azad’s retirement as the LoP. Many of the G-23 members may not be fully aware of the ruling party’s political calculation with regard to Mr. Azad, who had also served as Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Chief Minister, the leader cited above added. In fact, Mr. Azad was forced to issue a “clarification” after a social media buzz that he had removed all references to Congress from his Twitter bio after getting the Padma award. “Some mischievous propaganda being circulated by some people to create confusion. Nothing has been removed or added to my Twitter profile. The profile is as it was earlier,” Mr. Azad said on Tuesday night. The debate around the issue was triggered by a cryptic tweet from Congress’ chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, who made a veiled attack on his former Rajya Sabha colleague. Reacting to the news that former West Bengal Chief Minister and CPI(M) leader Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee had refused to accept the Padma Bhushan conferred on him, Mr. Ramesh, on Tuesday, tweeted,“ Right thing to do. He wants to be Azad [free] not Ghulam [slave]”. Rallying around Mr. Azad, Lok Sabha members Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Congress’ deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma, former Congress MP Raj Babbar were among those who took to Twitter to congratulate him. “Ghulam Nabi Azad conferred Padma Bhushan. Congratulations bhaijan. Ironic that the Congress doesn’t need his services when the nation recognises his contributions to public life,” tweeted Mr. Sibal, known to be a fierce critic of the Modi government. While Mr. Sharma said that the recognition was for Mr. Azad’s “lifelong contribution to public service and Parliamentary democracy,” Mr. Tharoor tweeted to say that it is good to be recognized for one’s public service “even by a government of the other side”. Former Law Minister Ashwani Kumar, who is not part of the G-23, also came out in support of Mr. Azad and slammed Mr. Ramesh. “Congress Rajya Sabha Whip’s criticism of Ghulam Nabi Azadfor receiving the Padma award is nothing less than a shameful innuendo intended to rob both the Award and its recepient of the deserved dignity. Such a mindset does not to justice to the dignitarian ethos of the Congress,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/debate-over-padma-award-for-azad/article64945169.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:17 IST,||RLD rejects BJP’s overtures||Responding to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s renewed overtures towards the Rashtriya Lok Dal, the party leadership said it was a move to create a wedge between Jats and Muslims and it would backfire. Of the 403 seats in Uttar Pradesh, 136 are influenced by Jats and the renewed Jat-Muslim unity after the farmers’ agitation has forced the BJP to have a re-look at its strategy in western U.P. The RLD is contesting the polls in alliance with the Samajwadi Party. ‘Doors open, post polls’ On Tuesday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah met BJP’s Jat and khap leaders from Delhi and western U.P. After the meeting, BJP MP Parvesh Verma told an agency that Mr. Shah said the doors were open for the RLD, post polls. “For, now Jayant Singh has chosen a wrong party. People of the Jat community will speak to Jayant. BJP’s doors are always open for him,” Mr. Verma quoted Mr. Shah. Union Minister and Muzaffarnagar MP Sanjeev Balyan told reporters that the Jats had not forgotten Muzaffarnagar and western U.P. didn’t want to see Akhilesh Yadav as Chief Minister. Responding to the news, Mr. Singh tweeted he didn’t want to be invited. “If you want to invite, invite families of 700 plus farmers whose families were destroyed [during farmers’ agitation].”  Senior RLD leader and candidate from Chhaprauli Ajay Kumar told The Hindu BJP specialised in creating confusion among the electorate before polls. “They are rattled by the ground situation,” he said.  Local sources said the move meant that the BJP had accepted Mr. Chaudhary’s popularity in the region before polls and that its candidates were on a sticky wicket. “The BJP’s central leadership wants to create an impression among Muslims, who are with the SP, that the RLD/Jats could not be trusted and that they could move to BJP after polls,” said a farmer leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rld-rejects-bjps-overtures/article64945381.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,||Decommissioned INS Khukri to be converted into museum||INS Khukri , the lead ship of the Indian Navy’s Khukri class missile corvettes which was decommissioned last December, was on Wednesday handed over to the Diu administration to be converted into a museum.  The ship is planned to be developed as a full-scale museum, the Navy said in a statement. As part of developing and revitalising the Khukri Memorial, the Diu administration had approached the Defence Ministry in 2019 for gifting to it, for public display, a decommissioned naval vessel, the Navy said. “The ship commenced her last journey under tow by Navy ships from Visakhapatnam and arrived at Diu on January 14, it stated.  Built by Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders, Khukri was commissioned on August 23, 1989 in Mumbai by the then Defence Minister Krishna Chandra Pant and Ms. Sudha Mulla, wife of late Capt. Mahendra Nath Mulla, MVC.  After over 32 years of service and having participated in all forms of naval operations, the ship was decommissioned in a solemn ceremony on December 23, 2021 when the national flag, naval ensign and decommissioning pennant were lowered at sunset in the presence of Vice-Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decommissioned-ins-khukri-to-be-converted-into-museum/article64945162.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:01 IST,||30% vacancies in Central offices as promotions on hold||Nearly 30% positions are vacant in middle to senior management rank in various Central government Ministries as the Union government has not promoted officials of the Central Secretariat Service (CSS) in the past six years. The employees have petitioned the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) to issue promotion orders as many officials have retired in these years, losing out on enhanced salary and pension benefits. The Forum has even tried to catch the attention of the government through a Twitter storm last week. According to CSS Forum, an association of government officers, there are 6,210 officers in the rank of section officer, Under Secretary, Deputy Secretary, Director and Joint Secretaries with 1,839 positions of them lying vacant. The CSS officers are the backbone of the offices as files, documents and orders are processed by them. A CSS official said the promotions are stuck on the pretext of pending court cases. In October 2021, the Supreme Court reserved its judgement on the grant of reservation in promotion to the Scheduled Castes (SCs) and the Scheduled Tribes (STs) in government jobs. A contempt petition was filed against the promotions issued by the DoPT and that matter was tagged with the case pertaining to the reservation in promotion to the SC/STs. Manmohan Verma, General Secretary of the CSS Forum, said that in June 2018, the DoPT had issued instructions to all Departments and Ministries to effect promotions according to the judgement of the apex court in Jarnail Singh Vs Union of India and others. “Accordingly, all Departments are issuing regular promotion orders of all Central government employees but only the DoPT which is the cadre controlling authority of the CSS officers has not issued orders for regular promotions for more than six years on the pretext of pending court cases,” Mr. Verma said. A five-judge Bench judgment in the Jarnail Singh case in 2018 had provided for “accelerated promotion with consequential seniority” for SC/ST members in government services. In 2018, the Supreme Court said it was up to the State governments to find ways and means of implementing the court’s June 2018 judgment. To tide over the crisis, the DoPT promoted 2,770 officials on an ad hoc basis since 2020. “There are more than 1,800 vacancies that needs to be filled through promotions on an immediate basis… further out of the 4,400 officers, more than 60% are working on an ad hoc promotion,” said a CSS official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/30-vacancies-in-central-offices-as-promotions-on-hold/article38331422.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:45 IST,||Many Odisha politicians climbing down the career ladder||Politicians are known to be adept at sizing up the situation and putting their best foot forward. However, in a curious turn of events, one former Cabinet Minister and many former MLAs have climbed down career ladders to fight panchayat polls to reinvent themselves in politics. Though the decision to contest as panchayat samiti member after having held the office of Cabinet Minister and winning the MLA seat for three consecutive terms sounds bizarre, Anjali Behera, former Women and Child Development Minister in the Naveen Patnaik government, justified the move saying she was “starting it all again in a new party.” In 2012, Ms. Behera was sacked from the Cabinet for allegedly being loyal to Pyari Mohan Mohapatra, former Biju Janata Dal (BJD) dissident leader. She is contesting as panchayat samiti (PS) member from Giridharprasad under Hindol block in Dhenkanal district. Ms. Behera had won Hindol block consecutively in 2000, 2004 and 2009. She was a Minister from 2009 to 2012. Ms. Behera, daughter of former Minister late Trinath Naik, recently joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “I want to strengthen the BJP in my block. Since the PS member post in Giridharprasad is reserved for schedule caste women candidates, I opted to contest it. If I win, there is every chance of my being elected as block chairperson,” she said. The former Cabinet Minister said she filed nomination after being assured support by people in every household. Her elder son is also contesting as zilla parishad member. Elections to three-tier panchayati raj bodies are scheduled to be held between February 16 and 24 for 853 zilla parishad seats, 91,916 wards and 6,794 gram panchayats. Prafulla Jena, who was elected as MLA from the Bhandaripokhari Assembly constituency on Janata Dal ticket during the bypoll held in 1991, has been fielded by the BJD as candidate for zilla parishad member post in Bhadrak district. Similarly, former MLA of Raghunathpalli, Halu Mundari, is also a zilla parishad member candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/many-odisha-politicians-climbing-down-the-career-ladder/article38331402.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Cong. releases third list for U.P.||The Congress party on Wednesday released its third list of candidates for the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, with 37 of the 89 seats in the list given to women candidates.  The Congress, which launched the ‘ Ladki Hoon , Lad Sakti Hoon ’ campaign for the Uttar Pradesh election, has committed itself to giving 40% of tickets to women candidates. Of the 37 women candidates in the third list, Poonam Kamboj is contesting elections from Behat; Akbari Begum from Bijnor; Bala Devi Saini from Noorpur; Saroj Devi from Hathras-SC (reserved), among others.  Other candidates who have been included are Randhir from Nakur; Sandeep Rana from Saharanpur; Raahat Khalil from Deoband; and Subhash Chandra Verma from Aliganj. So far, the Congress has announced its candidates to 255 seats. Hoping to make a comeback in a State, the Congress is focused on women and youth. The party issued a women-centric manifesto with the promise of 40% quota for women in government positions and free transportation for women on buses, and a separate youth manifesto with the promise of 20 lakh jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-releases-third-list-for-up/article38331672.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Fewer hospitalisations, data from States show||Active cases in Kerala, which is reporting a massive spike in infections, have climbed to 2,60,000. However, around 3.5% have been admitted in hospitals and COVID first line/second line treatment centres. This is in stark contrast to the situation in the State during the Delta wave last April when around 22,726 — close to 8% — were hospitalised. The daily new admissions at the time was close to 4,500. “The focus is firmly on home care, unlike last time. We do not want mild cases to flood our hospitals, occupying the beds which should be kept free for those who develop serious disease. Most of the patients who are rushing to the emergency wing demanding admissions are being examined and then counselled to remain home and seek tele-consultation if required,” said a State official. However, as far as COVID deaths are concerned, the State’s pattern is not very different from previous waves, with 30-35 deaths reported daily. In Karnataka, a comparison revealed, analysis by the Health Department found that COVID-19 hospitalisation in the State stood at 21% during the peak of the second wave while it was 16% during the corresponding period in the first wave. In the third wave, so far, the rate of hospitalisation has not crossed 5%. During the first and second waves, the highest number of active cases was recorded on October 10, 2020, (1,20,929) and May 15, 2021, (6,05,494) respectively. In the third wave, the State saw 3,62,487 active cases, the highest so far. A total of 25,992 COVID-19 patients died during the second wave while the first claimed 12,331 lives. In the third, 333 fatalities have been recorded till January 25. Karnataka had around 3,50,000 active cases, of which around 2% are hospitalised. In Telangana too, the current COVID-19 admissions at government and private hospitals in Telangana are fewer than that observed during the peak or decline of the second wave. The second wave in the State peaked in April-2021, at around 10,000 cases a day, with around 4,000 requiring treatment in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Presently around 4,000 are detected with COVID in a day. The ICU beds occupancy was 832 as of Monday. In Tamil Nadu, when hospitalisations as on January 24 was compared with that on May 15, 2021, the percentage of active cases that were hospitalised was only 5.1 % compared to 31.8 %. On both days, the State had around 200,000 active cases. The State has also reported far fewer deaths during the third wave so far compared to the second wave. Between March 19, 2021 (when the cases reported daily crossed the 1,000 mark during the second wave ) and May 21, 2021 (when the cases peaked), the State reported 9.08 lakh cases and 7,025 deaths. In comparison, between December 31, 2021 and Monday, the State reported 4.17 lakh cases, which is 46 % of the cases reported during the period taken for comparison. However, it reported 499 deaths, which is only 7 % of the deaths reported in the compared period. On January 23, Maharashtra — that has historically recorded among the highest cases during all three waves — registered 40,805 new COVID patients and 44 deaths with close to 300,000 active cases. Delhi also reported a peak of cases during the second wave on April 20, 2021 (Inputs from bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fewer-hospitalisations-data-from-states-show/article38331412.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:01 IST,||Curbs to restrict time slots for MP speeches||Detailed COVID protocol has been put in place for the upcoming Budget session of Parliament, which will involve time restrictions on Parliamentary speeches and also restricting access to the central hall beyond the working hours. The time restrictions have come in place because both houses of Parliament are going to be working in shifts. Rajya Sabha will function from 10 a.m. till 3 p.m. and the Lok Sabha from 4 p.m. till adjournment. Three minutes As per the detailed guideline issued by the Rajya Sabha secretariat, during the Zero Hour, when the Parliamentarians are allowed to raise matters of national importance, the members can speak for only three minutes. No member will be allowed to make a submission more than once a week. A similar instruction has gone out to the Lok Sabha members too. To maintain social distancing the members will be sitting spread out between both the chambers of the house. as per the sitting arrangement out of 237 Rajya Sabha members (there are eight vacancies) only 111 members will be sitting in the chamber spread out in their usual seats and also the visitor’s galleries. The remaining 129 members will have to sit in the Lok Sabha chamber. Instructions have also been issued to the Rajya Sabha members not to use the central hall beyond working hours. “It has been decided that during the 256th session, the Central Hall may be used by the sitting members of Rajya Sabha during the sitting hours of the Rajya Sabha only,” a bulletin issued by the RS secretariat read. The first part of the Budget session will be held from January 31 to 11 February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curbs-to-restrict-time-slots-for-mp-speeches/article38331430.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:01 IST,||Some people continue to instigate Kashmiris: L-G||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha on Wednesday said there were persons still instigating people in J&K even as theUnion Territory was put on the path of “everlasting peace, progress and development”. “Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,all efforts are being made to take J&K to new heights.J&K is already on the path of peace, progress and development,” he said in his addressat the Republic Day function at Jammu’s Maulana Azad Stadium. He, however, cautioned against“some persons who continue to instigate people as they aren’t happy with the J&K’s development”, without naming any party or leader. Investment boost Urging the youth of J&K to join the process of development and participate in shaping their future, Mr. Sinha said: “J&K is expecting Rs. 18,000 crore plus investment boost in February in the real estate sector.” The Lt. Governor said the land use change policy, which was a major impediment to the industrial development of the region, had been simplified to attract more investment. “However, the people are being misled on this issue too.” He also pledged to eradicate terrorism and terror ecosystem perpetuated by the neighbouring country in J&K. Stringent security measures were in place in the Valley. Mobile Internet services were blocked till 3 p.m. “as part of the precautionary measures”. The administration had decided not to impose a curfew or restrictions in the Valley. However, people preferred to stay indoors all day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/some-people-continue-to-instigate-kashmiris-l-g/article64945170.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,||Drunk driving cannot be treated leniently, says SC||Drunken driving cannot be treated leniently even if the accident turned out to be a minor one, the Supreme Court has said in a judgment. Driving under the influence of alcohol is an offence. It amounts to playing with the lives of others, a Bench of Justices M.R. Shah and B.V. Nagarathna observed in a recent verdict. The case concerned a truck driver with the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) who rammed into a jeep while ferrying personnel to Allahabad on Kumbh Mela duty in February 2000. He was found to have been drunk while driving the truck. The man was subsequently dismissed from service. His plea that the punishment was disproportionate to his deed was rejected by the lower courts. Dealing with his appeal, Justice Shah agreed that, “Merely because there was no major loss and it was a minor accident cannot be a ground to show leniency. It was sheer good luck that the accident was not a fatal accident. It could have been a fatal accident.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drunk-driving-cannot-be-treated-leniently-says-sc/article64945161.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Cong. changes Harish Rawat’s constituency||The Congress on Wednesday changed former Uttarakhand Chief Minister Harish Rawat’s constituency from Ramnagar to Lalkuwa for the February 14 Assembly election. The party announced a list of 10 candidates late on Wednesday night that included a change for Mr. Rawat. Mr. Rawat was replaced by Mahender Pal Singh from Ramnagar in Wednesday’s list. The BJP too released a list of nine candidates for Uttarakhand. The list included sitting MLA Ritu Khanduri Bhushan, daughter of former Chief Minister B.C. Khanduri, from Kotdwar. She was elected from the Yamkeshwar constituency in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-changes-harish-rawats-constituency/article38331671.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:17 IST,||India Post showcases women empowerment||At the Republic Day parade on Wednesday, India Post showcased its service to the nation, with a focus on women empowerment, through its uniquely designed thematic tableau. India Post got a chance to participate in the parade after 17 and the tableau had a strong Mumbai element. It previously participated in 2005 on completion of 150 years of Department of Posts. The theme of women empowerment was picked up because nearly 50% of the account holders of India Post Payments Bank and Post Office Savings Bank are women. The tableau was conceptualised and designed under the guidance of the Secretary of Posts Vineet Pandey, by Postmaster General, Mumbai Region, Swati Pandey. “Ms. Pandey had worked on the creative nitty-gritty of the tableau and had been associated with it since day one,” a postal department official said. The image of the model postwoman standing in the front of the tableau is that of Namrata Khote who works in Mumbai GPO. “She symbolises the power of youth and women empowerment by breaking the stereotypes,” the official added.  Besides this, the anthem of India Post ‘ Aaya aapka daakiya’ has been sung by Mumbai-based rock singer Tirthankar Poddar aka ToBlue and composed by Orchida Mukherjee, an India Post, Mumbai Region official. The front of the two-part tableau featured a young post woman with a digital device in one hand and a postman’s bag in the other, thus conveying the message of blending of technology with tradition.  By her side was the red-letter box which reflects people’s faith in India Post, over the 167 years. The image of the post woman was juxtaposed with that of the ‘harkara’ — the Dak messenger or runner of yesteryears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-post-showcases-women-empowerment/article38331797.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:01 IST,||India slams Pakistan at UN Security Council||Perpetrators of the heinous 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks continue to enjoy Pakistan’s patronage, India has told the UN Security Council, saying that most terrorist attacks around the world have their origin, in some form or the other, in that country. India strongly hit back at Pakistan after Islamabad’s envoy to the UN Munir Akram raked up the issue of Jammu and Kashmir during an UNSC Open Debate on ‘Protection of civilians in armed conflict: Wars in cities - protection of civilians in urban settings’ on Tuesday. ‘Ignoble record’ “Member States are well aware that Pakistan has an established history of harbouring, aiding and actively supporting terrorists. This is a country which has been globally recognised as a sponsor of terrorism and holds the ignoble record of hosting the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the UN Security Council,” Counsellor in India’s Permanent Mission to the UN R. Madhu Sudan said. “So much so that most terrorist attacks around the world today have their origin, in some form or the other, in Pakistan,” he said. In remarks earlier in the debate, India’s envoy T.S. Tirumurti said any debate on protection of civilians in urban areas would be incomplete without taking into account the carnage wrought by terrorist forces, especially those backed by State actors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-slams-pakistan-at-un/article38331433.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Omicron-hit may escape reinfection with Delta||Of the 39 individuals, 25 had taken both the doses of AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, eight people had taken double dose of Pfizer jab, while six were unvaccinated. Also, 28 of these 39 were mainly foreign returnees from the UAE, South/West/East Africa, Middle East, the U.S. and the U.K,. and 11 people were their high-risk contacts. All these individuals were infected with the Omicron variant.  The study assessed the IgG antibody and Neutralising Antibody response in people with breakthrough and natural COVID infections. “Our study demonstrated a substantial immune response in the individuals infected with Omicron. The neutralising antibodies could effectively neutralise the Omicron and other variants of concern, including the most prevalent Delta variant,” it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-hit-may-escape-reinfection-with-delta/article38331413.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:17 IST,||T.N. urban local bodies polls on February 19||Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner V. Palanikumar on Wednesday announced that the urban local bodies polls for 21 municipal corporations, including Chennai, 138 municipalities and 490 town panchayats, will be held in a single phase on February 19. The polling will be held, by following COVID-19 protocol, from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. and in the last one hour, those infected with COVID-19 alone will be allowed to cast their votes, he told reporters. In Chennai, there will be 5,794 polling booths. The counting of votes will start from 8 a.m. on February 22 and the process will conclude on February 24, he said. The indirect elections [by newly elected councillors] for a total of 1,298 posts, including Mayor and Deputy Mayor, will be held on March 4. The elections are being conducted as per the directions of the Supreme Court. In Chennai, there are a total of 61,18,734 voters, including 30,93,355 female, 30,23,803 male, and 1,576 transpersons. As per the schedule released by Mr. Palanikumar, the elections will be notified on January 28. The filing of nominations will start from January 28 and continue till February 4, and will be accepted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. They will be reviewed on February 5 and can be withdrawn on February 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tn-urban-local-bodies-polls-on-february-19/article38331794.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||SP fields candidate against Raja Bhaiya after 20 years||Breaking a political trend, the Samajwadi Party has fielded a candidate in the Kunda seat of Pratapgarh against Thakur strongman Raghuraj Pratap Singh, alias Raja Bhaiya, after two decades. The SP is contesting this seat after the relationship between Mr. Singh, a six-time Independent MLA, and SP president Akhilesh Yadav went downhill after the 2017 election.  In 2018, as he prepared to take on the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, Mr. Yadav was left red-faced after Mr. Singh, till then considered a political ally, allegedly cross-voted in favour of the BJP in the Rajya Sabha election. An outraged Mr. Yadav, under whose government Mr. Singh had enjoyed ministerial positions, called the MLA a “liar” and “a dhamkidar ” (intimidator) and said the SP had shut its doors on him forever.  In the 2007, 2012 and 2017 elections, Mr. Singh did not face any candidate from the SP, winning comfortably. While it is still a daunting task to challenge him in Kunda, considered his fiefdom, the SP’s move to field Gulshan Yadav, a former nagar panchayat chairman and former aide of Mr. Singh, against him could alter certain equations in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-fields-candidate-against-raja-bhaiya-after-20-years/article64945182.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Bikram Majithia to take on Sidhu in Amritsar East||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday announced that former Chief Minister and party patron Parkash Singh Badal would contest the 2022 Assembly election from Lambi constituency, while former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia would contest from Amritsar East in addition to the Majithia constituency. Congress State president Navjot Singh Sidhu is contesting from Amritsar East. SAD president Sukhbir Singh, announcing the names of candidates, said Mr. Satinder Singh Chajjwalwadi would be the party nominee from Jandiala. “The entire party pleaded with Sardar Parkash Singh Badal not to retire from politics and he has accepted our request to contest the forthcoming elections from Lambi. Badal Sahab has always been at the forefront to offer his services for the welfare of Punjab and Punjabis and he is doing so again,” he said. The 94-year-old SAD leader has been the Chief Minister from 1970 to 1971, 1977 to 1980, 1997 to 2002 and from 2007 to 2017 (two consecutive terms). He led the party as the president from 1995 to 2008. Mr. Badal was awarded the Padma Vibhushan in 2015. He returned the award in 2020, in protest against the contentious farm laws. On the candidature of Mr. Majithia from Amritsar East, Mr. Badal said: “Navjot Sidhu’s arrogance will be his undoing. Sidhu has been harping on his support among the masses. Now his support will be tested as Mr. Majithia will be taking on him in his home constituency. We will break Sidhu’s arrogance by ensuring he loses his security deposit.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/majithia-to-take-on-sidhu-in-amritsar-east/article38331410.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:01 IST,||Rahul writes on free speech concerns to Twitter CEO||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, in a letter to Twitter CEO Parag Agarwal dated December 27 alleged that social media platform Twitter is unknowingly complicit in curbing free and fair speech in India. He has alleged that there is a shadow ban on him which restricts his tweets and the number of people who can follow him. The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) revealed Mr. Gandhi’s concerns in a news report published on Wednesday. The report quotes a letter written by Mr. Gandhi to Mr Agarwal. “I want to bring your attention to what I believe is Twitter’s unwitting complicity in curbing free and fair speech in India,” Mr. Gandhi wrote.  He further wrote that he has been “reliably, albeit discreetly, informed by people at Twitter India that they are under immense pressure by the government to silence” his voice.  The WSJ claims to have independently verified the claim using two social media analytics companies Emplifi and Social Blade. The analysis shows that he gained on an average nearly four lakh new users per month from January to July 2021. This figure sharply dipped post the suspension. From September to December, the data shows, that per month he has gained less than 2,500 followers.  “You have an enormous responsibility to ensure that Twitter does not actively help in the growth of authoritarianism in India,” Mr Gandhi wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-writes-on-free-speech-concerns-to-twitter-ceo/article64945167.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:01 IST,||Two jawans injured in Shopian firing||A gunfight is on between militants trapped in a residential area in south Kashmir's Shopian and the security forces since Wednesday evening, according to police sources. Preliminary reports suggested that at least two jawans were injured in the initial exchange of fire at the Check Nowgam area of Shopian. The injured were shifted to the Army’s base hospital in Srinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-jawans-injured-in-shopian-firing/article38331673.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Inducements worth Rs. 200 cr. seized in five States||Authorities in the five poll-bound States of Punjab, Goa, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have seized cash, drugs, liquor and other inducements worth more than Rs. 200 crore so far, a senior Election Commission official said. The official said Punjab and Manipur accounted for a large amount of the seized drugs and Uttar Pradesh for cash. According to the Uttarakhand government on Tuesday, drugs worth Rs. 2.81 crore and Rs. 1.74 crore cash had been seized starting January 10. Three FIRs had also been lodged in connection with the “inducements”. Authorities in Goa had seized cash, drugs and alcohol worth Rs. 2.93 crore so far, Chief Electoral Officer Kunal said on Wednesday. He said enforcement by the authorities had been good on all fronts and most cases lodged pertained to violation of COVID-19 norms. In Punjab, the Chief Electoral Officer’s Twitter handle on Wednesday said 3,675 complaints of model code of conduct violation had been received through the Election Commission’s cVigil app till Tuesday. All of them had been disposed — the highest being in Ludhiana — and 2,720 of them were found to be correct. During the last set of Assembly elections in 2021 (Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala), the Commission had announced seizures of cash, drugs, liquor, precious metals and other freebies worth over Rs. 1,000 crore. In a statement in April 2021, the EC said the value of the seizures had crossed Rs. 1,000 crore for the first time in any Assembly election process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-200-crore-inducements-seized-in-poll-bound-states/article38331403.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:01 IST,||Kin of Mon victims will get justice: Rio||Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio said justice will be delivered to the families of the people who were gunned down by the security forces in the Mon district in December 2021. “My fellow citizens, as we celebrate the Republic Day, we also take note of the unfortunate firing incidents that occurred in December last year in Oting-Tiru village area and Mon town, which led to the unfortunate death of 14 innocent civilians, and serious injuries to many others. We are taking every measure to lessen the pain of the family members, who lost their near and dear ones, and of all those who suffered injuries,” Mr. Rio said. He said the Special Investigation Team constituted by the State government to probe the incident has made good progress. The Army, too, constituted a court of inquiry which is said to be completing its investigation at a fast pace, he said. “We are sure that justice will be delivered to the families,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kin-of-mon-victims-will-get-justice-rio/article38331425.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,||Integrity Pact: CVC modifies criteria||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has again modified the criteria for the nomination of Independent External Monitors (IEM) in government bodies, months after it had issued a revised standard operating procedure for adoption and implementation of the ‘Integrity Pact’ clause, which is meant to prevent corruption in public procurement. In June 2021, the Commission had issued the revised guidelines. Following feedback and suggestions from the Chief Vigilance Officers and other individuals, the CVC decided to modify the criteria. The zone of consideration now includes officers who have held the post of Additional Secretary to the Government of India; were in equivalent or higher pay scale at the time of retirement, whether at the Centre or in any State; and those who were Chairman-cum-Managing Directors (CMD) of Schedule ‘A’ public sector enterprises or were equivalent/higher to Additional Secretary to the Central government at the time of retirement. CMDs/MDs and Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of public sector banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions at the time of retirement and officers of the armed forces who were in a pay scale equivalent to or higher than that of Additional Secretary at the time of retirement, are also eligible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/integrity-pact-cvc-modifies-criteria/article38331440.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,||Liquor bought from authorised shop claims six lives in Rae Bareli||Six people died and some others took ill in Paharpur village of Uttar Pradesh’s Rae Bareli district after consuming liquor, allegedly bought from an authorised alcohol-vending shop, the police said on Wednesday. District Magistrate Vaibhav Srivastava said they had consumed liquor after a programme in the village on Tuesday and their condition deteriorated after that.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/liquor-bought-from-authorised-shop-claims-six-lives-in-rae-bareli/article38331453.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:01 IST,||Anindya Chatterjee declines Padma award||Eminent tabla player Pandit Anindya Chatterjee has declined to receive the Padma Shri honour.Mr. Chatterjee is the second person from Bengal's vibrant musical world who was offered the Padma award this year and refused it. He said that he had recieved a phone call from Delhi on Tuesday seeking his consent to accept the honour which he declined.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anindya-chatterjee-declines-padma-award/article64945165.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,||Visually challenged candidate’s nomination rejected in Odisha||The nomination of a visually challenged person, an aspirant for the post of Sarpanch in Odisha’s Nuapada district, was rejected during scrutiny as he placed his signature in the Braille language.The nomination of Shantilal Sabar, who hails from a tribal community, was rejected by the Returning Officer on the ground that he “does not know how to read and write Odia”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/visually-challenged-candidates-nomination-rejected-in-odisha/article38331439.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||It doesn't matter if someone leaves or join the Congress: Gehlot||Congress is a movement having a history of 135 years and some leaders leaving the party does not make any difference, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Wednesday. All those leaders who are leaving or joining the Congress are welcome and there should not be much discussion on this, he said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-doesnt-matter-if-someone-leaves-or-join-the-congress-gehlot/article64945189.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||British PM flags vaccine bond with India in Republic Day message||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson extended greetings to the people of India on Republic Day as he focussed his message on the launch of free trade agreement (FTA) talks and the India-UK partnership on manufacturing the Oxford-Astra Zeneca vaccine. Mr. Johnson said he was proud of the friendship shared by the two “diverse democracies” and looked forward to fortifying the strong bond over the next 75 years and beyond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/british-pm-flags-vaccine-bond-with-india-in-republic-day-message/article38331414.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:45 IST,||U'khand polls: Cong working president questions Harish Rawat's candidature from Ramnagar||Uttarakhand Congress working president Ranjit Rawat has expressed displea- sure of the candidature of former CM Harish Rawat from Nainital’s Ramnagar, a seat from where he was hopeful of getting the party ticket. In a purported video Ranjit Rawat is seen questioning the party’s move while deman- ding that Harish Rawat’s candidature be withdrawn.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ukhand-polls-cong-working-president-questions-harish-rawats-candidature-from-ramnagar/article38331399.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Bangladesh keen to work with India to realise shared vision of building peaceful and prosperous region: PM Hasina||Bangladesh is keen to work with India towards realising the shared vision of building a peaceful and prosperous region, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said on Wednesday as she extended greetings to her Indian counterpart Narendra Modi and the people of India on the country’s 73rd Republic Day. In a letter written to Mr. Modi, Ms. Hasina said the year 2021 was a “historic one” for the Bangladesh-India relationship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bangladesh-keen-to-work-with-india-to-realise-shared-vision-of-building-peaceful-and-prosperous-region-pm-hasina/article64945176.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Azad Samaj Party: Reaching out to Gorakhpur voters through ‘nukkad sabhas’||The Azad Samaj Party is mobilising the youth to hold “nukkad sabhas” in every ward of the Gorakhpur Urban constituency, from where its chief Chandra Shekhar Azad is set to contest against CM Yogi Adityanath. The party said it has drawn inspiration from Dalit icon Kanshi Ram. A Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader termed it a “marketing” gimmick.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/azad-samaj-party-reaching-out-to-gorakhpur-voters-through-nukkad-sabhas/article38331670.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:00 IST,||Congress’s anti-Dalit face exposed, says AAP||A day after the second list of Congress candidates for the Punjab election was released, the Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday said the ‘anti- Dalit’ face of the Congress had been expo sed. Punjab affairs co-in- charge Raghav Chadha said the Congress ‘high command’ had given tickets to close aides and relatives of the big Congress leaders, but the brother of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was denied ticket even after he clearly expressed his desire to contest the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congresss-anti-dalit-face-exposed-says-aap/article38331411.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:01 IST,||BENGALURU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengaluru/article64945175.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman beaten up after son elopes with girl||Meenakshi, 44, of K. Vagaikulam near here was beaten up by a gang on Monday after her son, Sakthi Siva, eloped with a girl. Paralachi police have booked 14 persons for assault and verbal abuse of Ms. Meenakshi. The police said Sakthi Siva, who fell in love with one Bhuvaneswari, eloped with her on Sunday. After marrying her, he came to Aruppukottai on Monday and lodged a complaint at Aruppukottai All-Women Police Station seeking protection. When Bhuvaneswari’s family members came to know of the development, several persons, including her mother Sudha, barged into the house of Sakthi Siva and assaulted his mother. Ms. Meenaksh was also tied up. Later, she was treated at Aruppukottai Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-beaten-up/article38331861.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:50 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu showcases R-Day tableau rejected by Centre||The Republic Day celebrations in Tamil Nadu saw the showcasing of the tableau featuring the sacrifices of freedom fighters including the Marudu Brothers, Velu Nachiyar, Kappalottiya Tamizhan V.O. Chidambaram Pillai and many others. The tableau, originally conceived of by the Tamil Nadu government for participation in the Republic Day celebrations in New Delhi, was rejected by the Centre. One tableau depicted the hanging of the Marudu Brothers — Chinna Marudu and Periya Marudu — at Tirupattur after they were defeated by the British. Velu Nachiyar was seen riding a horse. National poet Subramania Bharthiyar was prominently featured in a tableau, along with V.V.S. Aiyar, Quaid-e-Millath and others. Freedom fighter VOC, pulling an oil press, was also part of the depiction. The tableau comprising Periyar drew the most attention. He was the leading figure of the tableau showcasing Tiruppur Kumaran, who continued to hold the flag even after he fell prey to the lathis of the British police. Earlier, Governor R.N. Ravi unfurled the national flag in the presence of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and other dignitaries. Mr. Stalin said, “Let us reaffirm the upholding of the secular ethos of the Constitution on this Republic Day and be proud of the great achievements to uplift the people of our nation in all spheres.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-showcases-r-day-tableau-rejected-by-centre/article64945237.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:50 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fresh COVID-19 cases fall below 30,000||Fresh cases fell below 30,000 on Wednesday. Of the 1,41,762 people who were tested, 29,976 were found to have contracted the infection, taking the tally of active cases to 2,13,692. Till date 32,24,236 people have contracted the infection. Chennai also registered a drop in new infections, with 5,973 people testing positive. A total of 8,693 patients were discharged. Currently 48,111 patients are under treatment at home or in healthcare facilities. A total of 27,507 patients were discharged across the State. Forty-seven deaths were recorded, including 26 in private hospitals and 21 in government healthcare facilities. As many as 23 deaths were recorded in Chennai. In 2,924 sessions, 711 healthcare workers and 879 frontline workers were vaccinated against COVID-19. A total of 655 persons aged 15 to 17 and 30,959 persons aged 18 to 44 got vaccinated, as did 13,891 beneficiaries aged 45 to 59 and 9,998 senior citizens. A total of 57,093 doses were administered, taking the total number of people vaccinated till date to 9,08,04,085.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-19-cases-fall-below-30000/article64945238.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:32 IST,TAMIL NADU||MLA’s remark triggers debate over AIADMK’s role as Opposition party||The BJP’s floor leader in the Assembly,NainarNagenthiran,may have used a“harsh language”against theAIADMKfornot playing an effective role as the principal Opposition party, but there is a perception among sections of functionaries of the latter that theirorganisationis not doing enough to counter the ruling party. [On Wednesday, the president of the State unit of the BJP, K. Annamalai, told the media that he conveyed regrets to the AIADMKco-ordinator,EdappadiKPalaniswami, over theremarksof hiscolleague. He commended the Oppositionparty forits functioning]. Many office-bearers feel that theAIADMK has notcapitalisedon thecontroversy over the distribution of Pongal gift hampers through the public distribution system (PDS).Similar was the case with the issue of functioning of retail liquor outletsdespite a strong campaign of theDMK, while in the Opposition,against the practice. Their general point is that the party has not been holding very many demonstrations or agitations that it should be doing. R. B. Udhayakumar,secretary of the AmmaPeravaiand former Revenue Minister, however denies the party’s performance was below par.“Let us not forget that the COVID-19 restrictions are in force.No political party canhold agitationsfreelyon issues of public importance, just as it would have done under normal circumstances.We are a responsible party and we do not want to put at risk the lives of our volunteers,”hesaid and added that the party did conduct demonstrationsin recent months. Besides, Mr. Palaniswami and party coordinator O. Panneerselvam have been, through their statements,bringing to the fore numerous issues including the Pongal gift hampers’ distribution and the liquor shops’ working. On the issue of gift hampers, the party has moved the High Court, seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The former Minister feels sections of the media are“not giving prominence”to the statements of Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswamiin the manner they did to Chief Minister and DMK president M.K. Stalin, when he was in the Opposition.  Let us not forget that the COVID-19 restrictions are in force. We do not want to put at risk the lives of our volunteers R.B. UdhayakumarEx-Minister and Amma Peravai Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mlas-remark-triggers-debate-over-aiadmks-role-as-opposition-party/article38331749.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cancer is curable, if it is detected early, say doctors||Though cancer can develop in any organ, advanced medical technology is helping to treat it with better outcomes, said doctors at GEM Hospital, who specialise in treating cancers of the digestive system.  At the Wellness webinar series on Wednesday, hosted by the hospital and The Hindu, the doctors discussed various treatment options that offer better care and cure.  R. Vinoth Kumar, medical gastroenterologist, said adenocarcinoma was on the rise because of changing food habits. “If a patient is picked up at an early stage, endoscopic procedures are enough to treat cancers. Endoscopy is a good tool for detecting tumours, abnormal tissues and do a biopsy. Screening high risk groups for tumours would optimise treatment,” he said. According to P. Senthilnathan, head of the Department of HPB surgery, GEM Hospital, Coimbatore: “There is no bias in cancer treatment as there is a medical board that determines the treatment to be provided,” he said and added that cancers of each organ behave differently and it manifests differently in each patient. The chief operating officer of the Coimbatore branch of the hospital, R. Parthasarathi, said issues such as weight loss, loss of appetite, altered bowel habits should ring an alarm bell and people should go for screening. “It is not a disease that kills. New technology and multimodal treatment will help in providing the right treatment,” he said. C. Palanivelu, chairman of the hospital, emphasised the need to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Patients often turned up with symptoms when the disease was in an advanced stage, he said. Latest technology such as 3D printing, virtual and augmented reality, individualised treatment, had led to cure, preserving the immunity and better long-time survival if people took early treatment, Dr. Palanivelu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancer-can-be-cured-if-it-is-detected-early-say-top-doctors/article64945217.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:50 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM to launch All India Fedn. for Social Justice||On the occasion of Republic Day, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said he will soon launch an All India Federation for Social Justice, which will have “leaders from oppressed classes from all States”. Addressing a national webinar on ‘Taking Forward The Struggle For Social Justice and Joint National Programme (JNP) for Social Justice Movement’, Mr. Stalin said, “The [proposed] federation will provide suggestions to all States on laws related to social justice. The percentage of backward and oppressed communities may differ with each State. However, the ideology of social justice is the same. ‘Everything for everyone’ will be the base of this federation. This will be a federation that works to achieve the principles of federalism and social justice.” The webinar was jointly organised by the All India Backward Classes Federation (AIBCF), the Social Revolution Alliance (SRA), Phule Ambedkari Gauravshali Aur Adarshawadi Muhim (PAGAAM), the All India Backward and Minority Communities Employees Federation (BAMCEF), We The People (WTP) and Lead India. Mr. Stalin also dismissed the claim that the BJP played a central role in ensuring 27% reservation for OBCs in the All-India Medical Quota. “This is a great victory for social justice. We didn’t get this easily – we protested in people’s courts, in courts of justice, the State Assembly and in Parliament. I am proud of what we have achieved,” he said. The Union government did not ‘hand over’ reservation to OBCs and SCs, as was being claimed, he said.  “In 2019, I requested the Prime Minister to release a White Paper on reservation for OBCs in the All India Medical Quota. DMK MPs raised this issue in Parliament. For medical and dental seats, DMK MP Wilson met the Health Minister and presented him a letter on OBC reservation. In 2020, we filed a case in the Supreme Court and organised an all-party meeting as I knew we wouldn’t get anything by asking the Union government. We were asked to file the case in the High Court. The Union government did not relent and said that only by resolving the Saloni Kumar case, this issue will be resolved,” he said.   Mr. Stalin added, “The Supreme Court then gave a verdict that the DMK’s case is different from the Saloni Kumar case. The Madras High Court then said OBC reservation should be given from 2021-22. Since the Union government did not relent even then, the DMK filed a contempt of court case and the Supreme Court said reservation must be implemented. Only on July 26, 2021, India’s Solicitor General said the Union government would abide by the court’s verdict.”  “They can forget these facts, but they cannot overshadow it. It is a victory for OBCs and SCs. Social justice is about ensuring social equality in every sphere of life, not just in education and jobs,” he said. Leader of the Opposition in Bihar, Tejaswi Yadav, who also spoke during the webinar, said, “The DMK and the RJD have similar social visions. As long as a caste census is not done, we will not know the real picture in India. Those who dismiss the caste census are those who are not interested in social justice.” DMK Rajya Sabha MP P. Wilson, Sardar Takinder Singh Jhalli, founder, PAGAAM, B.D. Borkar, founder BAMCEF, Dravidar Kazhagam’s president, K. Veeramani, also participated in the event.  This will be a federation that works to achieve the principles of federalism and social justice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-launch-all-india-fedn-for-social-justice/article64945235.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minister, MP slam RBI staff for not showing respect to State song||The staff of the Reserve Bank of India, Chennai, triggered a controversy on Republic Day by justifying not standing up when the Tamil Thai Vazhthu (State song) was played, stating that the Madras High Court had said there was no need to do so. A video of some staff members defending their action went viral on social media inviting strong reaction from political party leaders. “This video is distressing,” Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan tweeted. “We will look into and eliminate all confusion,” he said. The Minister pointed out that the banks were essential for a community…“More so the RBI.” Tweeting a recent Government Order mandating everyone to stand up when the State song was played, DMK MP Kanizmozhi questioned how come those who could not read and understand a State government order serve as officials. “Are they superior to the Tamil Nadu government?” she asked. “Is the RBI Chennai not in Tamil Nadu? The G.O dated Dec 17, 2021 is applicable to all offices in Tamil Nadu. Take immediate action against those who refused to stand for Thamizh thaai vaazhthu in RBI's Republic day event,” CPI(M) MP from Madurai Su. Venkatesan said on Twitter. Makkal Needhi Maiam strongly condemned the incident and termed it as a disrespect to Tamil Nadu and sought appropriate steps to ensure it did not happen again. Tamizhaga Vazhvuirmai Katchi founder T. Velmurugan said he would lead a protest before RBI office on Thursday morning condemning the incident. An RBI spokesperson did not reply to the calls and text messages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-mp-slam-rbi-staff-for-not-showing-respect-to-state-song/article38331750.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM announces awards for scholars||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday announced the 2021 awards for scholars, organisations and media houses that contributed to the development of Tamil language. In a statement, he said from this year the award money has been increased to Rs. 2 lakh from Rs. 1 lakh each. The award-winners will be honoured with a one-sovereign gold medal, a shawl and a citation. Perarignar Anna Award will be presented to Nanjil Sampath while Mahakavi Bharathiyar Award will be conferred on Bharathi Krishnakumar. Pavendhar Bharathidasan Award will be presented to Senthalai Gowthaman while Sollin Selvar Award will be given to Surya Xavier. Madukkur Ramalingam has been chosen for Singaravelar Award and Malaysian Tamil Writers Association for Thamizhthai Award. As per the announcement, Thiruvalluvar Award will be conferred on Sanjeevirayar and Si Pa Aditanar Award will be presented to Uyirmmai magazine. Bharathi Baskar will be presented Kambar Award while G.U. Pope Award will be given to veteran journalist and former Readers’ Editor ofThe HinduA.S. Panneerselvan. Maraimalai Adigalar Award will be presented to Suki Sivam and Ilango Adigal Award will go to Nellai Kanan. Ayothidas Pandithar Award will be presented to Gnana Aloysius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-announces-awards-for-scholars/article38331748.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:50 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Reopening schools for senior classes a priority’||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Wednesday said his department was looking to prioritise the reopening of schools for classes X , XI and XII first, as the board exams were coming up. “We have submitted our department’s views on the reopening of schools ahead of a meeting with the Chief Minister to discuss the lockdown guidelines, which will take place before January 31. The School Education Department has said schools can resume in February for senior classes since those students have the board exams coming up,” he said. Schools were shut for senior classes in mid-January owing to an increase in COVID-19 cases, and a round of revision exams was also postponed by the School Education Department. For other classes, the Minister said the Illam Thedi Kalvi scheme was reaching the students. Speaking to mediapersons on the sidelines of a Republic Day event, the Minister said the DMK government had been focusing on improving government schools ever since it came to power. “We want these schools to be a symbol of pride, and we are working step-by-step on massive improvements,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopening-schools-for-senior-classes-a-priority/article64945236.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:51 IST,TAMIL NADU||De-silting work to resume at Poondi Reservoir||The Water Resources Department is set to resume de-silting work at Poondi reservoir. Built across the Kosasthalaiyar river in Tiruvallur district, the reservoir is one of the major sources of water for the city with a capacity to store 3.2 tmcft water. At present, the reservoir has 2.9 tmcft of water. Surplus water from the reservoir is diverted to other similar storage facilities. De-silting has not been taken up in the reservoir on a large scale ever since its construction. The department started work to remove silt in August last year. But the work was stopped following heavy rain and water in the reservoir touching maximum level. “We plan to resume de-silting work in a few weeks once the water level drops. Work will be initiated in the periphery of the water spread area where the lake bed dries up,” said an official. About 6,180 cubic metre of silt was cleared from Poondi reservoir last year. The department has estimated to clear 2.04 crore cubic metre of silt. The work would be taken up in phases and the entire project would be completed in 10 years, officials said. The project would be executed as a revenue generation model.. The silt removed could be used for filling purposes and in brick kilns. It is estimated that a revenue of Rs. 257.94 crore may be generated through clearing of silt from Poondi reservoir. Decision would be taken on resuming similar work in Chembarambakkam and other reservoirs, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/de-silting-work-to-resume-at-poondi-reservoir/article38331999.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||Zero tolerance towards drug offences, says Sandeep Rathore||Sandeep Rai Rathore, Additional Director-General of Police who recently took over as first Commissioner of Police, Avadi, says there will be zero tolerance towards drug offences and offenders. Asked about the steps to prevent smuggling of ganja into the State from Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Rathore said: “Zero tolerance for drug offenders. The system of check posts will be created on the border police station limits. Special drug busting teams will be formed in both the districts for Avadi and Red Hills.”  Spelling out his aims and priorities in an interview to The Hindu , Mr. Rathore: “Our aim is to keep the people of Avadi safe and provide them with best policing. We aim to be humane, compassionate and responsive to the people we serve. We seek participation of people in community policing,” said Mr. Rathore.  He said ensuring the rule of law and prompt registration of cases are his main focus areas. “Police stations should be welcoming and people-friendly, where anyone can come, without fear, for redress of their grievances. Special trained officers will deal with senior citizens, women and children. Rowdies and gangsters will be profiled and deterrent and firm action will be taken against them,” said Mr. Rathore. The Commissioner of Police said, “ For prevention of property crime, we will be adopting systematic detection of cases using scientific aids, marching of beats and patrols would cover crime-prone areas and areas hitherto uncovered by CCTVs. Updating and maintenance of crime records of property crime offenders would be among our focus too.” Stating that ensuring smooth flow of traffic by improving flow at congested places, disciplining traffic rule violators and community participation in traffic education are among our plans, the Commissioner of Police said, “We plan to create world class infrastructure befitting the youngest Commissionerate in the country.” Smart system About his strategy to control rash driving of heavy vehicles, haphazard parking and encroachment of roads, Mr. Rathore said: “We plan to improve the performance of the traffic police by smart deployment, by involving different stakeholders/local agencies to tackle these problems. We will identify bottlenecks and improve one junction at a time. We will create parking terminals in and around the ports. We will create truck parks and lay bay. Removal of encroachments by creating a database on GIS and systematic removal with aid of local urban bodies would help us. We will put together a database of hospital beds and trauma service to save lives during 'golden hour.'” “A professional traffic consultancy agency will be roped in to draw up plans for implementation of intelligent traffic management systems (ITMS) throughout the Commissionerate along with urban local bodies. We will increase participation of traffic wardens and road safety (students) patrols in all schools,” he added. Mr. Rathore said that strict action that would be taken against students who travel on footboard, and this would be preceded by an awareness drive to be conducted along with the schools, colleges and parents. Mr. Rathore said people can meet him for redress of their grievances in his office daily between noon and 1 p.m. (Monday to Friday ) or email opavdcomplaints @gmail.com. Control room contact numbers are 7305735666 & 7305715666. He said his team was available on twitter (https://twitter.com /avadipolice). The Avadi Police Commissionerate has been functioning from the Regimental Centre, Avadi, with two police districts of Avadi and Red Hills. Twenty five police station, including Avadi, Tank Factory, Thirumullaivoyal, Muthapudupet, Pattabiram, Thirunindravur, Poonamallee, Nasarathpet, Vellavedu, Sevvapet, SRMC, Mangadu, Thiruverkadu, Red Hills District, Red Hills, Sholavaram, Minjur, Kattur, Ambattur, Ambattur Estate, Korattur, Ennore, Sathangadu, Manali, Madhavaram Milk Colony,and Manali Newtown come under its jurisdiction. The present population is over 35 lakh in the jurisdiction, and growing . The total strength of the Avadi Police Commissionerate is 5,500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/zero-tolerance-to-drug-offences-says-avadi-police-commissioner/article64945222.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA’s Distinguished Alumnus Award presented||The SASTRA Distinguished Alumnus Award for 2020 was presented in recognition of SASTRA Alumni's service in three identified areas. This time 1994-batch Mechanical Engineering graduate Manoj Varghese, Chief Platform Head - Mahindra & Mahindra, received the award for “‘Corporate Leadership”. S. Kalyankumar andK. Sundarajan, professors of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Alabama, received the award for their “Public Service Excellence”. Both are 1998 graduates in Mechanical Engineering. Prominent B2B start-up Ninjacart Co-Founder C. Vasudevan, a 2007 Biotech graduate of SASTRA, was awarded for ‘Entrepreneurial Excellence’. S.V. Ramanan, CEO of Intellect Design & Secretary of the SASTRA Alumni Association and himself a Distinguished Alumnus Award-winner, presented the awards and citation. “The awards presented on Republic Day for being SASTRA’s goodwill builders reminds us that we are also nation builders along with the alumni,” said SASTRA Deemed University Vice-Chancellor S. Vaidhyasubramaniam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sastra-gives-award-to-four-of-its-alumni-for-2020/article38331753.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP leaders booked||BJP leaders, including party’s State president K. Annamalai, former Union Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan, and Legislature Party leader Nainar Nagendran have been booked by the police for allegedly staging a protest without permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-leaders-booked/article38331745.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||Transparency in VC selection process sought||The members of Save Madurai Kamaraj University Coalition have requested the Governor-Chancellor to ensure transparency in the Vice-Chancellor selection process. The members have cited media reports stating the V-C search committee had shortlisted 10 professors for interview. “We appeal to you to ensure that the process is transparent and does not compromise on integrity. The method followed in shortlisting the candidates has to be revealed to members of the public to avoid creating any suspicion on the process,” the Coalition said in its letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transparency-in-vc-selection-process-sought/article38331859.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||ATR struggles without a dedicated veterinarian||The Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) is yet to get a dedicated veterinarian despite being a protected habitat of endangered species such as tiger, elephant, the Nilgiri tahr (also the State animal of Tamil Nadu), Lion-tailed Macaque and home to more than 20 camp elephants. Sources in the Forest Department said that lack of a dedicated veterinarian was causing various difficulties as the ATR administration needs to wait for the arrival of veterinarians from Coimbatore Forest Division or the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) for important veterinary interventions. The ATR administration is currently seeking the support of A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division, and veterinarian Rajesh Kumar of MTR for important veterinary interventions ranging from treatment of camp elephants to autopsy of animals like tiger. Assistance of local government veterinarians are sought for small works, they said. The tiger reserve with two forest divisions namely Pollachi and Tiruppur has a core area of 958.59 sq km as per the Management Effectiveness Evaluation (MEE) Report of Tiger Reserves - 2018 released by the National Tiger Conservation Authority. It was also ranked fourth among the then 50 tiger reserves in the country with an MEE rating of 89.06 %. ATR currently has 27 camp elephants at its two elephant camps -- Kozhikamuthi and Varagaliyar. The camp elephants require veterinary care when they fall sick or males develop musth. Sources said that various representations were made to the higher-ups seeking appointment of a dedicated veterinarian for ATR, but there was no resolve. According to them, the tiger reserve also lacks a modified truck for the transportation of kumkis to faraway places for various operations. At present, trucks belonging to Coimbatore Forest Division and other places are used to transport kumkis. They added that ATR is also in need of a weighing machine to check the weight of camp elephants. “All tiger reserves should have a veterinarian. Though ATR is part of the Coimbatore Forest Circle [under which Coimbatore Forest Division has a veterinarian], it is better to have a separate veterinarian for ATR. Veterinarians of Coimbatore Forest Division and MTR often need to attend to emergencies in other places too,” said K. Kalidasan of Osai environmental organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atr-struggles-without-a-dedicated-veterinarian/article38331759.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Republic Day celebrated across Coimbatore dist. adhering to safety norms||Coimbatore joined the nation in celebrating the 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday with Collector G.S. Sameeran hoisting the tricolour at the V.O.C. Park Ground. After saluting the flag, he accepted the guard of honour that included march past by the Coimbatore City Police and Home Guards. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Armed Reserve, City Police, Y. Jaffar Sadiq led the parade as commander. Men and women personnel from the Armed Reserve marched past the flag followed by the Coimbatore Rural Police Armed Reserve personnel and city and rural Home Guards personnel. The Fire and Rescue Services personnel followed the Home Guards. Amid the rendition of patriotic songs, the Collector released doves and presented the Chief Minister’s medal to 109 police personnel for exemplary duty. He later gave away award and certificate of appreciation to A. Nirmala, Dean, Coimbatore Medical College Hospita, and 14 doctors, nurses and male nursing assistants for their contribution in combating the COVID-19 spread. Mr. Sameeran also gave the award and certificate to M. Raveendran, Dean, Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, and 20 others, 27 persons from the Medical and Rural Health Services, 32 persons including the Deputy Director, Health Services,P. Aruna, from the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, 50 persons from the Revenue and Disaster Management Department, 43 persons manning the COVID-19 Control Room, 25 employees of the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, eight from the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department, six from the Animal Husbandry Department, six from the District Employment and Career Guidance Centre, a like number of staff from the Public Works Department, five from Horticulture Department, six from Agriculture Department among others. The District Collector also recognised the services of the Government Hospital, Mettupalayam, and KG Hospital, Coimbatore, for their service in taking forward the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. The district administration had tasked thasilars concerned to honour freedom fighters right at the latter’s door step. At the Coimbatore Corporation, Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara hoisted the national flag in the presence of Deputy Commissioner M. Sharmila and other senior officials. A release from the Corporation said he gave certificate and Rs. 2,000 each to 19 staff in recognition of 25 years of unblemished service. The release also said that he also gave certificate of appreciation to 15 staff who worked in the forefront in combating COVID-19 spread in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/republic-day-celebrated-across-coimbatore-dist-adhering-to-safety-norms/article64945392.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||HM workers arrested for vandalising saint’s statue||The police on Wednesday arrested two Hindu Munnani workers on charge of vandalising the shrine and statue of St. Sebastian at the entrance of the Holy Trinity Cathedral, Ramanathapuram, on Sunday night.The arrested were Madankumar (23) alias ‘Milky’ of Vellalore and a 16-year-old boy, a Class X student, from Olympus. The police were on the lookout for two more persons Deepak and Marudhachalamurthy alias Murthy who are also members of the Hindu Munnani.Preliminary investigations by the police found that the accused vandalised the the statue, accusing forced religious conversion as the reason behind the suicide of the Class XII student in Thanjavur.  Madankumar was produced before a judge and remanded in judicial custody. The minor boy was produced before the juvenile justice board. He was sent to the observation home for juveniles at Lakshmi Mills Junction. (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling ‘Sneha’ 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hm-workers-arrested-for-vandalising-saints-statue/article38331768.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Marumalarchi Makkal Iyakkam cadre held||Marumalarchi Makkal Iyakkam cadre were arrested by the police in Kurichi on Wednesday when they attempted to carry images of freedom fighters, said organisation founder V. Eswaran. After the Centre had rejected Tamil Nadu’s tableau at the Republic Day parade in New Delhi, the organisation wanted to take out a tableau and had sought permission from the police. Mr. Eswaran said after the police denied permission they decided to take on hand the images of V.O. Chidambaranar, Velu Nachiyar, Marudhu brothers, Kuyili among others. As they started the procession on Sangam Street in Kurichi, the police arrested them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marumalarchi-makkal-iyakkam-cadre-held/article38331769.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman found dead in house||An 85-year-old woman was found dead in her residence at Ganapathy here on Tuesday. The woman was identified as S. Parvathy, a retired teacher. According to the police, a neighbour sensed foul smell emanating from the woman’s house on Tuesday afternoon. Village administrative officer (VAO) A. Radhakrishnan was informed about the incident and he found the woman dead. The body was in a decomposing state and the woman could have died some days ago, the police said. The mortal remains were shifted to the mortuary of Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. Siblings booked The Kuniyamuthur police on Tuesday booked three siblings on charges of assaulting a man at Sugunapuram on Monday night. According to the police, the motorcycle rode by Senthilnathan was involved in a collision with another two-wheeler at Sugunapuram east on Monday. H. Mohammad Nizar of Gandhi Nagar, who was at the accident spot, approached the victims to help them. Meanwhile, Senthilnathan’s brothers K. Gurunathan and K. Chithirainathan arrived at the spot and quarrelled with Mr. Nizar. Gurunathan allegedly assaulted Mr. Nizar with an iron rod. Police arrested Gurunathan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-found-dead-in-house/article38331765.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions hoist flag||About 200 members of various trade unions hoisted the National flag here on Wednesday and took a pledge to protect the basic rights of workers and ensure peace in the country. The members of the unions planned to take a two-wheeler rally from Sivananda Colony to Gandhipuram and hoist the flag. However, with the police denying permission for the rally, they assembled at Gandhipuram and hoisted the flag. The participants also took a pledge that they will ensure protection of rights of workers, tribal people, and farmers, the Constitution, and secularism. The workers also protested the Central government’s plan to privatise PSUs and demanded measures to generate jobs for youth, and ensure protection of women. The unions will also participate in the two-day all- India strike next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-unions-hoist-flag/article38331778.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||STR veterinarian gets Anna medal||K. Asokan, wildlife veterinarian of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR), has been selected for the prestigious Anna Medal for Gallantry for saving wild elephants and also for protecting people. Currently serving at STR from October, 2016, he has played a key role in capturing wild elephants that intruded into human habitations, treating them and releasing them into forests. In December 2019, a 25-year-old elephant, Chinna Thambi, entered a residential area at Chinna Thadagam and killed seven people and caused damage to property.A team led by Dr. Asokan successfully captured the elephant and translocated it to Anamalai Tiger Reserve at Pollachi. However, the elephant entered villages and damaged crops. Based on the Madras High Court order, the elephant was captured after a long-struggle and the court appreciated the efforts of the team involved in it.  In December, 2020, a wild elephant nicknamed ‘Shankar’ killed three persons in Gudalur forest range that again entered forests in Kerala and killed two persons there and caused extensive damages to crops. After many days of intense monitoring, the elephant was finally captured and was shifted to Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. He was involved in capturing an elephant nicknamed as ‘Moorthy’ in Gudalur in 1998 that killed 22 persons. From 2016 to 2020, the veterinarian had rescued and treated 25 wild elephants and protected the lives of people and prevented damages to property. Expressing happiness over the award, Mr. Asokan told The Hindu that the award would be an encouraging factor for many young veterinarians to serve in forests. “In my 30 years of service, including 12 years in the forest department, it is a big recognition”, he added.  Since the veterinarian was tested COVID-19 positive and is in home isolation, the award that carries a cheque of Rs. 1 lakh, would be presented to him later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/str-veterinarian-gets-anna-medal/article64945351.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for fraud||A security guard at a private bank was arrested by the District Crime Branch police for presenting a fake cheque for Rs. 6.60 crore at a nationalised bank here. P. Satheesh (46) of Jeeva Nagar in Rangampalayam is having savings bank account with State Bank of India. On September 8, 2021, he presented a cheque claiming that a laboratory company in Mumbai had given it to him. The bank officials verified his account and found that transactions for not more than Rs. 1 lakh were done, so far. Bank Assistant Manager Rishkumar lodged a complaint. Inspector Gomathi held inquiries and picked up Satheesh from his residence who confessed to have committed the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-fraud/article38331867.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Jan: Perundurai North, PerunduraiTownareas,SipcotPremises (except south areas), Vavikadai, Thiruvachi, Solipalayam, Karumandichellipalayam, Thiruvengadampalayam Pudur, Kandampalayam, Kandampalayam Pudur, Velliyampalayam, Sullipalayam, PerunduraiTown(except south areas), Chennimalai Road, Kunnathur Road, SlaterNagar, Olapalayam, Om SakthiNagarand Mandampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article38331869.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 100 establishments booked for not declaring holiday on Jan. 26||The Labour Department has registered cases against 103 shops, eateries and commercial establishments for not declaring a holiday for their workers on January 26, and for not providing double wages to them. A release said that a total of 144 establishments comprising 66 shops, 61 hotels, and 17 transport corporations were inspected across the district in which officials found that 103 establishments failed to declare holidays and their workers were not provided double wages, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-100-establishments-booked-for-not-declaring-holiday-on-jan-26/article38331868.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:42 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kochi Irrigation Dept. serves notice to Kitex Garments||The Kizhakkambalam-based Kitex Garments has been served notices by the assistant executive engineer of the Irrigation Department on the illegal drawing of water from and laying of waste carrying pipes across the Periyar Valley Canal. One of the notices, dated January 21, asked the garments company to remove the wastewater pipes across the canal. The other notice said a departmental inspection showed the company illegally tapped water from the irrigation canal. Water from the canal is used for agricultural irrigation and permission should be taken from the department for using water for other purposes, the notice said. The notice asked the Kitex Garments company to present evidence of permission granted for the purpose within seven days as the illegal drawing of water is punishable. ‘Restore in seven days’ If the company has no permission, the pipes established for drawing water should be removed and the former condition of the canal restored within seven days, the notice added. The other notice said an inspection of the Periyar Valley Canal close to the Kitex company showed steel, PVC and concrete pipes had been laid to carry wastewater from the company. These pipes were found to be in deteriorating condition and any leakage can lead to pollution of the canal water, which is used by people for different purposes, including for drinking. Health problems Pollution of the canal water from any leakage from the pipes can lead to health problems for the people in the area, the department said. The notice asked the company to present the permission it received to lay these waste-carrying pipes or to remove them within seven days. Pollution of water is an offence under the Water Conservation Act and is a punishable offence, the notice added. Kitex Garments did not comment on the notices until the filing of this report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kochi-irrigation-department-serves-notice-to-kitex-garments/article38331459.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector distributes medals, certificates of appreciation||Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar unfurled the tricolour at the Armed Reserve Police Grounds here at 8.05 a.m. on Wednesday on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day. Then, he inspected the Guard of Honour and took the salute by police personnel. The Collector was accompanied by Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran. He presented Chief Minister’s Police Medal to 223 police personnel — 150 were from Madurai City Police and 73 from Madurai Rural Police. A total of 69 police personnel (44 from Madurai City Police and 25 from Madurai Rural Police), 317 government officials and 20 volunteers were presented with Certificates of Appreciation. Welfare assistance Welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 47,22,094 from various departments was given to 78 beneficiaries. Mr. Aneesh Sekhar honoured two freedom fighters at their residence in the city. In all, 18 freedom fighters in the district were honoured. Due to COVID-19 pandemic situation, cultural programmes, usually presented by school and college students, were not held at this year’s Republic Day event. Inspector General of Police (South Zone) T.S. Anbu, Deputy Inspector General of Police R. Ponni, Madurai Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha and District Revenue Officer Senthil Kumari were present. The Collector and Madurai Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan offered floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi statue at Gandhi Memorial Museum. Mr. Karthikeyan unfurled the national flag at Madurai Corporation Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-distributes-medals-certificates-of-appreciation/article64945343.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Madurai Railway Division earned Rs. 510.35 cr. till December 2021’||Divisional Railway Manager P. Ananth unfurled the national flag on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day at Divisional Railway Office building here on Wednesday. In a statement, Mr. Ananth said Madurai Division earned Rs. 510.35 crore till December 2021 as against Rs. 259.57 crore earned in the corresponding period last year. While Rs. 280.80 crore of this year’s earnings came from passenger traffic, Rs. 191.44 crore was realised from goods traffic and Rs. 38.11 crore from other heads. Loading up The division loaded 1.75 million tonnes till December 2021 as against last year’s loading of 1.70 million tonnes.Coal loading was 0.52 million tonnes, which was 63.1 % more than that of last year.The Division had also transported 848 tractors till now. Madurai Division had registered the speed of goods train at 49.62 kmph, as against last year’s 44.2 kmph. The division was able to capture new traffic such as transportation of hatching eggs, de-oiled cake/ soyabean, gypsum and limestone, M-sand chips, sunflower oil, charcoal, etc., with the support of the Business Development Unit. Contract had been awarded for provision, operation and maintenance of coach and platform indication boards and plasma TV at Madurai and Tirunelveli railway stations. Foot overbridge work had been completed at eight stations and it was under way at 19 other stations. Work for increasing the height of platforms was in progress at 34 stations at a cost of Rs. 22.00 crore, he said. Mr. Ananth said track doubling with electrification between Madurai and Tirumangalam (17.32 km); and Kovilpatti and Tulukapatti (32.86 km) was expected to be completed in 2022-23 . Additional Divisional Railway Manager T. Ramesh Babu, Assistant Security Officer R. Subash and Assistant Personnel Officer G. Ramakrishnan also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-railway-division-earned-rs-51035-cr-till-december-2021/article64945338.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) takes out procession to garland statues of freedom fighters||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary K. Balakrishnan on Wednesday condemned the Union government for rejecting the Republic Day tableau of Tamil Nadu, which had in display freedom fighters from the State. The Centre was trying to change not only the Constitution of India, but also the history of the freedom struggle, he said, and appealed to all democratic forces to protest against such attempts. Mr. Balakrishnan welcomed Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s announcement that the rejected tableau would be taken across the State. Along with Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, Mr. Balakrishnan garlanded the statue of Subramania Bharathi at Sethupathi Higher Secondary School. Children dressed up like freedom fighters like Bharathi, Velu Nachiyar, V. O. Chidambaram and Marudhu brothers accompanied the MP in a procession that went around the city to garland the statues of various freedom fighters like VOC, Mahatma Gandhi and Marudhu brothers. Democratic Youth Federation of India conducted a similar programme, in which people wearing masks depicting the freedom fighters participated and the national flag was unfurled at Sikkal in Sivaganga district. In Dindigul, Students’ Federation of India organised a tricolour unfurling event, in which its members wearing masks with faces of freedom fighters took part.The participants also took a pledge to uphold the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-m-takes-out-procession-to-garland-statues-of-freedom-fighters/article64945344.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||Republic Day celebrated at High Court Bench||The 73rd Republic Day was celebrated at the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday, with Administrative Judge Pushpa Sathyanarayana unfurling the national flag. The event began with the Judges offering floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi statue near the entrance. Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana inspected the Guard of Honour and took the salute by Central Industrial Security Force and police personnel. High Court Judges, Registrars, advocates and court staff attended the event. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation, the event had a limited number of participants and there was no display of cultural, traditional and martial arts. At District Court On Madurai District Court premises, Principal District Judge P. Vadamalai unfurled the tricolour. Judges, Advocates and court staff attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/republic-day-celebrated-at-high-court-bench/article64945342.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||State tells High Court that Pudukkottai firing range has been permanently closed||The State government on Tuesday told the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that the firing range in Pudukkottai district from where a stray bullet hit an 11-year-old boy, causing his death, has been permanently closed. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and S. Srimathy were informed by the State that the police firing range has been permanently closed since December 31, 2021, and it would not be used for shooting practice. Taking note of the submission, the judges closed a petition filed by Kavivarman alias Suresh Kanna, of Aranthangi in Pudukkottai. The petitioner, a district secretary of CPI(M), sought a direction to the authorities to close the firing range in Narthamalai village. He said the firing range in Pudukkottai was set up about 20 years ago, and It was mandatory for the duty officers-in-charge to ensure that necessary precautionary measures were followed before the start of shooting practice. Before commencing, the authorities should alert the nearby villagers by sounding an alarm, hoisting red flags or by informing the residents. Back in 2001, Murugesan, a person from a nearby village, was also injured by a stray bullet fired from the firing range, Mr. Kavivarman said. The authorities failed to follow safety measures. No compensation was provided to Mr. Murugesan, and he had to spend from his own pockets for his medical treatment. The negligence on the part of the authorities had taken away the 11-year-old boy’s life in Narthamalai, he added. The authorities should have taken steps to shift the firing range after the 2001 incident. But, they failed to do so, the petitioner said and sought a direction to the authorities to shift the firing nge from its present location to a remote place.  Back in 2001, Murugesan, a person from a nearby village, was also injured by a stray bullet fired from the shooting range Kavivarman District secretary, CPI(M)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pudukkottai-firing-range-has-been-permanently-closed-state-tells-high-court/article38331842.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||Trade bodies, colleges celebrate Republic Day||Trade bodies, and educational and other institutions here celebrated the 73rd Republic Day with patriotic fervour on Wednesday. At Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry, its president N. Jegatheesan unfurled the national flag. He spoke on the need for adequate infrastructure for Madurai. At MADITSSIA, its president M.S. Sampath unfurled the tricolour in the presence of Association officer-bearers. District Child Welfare Committee celebrated the Republic Day at a home in Kallikudi, where various competitions were held for children. They were provided with presents and snacks. At Madurai Kamaraj University College, Principal B. George unfurled the national flag. He emphasised that all should live life in harmony and eradicate the differences. Faculty members of the collage were present. At Lady Doak College, Associate Professor, Department of History, Hepzibah Joseph unfurled the tricolour in the presence of faculty members. She delivered a speech on the major events which helped India bring into effect its Constitution. At Kendriya Vidyalaya, Tiruparankundram, Principal A. Jerald unfurled the national flag. The Republic Day celebration was livestreamed. Both students and parents attended the virtual event. The Principal urged the students to work towards building a progressive nation. At Solamalai Institutions, Retired General Manager of BHEL, Tiruchi, M. Muthukrishnan unfurled the national flag. At Al-Ameen Higher Secondary School, city-based entrepreneur Athilingam unfurled the national flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-bodies-colleges-celebrate-republic-day/article38331934.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:47 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Waterlevelin Mullaperiyar dam stood at 135.80 feet (maximum permissiblelevelis 142 ft.) with an inflow of 329 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, thelevelwas 69.36 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 410 cusecs and a discharge of 869 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,313 mcft. Rainfall recorded in various places in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Wednesday was (in mm): Thekkadi 6, Periyar 4.2 and Melur 2.8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article64945340.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNJFU presents awards of excellence||Presentation of awards of excellence marked the 73rd Republic Day celebration at the Tamil Nadu Dr. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, on Wednesday. Unfurling the tricolour Vice-Chancellor G. Sugumar presented the Best Teacher award to F. Parthiban, and Young Researcher Award to D. Kesavan and Mir Ishafaq Nazir. The Best Extension Worker award was presented to V. Kannan of Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sikkal and the Best Non-teaching Staff awards were given to M. Vasantha Kumari and P. Sumathi. The Dr. M.G.R. Fisheries College and Research Institute was adjudged the Best Performing Institute for 2020-21. In his address, the Vice-Chancellor spoke of the sacrifices made by freedom fighters from Tamil Nadu. He also emphasised on the need to focus on positive aspects of Independent India. Terming the COVID pandemic as ‘Education Emergency’ the Vice-Chancellor said there was a need for concerted efforts to ensure the quality of education was maintained in every possible manner. Cultural performances by students marked the celebration of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav and 73rd Republic Day at the university. At the TNJFU's College of Fisheries Engineering in Nagapattinam, N. Manimehalai, Dean In-Charge, unfurled the national flag during the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnjfu-presents-awards-of-excellence/article38331845.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||Another stray bullet found on roof of house||A day after a stray bullet was found on the asbestos roof of a house at Echangadu village situated a few kilometresaway from the police firing range at Naranamangalam near Padalur in the district, another bullet was found on the roof of the same house on Wednesday. The second stray bullet was noticed beneath coconut fronds spread on a portion of the asbestos roof. Police said the occupants told the police that they noticed the second bullet only on Wednesday while checking beneath the fronds. Superintendent of Police, Perambalur, S. Mani said they had seized the second bullet and would send it for forensic examination to determine the weapon it could have been fired from. The Padalur Police booked a case under IPC section 286 (Negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) following the seizure of the first bullet onTuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-stray-bullet-found-on-roof-of-the-house-near-perambalur/article38331826.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Rs. 7.65 crore compensation paid to families of COVID-19 victims’||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday placed on record the efforts taken by different departments of the territorial administration to control the spread of COVID-19 in the Union Territory. In her Republic Day address, Ms. Soundararajan said a sum of Rs. 15.57 crore had been allocated through the Puducherry Disaster Response Fund and it was utilised for various activities. An amount of Rs. 7.65 crore had been paid as compensation to families that had lost their kith and kin in the pandemic. “The pandemic had provided opportunities to bring in vast improvement to the health infrastructure of the State despite adversities. Puducherry was one of the very few States that was able to safeguard the lives and livelihood of people during the pandemic without slowdown of the economy. Wear face masks, adhere to social distancing norms and follow hygienic practices. I hope we will soon be out of the pandemic with the cooperation of all citizens,” the Lieutenant Governor said. Solar projects Ms. Soundararajan said the Puducherry Government was implementing various solar power generation projects in collaboration with the Central government to meet the increasing energy demand. Solar power plants with a capacity of 860 KW had been set up in the government-run Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute, Rajiv Gandhi Women and Children Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Veterinary Education and Research, and Mahatma Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Dental Sciences in Puducherry. About 100 solar LED street lights had been installed at tourist locations in order to promote renewable energy, she said. “The government will be implementing a restructured power supply plan, announced by the Centre, to ensure uninterrupted and quality power supply to all consumers. This includes the replacement of old conductors, installation of new transformers, conversion of LT overhead services into underground cable system and modernisation of sub-stations,” she said. The government had been working diligently to improve the tourism infrastructure in Puducherry. Steps were taken to improve road, rail, ferry service, and air connectivity, she said, adding that work for the expansion of Puducherry airport had been expedited. The Puducherry Pollution Control Board will be implementing a project to clean the Chunnambar river in Puducherry and Arasalar river in Karaikal. Additionally, about 75,000 saplings had were planted across the Union Territory to increase the green cover. Restricted celebrations In restricted celebrations at the Beach Promenade, the Lieutenant Governor unfurled the tricolour and inspected the guard of honour. The celebrations were restricted to a march past by various contingents of the territorial police, fire services personnel, and ex-servicemen. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, Speaker R. Selvam, Ministers A. Namassivayam, K. Lakshminarayanan, Theni C. Djeacoumar, and Sai Saravana Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-765-crore-compensation-paid-to-families-of-covid-19-victims/article64945221.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘NLCIL on course to generating 4,250 MW of renewable energy’||The Neyveli Lignite Corporation India Ltd (NLCIL) will shortly commission three 660 MW capacity coal-fired power projects under its joint venture in Uttar Pradesh, Rakesh Kumar, chairman and managing director of the public sector undertaking under the Ministry of Coal said on Wednesday. After unfurling the tricolour to mark the 73rd Republic Day celebrations hosted at the corporate office in Neyveli, Mr. Kumar said the power projects of Neyveli Uttar Pradesh Power Limited, an NLICIL joint venture with the Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd, were in an advanced stage of commissioning. The NLCIL is also on course to realising the target of generating 4,250 MW of renewable energy by 2025, the CMD said. Revised policy According to Mr. Kumar, NLCIL has unveiled a revised Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) policy for Neyveli Mines, with fair compensation and benefits. The policy envisages a minimum compensation of Rs. 23 lakh per acre for lands under acquisition for Neyveli area, if the compensation as per the provisions of Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation, Resettlement (RFCTLARR) Act, falls short of that amount. For lands, which are entitled for above Rs. 23 lakh per acre as per the Act, the same will be paid at actual without any ceiling as per statute. Provision for a minimum compensation of Rs. 40 lakh per acre for homestead lands, acquired from rural areas and a minimum of Rs. 75 lakh per acre for the ones the acquired from urban areas, has been made in the policy. Mr. Kumar quoted that the revised policy was the best in the country. ITI set up Besides business performance, the company has been continuing its welfare initiatives and established an ITI in Neyveli for the benefit of PAPs (Project Affected People), Mr. Kumar said. As a symbolic gesture, the senior-most worker of NLCIL R. Selvambal alongside her spouse K. Gunasekaran, were honoured on the occasion. R. Vikraman, Director, HR & Mines (AC), Functional Directors, CVO, DIG/CISF, senior officers and engineers, and representatives of recognised Trade Unions and Associations participated.  NLCIL has unveiled a revised Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) policy for Neyveli Mines, with fair compensation and benefits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nlcil-on-course-to-generating-4250-mw-of-renewable-energy/article38332003.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 1,504 fresh COVID cases; total toll stands at 1,915||The Union Territory recorded three COVID-19 deaths and 1,504 fresh cases from 4,815 tests on Wednesday. Puducherry accounted for two of the deaths and Yanam one. The cumulative toll in the Union Territory rose to 1,915, of which Puducherry logged 1,495, Karaikal 256, Yanam 110 and Mahe 54. Of the fresh infections, 1,060 are in Puducherry, followed by 264 in Karaikal, 149 in Yanam and 31 in Mahe. With 1,597 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 16,298, of which 233 were in hospital and 16,065 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 36.81%, the case fatality rate 1.23% and the recovery rate 88.21%. The Union Territory has registered 1,56,758 cases and 1,38,545 recoveries so far. Of an estimated 21,41,773 tests conducted till date, over 18 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, vaccination count remained sluggish as 2,125 persons took the jab against the virus in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered 15,27,024 doses so far. Cuddalore recorded 459 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 70,904. The district saw 66,674 recoveries and the active case count stood at 3,347. Villupuram reported 479 fresh infections, taking the overall cases in the district to 51,424. Kallakurichi logged 284 fresh cases and one death, taking the overall tally to 34,794. The official toll stood at 211.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-1504-fresh-covid-cases-total-toll-stands-at-1915/article64945219.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||Experimental plants garden opened at varsity on R-Day||Pondicherry University Vice-Chancellor (V-C) Gurmeet Singh launched a Medicinal Plant and Experimental Plants Garden in the Department of Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences, as part of the 73rd Republic Day celebrations on Wednesday. The V-C initiated the Republic Day celebrations at the University by paying floral tributes to the statues of Mahatma Gandhi and Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, and hoisting the national flag in front of the Dr. B. R. Ambedkar administrative building. In his address, Prof. Singh pointed out that forefathers had created the Constitution to protect humanity in spite of different cultures and languages, and urged the youth to appreciate all leaders who framed the law. ‘Emerge as world power’ India will emerge as a world power when all people work together with a sense of duty as Indians, regardless of social inequalities and economic indicators, he added. Prof. Singh released the annual calendar, 2022, commemorating the 75th Independence anniversary with the concept of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. The first copy was received by Amaresh Samantaraya, Registrar of Pondicherry University. He also released the Tamil media special issue on “Media Vimarash,” edited by C. Jaya Sankar Babu, head, Department of Hindi. To commemorate the silver jubilee of the Directorate of Distance Education of Pondicherry University, 15 royal palm trees were planted in the gardens of the Directorate’s premises. An exhibition on herbal plants was also held. Amaresh Samantaraya, Registrar, Lazar, Finance Officer, C K Ramaiya, Controller of Examinations, Rajiv Jain, Officer on Special Duty, Deans of Schools, Heads of the Departments, Officers, research scholars and students participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/experimental-plants-garden-opened-at-varsity-on-r-day/article64945223.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:19 IST,TAMIL NADU||L-G, CM congratulate Padma awardee||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister N. Rangasamy have congratulated Padma Shri awardee Thavil exponent Kongampattu A.V. Murugaiyan. Ms. Soundararajan, in a statement, congratulated all awardees in Tamil Nadu and the sole winner from Puducherry this year. Tourism Minister K. Lakshminarayanan also conveyed his best wishes in a Twitter post. Mr. Murugaiyan hails from Kongampattu village in Villupuram. He is settled in Puducherry and was among the recipients of the Padma Shri awards announced by the Ministry of Home Affairs on Tuesday night. Among others who turned up at the percussionist's residence in Muthialpet was last year's Padma awardee and terracotta artist, V. K. Munusamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-cm-congratulate-padma-awardee/article38332002.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:27 IST,TAMIL NADU||Amid pandemic curbs, R-Day celebrated in districts||Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat unfurled the national flag at the Reserve Police Ground here on the occasion of 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday. He took salute and inspected the guard of honour presented by the district police. He released free pigeons as a mark of national integration and tricolour balloons were also released in the air as a mark of the pride of Independence. The Collector distributed certificates of merit to 59 police personnel 159 government officials. Welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 46.45 lakh under various schemes was distributed to 130 beneficiaries. Later, the Collector honoured two freedom fighters C.M. Pandiyaraj and M. Sethu, members of Indian National Army at their residences.In view of the COVID threat, the freedom fighters were not invited to the Republic Day celebration. Superintendent of Police E. Kartik, Wildlife Warden Jagdish Bakan Sudhakar, Additional Collector (Development), K.J. Praveenkumar, District Revenue Officer A.M. Kamatchi Ganesan were present. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy unfurled the national flag. After taking salute and inspection of guard of honour given by the police, the Collector released tri-colour balloons and pigeons. The collector give away certificates of merit to 137 police personnel, five firemen and 132 officials and employees from the Department of Revenue and to 339 employees of other departments. Employees from the Department of Revenue and Disaster Management displayed their silambattam skills. District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Sivakasi Sub-Collector M. Birathiviraj, and Project Director (District Rural Development Agency) Thilagavathiwere present. Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police M. Manohar was present. Registrar V. Vasudevan, unfurled the national flag at Kalasalingam University in the presence of Vice-Chairman S. Sasi Anand and Vice-Chancellor, R. Nagaraj. Mr. Nagaraj recalled the sacrifices of the freedom fighter. Principals and teaching faculty of all the institutions of Kalasalingam group took part in the Republic day function. Sivaganga Honouring of freedom fighters marked the celebrations in Sivaganga district on Wednesday. After unfurling the national flag, Collector P. Madhusudhanan Reddy took the salute and accepted guard of honour. He honoured with shawls four freedom fighters, who had turned up at the Republic Day function held on Collectorate premises.Later, the Collector visited the residences of a 95-year-old freedom fighter Michael at Kaliyarkovil. Tahsildas honoured other freedom-fighters by visiting their residences in different parts of the district. Mr. Madhusudhanan gave away Chief Minister’s police medal to 59 police personnel. He also distributed welfare assistance worth Rs. 1.62 lakh under various schemes to 10 beneficiaries.Certificates of merit were distributed to to 415 officials and employees from various departments.A colourful display of silambattam, yoga and karate attracted the visitors. Superintendent of Police T. Senthil Kumar, District Revenue Officer Manivannan, Sivaganga MLA P.R. Senthilnathan, Additional Superintendent of Police Vetriselvan, Dean of Sivaganga Government Medical College Dr. Revathi, Project Director (DRDA) Sivaraman were present. Dindigul Collector S. Visakan unfurled the national flag at Dindigul sports stadium on Wednesday. After releasing tri-colour balloons and pigeons, he inspected the guard of honour presented by the district police, Home Guards and National Cadet Corps. Later, he distribute Chief Minister’s Police Medals to 68 personnel and certificates of merit to 596 officers and employees. The collector visited in person the residences of several freedom- fighters and offered them shawls as a mark of respect for their sacrifices during the freedom struggle. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Dindigul) Rupesh Kumar Meena, District Revenue Officer, V. Latha, District Superintendent of Police, V.R. Srinivasan, Additional Collector (Development), C. Dinesh Kumar were among those who were present. Theni Collector K.V. Muralidharan unfurled the tricolour and took salute and inspected the guard of honour presented by the district police. As a mark of upholding peace he released tricolour balloons.The Collector handed over Chief Minister’s Police Medal to 66 police personnel and certificates of merit to 350 employees. Superintendent of Police, Dongare Pravin Umesh, District Revenue Officer, Subramanian, District Panchayat Chairperson, Preetha, Project Director (District Rural Development Agency), R. Dhandapani, Sub Collector (Periyakulam), C.A. Rishab, were among those present. Vice-Chancellor (in-charge), T.T. Ranganathan, unfurled the national flag at Gandhigram Rural Institute (Deemed to be University).Students and staff members took part in the Suryanamaskar project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amid-pandemic-curbs-r-day-celebrated-in-districts/article64945359.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level drops in Mettur dam||Water level at the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur stood at 109.45 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 120 feet on Wednesday. At 8 a.m., the inflow stood at 885 cusecs and the discharge was 8,000 cusecs into River Cauvery. The storage was 77.63 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) against the full capacity of 93.47 tmc ft. Water level at the Bhavanisagar dam in Erode district stood at 98.85 feet against the FRL of 105 feet. Inflow into the dam At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 927 cusecs while the discharge was 800 cusecs into Arakkankottai and Thadappalli canals and 100 cusecs into River Bhavani for drinking water purpose. The discharge into Lower Bhavani Project canal was stopped for irrigation, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-drops-in-mettur-dam/article38331873.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem rly. division’s goods earnings grow by 116%: DRM||Goods earnings have grown by 116% in the current year when compared to last year, saidA. Gautam Srinivas, Divisional Railway Manager, Salem Division, on Wednesday. Speaking after unfurling the national flag at the Divisional Railway Manager’s office, Mr. Srinivas said that the division earnedRs. 505 crore this year againstRs. 234 crore earned during the corresponding period last year. Freight Loading has shown an increase of 26% as 2.3 million tonnes of goods have been loaded up to December, 2021 as against 1.8 million tonnes loaded during the same period last year, he added. The DRM further said that parcel earnings have grown by 20% with earnings ofRs. 16 crore this year compared toRs. 13 crore earned last year. New commodities such as eggs, cotton seeds and milk have been added to the parcels basket, he added. Listing out the achievements of the division, Mr. Gautam Srinivas said that the division has achieved 100% electrification with the commissioning of Podanur – Pollachi and Salem – Virudhachalam sections. He said that the Railway Hospital in Erode was presented with a Certificate of Merit by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency for their efforts in energy conservation in the Hospitals Sector for the year 2021. Also, Coimbatore Junction railway station became the first station in Southern Railway, and only the 6thin Indian Railways, to earn the coveted Platinum Rating for Green Railway Stations. On the safety front, constant vigil resulted in zero consequential accidents while the punctuality performance of the division has improved to 95%. P. Sivalingam, Additional Divisional Railway Manager, Salem Division, S. Sivasankaran, Divisional Security Commissioner and other officers and staff of the division were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-rly-divisions-goods-earnings-grow-by-116-drm/article64945356.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:24 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ceremonial parades mark Republic Day celebrations||Ceremonial parades, honouring of freedom fighters and distribution of certificates to government employees for commendable service marked the Republic Day celebrations in districts in the central region on Wednesday. In Thanjavur, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver unfurled the tri-colour at the Armed Police Parade Grounds and inspected the guard of honour presented by the District Police, Home Guard and National Cadet Corps contingents along with the Additional Superintendent of Police, V. Jayachandran as Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya Gandhapuneni had tested positive for COVID-19.In view of the pandemic situation, the Republic Day celebration was cut short to a one-and-half hour event. Distribution of welfare assistance to the public and cultural programmes by the school children were cancelled. Tiruvarur Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan unfurled the national flag at the District Sports Stadium . Superintendent of Police C. Vijayakumar accompanied the Collector while the latter took the guard of honour presented by the District Police on the occasion. Later, the Collector distributed welfare assistance worth Rs. 32.65 lakh to 257 beneficiaries. Nagapattinam In Nagapattinam, District Collector A. Arun Thamburaj unfurled the tricolour and distributed benefits worth Rs. 1.02 crore under various government schemes to 52 persons. The beneficiaries included differently-abled people and destitute women.The Collector also handed over certificates to 145 employees of Police, Revenue and other departments in appreciation of their meritorious services. Mayiladuthurai Mayiladuthurai Collector R. Lalitha unfurled the national flag in the presence of senior officials of various departments. The Collector accepted the guard of honour presented by the Police Department. Nineteen police personnel received certificates for meritorious services during the brief ceremony.The customary distribution of benefits under government schemes was avoided in adherence to COVID-19 management protocol. Karur At a function held at the Sports Ground here, Collector T. Prabhushankar unfurled the national flag. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police P. Sundaravadivel, he inspected the parade by the Armed Reserve police personnel and accepted the Guard of Honour. He then released pigeons and balloonsas a mark of celebrations.Dr. Prabhushankar presented merit certificates to the frontline workers including doctors, nurses, paramedical personnel, revenue and police personnel in recognition of their service during the pandemicperiod. He distributed welfare assistance worthRs. 49 lakh to 62 beneficiaries. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, some of the cultural programmes associated with the celebrations were curtailed. The members of the public were allowed in limited numbers.Later, the Collector visited the residence of late freedom fighter Muthusamy alias Kalimuthu at Vangapalayam and met his wife Palaniammal. He presented a shawl to her recollecting the contribution of her husband during the freedom struggle. Ariyalur Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi unfurled the National Flag, She inspected the parade by the Armed Reserve police personnel and accepted the Guard of Honour. Superintendent of Police Feroz Khan accompanied her.Ms. Saraswathi presented the Chief Minister medals to 23 police personnel and meritorious certificates to 313 officials of various departments including health, revenue, rural development and others. He presented special certificates to Deepanraj of Thirumanur and Krishnamoorthy of East Street for saving a woman who was struggling for life in the Kollidam river. The Collector also presented certificates to 52 panchayat presidents in recognition of their service in the fight against COVID-19. Perambalur Collector P. Sri Venkata Priya unfurled the national flag at a celebration organised at the Collectorate complex here and took the salute. The Collector gave away certificates to 169 government staff of various departments in appreciation of their work during COVID-19 prevention duty. She also gave away Chief Minister’s medal to 19 police personnel of the district. The Collector honouredthe descendants of freedom fighters by adorning each one of them with a shawl. Superintendent of Police, Perambalur S. Mani and officials from government departments participated, an official release said. Pudukottai Collector Kavitha Ramu unfurled the national flag at the Armed Reserve ground here and took the salute. The Collector gave away Chief Minister’s medal to 46 police personnel besides giving away certificates to 525 officials of various government departments in appreciation of their work in COVID-19 prevention measures.Superintendent of Police Nisha Parthiban and officials participated, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ceremonial-parades-mark-republic-day-celebrations/article64945360.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC celebrates Republic Day in compliance with COVID-19 regulations||Republic Day was celebrated at the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (Kumbakonam) Limited headquarters at Kumbakonam and its Zonal office and bus depots on Wednesday in compliance with the restrictions imposed by the State government to prevent the spreading of novel coronavirus infection. While Managing Director S. S. Rajmohan led the celebrations at the headquarters at Kumbakonam, Republic Day was celebrated at the Zonal offices at Tiruchi, Karur, Pudukottai, Karaikudi and Nagapattinam and at 60 bus depots of the Corporation under the leadership of the respective managers of the zones and depots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-celebrates-republic-day-in-compliance-with-covid-19-regulations/article38331846.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collectors’ call to roadside vegetable vendors||Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver has called upon the vegetable vendors doing business on the roadside in the town, in view of the novel coronavirus pandemic, to take part in the public auction of shops in Serfoji Market to be conducted by the Thanjavur Corporation from Thursday. Stating this in a press release, the Collector said that once the pandemic situation eases the vendors would not be allowed to carry on their business on roadsides. Hence, he called upon the vendors to utilise the opportunity and take part in the auction of Serfoji Market shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-call-to-roadside-vegetable-vendors/article38331828.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fervour marks Republic Day||Without no public participation or cultural events due to the COVID-19 restrictions, the Republic Day celebration was subdued here on Wednesday. After unfurling the national flag at the Tharuvai Ground, District Collector K. Senthil Raj, accompanied by Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, honoured 604 meritorious officials, policemen and sportsmen. Additional Collector Saravanan, Corporation Commissioner T. Charusree, and District Forest Officer Abishek Tomar were present. In the Republic Day celebrations held at Thoothukudi Airport, Director N. Subramanian honoured the best performers of the airport in the presence of Air Traffic Control Officer Subravelu, and Airport Manager Jayaraman. VOC Port Chairman T.K. Ramachandan unfurled the flag. Tenkasi In the Republic Day celebrations held at Eswaran Pillai Government Higher Secondary School here, Collector S. Gopala Sundararaj unfurled the national flag. He was accompanied by Superintendent of Police R. Krishnaraj. Tirunelveli Collector V. Vishnu honoured 91 policemen with Chief Minister’s Medal, 108 policemen and 222 government officials with certificates and distributed welfare measures worth Rs. 4.42 lakh to 10 farmers. Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli City, A.T. Durai Kumar, Superintendent of Police P. Saravanan, and Deputy Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli East, T.P. Suresh Kumar participated. Tirunelveli Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran hoisted national flag. In Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, Vice-Chancellor K. Pitchumani hoisted the national flag. Principal District Judge, Tirunelveli, A. Nazir Ahmed hoisted the national flag. In the Veterinary College and Research Institute at Ramaiyanpatti, principal (In-Charge) Edwin hoisted the tricolor. Kanniyakumari Collector M. Aravind unfurled the national flag at Anna Stadium in Nagercoil on Wednesday and took salute from the policemen. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police V. Badri Narayanan, he presented the Chief Minister’s Medal to 63 policemen. Farmer Kutralam of Aalur in Kurunthancode taluk of the district was honoured for winning first prize in the district-level paddy yield competition. Corporation Commissioner Asha Ajith, Sub-Collector (Padmanabhapuram) Alarmelmangai, Member of Parliament Vijay Vasanth and senior officials participated. Justice G.R. Swaminathan unfurled the national flag in the Nagercoil Bar Association and honoured the senior advocates in the presence of District Judge Arul Murugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fervour-marks-republic-day/article64945244.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||Black flag protest||Demanding shifting of village panchayat office to their hamlet, residents of Keezhakottai village in Ottapidaaram union tied black flags on Wednesday. As the office of Keezhakottai village panchayat is in K. Kailasapuram village, one of the four hamlets, including Govindapuram, Gopalapuram, K. Kailasapuram and Keezhakottai under this rural local body, residents of Keezhakottai were demanding the shifting of the village panchayat office to their village. Tahsildar of Ottapidaaram Nishanthini held talks with the protesting villagers and told them that the existing village panchayat office was built on the land donated by K. Kaliaasapuram villagers. Hence, the villagers should submit a petition to the Collector, she said. Accepting it, the villagers dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/black-flag-protest/article38331849.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||Republic Day celebrated sans cultural events in Tiruchi||The 73rd Republic Day was celebrated with patriotic fervour though some ceremonies were curtailed due to the pandemic, here on Wednesday. Collector S. Sivarasu unfurled the national flag at a function held at Armed Reserve ground. Accompanied by the Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, (Rural), Sujith Kumar, he inspected the Republic Day parade presented by the Armed Reserve police personnel and accepted the Guard of Honour. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, freedom fighters, who were usually brought to the function, did not participate in it. However, Revenue officials visited their residences and presented shawls on behalf of the Collector. Mr. Sivarasu presented the Chief Minister’s medal to 130 police personnel for their exemplary services. He also distributed meritorious certificates to 489 officials and staff members of various departments including health, revenue, rural development, town panchayat and animal husbandry. K. Karthikeyan, Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi city, V. Balakrishnan, Inspector General of Police, central zone, A. Saravanasundar, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi range, and senior officials participated. Earlier, the Collector placed a wreath at the war memorial near Gandhi Market in the city. In a separate function held at the office of Tiruchi City Corporation, Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman unfurled the national flag. He presented certificates to seven persons, who had completed 25 years of service with the Tiruchi Corporation. S. Amuthavalli, City Engineer, P. Sivapatham and G. Kumaresan, Executive Engineers, M. Dayanidhi, Deputy Commissioner and senior officials participated. M. Selvam, Vice Chancellor, Bharathidasan University, hoisted the national flag and presided over a function held at the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/republic-day-celebrated-sans-cultural-events-in-tiruchi/article64945260.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Airport handled over 3 lakh international passengers’||The Tiruchi internationalairport handled over 3.3 lakh internationalpassengers and more than 1.5 lakh domestic passengers during 2021 notwithstanding COVID-19 pandemic, J. Unnikrishnan, officiating airport director, said on Wednesday. It had operated more than 1,000 flights to a single destination - Singapore - in 2021 which was a distinction no other airport in the country had achieved, Mr. Unnikrishnan said during his Republic Day address at the airport here after unfurling the national flag. The airport had handled 3,199 domestic flights and more than 3,000 international flights last year. International cargo transported from the Tiruchi airport was 4,659 metric tonnes during 2021. All these achievements were possible due to the teamwork and dedication of all departments and stakeholders, he said while complimenting all the staff for achieving this feat. He said the passenger traffic by December 2021 had reached 80 to 90% of the pre-COVID period and the airport was about to start international flight operations also, but it was stopped due to the third wave of the pandemic.In spite of COVID-19, ongoing civil works at the airport were underway on a war footing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-handled-over-3-lakh-international-passengers/article38332030.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||BHEL focusing on in-house technology for cost reduction||A major thrust has been accorded to in-house technology for cost reduction, said S. V. Srinivasan, General Manager in-charge and head, BHEL, Tiruchi Complex, while unfurling the national flag here on Wednesday. The Seamless Steel Tube Plant in the Tiruchi Complex has, by developing hitherto imported steel tubes, paved way for cost-reduction in manufacture of boilers. Manufacture of import substitute T91 seamless steel tubes used in supercritical boilers has led to increase in business opportunities, Mr. Srinivasan said. Recently BHEL Tiruchi has been approved for manufacture of cryogenic and non-cryogenic pressure vessels, he added. Involvement of every employee was crucial for achieving organisational goals and for exceeding customer expectations in terms of product and service quality. Even during the testing times caused by COVID-19 pandemic, BHEL Tiruchi could register achievements. Nine employees had bagged Vishwakarma awards during the year and BHEL Tiruchi had been awarded the CII-Exim Bank Gold Plus commendation for business excellence, Mr. Srinivasan said, adding that the BHEL Tiruchi township had also been declared a single-use plastic-free township for the second year in a row. Mr. Srinivasan earlier inspected the guard of honour presented by BHEL security personnel and honoured several employees with Republic Day medals. Gold medals were presented to 109 employees, and 93 employees received silver medals, for undertaking improvement projects and making outstanding contributions during the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhel-focusing-on-in-house-technology-for-cost-reduction/article38332025.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||Slight dip recorded in fresh COVID-19 cases||The central districts on Wednesday registered a slight dip in fresh cases of COVID-19 when compared to the previous day. The region reported 2,956 fresh cases and three deaths. Two of the deceased patients hailed from Tiruvarur and one from Tiruchi, according to the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. While both Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts continued to report a high number of cases, the numbers witnessed a decline on Wednesday. A total of 805 patients reported positive in Thanjavur, while Tiruchi reported 684 cases. A steep spike was however, reported in Tiruvarur where 345 COVID-19 cases were registered. Meanwhile, Pudukottai, reported 293 fresh cases, Karur - 209 and Mayiladuthurai, 207. Nagapattinam also registered a dip in cases with 171 reported on Wednesday. Ariyalur reported 152 fresh cases, and Perambalur regained its place in the region as the district with the least number of cases. It recorded 90 COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slight-dip-in-fresh-covid-19-cases/article64945256.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:42 IST,TAMIL NADU||School management denies allegations of religious conversion||Decrying attempts to “divert for political reasons” the recent death of a class XII school girl, who studied in a Christian missionary-run institution in Thanjavur district, the Franciscan Sisters of the Immaculate Heart of Mary Congregation has denied allegations of religious conversions in schools run by the organisation. The girl was an inmate of the hostel of a school run by the organisation. In a statement issued on behalf of the schools’ collective management in the wake of “rumours being spread” over the death of the girl, Rev. Sr.Fatima Paula, Superior General, Immaculate Heart of Mary Generalate, Puduchery, described the allegations as baseless and said the institutions had never faced such allegation in the past. “Lakhs of students who had studied in our institutions stand testimony to this. Our schools are run on the principles enshrined in the Constitution and on the basis of humanism, rising above the religious identities of our students. Denigrating our social commitment and incriminating our institutions through falsehood are deplorable,” she contended. The management, she said, would extend full support to the inquiry taken up by the police and School Education Department as the girl, in her statement, had made allegations against the hostel warden. “It is regrettable that some sections have taken up and trying to divert the tragic incident for political reasons. Attempts to tarnish and denigrate our service through falsehood continue,” she claimed. The school, where the girl studied, was started 160 years ago and hostel was functioning for the past 90 years. The girl was an inmate of the school hostel from Class 8 and had scored 489 out of 500 marks in SSLC exam. “Even on holidays, she preferred to stay with us without going home. She grew up as our child and her death is a great loss to us,” she said extending her condolence to the girl’s parents and relatives. “Our institution has been rendering educational service for over 180 years. It has been in the forefront in contributing towards women’s education and liberation. We are running Tamil medium schools in villages and hamlets and working with dedication to serve the Scheduled Class, Backward Classes and other oppressed sections, denied education by the society. We provide secular education to all and do not interfere in the religious beliefs of anyone. We respect the faith of all and this is the basic premise of our public life,” Rev.Sr. Paula contended. She urged people to reject the allegations made against the organisation. Police probe old call The Thanjavur police, are also conducting enquiries about a call that was supposedly made to the Ariyalur Childline two years ago alleging that the girl was being harassed by her step mother. The call was reportedly made in July 2020, alleging that the girl hailing from Ariyalur district was being subject to harassment. The sources said Childline representatives had visited the house following the receipt of the call. However, the girl was not forthcoming with details, said sources. Inquiries were now being made regarding the number from which the call was made. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-management-denies-allegations-of-religious-conversion/article38331847.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kin of four bravehearts honoured in delta region||The next of kin of four bravehearts who had made the supreme sacrifice of laying down their lives during various wars were honouredat their residences in Tiruchi and neighbouringdistricts on the occasion of Republic Day on Wednesday by the NCC Group Headquarters, Tiruchi. The next of kins of the bravehearts - Sepoy I Ayub Khan of 18th Maratha Light Infantry, Sepoy S. Natarajan, 19 Madras Regiment, Naik S. Sankar Lal, 11 Madras Regiment and Gunner Packirisamy Nathan of 195 Mountain Regiment - were honouredas part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav Shaheedo Ko Sat Sat Naman’ programme in the presence of locals. Teams from various units of the the NCC Group Headquarters, Tiruchi, visited the residence of the next of kins of the four bravehearts at Tiruchi, Keela Easnai in Ariyalur district, Pudukottai and Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district and felicitated them. A wreath was placed to the portraitof the bravehearts at the four places and floral tributes were paid to them on the occasion. The NCC teams handed over a plaque containing message of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the next of kin of the four bravehearts who had laid down their lives defending our motherland. A team led by Lieutenant Colonel P. Kaliappan of NCC Group Headquarters, Tiruchi accompaniedby Junior Commissioned Officers, Non Commissioned Officers, Associate NCC Officers and some NCC cadets went to Keela Esanai inAriyalur district and honouredthe father of Sepoy Natarajan, a press release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kin-of-four-bravehearts-honoured/article38331830.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sapling planting drive held at Golden Rock Railway workshop||The Republic Day was celebrated at the Tiruchi railway divisional office here with the Divisional Railway Manager Manish Agarwal unfurling the national flag at the DRM Office Quadrangle. The Divisional Railway Manager shared the Southern Railway General Manager’s Republic Day message to the gathering. He appreciated the achievement of the Railway Protection Force in crime control and detection, rescue of runaway children and seizure of contraband items and valuables. Detective dogs of the RPF Dog Squad performed a show on the occasion, a railway press release said. Awards given Awards were distributed to officers, supervisors and staff in recognition of their exemplary initiatives taken by them in productivity, quality, reliability, safety and staff welfare during the Republic Day celebration at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop. Six officers and 20 employees received leadership awards. Fifty three individual employees and 13 supervisors receivedexcellence awards. Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram in his speech highlighted variousachievementsof the workshop during 2021. The celebration culminated in a mass sapling planting drive, in which 400 Beema varietybamboos were planted in the newly developed Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav Udyan Garden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mass-tree-plantation-drive-marks-the-day/article38331843.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 109.30 feet on Wednesday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 916 cusecs and the discharge 8,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article64945261.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:48 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Wednesday stood at 123.35 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 155.35 cusecs and 1,065.99 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar Dam stood at 114.40 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 52 cusecs and 380 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38332036.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Forest dept. extends search operation to Perumanallur to capture elusive leopard||The Forest Department on Wednesday continued its efforts for the third consecutive day to trace the leopard that attacked two villagers and an anti-poaching watcher, as it extended the search operations to Perumanallur in the outskirts of Tiruppur. According to Assistant Conservator of Forest M. Krishnasamy, a section of the forest staff from Pappankulam village near Avinashi – where the leopard attacks occurred – relocated to Perumanallur on Tuesday evening after the district police provided an input to the Forest Department that the leopard was allegedly sighted by some residents in the area. As the personnel resumed search operations in Perumanallur village on Wednesday morning, they were not able to sight the carnivore. However, the forest staff found pugmarks and droppings on an agricultural field in Pongupalayam, which would be analysed to confirm whether it was from this particular leopard, Mr. Krishnasamy said. The Forest Department staff did not sight the leopard for the second straight day, he said. Around 50 personnel have been deployed in Perumanallur and they have been grouped into five teams namely technical, monitoring, awareness, investigation and night patrolling teams on Wednesday. A total of 20 camera traps will be installed at various locations in Perumanallur to confirm the presence of the leopard. “We will be monitoring 24x7,” he said. No reports on the carnivore attacking any animal or person have emerged in the past two days, according to Mr. Krishnasamy. Meanwhile, the Forest Department continued to monitor the maize farm and coconut grove in Pappankulam, he said. On Monday, two cages with meat and water have been prepared and nets have been placed around the maize field to trap the leopard. “We have not dismantled these and two teams are monitoring the location in Pappankulam,” he noted. The carnivore had attacked daily wage labourers Varadharaj and Maran at the maize farm in Pappankulam on Monday morning and also attacked anti-poaching watcher Manikandan in the evening. Superintendent of Police, Tiruppur district G. Shashank Sai and Tiruppur City Police took to Twitter on Tuesday evening to warn the public regarding the alleged movement of the leopard in Perumanallur and adjoining localities such as Pongupalayam and Ayyampalayam.  A total of 20 camera traps will be installed at various locations in Perumanallur to confirm the presence of the leopard M. Krishnasamy Assistant Conservator of Forest||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-extends-search-operation-to-perumanallur-to-capture-elusive-leopard/article64945357.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Welfare aid distributed to beneficiaries in Tiruppur||District Collector S. Vineeth presented welfare assistance worth around Rs. 5.86 crore to 73 beneficiaries as part of the 73rd Republic Day celebrations on Wednesday. The celebration was held on the premises of Chikkanna Government Arts College. After hoisting the national flag at 8.05 a.m., Mr. Vineeth inspected the guard of honour and took the salute of the Republic Day parade. He also felicitated 284 officials and personnel from various departments, including 123 police officers and personnel and 61 doctors and healthcare personnel for their role during the COVID-19 pandemic. Other awardees include 19 personnel from the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services and 14 school teachers, according to a press release. No cultural programmes were organised for the second consecutive year during the celebrations to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Principal District and Sessions Judge, Tiruppur Swarnam J. Natarajan, Commissioner of Police for Tiruppur City Police A.G. Babu, Superintendent of Police, Tiruppur district G. Shashank Sai and District Revenue Officer B. Rajendran were among those who were present at the Republic Day celebrations in Tiruppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welfare-aid-distributed-to-beneficiaries-in-tiruppur/article64945393.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||K. Bashyam Iyengar remembered||The residents of Serankulam village panchayat on Wednesday remembered K. Bashyam Iyengar who replaced the Union Jack on the Fort St.George flag mast with the Indian flag during the colonial era. A replica of the Fort St.George flag mast was erected near the public library building in the village. The tri-colour was hoisted on the replica by the Village Panchayat president, Amudha, as part of the Republic Day celebrations held at the village on Wednesday. K. Bashyam Iyengar was born at Serankulam near Mannargudi. He had replaced the Union Jack on the 150 feet high mast with the Indian flag on January 26, 1932. He was arrested by the British who had awarded rigorous imprisonment to him. Bashyam, who was affectionately called by his friends as Arya, refused to accept the pension doled out to freedom fighters after Independence and died at the age of 93.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/k-bashyam-iyengar-remembered/article38331829.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:12 IST,TAMIL NADU||A low-key affair in the Nilgiris||The 73rd Republic Day celebration in Udhagamandalam was a low-key affair due to the COVID-19 protocol in place across the State. As District Collector S.P. Amrith was said to be unwell, the tricolour was unfurled by District Revenue Officer Keerthi Priyadarshini at the celebrations held at the Government Arts College ground on Wednesday. A cultural dance was performed by the Toda Adivasi community at the event, which usually showcases multiple performances from various Adivasi groups in the district. A total of 94 government employees from the Departments of Police, Fire and Rescue Services, Health, and Revenue were commended for their exemplary services during last year. District Superintendent of Police Ashish Rawat, MLA R. Ganesh, and officials from the district administration took part in the event. Many of the police and fire and rescue service personnel were commended for their efforts to rescue Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, his wife and 12 other military personnel, after the helicopter they were flying in crashed near the Kattery Park near Coonoor in December 2021. Police presence was strengthened at all major public places across the district and in border areas in view of the Republic Day celebrations. In the Nilgiris forest division, Forest Department staff who were involved in the rescue and release of a leopard that had fallen into a well in Kotagiri were given commendations for their efforts in safely rescuing the animal. On Wednesday, a few members of the local Baduga Desa Party staged a protest in front of the Gandhi statue in Charring Cross in Udhagamandalam demanding Scheduled Tribe status for the Baduga community. The handful of protestors were quickly removed and arrested. They were released a short while later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-low-key-affair-in-the-nilgiris/article64945391.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘ Centre, State govt. should prioritise poverty eradication’||The Central and State governments should accord greater priority to eradicating poverty in the country, G. Viswanathan, Chancellor, Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), said in Vellore on Wednesday. Speaking at the Republic Day celebrations at the VIT campus after hoisting the national flag, Mr. Viswanathan said though India has been growing economically, it should increase significantly. “We need to attain a stage where we can say the country has no poor in terms of complete economic independence. As per an estimate, the country has around 13 crore poor people. This signifies the importance of eradicating poverty by the joint efforts of the Central and the State governments,” he said. Further, the Chancellor said that the Central and State governments should give more priority to the education sector, where the country needs to achieve further. “India’s Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) is only 26%, so we need to take more steps to increase GER in higher education by educating more people in the country through increased funds...,” he added. Terming agriculture as yet another priority sector for government, Mr. Viswanathan said even though the country has been doing well in agriculture, there remains a lot of scope for improvement. “We are trying to evolve a model for agriculture in VIT through which we can help more farmers and lead the country,” he said. VIT vice presidents Sankar Viswanathan and G.V. Selvam, pro-vice chancellor Dr. S. Narayanan, and registrar K. Sathiyanarayanan, participated in the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-state-govt-should-prioritise-poverty-eradication/article64945220.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:52 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 168 fresh COVID cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 56,161 with 168 fresh infections reported on January 26. With a total of 53,326 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 1,677. The district’s toll is 1158. Ranipet district reported 445 fresh cases and the overall tally stood at 50,550. Tirupattur district logged 289 fresh infections cases and the total number of cases stood at 33,758. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of fresh infections cases were 602, which took the overall tally to 62,826. Of these, 58,312 have been discharged and the total active cases stood at 3,836.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-168-fresh-covid-cases/article38332037.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of medals, certificates mark R-Day fete in various districts||District Collector H. Krishnanunni unfurled the national flag at the V.O.C. Park Ground Stadium in Erode and accepted the guard of honour. He distributed certificates and medals during the 73nd Republic Day celebrations on Wednesday. Mr. Krishnnunni distributed certificates of appreciation to 180 government officials and frontline staff involved in fighting COVID-19 in the district and also to staff of various departments. He also presented the Chief Minister’s medal for excellence to 49 police personnel. Earlier, he accepted the guard of honour by the police personnel. He visited the house of a freedom fighter K.K. Muthusamy at Rasampalayam in Kodumudi block and honoured him with a shawl. Likewise, 25 freedom fighters, 74 Mozhi Por Thiyagigal and five border security personnel were honoured by officials in the rank of Tahsildars and Deputy Tahsildars in the district. E. Thirumagan Evera, MLA, Kurinji N. Sivakumar, chairman of Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation, L.Madhubalan,Additional Collector (Development) /ProjectOfficer, District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), Superintendent of Police V. Sasimohan, District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan, RDOs and officials took part. The celebrations were held at schools and colleges across the district. In Salem, District Revenue Officer (in-charge) R. Kavitha unfurled the national flag at the Mahatma Gandhi Stadium and presented the Chief Minister’s medal for excellence to 57 police personnel. A total of 304 government staff was presented with certificates for their exemplary services. She also laid a wreath at the commemorative plaque raised in honour of the First World War heroes from the district. City Police Commissioner Najmal Hoda, Salem Range DIG Praveen Kumar Abinapu, and senior officials participated. Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj hoisted the flag at the Corporation office and felicitated workers for their dedicated services. At the office of TNSTC, Salem Division, Managing Director R. Mohan hoisted the Tri-colour and distributed certificates of appreciation to drivers and conductors and engineers for their performance. In Namakkal, Collector Shreya P. Singh presented the Chief Minister’s medal for excellence to 44 police personnel and certificates to 108 government staff for their exemplary services. In Krishnagiri, the celebrations were marked with restrained pomp under the shadow of the pandemic at the district sports complex. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy unfurled the tricolour to the rendition of the National Anthem. The Collector was accompanied by Superintendent of Police E. Sai Charan Tejaswi, as the former accepted the flag salute and witnessed the guard of honour. The day also witnessed the distribution of Chief Minister’s Service excellence awards to 43 police personnel and 210 government staff from various departments. Further, welfare schemes of up to Rs. 6.71 lakh was distributed to 16 beneficiaries under various programmes by various departments at the event. District Revenue Officer S. Rajeshwari was among the officials present. In Dharmapuri, the celebration was a muted affair at the District Stadium. Collector S. Dhivyadarshini unfurled the tricolour in the presence of Superintendent of Police C. Kalaichelvan. The Collector felicitated 23 policemen with the Chief Minister’s police medals on the occasion. The occasion also witnessed felicitation of 101 government staff for service excellence. Three government hospitals were awarded for medical service excellence during the pandemic. Under the department of school education, nine teachers were also felicitated. Further, Ms. Dhivyadarshini also felicitated the Dharmapuri branch of the Indian Bank for disbursement of highest percentage of credit to women’s SHGs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-medals-certificates-mark-r-day-fete-in-various-districts/article64945355.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 3,740 new cases||Coimbatore district on Wednesday reported 3,740 fresh cases of COVID-19. According to the Health Department, a total of 2,884 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 27,037 active cases on the day. Two more persons died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 2,550. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 27.5 % on Tuesday when 13,699 swab samples were subjected to tests and 3,763 new infections were reported. A total of 1,787 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tiruppur on Wednesday. The district had 8,918 active cases and 811 persons recovered on the day. The district’s toll increased to 1,037 after two more persons died of COVID-19. The TPR of Tiruppur district stood at 24.1 % on Tuesday when 1,490 persons tested positive. The Nilgiris district reported 373 fresh cases on Wednesday. A total of 2,286 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-3740-new-cases/article64945399.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem district reports 1,457 newCOVID-19 cases||Salem district on Wednesday reported 1,457 new cases taking the overall tally to 1,15,616. While 765 persons were discharged, 7,011 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 1,738. Erode district reported 1,302 fresh cases, taking the tally to 1,21,136. While 901 persons were discharged, 7,734 continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 765 cases taking the tally to 62,018. While 387 persons were discharged, 4,257 continue to be under treatment. Coimbatore district reported 3,740 fresh cases. According to the Health Department, a total of 2,884 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 27,037 active cases on the day. Two more persons died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 2,550. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 27.5 % on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-reports-1457-newcovid-19-cases/article38331872.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:50 IST,TAMIL NADU||Urban civic polls to be held in 1 phase on Feb. 19||In Chennai, there are a total of 61,18,734 voters, including 30,93,355 female, 30,23,803 male, and 1,576 transperson voters. As per the schedule released by Mr. Palanikumar, the elections will be notified on January 28. The filing of nominations will start from January 28 and continue till February 4, and will be accepted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. They will be reviewed on February 5 and can be withdrawn on February 7. The elected ward members will take charge on March 2. District election officials have been instructed to monitor the nomination process through CCTVs. The direct elections would be held for 12,838 posts. This includes 1,374 posts across 21 municipal corporations, 3,843 across 138 municipalities and 7,621 across 490 town panchayats. Overall the elections will be held across 31,029 polling stations, and instructions have been issued to ensure that necessary infrastructure is in place for differently abled to cast their votes. There are 1,37,06,793 male voters, 1,42,45,637 female voters and 4,324 transpersons, taking the total number of voters in this election in Tamil Nadu to 2,79,56,754 voters. In municipal corporations, there are total of 1,54,84,607 voters. The total number of voters is 64,92,735 and 59,79,412 voters are in municipalities and town panchayats respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/urban-civic-polls-to-be-held-in-1-phase-on-feb-19/article38331744.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:50 IST,TAMIL NADU||U||Shehnai maestro and Hindustani vocalistPanditS.BalleshBhajantri, who hails from Belagavi but has settled in Chennai, couldn’t believe it was indeed a callfrom the Home Ministry. “I had not applied for any award, and there have been many times when we thought more deserving persons should have been chosen for the Padma awards.This came as a real surpriseto me,” said the Shehnai artiste, who has performedin around 45,000 film songs in Tamil, Hindi, Kannada, Malayalam, Telugu and Marathi. “I came to Chennai 38 years ago, after obtaining an A grade in AIR. I learnt music from my father,Pandit SannaBharamappaBhajantri,UstadBismillah Khan in Varanasi,PanditPuttarajaGawai,and PanditKodandSalunke. I fell in love with theshehnaisince it used to be played on the radio. I started learning it when I was 12,” said Mr.Bhajantri, who won Kalaimamani Award in2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/u/article64945239.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kovai.co wins award||Kovai.co, a SaaS company based out of Coimbatore, has won a NASSCOM award. It has won in the “SaaS Award Category” in the NASSCOM Emerge 50 Awards 2021. A press release from Kovai.co said that while the Indian SaaS eco system remains robust with a strong base of start-ups and unicorns, NASSCOM has identified the top five business models that are emerging within the SaaS landscape leading to the evolution of the market. Saravana Kumar, Founder and CEO of Kovai.co, said in the press release that given that the company is based out of a tier-two city with a team of about 250 people, the award is a testament to its tagline “TogetherWeGrow”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kovaico-wins-award/article38331764.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:05 IST,TAMIL NADU||27-01-2022-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha (Regd) Vani Mahal. Ph 28152166 Vanimahal@gmail.com 32ND BHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 32ND BHARATHAM FESTIVAL 2022 at Sri P. Obul Reddy Hall Today 04.00 pm Bharathanatyam by Ms. S. Priya, Ms.M.K.Nithyaa and Ms. M.K. Keerthana Guru : Smt. Bhuvana Kaushik. 06.30 pm Bharathanatyam by Students of Dance of India Guru: Smt. Subhashree. Tomorrow: 06.30 pm Bharathanatyam by Sri.M. Ganesh & Ms. K.S. Nishreya Varalakshmi. Guru: Jaya Krishna Arts Abode. Entry as per Govt. SOP Guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-01-2022-city-cinema/article64945403.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:11 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||KPR College of Arts Science and Research: Career Development Programme, 2 p.m.  Kathir College of Arts and Science: Student Development Programme, 10 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology : Webinar on Design Thinking, 10 a.m.  Adithya School of Business Management: Business Communication Training, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article38331763.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:07 IST,KARNATAKA||Short circuit suspected as fire breaks out in eatery||A fire broke out in an eatery near the first railway gate on Congress Road in Belagavi on Wednesday. Personnel from the Fire and Emergency Services rushed to the eatery called Master Chef within minutes and brought the fire under control. The eatery suffered losses of up to Rs. 1.5 lakh, the owner told the police. The police suspected that the fire was caused by short circuit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/short-circuit-suspected-as-fire-breaks-out-in-eatery/article38331888.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:09 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 third wave affects workforce strength in MSMEs||The third wave of the pandemic is causing huge productivity losses and delayed deliveries for Micro Small Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the State as upto 20% of their workforce is currently on sick leave due to flu or COVID-19, as according to industry players and trade body sources. D.R. Subramanyam, Managing Director, SLN Technologies, a city-based indigenous electronics system design and manufacturing firm specialising in strategic electronics for aerospace, defence and nuclear industry, said most small-scale units would have one person for one function, and if that one person does not report to work the whole operation of that firm suffers. “Even one person’s absence can have a multiplier effect on small businesses. The continuity breaks down, workflow slows down, the normal operations get affected. It is a chain reaction. If the cutter does not turn up, the tailors won’t have any work to do. So the productivity loss could be even 100% in some cases for some industries. With the third wave, 15% of SLN Technologies employees are on sick leave, on rotation,” Mr. Subramanyam,who is also a CII Karnataka State Council Member, added. Echoing similar sentiments, R. Raju past president of Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) and proprietor of Ven-Gree Metal Punch, a firm based in RajajinagarIndustrial Estate, said rising absenteeism has been hampering the delivery schedules, especially when the sector was already trying to fight back several odds such as the soaring price of raw materials, decreasing demand in the retail market and government’s apathy. “MSME sector is under the attack of some kind back to back. Entrepreneurs used to take pride in creating wealth and jobs. But today, running any small business comes with inexplicable misery. I don’t know how long we can carry on like this especially when the government has no will to support the sector,” said Mr. Raju. Thallam Venkatesh, former president FKCCI and Managing Director, Press Tools and Elements, argued that the MSME sector was in deep trouble even before the pandemic, as one of the key industries, the auto sector, was going through a tough patch. The trade body representatives have been asking the Union Government to pay some compensation to MSME workers from the unclaimed pool of thousands of crores of rupees of ESI and PF funds. “Third wave is causing alot of anxiety and uncertainty for entrepreneurs and workmen alike” added Mr. Venkatesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-third-wave-affects-workforce-strength-in-msmes/article64945315.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:09 IST,KARNATAKA||Over 60,000 candidates apply for guest lecturer posts||The Higher Education Department has been flooded with applications for guest lecturer positions in government degree colleges across the State. Though there are over 60,000 applicants, only around 10,000 will be selected. The online counselling for the appointment of guest lecturers for the 2021-22 academic year will begin from January 27. The Department has decided to appoint only guest faculty members who have served government colleges in the past. P. Pradeep, Commissioner, Department of Collegiate and Technical Educatio, in a statement on Wednesday said that 10,636 guest lecturers will be appointed. “Based on their seniority, candidates can choose their preferred college during counselling,” he added.  While 7,225 will be appointed with a full workload (15 hours/week), 3,411 will have a partial workload for 47 subjects. With 1,830 guest lecturers, Commerce has the maximum number of posts, followed by Kannada (1008) and Computer Science (910). ( See gfx )  Online counselling Once the online counselling process is completed, candidates need to report to colleges for work within two days along with their original documents. If there are any discrepancies in the documents, the candidates will be dropped, warned the department. “Those who get appointed after counselling should join at the earliest,” said Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan. Guest faculty members recently boycotted classes and staged a protest demanding that those who had worked earlier should be given preference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-60000-candidates-apply-for-guest-lecturer-posts/article64945311.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:09 IST,KARNATAKA||Sangolli Rayanna military school getting ready: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that a military school is coming up in the State at a cost of the Rs. 180 crore, and is likely to be taken over by the Defence Ministry. “The State Government has already released Rs. 55 crore. The civil work will be completed this year. Talks are on with Defence Ministry to take over the school,” the Chief Minister said during the 191st birth anniversary programme of Sangolli Rayanna. The school is being built on 100 acres, and will bear the name of Sangolli Rayanna. It will have hostel facility. He said that development of Sangolli Rayanna's resting place at Nandagad and a rock garden 10 acres at Sangolli has been approved by the Government. The Chief Minister said that the government will issue order to place Sangolli Rayanna's photograph in all educational institutions. The State Government has already written to Delhi Government for a statue of Sangolli Rayanna in Delhi. “There is already a statue of Rani Chennamma in Delhi. Rayanna’s statue has to be there where Chennamma’s statue is there.” The Government is talking to sculptors to follow up on its announcement to have the statues of Rani Chennamma and Sangolli Rayanna in the precincts of Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi, Mr. Bommai. said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sangolli-rayanna-military-school-getting-ready-cm/article38331712.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:09 IST,KARNATAKA||Quarantine leave duration becomes bone of contention||In the midst of a COVID-19 surge, duration of the quarantine leave for infected workmen has become a bone of contention. Though the State Government has been petitioned to reduce the quarantine leave duration from 14 days to seven, several industries are learnt to have already reduced the leave quantum without waiting for approval from the government. In January 2021, the State Government had made it mandatory under Disaster Management Act to provide 14 days quarantine leave to workmen infected by COVID-19 in Karnataka. While several industries are following the rule, a number of large industries have unilaterally reduced the number of days — ranging from 5 days to 7 days, union representatives allege. Revised guidelines The revision of quarantine period by the Health Department seems to have led the industries to take the unilateral decision. The department revised the period of quarantine for ‘at least seven days’ from the earlier 14 days. It has also said that the person should not be reporting fever for three preceding and consecutive days. Citing this reason, the Karnataka Employers’ Association (KEA) wrote to the government last week seeking reduction of quarantine leave to 7 days. “The rule of 14 days has not been reviewed yet by the government and industries cannot be unilaterally taking decisions,” said M. Satyananda, secretary, AITUC. Further, he said, “There is no mechanism to test if the person does not have fever for three consecutive days. There could be instances of workmen reporting to work because there is not enough leave,” he added. Industries’ stand  The industry, citing shortage of personnel in the production line leading tosupply disruption, has been seeking government intervention. In fact, the KEA, in its letter to the Chief Secretary, said, “Though the medical recommendation has been for seven days, the January 2021 guidelines recommended 14 days. As a result, it is observed that many employees who have reported positive have been availing quarantine of 14 days.” The association president B.C. Prabhakar also said that some workmen were ‘misusing’ the situation, which was impacting work.  Labour Commissioner Akram Pasha said that the 14-day quarantine leave remains in place since it was done under the Disaster Management Act. “There is no proposal currently to reduce the number,” he said. AITUC has petitioned the Labour Department on this issue.  The 14-day quarantine leave remains in place since it was done under the Disaster Management Act. There is no proposal currently to reduce the number.Akram PashaLabour Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quarantine-leave-duration-becomes-bone-of-contention/article38331710.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Bust of Dr. Rajkumar, nameplate stolen from Lumbini Gardens||A bust of yesteryear matinee idol Dr. Rajkumar at Lumbini Gardens on Hebbal Ring Road has mysteriously disappeared. The Amruthahalli police, who registered a case of theft on Tuesday, said the lone watchman employed by the Forest Department reported its dispearrance to the Deputy Range Forest Officer, M.S. Yogesh , in charge of the area. “He recalled seeing it last on January 18. We have registered a case of theft,” said a police officer, adding that the metal nameplate for the bust was also stolen. The park, which is now under the department, has no proper security. “There is only one watchman deployed during the day. He has to maintain the park and see to its security. His shift ends at 8 p.m. and there are no nightwatchmen,” a police officer said. What’s more, the police investigation ishampered by the lack of CCTV cameras. “In most cases, we scan CCTV camera footage for clues, but the park has no electricity and hence does not have CCTV coverage,” the police officer added. According to department officials, the bust was installed by Lumbini Gardens Pvt. Ltd. In 2019, the department rejected a plea by the firm which had been managing Nagavara lake for 15 years, to renew the lease on the waterbody. The firm ran a water park, a boating club, and an artificial beach at the lake. After the theft, the department appointed two nightwatchmen for the park, but they are yet to report to duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bust-of-dr-rajkumar-nameplate-stolen-from-lumbini-gardens/article38331696.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||2023 Assembly polls: Siddaramaiah undecided about his constituency||With speculations rife over the Assembly constituency from where former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah will contest from in 2023 elections, the Congress leader on Wednesday said that he would abide by the direction of the high command in this regard. "People from 8 to 10 constituencies have asked me to chose their constituency to contest in the next Assembly poll in 2023. I have not decided on anything," the former Chief Minister told reporters here. Listing out a few constituencies, he said, "People in Hebbal, Chamarajpet, Koppal, Badami, Kolar and Chamundeshwari want me to contest from there. Will people say no to me from Chamundeshwari?" For sometime now, it is being speculated that Leader of Opposition is scouting for a “safe seat” to contest in the 2023 polls. While he vacated his stronghold Varuna constituency to his son Yathindra Siddaramaiah, who won comfortably in 2018, the veteran leader himself lost to Janata Dal (Secular) G.T. Deve Gowda at Chamundeshwari. He, however, managed to scrape through in Badami constituency against BJP leader B. Sriramulu. However, local Congress leader B.B. Chimmanakatti, who vacated his seat to accommodate Mr. Siddaramaiah in Badami, is learnt to have said that Mr. Siddaramaiah is not welcome to contest from there this time. Congress sources say that it should not be a surprise if the leader decides to return and contest from Varuna, his home ground. Mr. Siddaramaiah has also built bridges with G.T. Deve Gowda ahead of the elections that is expected to help him electorally to take on the JD(S). On Wednesday, when reporters sought his view on the subject here, Mr. Siddaramaiah said, "Badami voters have given more than 55,000 votes to me. There is one year and three months to go. I have not decided." When pressed further, he said, "The High command will decide from where I should contest. "||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2023-assembly-polls-siddaramaiah-undecided-about-his-constituency/article38331705.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Coconut vendor, aide held for killing gold loan firm executive for Rs. 5 lakh||The Puttenahalli police have arrested a tender coconut vendor and his associate for allegedly murdering a 29-year-old gold loan firm executive to rob him of Rs. 5 lakh. “The victim, B. Diwakar, lived in Banashankari 2nd Phase and worked as an executive for a gold loan company. They lured him to their house under the pretext of pledging gold, and murdered him. They dumped the body in a lake,” said a police officer. The arrested men, Manjunath, 28, hails from Kunigal taluk and rents a house at Sunkadakatte while Muniraju, 24, is from Uttari village, on the outskirts of Bengaluru. Investigations revealed that Manjunath is married and has a nine-month-old child. He suffered heavy losses and had taken huge amounts of money in loans that he could not repay. “He hatched a plan to rob cash from a gold loan executive and roped in his associate Muniraju who was also in need of money,” said a police officer. On pretext of pledging They took advantage of the fact that many gold loan firms who are competing for customers have started offering house visits. “The two men searched online for firms in Bengaluru that offered home services. They identified Diwakar on January 19 and called him under the pretext of pledging some gold jewellery for Rs. 5 lakh,” the police added. Diwakar took down the details and agreed to visit them at Sunkadakatte the next day. When he did not return home, his family approached the police and filed a missing complaint. Call record details The police checked Diwakar’s phone but it was switched off. Suspecting that something was amiss, they stepped up the investigation and with the help of call record details detained Manjunath, who allegedly confessed to the crime. The police later recovered the cash from Manjunath’s wife who said she had no knowledge of the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coconut-vendor-aide-held-for-killing-gold-loan-firm-executive-for-rs-5-lakh/article38331697.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Hackers break into firm’s website, demand $10,000||The Central Cyber Crime police are on the lookout for unidentified persons who hacked the website of an apparel firm and redirected customers to a pornography site. The hacker sent an email to the firm demanding $10,000 if they wanted control of their site. In another incident, a 24-year-old engineer has approached the police after he was blackmailed by a woman he had befriended on social media. The victim said he befriended the woman, exchanged numbers and started a private video chat. Later, the woman sent a message to him with her bank account details demanding that he transfer Rs. 20,000 failing which she would share their video chat with his family and friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hackers-break-into-firms-website-demand-10000/article38331700.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:09 IST,KARNATAKA||Renaming Bengaluru roads||Speaking on the proposal to name roads in Bengaluru after freedom fighters, made by Member of Parliament P.C. Mohan, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that a suitable decision will be taken after convening a meeting. Mr. Mohan had said that roads in his constituency, which are named after British era personalities, should be changed to that of freedom fighters. In a letter to Chief Minister he named three government hospitals (Bowring and Lady Curzon, Victoria and Minto) and as many roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/renaming-bengaluru-roads/article38331709.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:09 IST,KARNATAKA||Hariprasad appointed Cong. leader in Council||Senior Congress leader B.K. Hariprasad was on Wednesday appointed by the party as its leader in the Legislative Council, paving the way for him to be appointed as Leader of the Opposition in the House. K. Govindraju has been appointed Deputy Leader of the party in the Council. The appointment by the AICC came following the retirement of S.R. Patil as Leader of the Opposition in Legislative Council on January 5. Former cricketer Prakash Rathod has been appointed Chief Whip in place of M. Narayanswamy, who also retired on January 5. A four-term Rajya Sabha member, Mr. Hariprasad was tipped to be appointed to the post, even as there were other party members vying for it. That Mr. Patil 's tenure would end became clear after he was denied ticket to contest from Bagalkot-Bijapur local authorities constituency. Mr. Hariprasad is set to retire from the House on June 30, 2026.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hariprasad-appointed-cong-leader-in-council/article38331717.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:09 IST,KARNATAKA||HDK: Ideology died long ago for all parties||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Wednesday said that no political party is currently functioning based on ideology, and that the only ideology for political parties was power. "Ideology has died long ago for parties. There is no ideology for any party and parties have no commitment. Power is the only ideology for the parties," he told reporters here. He was responding to Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah's statement that leaders are joining Congress since they like the party ideology. On reports that several of its leaders were in touch with Congress leaders to join the party, he said, “I am not anxious about it. I know who in our party is in touch with them and I have a list.” Mr. Kumaraswamy also said that some leaders were in touch with him too to join the party. "However, none is big. We are looking at young leaders to join the party." Core committee Mr. Kumaraswamy announced the formation of 20-member core committee under the chairmanship of former Minister Bandappa Kashempur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-ideology-died-long-ago-for-all-parties/article38331718.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Man killed in road accident||A 24-year-old labourer was killed and two of his friends were injured when the motorbike they were on collided with a goods vehicle on Varthur main road early on Wednesday morning. According to the police, they were riding triples on the bike. The deceased has been identified as Amith, who hailed from Assam and worked at a construction site here. “Amith was sitting in the middle and his friend was riding the bike. He lost control and collided head on with the goods vehicle, said the officer. On impact, all three men were flung from the bike and sustained head injuries. Amith succumbed to his injuries in a hospital around 3 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-killed-in-road-accident/article38331698.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Festive mood at Hosahalli||Residents of Hosahalli in Shivamogga taluk were in a festive mood on Wednesday, a day after Padma Shri was announced for gamaka exponent H.R. Keshava Murthy. Many people met the 88-year-old and congratulated him for being chosen for the honour, while youngsters took his blessings. The village has contributed many gamaka artistes and hence it has been called ‘gamaka grama’. Born in a family of gamaka artists, Mr. Keshava Murthy had his initial training from his father Ramaswamy Shastry. Later he was a student of Venkateshaiah, a senior gamaka artist. He has presented hundreds of programmes over the decades and trained many students. He has been honoured with many awards by the State Government and many cultural and religious organisations. He said he was surprised as he learnt about him being chosen for Padma Shri. Minister for Sericulture and Youth Empowerment K.C. Narayana Gowda, who is also in charge of Shivamogga district, and Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra visited Hosahalli and felicitated Mr. Keshava Murthy on Wednesday. He presented an excerpt from a Kumara Vyasa’s work on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festive-mood-at-hosahalli/article64945293.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Four deaths, 1,863 fresh cases of COVID-19 in Hassan district||Hassan reported four deaths and 1,863 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. Two people from Hassan taluk and one each from Arkalgud and Holenarsipur died on the day due to the infection. The number of active cases increased to 11,774 and of them nine are in the intensive care unit. So far 1,398 peopel have died due to the infection. Among the fresh cases, 762 were reported in Hassan taluk, 86 in Alur, 251 in Arkalgud, 77 in Arsikere, 136 in Belur, 408 in Channarayapatna, 67 in Holenarsipur and 76 in Sakleshpur taluk. As many as 1,819 people were discharged from the hospitals on the day. Shivamogga reported 348 fresh cases and one death. With that, the number of active cases increased to 2,949. Of them, 2,806 are under home isolation. So far 1,080 people have died due to the infection in the district. Among the fresh cases 125 were reported in Shivamogga taluk, 34 in Bhadravati, five in Tirthahalli, 84 in Shikaripur, 63 in Sagar, 12 in Hosanagar, 23 in Sorab and two more patients were from other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-deaths-1863-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-hassan-district/article38331967.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Minister praises BSY, Raghavendra, Eshwarappa||Minister for Sericulture and Youth Empowerment K.C. Narayana Gowda, who hoisted the national flag as Minister in charge of Shivamogga district on Wednesday, devoted much of his press conference to praise former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra and RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa. The Minister said Mr. Yediyurappa, who was born in Mandya district, began his political career in Shivamogga and developed the district. “It is my privilege that today I have become Minister in charge of Shivamogga”, he said. He also took names of Mr. Raghavendra and Mr. Eshwarappa as he referred to development projects in the district. “Mr. Raghavendra deserved credit for bringing Khelo India, railway station and other projects to Shivamogga. The city will soon get an airport”, he said. Further, he said K.R.Pet, his constituency in Mandya district, had a special link with Shivamogga. “Mr. Yediyurappa is from K.R.Pet. He came to Shivamogga. Similarly, I have come from K.R.Pet to Shivamogga. It seems Shivamogga has a special link with K.R.Pet”. He said he would visit the district twice a month and conduct review meetings. Wrong pronunciation A video of Mr. Gowda’s Republic Day speech has gone viral. He mispronounced the names of Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, legislator Ayanur Manjunath, and Mayor Sunita Annappa. He faced difficulty in presenting the written speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-praises-bsy-raghavendra-eshwarappa/article38331973.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Death due to snakebite: Minister seeks report||A woman who was bitten by a venomous snake in Mudigere taluk died due to non-availability of anti-venom injection. Sharadamma of Salumaradahalli suffered a snake bite on Tuesday. She was rushed to the government hospital at Mudigere. From there she was shifted to Chikkamagaluru as anti-venom injection was not available in the taluk centre. Even in Chikkamagaluru, the staff could not arrange for an injection. The relatives had approached a couple of private hospitals too. But the efforts did not yield results. After struggling for over three hours, Sharadamma died in Chikkamagaluru. Minister for RDPR K.S. Eshwarappa, who is in charge of Chikkamagaluru, on Wednesday, directed the District Health Officer to inquire into the incident and submit a report. The Minister was in Chikkamagaluru to take part in the Republic Day programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/death-due-to-snakebite-minister-seeks-report/article38331970.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Congress is like a rotten mango, says Eshwarappa||Comparing the state of the Congress party in Karnataka to a rotten mango, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa wondered who would quit the BJP to join Congress. He was reacting to Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah’s statement that a few BJP legislators were ready to join the Congress, at a press conference in Chikkamagaluru on Wednesday. “Modi is like a shining apple. Who will join take the rotten mango, leaving the shining apple? Mr. Siddaramaiah is giving such statements only to create demand for his party”, he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah had lost the Chief Minister’s post and suffered defeat in his constituency as well. He had been giving such statements only to prove that he was still active. “He is not ready even to reveal names of those BJP leaders who were in touch with him. Let him come out with the names”, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-is-like-a-rotten-mango-says-eshwarappa/article38331969.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:07 IST,KARNATAKA||Simple Republic Day celebrations in twin cities||Amid apprehensions of further spread of the pandemic in the wake of more COVID-19 positive cases being reported in Dharwad district, the Republic Day celebrations were held in a simple manner with strict adherence to COVID-19 protocol in the twin cities on Wednesday. Hoisting the national flag at Nehru Stadium, Hubballi (Urban) Tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal remembered the contributions made by B.R. Ambedkar and other eminent personalities involved in framing of the Constitution. Listing out the various welfare schemes being implemented by the taluk administration, he said that under the Swamitva scheme being jointly implemented by Union and State Governments, drone survey of 5,212 property in nine villages has been completed and within the next three months, survey of 15,000 property in three villages will be completed. The former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar said that the Constitution given by Ambedkar is a model to the whole world and it has played a crucial role in strengthening democracy in the country. Member of Legislative Assembly Prasad Abbayya said that the Constitution framed by Ambedkar has ensured equal opportunities to all. Member of Legislative Council Pradeep Shettar and others were present. At the Mini Vidhana Soudha, Hubballi Rural Tahsildar Prakash Nashi hoisted the tricolour and said that all Indians should be proud of the Constitution. Quoting Ambedkar as saying, he said that despite differences and diversities no one could stop the people of India from remaining united after burying all their differences. “It is time that we unitedly worked for the progress of the country,” he said. At the Idgah At the Idgah Maidan in Hubballi, Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation Commissioner B. Gopalkrishna hoisted the tricolour in the presence of the former Mayors, newly elected councillors and municipal officials. High Court Hoisting the tricolour at the Dharwad Bench of the High Court of Karnataka, Judge H.B. Prabhakar Shastri stressed the need for adapting solutions for speedy delivery of justice to litigant public. Expressing concern over the delay in delivery of justice, he said that ensuring speedy justice will be the apt way of paying tributes to the framers of the Constitution. Highlighting the concept of Unity in Diversity, he recalled the contributions of Mahatma Gandhi, B.R. Ambedkar, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to India. Senior judges of the High Court, Bar Association office-bearers and advocates were present. In almost all schools and colleges, the Republic Day was celebrated in a simple manner due to the health protocol. In schools which are yet to reopen, teachers celebrated the national festival. After the Republic Day speeches by guests, students symbolically delivered speeches, rendered patriotic songs and in a few institutions, cultural programmes were conducted. Simple Republic Day celebrations were also conducted at various government offices, banks and residents welfare associations and other organsiations. Rayanna remembered The death anniversary of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna, which coincides with Republic Day, was observed in Hubballi and Dharwad with government officials and several political leaders paying tributes to the freedom fighter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/simple-republic-day-celebrations-in-twin-cities/article64945320.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:07 IST,KARNATAKA||Traffic hit as trucks get stuck on bridge||A freak accident that left two trucks stuck on the Kusmalli Bridge resulted in a traffic jam that lasted nearly 12 hours on the Belagavi-Goa route on Monday night. Kusmalli Bridge is an old bridge of the British era and the two trucks which came on the opposite direction tried to cross the narrow bridge simultaneously causing the accident. As the two trucks tried to squeeze through the narrow bridge, they were stuck in the middle leaving vehicles on either side of the bridge stranded for hours together. After waiting for long, the other vehicle owners were forced totake an alternative route via Khanapur Jamboti Road to Goa and vice-versa. Relief teams reached the spot on Tuesday morning and cleared the route. Now questions have been raised about the safety of travellers on the old bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-hit-as-trucks-get-stuck-on-bridge/article38331892.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:07 IST,KARNATAKA||Umesh Jadhav, MP, demands new train from Kalaburagi||To meet the growing demand from passengers, Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav has urged the Central Railway Division to announce a new train from Kalaburagi to Bengaluru. Participating in a Divisional Committee meeting of Members of Parliament of Pune and Solapur divisions through video conferencing here on Tuesday, Mr. Jadhav urged the General Manager of Central Railway to start a new train from Kalaburagi to Bengaluru. Expressing concern over the authorities concerned not utilising the pitline in Kalaburagi, he said that only one train, Kalaburagi to Hyderabad, is getting primary maintenance at the newly constructed pitline in Kalaburagi. Though the utilisation of this train was more than 73% before the pandemic, this train has not been re-started yet, while many other zones have re-started trains that have even less than 20% to 30% utilisation. Officials said that the Kalaburagi-Hyderabad train was cancelled by the Railway Board due to very little occupancy. Mr. Jadhav also sought re-starting the Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (DEMU) train between Solapur and Guntakal, which was cancelled during the pandemic. Expressing displeasure over the delay in announcing the extension of the Secunderabad-Chittapur train till Kalaburagi, he said that though the Railway Board and South Central Railway approved its extension till Kalaburagi in July 2021, it has not been extended till Kalaburagi due to non-availability of trained loco pilots in the Solapur Railway Division. He also demanded re-starting the second pitline project (towards Solapur-end), which has already been approved. He noted that tender was once called for but later cancelled. The demands also included two more lifts on platform No 1 in Kalaburagi Railway Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/umesh-jadhav-mp-demands-new-train-from-kalaburagi/article38331886.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:07 IST,KARNATAKA||Yeshwanth Gurukar takes charge||Yeshwanth Gurukar on Tuesday took charge as Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi district. An officer of the 2010 IAS batch hailing from Bengaluru, Mr. Gurukar was the Assistant Commissioner of Bagalkot district and was Managing Director of Kalyana Karnataka Road Transportation Corporation prior to his posting as Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner. Outgoing Deputy Commissioner Vijaya V. Jyothsna has been posted as Managing Director of Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yeshwanth-gurukar-takes-charge/article38331887.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:09 IST,KARNATAKA||Do not talk lightly of people who left their parties to join BJP: Nirani||Taking exception to the remarks of BJP’s outspoken leader and Vijayapura MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal, who had said that some leaders who had joined the party recently would leave after the declaration of Assembly elections in Karnataka, Large and Medium Scale Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said that the Mr. Yatnal “should introspect before passing such comments”. “He should think about who has gone where before passing such comments. One should not speak lightly about people who have quit their parties and joined BJP in good faith. Being a people’s representative, he should not speak in such a fashion,” Mr. Nirani said adding that the party president had directed all functionaries not to speak about the party’s internal matters in public and action would be taken against those who would defy the leadership. Mr. Nirani was speaking to media representatives after participating in the Republic Day celebrations in Kalaburagi on Wednesday. Earlier this week, while demanding expansion of the Cabinet at the earliest, Mr. Yatnal had warned that some disgruntled leaders within his party were in touch with Congress, and there might be an ‘exodus’ if the Cabinet is not expanded at the earliest. When asked about Congress leaders’ claims that many leaders from BJP would shortly join the Congress, Mr. Nirani referred to BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi’s recent claims and said that many leaders from other parties were ready to join BJP too. “Congress is a sinking ship and nobody wants to go there. Instead, as Mr. Jarkiholi said, many people from other parties would join BJP as it offers a better future to its leaders. Mr. Jarkiholi has special abilities in organising the party and mobilising leaders. He may fulfil his claim of bringing more leaders from other parties to the BJP fold,” Mr. Nirani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/do-not-talk-lightly-of-people-who-left-their-parties-to-join-bjp-nirani/article64945314.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Govt. to spend Rs. 1,611 cr. on multi-village water projects||Udupi district in-charge and Minister for Fisheries and Ports S. Angara on Wednesday said that the multi-village drinking water scheme will be introduced in Byndoor, Karkala, Hebri and Kaup taluks at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,611 crore. Delivering the Republic Day message after unfurling the National Flag at the Mahatma Gandhi District Stadium in Ajjarkad in Udupi, Mr. Angara said that the project worth Rs. 390 crore for Byndoor taluk is in the tendering stage. Project reports for the scheme in the remaining taluks have been sent for government approval, the Minister said. Mr. Angara said that the Government has planned to upgrade the Udupi District Hospital and taluk hospitals in Kundapur and Karkala with 48 additional paediatric intensive care units this year. The Nirmithi Kendra has already commenced the work with CSR funds provided by various companies. The Minister noted that the State Government has so far provided Rs. 3.8 crore scholarship to 15,775 wards of farmers under the Chief Minister’s Vidya Nidhi scheme. Watershed development programme will be implemented in 12,553 hectares of land in Brahmavar, Kundapur and Karkala taluks under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayi Scheme and approval has been given for 42 minor irrigation projects worth Rs. 27.61 crore to be taken up in the next five years. Mr. Angara said that the administration is continuing to give thrust on tourism and has approved opening of 57 homestay facilities. The Government has released Rs. 10 crore grant for improving the Trasi-Maravanthe beach stretch and Rs. 15 crore for the Someshwara Paduvari-Ottinene stretch in Byndoor. It has also approved Rs. 4.2 crore for construction of ferry jetty at the St. Mary’s Island, Malpe. The Tourism Department has submitted fresh proposals for 28 projects worth Rs. 44.1 crore. Troupes from the police, Coastal Security Police, Fire and Emergency Services, Home Guards, Excise and NCC participated in the parade. Specially abled children Srikrishna and Archana were felicitated. And, district and taluk level best farmer awards were presented. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat, Coastal Development Authority Chairman Mattar Rathnakar Hegde, district level officials and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-spend-rs-1611-cr-on-multi-village-water-projects/article64945332.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Various organisations celebrate Republic Day with fervour||Various organisations celebrated the 73rd Republic Day across the coastal districts on Wednesday. Unfurling the national flag and reviewing the parade, New Mangalore Port Trust Chairman A.V. Ramana said that cargo handling at the port has improved from 25.7 million tonnes in December 2020 to 27.64 million tonnes in December 2021, a growth of 8%. Operating income of the port has increased from Rs. 434 crore to Rs. 460 crore and the net surplus from Rs. 145 crore to Rs. 201 crore during the period. Palakkad Divisional Railway Manager Trilok Kothari said that the division’s earnings increased from Rs. 515.61 crore in December 2020 to Rs. 600 crore in December 2021. Speaking after unfurling the tricolour at Palakkad in Kerala, Mr. Kothari said that railway electrification is fast progressing and the division sent the first electric loco-hauled passenger train from Mangaluru to Konkan Railway network last week. The entire Division will see electrification by December, he added. Konkan Railway Corporation’s Chairman and Managing Director Sanjay Gupta unfurled the national flag at Konkan Rail Vihar, Nerul in Navi Mumbai. He appreciated the efforts by the personnel in providing services while fighting COVID-19. Suhas Patil, Head, Construction at the Mangaluru International Airport, unfurled the national flag and later presented certificates of appreciation and mementos to CISF Sub-Inspector M. Ramesh and Constable V.K. Chaudhary for their exceptional performance of duty. On the occasion, Airport Support Group personnel of CISF displayed various aspects of their training in ensuring safety and security of the airport. Chief Airport Security Officer and CISF Deputy Commandant Krishna Prakash and others were present. Retired Principal of University College, Hampanakatte, Mangaluru, Lakshminarayana Bhat, unfurled the national flag and gave the Republic Day message at the college. College principal Anasuya Rai and other staff were present. Youth Red Cross Society of the college organised a free vaccination camp against COVID-19 for students aged between 15 and 18 on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/various-organisations-celebrate-republic-day-with-fervour/article64945329.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Narayana Guru tableaux lead two protest marches in city||Cutting across party lines, people participated in large numbers in the Swabhimana Nadige on Wednesday to protest against the non-selection of a float involving reformer Narayana Guru which was proposed by Kerala Government for the Republic Day Parade in Delhi. While Congress activists took part in the march that passed through several areas across the city, Kudroli Gokarnanatha Temple Management Trustees and members of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Biruver Kudla and Sri Narayana Guru Vichara Vedike also took out a march. Both the marches culminated at the Lady Hill Circle from where all participants marched towards Kudroli Gokarnanatha Temple. It was led by senior Congress leader B. Janardhana Poojary, who came in a car. Overwhelmed by the support to his call for the march, Mr. Poojary said, “I am unable to speak much. The lord will take care of you all,” he said, with tears in his eyes. Temple treasurer R. Padmaraj said that the Union Government should explain why it did not select the float featuring Narayana Guru. Earlier, the march by Congress activists started from the Brahma Baidarkala Garodi Kshetra in Kankanady at 9 a.m. Several Congress activists, including District Congress president Harish Kumar, the former MLAs B. Ramanath Rai, Vasant Bangera, Shakuntala Shetty, J.R. Lobo and Mohiuddin Bawa, took part in the programme. The march was led by a tableau of Narayana Guru. The march passed through Pumpwell, Kulashekara, Neermarga, Vamanjoor, Bajpe, Kavoor, Surathkal, PVS Circle and M.G. Road. The march taken out by Kudroli Gokarnanatha Temple Trustees, Vishwa Hindu Parishad activists and other organisations, which was also led by a tableau of Narayana Guru, commenced from Brahma Baidarkala Garodi Kshetra at 3 p.m. It was flagged off by Mr. Poojary. Most of the BJP activists stayed away from this march.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/narayana-guru-tableaux-lead-protest-marches/article64945333.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Mahalinga Naik feted||The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Wednesday felicitated Mahalinga Naik from Amai village in Bantwal taluk who has been chosen for the Padma Shri Award 2022 during the Republic Day celebrations. District in-charge Minister V. Sunil Kumar felicitated Mr. Naik in the presence of people’s representatives and other dignitaries. He said that people like Mr. Naik and Harekala Hajabba, who was conferred the award last year, brought name to the district and the State and appreciated their hard work in achieving their goals. Working as an agriculture labour plucking arecanuts and coconuts in and around Adyanadka, Mr. Naik, now 77, was gifted a two-acre barren land by landlord Amai Mahabala Bhat in 1978. With no water in the vicinity, he began searching for it and realised that digging an open well was not possible for him. Instead, he resorted to the age-old tradition of the region of digging horizontal tunnels into hillocks to get water and in fact, ensured sufficient water supply after he completed digging the seventh tunnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahalinga-naik-feted/article64945331.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:54 IST,KARNATAKA||Beta Kunhi Kulal dead||Senior Yakshagana artiste Beta Kunhi Kulal (79) passed away in his house in Mittanadka of Bantwal taluk on Wednesday. Known for his effectiveness in playing both male and female roles in Yakshagana, Kulal was a popular artiste of the Sunkadakatte Yakshagana Mela troupe with which he was associated for more than three decades. He was also part of Dharmasthala, Mulki, Soukuru, Kutyala, Subrahmanya and Kudlu Yakshagana Melas in his over four-decade-long Yakshagana career. Yakshagana lovers liked to see him in the role of Devendra. Kulal had his initial training in Yakshagana underKuriya Vittala Shastri. He enacted his roles in Kannada and Tulu Yakshagana prasangas. Kulal is survived by a son and four daughters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beta-kunhi-kulal-dead/article38331946.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:55 IST,KARNATAKA||Sheela Diwakar passes away||Well-known musician and music teacher Sheela Diwakar (53) passed away following a brief illness in the city on Wednesday. Known for her mesmerising rendition, Ms. Diwakar trained many singers in Carnatic music in the last 30 years. She has given concerts at over 3,000 renowned cultural progammes in the city and elsewhere in the country. Many remember her performances during concerts that she gave along with her twin sister Shaila. Daughter of Late Nagaraja Rao, Ms. Diwakar was born on June 28, 1968 in Hosabettu village on the outskirts of the city. Ms. Diwakar studied in the Govindadasa College in Surathkal, where she held music classes later in her career. Ms. Diwakar was conferred with the Aryabhata and other awards for her contribution to the field of music. She is survived by her husband Diwakar, son and keyboard player Dhiraj Rao and daughter Navya Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sheela-diwakar-passes-away/article64945330.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Progress brisk despite pandemic: Minister||The district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar said here on Wednesday that development works were being given emphasis alongside with measures to combat the pandemic. He was speaking during the 73rd Republic Day celebrations after unfurling the National Flag and reviewing the parade at the Bannimantap Torchlight Parade Grounds. The Minister said the COVID-19 vaccination drive in Mysuru district has covered 88 per cent of the total eligible population and all efforts were being made to combat the pandemic. While the first dose coverage of the vaccination was 100 per cent of the population, the second dose had been administered to 88 per cent of the eligible population and there was no dearth of vaccines anywhere in the district. Booster doses were also being administered to the frontline workers and others eligible.. Drawing attention to the surge in cases, the Minister said the administration was fully prepared to handle any eventuality arising from the third wave but urged the public to adhere to Covid Appropriate Behaviour including wearing of masks and ensuring social distancing in public places. Mr. Somashekar said notwithstanding the fight against the pandemic, the government had not ignored development and the district was making brisk progress on various fronts. He said under the Jal Jeevan Mission 5.15 lakh families in rural areas will receive piped drinking water of whom 73,561 families have already been covered. Under MGNREGA 2,167 water bodies will be revived and will also help generate jobs in rural areas and so far 547 lakes have already been revived under the scheme.. Under the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) limits, 158 housing units were being constructed for the benefit of permanent staff employed as pourakarmikas for which Rs. .22.58 crore has been earmarked. The Government has approved Rs. 377.60 crore for taking up infrastructure development works under MUDA layouts as a one-time measure. It has also cleared the high-rise apartment project of MUDA under which 1960 housing units will be constructed at a cost of Rs.452 crore. Under Swachh Bharat Mission, 256 gram panchayats in the district will receive funds towards infrastructure development for solid waste management, said Mr.Somashekar. He said within the city three additional solid waste management plants have been approved of which civil works were gathering pace at Kesare and Rayanakere plants. The project to clear the legacy waste of over 3 lakh tones at Vidyaranyapuram was in the process of being finalised.. Earlier, the Mminister reviewed the parade presented by the police and other units that included the City Armed Reserve, the District Armed Reserve, KSRP, RPF, CISF, Women’s Police Traffic Police etc. The Republic Day celebration was however barred for the general public and schoolchildren in view of the pandemic. Tanvir Sait, G.T. Deve Gowda, L.. Nagendra, MLAs; Mayor Sunanda Palanethra; and senior officials of the district administration were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/progress-brisk-despite-pandemic-minister/article64945290.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Syed Ishaq’s rebuilt library inaugurated||More than nine months after the public library he started in Rajiv Nagar in Mysuru was destroyed in a fire accident, Syed Ishaq, the 64-year-old daily wager, has managed to put in place a makeshift structure in the same place to house his collection of books. The public library rebuilt with corrugated metal sheets was inaugurated on the occasion of Republic Day in the presence of seer of Suttur Mutt Shivarathri Deshikendra Swamiji, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, former Mayor Ayub and representatives of various Kannada organisations on Wednesday. Though Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and the Department of Libraries, Government of Karnataka, had promised to rebuild the library, the promise had remained unfulfilled for various reasons, forcing Mr. Ishaq to take up the construction of the library through the funds he had received from people’s representatives including former Minister Zameer Ahmed Khan, Mr. Pratap Simha, Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar and others. The rebuilt library now offers the reading public not only more than 1,300 books in various languages particularly Kannada, but also daily newspapers in Kannada, English and Urdu. Mr. Ishaq is hoping to accommodate hundreds of books that had already been collected and donated to the library by various people and organisations. After the library was destroyed in an accidental fire in April last year, MCC, Department of Libraries and Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) had jointly decided to take up the responsibility of constructing a full-fledged library. While the MUDA offered the plot of land, the process of construction of the building continued to be delayed, much to the disappointment of Mr. Ishaq. Mr. Ishaq continued to subscribe to a total of 18 newspapers, besides bringing a small collection of books from his house nearby to the library every day and taking them back. But, during the rainy season, he used to struggle to keep the books and newspapers dry. As the construction of the full-fledged library by the government continued to be delayed, he decided to put up a shelter and took up the construction of a makeshift structure using the funds donated. “About 100 to 120 people come to the library every day to read the newspapers and books. With the new structure in place, I expect the numbers to go up to 170 to 180 every day”, he said. While he had spent around Rs. 4 lakh for the structure, the donations amounted to around Rs. 3.5 lakh. “I raised the remaining money by cleaning drainages, painting and doing other odd jobs”, he told reporters. Mr. Ishaq said he would like to appeal to the government authorities against making “false promises”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/syed-ishaqs-rebuilt-library-inaugurated/article64945289.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Good show by Mysuru railway division||The Mysuru division of the South Western Railway has notched up an impressive performance despite the pandemic and its gross revenue till December was higher than the corresponding period last year. This was stated by .Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, during the 73rd Republic Day celebrations held at the Railway Sports Ground, on Wednesday. He said the gross revenue till the end of December, 2021 was Rs. 8,60.73 crore which is 53.53 % higher compared to the figures of the corresponding period of last year. The freight revenue is Rs. 665.49 crore, registering an increase of 49.83 % as compared to last year’s figures. ‘’Mysuru division has also earned Rs. 19.1 crore under Sundry Earnings which is the highest ever for any year, Mr. Agarwal added. In the freight segment, the Division has achieved the highest ever monthly loading in December 2021, transporting 0.918 million tonnes, surpassing the previous best of 0.838 MT during July 2019. On the passenger front Mr. Agarwal said 90% of the train services have been restored across the division compared to the pre-COVID times. Mysore Division carried 10.69 million passengers up to December 2021. The punctuality performance of passenger-carrying trains has seen significant improvement with Mail/Express trains running with more than 99% punctuality. In the ongoing efforts to raise the sectional speeds, the maximum speed was raised to 110 kmph along 101 km stretch of track and to 100 kmph for another 41 km. Similarly, the speed of 10 loop lines at 5 stations was raised from 15 kmph to 30 kmph. Mr.Agarwal said 46.72 km of electrification was completed between Chitradurga- Chikjajur section since April 2021, totalling 251 km electrification in the Division. Other electrification projects are in progress and would be executed as per the national plan to fully electrify all BG routes by December 2023.. Mr. Agarwal said the fight against the pandemic was not yet over and all 101 beds in the Railway Hospital in Mysuru are now equipped with centralised oxygen pipeline. In October 2021, with a view to ensuring uninterrupted supply of oxygen to patients, a new PSA 500 litres per minute oxygen generator plant was commissioned at an approximate cost of Rs. 80 lakh. More than 98% of staff has been vaccinated with both the doses and vaccination for children from 15 to 18 years of age as well as booster doses to eligible citizens was also being administered at the Railway Hospital. The event was attended by railway officers, staff and their family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/good-show-by-mysuru-railway-division/article38331974.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:31 IST,KARNATAKA||Two tiger carcasses found in Nagarahole||The carcasses of two tigers, one of them of a cub, were found in the Nagarahole National Park. Guards on jungle patrol stumbled upon one of the carcasses on Tuesdayin Kakanakote forests in the Sulibale beat. While examining the surroundings, they came across another carcass suspected to be of a cub. While one of them was a male, the sex of the other was yet to be ascertained and authorities suspect it to be death due to natural causes. As per NTCA protocol, the viscera was sent for analysis to ascertain the cause of death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-tiger-carcasses-found-in-nagarahole/article38331707.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||There is an urgent need to know our Constitution||From birth to death, most of the activities of individuals are regulated and governedby one law or the other. Law is part and parcel of our everyday life.However, most are not aware of the laws and particularly their legal rights enshrined in the Constitution. Though we have achieved78% literacy, we are poor in legal literacy. Most of our countrymen have not read the Constitution. Successive governmentshave not taken measures to inform our people of the Constitution. We as citizens have failed to show an inclination to know the Constitution and the laws. Because of our poor legal literacy, large sections of our society are subjected to exploitation, injustice, and oppression. Famous technocrat of the erstwhile Mysore late Sir M. Visvesvaraya had once said that Indians are poor because they do now know that they are poor. If people are made aware of their constitutional rights and duties, they will demand, enjoy, and defend their rights. This is more urgent at a time when the nation is facing challenges and some are talking about changing the basic features of the Constitution. Youth and studentsin the countryare misinformed on many vital aspects of the Constitution and it was in this context that I wrote a handbook titled ‘Samvidhana Odu’. Now it is translated intoEnglish, Hindi, and Malayalam. I and the publishers,Sahayana and Samudaya, conducted campaigns in Karnataka to create constitutional awareness. Our experiences indicate that people are eager to know about our Constitution if only there is an effort to reach out to them. The nature of questions asked during my interactions with people has revealed to me that there is a lack of even basic constitutionalknowledge. According to many, democracy means only elections, secularism means equal treatment of all religions, and social justice means onlyreservations. We had to tell them, during the campaigns, about the broader scope of these concepts and others enshrined in the Constitution. It is the Constitutionthat has paved the way for values such as democracy, secularism,social justice, federalism, and welfare state. It is the Constitution that has established institutions of Legislature, Executive, and Judiciary. It is the Constitution of India that has ensured equal protection and equal opportunityto all irrespective ofreligion,race, caste,gender, language, or place of birth. B.R. Ambedkar, while presenting the draft Constitution for approval, said, “…however good a Constitution may be, it is sure to turn out bad because those who are called to work it, happen to be a bad lot. However bad a Constitution may be, it may turn out to be good if those who are called to work it, happen to be a good lot...” This has to be our guiding principle for all times. (The author is retired judge of the High Court of Karnataka.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-an-urgent-need-to-know-our-constitution/article38331695.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:59 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Now, over half of daily new cases from outside Bengaluru Urban||The State’s seven-day running TPR stands at 21.83% as of January 25. This parameter (TPR) is higher than the State average in nine districts: Tumakuru, Mysuru, Mandya, Kolar, Hassan, Chickballapur, Bengaluru Urban, Ballari, Chamarajanagar, and Chitradurga. Tumakuru has recorded the highest seven-day running TPR at 38.15% followed by Mysuru at 37.70%. K.V. Trilok Chandra, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health), said going by the trend in the last four days, it looks as though cases are stabilising. “However, we need to wait and observe till the weekend to actually conclude that Bengaluru has crossed over its peak,” he said. State Health Commissioner D. Randeep said the caseload is stabilising in Bengaluru Urban now as it was the first to witness a surge in the State. “We have noticed that there is always a lag of two-three weeks between Bengaluru and the rest of Karnataka. It was a similar trend in the last two waves too,” he said. Attributing the surge in the rest of Karnataka now to movement of people between the State capital and other districts even when the weekend curfew was in place, the Commissioner said, “We expected this surge in the districts. Our District Health Officers are well prepared. We presume that the surge in the peripheral districts will start stabilising by the first week of February.” M.K .Sudarshan, chairman of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said the surge in districts is a spillover from Bengaluru, mainly due to movement of people. “This is a regular pattern.” As per projections, the third wave is likely to stabilise in the entire State by end of February, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-now-over-half-of-daily-new-cases-from-outside-bengaluru-urban/article38331708.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:30 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru cadet leads NCC contingent in New Delhi||“She trained hard at her battalion and her institution to get selected. Her hard war and dedication resulted in her being selected to command the contingent,” according to a statement from the NCC Mysuru group. The Republic Day parade had five girl cadets of Mysuru group. The others were corporal Suchitra L. and cadet Priya S. from 13 KAR Battalion, and senior under officer Roshini Marian and cadet Chaithra S. from 14 KAR Battalion. “The true spirit of NCC ‘Ankhon Mein Tej, Chehre Pe Muskaan’ was on display when the cadets saluted the tricolour and President of India Ram Nath Kovind,” according to the statement. A total of 19 cadets from Mysuru represented NCC’s Karnataka and Goa Directorate at the Republic Day camp this year. Apart from the cadets, Mysuru Group’s flag was kept high by Col. Manish Prasad, Officer Commanding, 14 KAR Battalion, who had been appointed as the Republic Day camp adjutant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-cadet-leads-ncc-contingent-in-new-delhi/article38331979.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:07 IST,KARNATAKA||Faster you go...||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/faster-you-go/article64945324.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic graph nosedives in Chittoor, but spikes in Anantapur||Chittoor’s COVID-19 tally of daily cases has nosedived. In the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, the district registered 493 infections and one casualty. The number of active cases too reduced remarkably to 8,201 from more than 10,000 last week. Interestingly, Chittoor had logged as many as 2,338 cases on January 20. In contrast, Anantapur district logged 1,650 cases, the highest since the outbreak of the third wave. While 94 patients were undergoing treatment at the designated hospitals, fewer than 10% of them were on oxygen support. The drastic fall in the number of daily cases in Chitoor was attributed to a slump in the number of RT-PCR tests being conducted in the government sector and gradual increase in rapid tests at private clinics. Another reason being cited was that only one in the family was getting tested while all others followed the prescribed medicines. A government teacher in Srikalahasti said that his spouse had tested positive for the virus a couple of days ago. “The following day, a group of paramedical staff, along with the ward volunteer, had reached our home and insisted on taking a photograph of the patient in the backdrop of the house, while she was very sick,” he alleged. “After they left the area, the neighbourhood started looking at us in an embarrassing manner. Based on my experience and to avoid a similar embarrassment, two of my colleagues approached private clinics,” he said. Test fee reduced A private clinic operator in Tirupati said during the second wave, the fee for the RT-PCR and rapid tests used to be between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 1,500. “Now, we have reduced the fee for rapid tests to Rs. 600. Nobody is unhappy with the tariff. Instead of RT-PCR test, 90% of the people prefer rapid test. Apart from the urge to get rid of tension quickly, another reason behind approaching us is to avoid the presence of paramedical staff and volunteers at their houses,” he said. Meanwhile, the district Medical and Health officials opened a COVID Care Center at Satyavedu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-graph-nosedives-in-chittoor-but-spikes-in-anantapur/article64945230.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||7 injured in bus-lorry collision near Srikalahasti||Seven persons, including five passengers and the driver of a Tamil Nadu corporation bus, were injured when the bus collided with a lorry at Merlapaka cross between Srikalahasti and Yerpedu, 100 km from here, on Wednesday. According to the Yerpedu police, the bus carrying about 20 passengers was on its way to Chennai when it collided with the lorry. The impact was such that the front right portion of the bus was split into two and the left side was nothing but remains of mangled steel;. The front portion of the lorry was badly damaged leaving its driver sandwiched in the driver’s cabin. The lorry driver, Karthikeya (35), a native of Katpadi in Tamil Nadu, had a harrowing time. Local people rushed to his rescue. With a serious head injury, he was rushed to SVRR Hospital at Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7-injured-in-bus-lorry-collision-near-srikalahasti/article38331502.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prasanna Venkatesh is W.G. Collector||V. Prasanna Venkatesh assumed charge as West Godavari District Collector on Wednesday, taking charge from Kartikeya Misra. Mr. Venkatesh said he would strive to ensure proper implementation of the government schemes through Grama and Ward Sachivalayams and resolve issues faced by the public through Spandana programmes. Focus would be laid on MGNREGS, Rythu Bharosa, Navaratnalu, Smart Township, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prasanna-venkatesh-is-wg-collector/article64945228.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur district to be restructured||The district, with diverse topography ranging from plains to rugged hills of Palnadu to sandy soils of Bapatla will be restructured into three districts after the government issues a gazette notifying the formation of 26 districts in the State. According to the preliminary notification issued on January 25, Guntur district has been restructured into Guntur, Bapatla and Palnadu / Narsaraopet districts. Guntur district consists of Guntur and Tenali revenue divisions, and comprises Tadikonda, Thullur, Phirangipuram, Medikonduru, Guntur West, Guntur East, Prathipadu, Vatticherukuru, Pedanandipadu, and Pedakakani mandals. The Tenali revenue division comprises Tenali, Kollipara, Ponnur, Chebrolu, Duggirala, Kakumanu, Mangalagiri and Tadepalli. The Bapatla district comprises the mandals in Bapatla and a few mandals in the Chirala revenue division – Vemuru, Kollur, Tsundur, Bhattiprolu, Amrathaluru, Repalle, Nizampatnam, Nagaram, Cherukupalli, Bapatla, Pittalavanipalem and Karlapalem. The following mandals in Ongole revenue division have also included in Bapatla district: Chirala, Vetapalem, Addanki, Santhamagaluru, Ballikurava, Korisapadu, Parchur, Yeddanapudi, Karamchedu, Inkollu, Chinaganjam and Martur. The Palnadu / Narasaraopet district consists of 14 mandals in Gurazala and Guntur revenue division, and 13 mandals in Narsaraopet division. They are, Gurazala, Dachepalli, Piduguralla, Machavaram, Macherla, Veldurthi, Durgi, Rentachintala, Karempudi, Pedakurapadu, Bellamkonda, Atchampet, Krosuru, Amaravati. Temporary accommodation A district-level committee has suggested that temporary accommodation may be provided at facilities in Bapatla and Narsaraopet. In Bapatla, the AP HRD office has been suggested for the office of the Collector/ camp office. In Narsaraopet, the offices of Nagarjuna Sagar Project has been suggested for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guntur-district-to-be-restructured/article38332041.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Navaratnalu continue to provide succour to people’||The Navaratnalu welfare schemes rolled out by the State government even during the two devastating waves of COVID-19 had helped many families to stay afloat, said District Collector Vivek Yadav. He was addressing the gathering after unfurling the national flag at the 73rd Republic Day celebrations held at the Police Parade Grounds here on Wednesday. Earlier, the Collector, along with the SPs, Vishal Gunni and K. Arif Hafeez, inspected the ceremonial parade from various police contingents. During his address, the Collector said that the institution of village and ward secretariats was inspired by the Gram Swaraj ideals of Mahatma Gandhi, and 526 services are being provided in a timebound manner. Later, the Collector gave away commendation certificates to officers and NGOs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navaratnalu-continue-to-provide-succour-to-people/article64945201.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bid to hoist national flag at Jinnah Tower foiled||Tense moments prevailed when Guntur Urban police foiled an attempt to unfurl the national flag at Jinnah Tower. The men reportedly belonged to Hindu Vahini. Urban SP K. Arif Hafeez said that two persons were taken into preventive custody and were later released. Minutes later, G.V.L. Narasimha Rao and Sunil Deodhar of the BJP tweeted that it was unpardonable of the State government to prevent hoisting of the national flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bid-to-hoist-national-flag-at-jinnah-tower-foiled/article38331989.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pregnant woman denied entry; doctors suspended||The superintendent and duty doctor of a Community Health Centre (CHC) in Achampet, Nagarkurnool, were suspended with immediate effect on Wednesday for denying admission to a COVID positive pregnant woman on Tuesday. Health Minister Harish Rao had directed officials to take action against the staff concerned. Stating that denying admission is an act of gross negligence and violation of rules by the staff concerned, commissioner of Telangana Vaidya Vidhana Parishad Dr. K. Ramesh Reddy issued orders on Wednesday suspending the superintendent, Dr. Krishna, and duty doctor Dr. Hari Babu. Superintendent of the District Hospital in Nagarkurnool was directed to conduct a detailed inquiry and submit a report to the TVVP commissioner. The officials said that instructions were issued earlier to all hospital administrations not to deny admission to pregnant women with COVID. Three days ago, a COVID positive woman from Maharashtra delivered a child at Government Hospital in Nirmal. Another pregnant woman with the infection gave birth at Mother and Child Health centre in Jangaon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-positive-pregnant-woman-denied-entry-docs-suspended/article38331675.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Historical remains found in Nalgonda district||An archaeological site studded with Neolithic, Megalithic and Satavahana remains was reported by E. Sivanagireddy, Archaeologist and CEO, Pleach India Foundation at Bhattugudem village, Peddavura mandal in Nalgonda district of Telangana on Wednesday. Based on the information given by G. Saidareddy and K. Venkatareddy of the village, he has conducted an extensive survey in the fields of Nakkala Nagireddy and Kunireddy Ramanuja Reddy, and spotted a well polished stone axe belonging to the Neolithic period (4,000 BC), iron slags of the Megalithic period (1,000 BC) and shreds of red polished ware of the Satavahana period (1st-2nd centuries AD). Dr. Reddy also noticed beautiful and rare stone sculptures of Bhairava, Brahma in Trimurti form, Valli Subrahmanya, Surya and Mahishamardhini representing the Rastrakuta and Kalyani Chalukyan styles lying uncared on the premises of Isthakameswara temple.  “It is bad to see the state of neglect of the temple pillars and sculptural panels dumped in the garbage pit located close to the temple,” Mr. Sivanagireddy said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/historical-remains-found-in-nalgonda-district/article64945146.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:03 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||KCR stays away from R-Day celebrations||The 73rd Republic Day celebrations in Telangana continued to be a low key affair for the second consecutive year. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan hoisted the Tricolor at Raj Bhavan lawns amidst limited attendance at the venue. Neither Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao nor any of his Cabinet colleagues were present on the occasion. The State government was represented by the Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy and a few senior bureaucrats. The continuing incidence of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic was said to be the reason behind the low key celebrations. The situation was not different from last year when the 72nd Republic Day celebrations were held at the Public Gardens. The Chief Minister and a few other Ministers however attended last year’s event. The Governor’s speech too today was brief as it ended in around 15 minutes but she made it a point to greet and interact with some of the ambulance drivers, sanitation workers and other frontline COVID warriors. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao hoisted the national flag at his camp office separately. Panchayatraj Minister E. Dayakar Rao and some officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kcr-stays-away-from-r-day-celebrations/article64945144.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 killed as bike falls into village tank||Two youth were killed and another was rescued with injuries when their motorbike fell into a roadside village tank at Narasapuram village of Kasinayana mandal of Kadapa district on Wednesday. According to information, the three youth were proceeding on the narrow road abutting the village tank to a nearby school, when they lost control of the vehicle and it fell into the tank. One of the trio, Kalyan, was rescued with simple injuries, while two others Narayana and Srikanth drowned. The police and fire department personnel after an hour-long search fished out the bodies, which were shifted to the area hospital for autopsy. Their family members were informed about the tragedy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-killed-as-bike-falls-into-village-tank/article38331499.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spot-billed pelicans dying en masse in Naupada||A nematode infestation has led to mass mortality of spot-billed pelicans (Pelicanus philippensis) at Telineelapuram Important Bird Area (IBA) in Naupada swamp of Srikakulam district in Andhra Pradesh. Over 150 spot-billed pelicans have succumbed to the infestation since December, according to Forest officials, with 21 birds dying in the past 72 hours alone. As of Wednesday, nearly 200 adult spot-billed pelicans are surviving in the habitat, where they are breeding during their annual sojourn in the swamp. If the mortality rate continues unchecked, the species is likely to disappear completely from the swamp in a matter of days. Only adult birds have succumbed to the infestation till date. Until now, in South India, the Telineelapuram IBA is the prime winter sojourn for the spot-billed pelican for breeding. The same IBA is also a breeding habitat for the painted stork (Mycteria leucocephala). Preliminary inquiry  Wildlife Institute of India (WII-Dehradun) expert in animal ecology, migration, and movement studies Dr. R. Suresh Kumar spoke to The Hindu regarding the mass deaths. “Preliminary inquiry suggests that nematode infestation is the cause for the death of the spot-billed pelicans that prey on nearby water bodies. The nematode parasite is suspected to be transferred through fish and snails in particular, when the birds prey in the aqua ponds. At Telineelapuram IBA, the death rate is a case of mass mortality,” he said.  Dr. Suresh Kumar had studied the mortality of spot-billed pelicans in Karnataka State between 2017-19. “In Karnataka, the nematode infestation has started taking a toll on spot-billed pelicans since 2017. Post-2019, the death toll had fallen. In all the affected habitats, only the spot-billed pelican is dying due to the infestation. No other species has been affected,” he observed. Locals alerted “Until now, the mortality of spot-billed pelican has been reported in groups. There is no impact on painted stork which breeds in the same habitat. The post-mortem reports have certified parasitic (nematode) infestation as the cause of death,” said Srikakulam In-Charge District Forest Officer S. Venkatesh. “Aquaculture management practices surrounding the habitat are said to be the source for the parasite. We have alerted the locals and steps are being taken to prevent further death toll of the migrant bird species,” added Mr. Venkatesh. The nematode infestation would not spread from one species to another species as per the studies carried out by the experts in Karnataka State. “The way the infestation transfers from the fish, snails, and invertebrates is complex. It is purely related to water and aqua ponds,” said Dr. Suresh Kumar. The spot-billed pelican is capable of hunting huge fish from the water bodies and swamps and thus, it is vulnerable to infestation. Thousands of spot-billed pelicans and a few hundred painted storks migrate from the Siberian region to breed in the Telineelapuram IBA and a majority of them prefer to stay here instead of going back home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spot-billed-pelicans-dying-en-masse-in-andhra-pradesh/article64945124.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three youths held for ‘stealing’ bikes||Three youths have been arrested in connection with stealing 16 two-wheelers under Ravulapalem police limits in East Godavari district. The trio has been identified as G. Narasimha, K. George Benny, and Illa. Srinivas belongs to the Ravulapalem area. All of them are majors. The police said the trio had been allegedly stealing two-wheelers for the past three years. The police produced them before a local court on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-youths-held-for-stealing-bikes/article38332017.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:03 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Removal of Ambedkar portrait leads to protest in Raichur||A portrait of B.R. Ambedkar, placed beside that of Mahatma Gandhi on a dais, was removed before the National Flag was hoisted during the Republic Day celebrations on the District Court premises in Raichur, Karnataka, on Wednesday, leading to protests by a section of advocates attending the event. It is said that the Principal District and Sessions Judge directed his subordinates to remove the photo and the tricolour was unfurled later. Specific guidelines issued by the Registrar of the High Court of Karnataka, which directed courts to place only Mahatma Gandhi’s portraits during the Republic Day celebrations, were cited as the reason, according to the advocates present during the occasion. Video clips showing the removal of the Ambedkar portrait and the heated exchange of words that followed the incident went viral on social media. The protesting advocates said that the issue cropped up during the last Republic Day celebrations also. Raichur Bar Association had written to the High Court seeking permission to keep the portrait of Ambedkar along with that of Mahatma Gandhi during the Republic Day celebrations.  “However, no response has come from the Registrar of the High Court so far,” Shivashankar, an advocate, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/removal-of-ambedkar-portrait-leads-to-protest-in-raichur/article64945145.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:03 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala Minister unfurls national flag upside down||A Kerala Minister hoisted the national flag upside down in Kasaragod district, during the Republic Day celebrations on Wednesday, triggering a political controversy as the opposition BJP demanded his resignation for showing disrespect to the tricolour. The incident occurred when Minister Ahamed Devarkovil, who holds the Port and Archaeology portfolios in the Left government, unfurled the flag at the Municipal Stadium here. Later, the Minister told reporters that there was no lapse from his side and he just hoisted the flag when the officials concerned handed him the rope. He also said the district police chief and the Additional District Magistrate were asked to conduct a comprehensive inquiry into the incident. “It was the officials who should have conducted a trial run before flag hoisting,” he said. Interestingly, no one present on the occasion noticed the gaffe. Meanwhile, BJP State chief K. Surendran sought the resignation of Mr. Devarkovil and registration of a police case against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-minister-unfurls-national-flag-upside-down/article38331470.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:03 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Slain tribesman Madhu’s kin can select prosecutor||The family members of the slain Palakkad tribesman Madhu have been given the choice of selecting the special prosecutor to conduct the trial in the case. The decision comes in the wake of the complaints that the special prosecutor, V.T. Raghunath, who was handpicked by Madhu’s mother, had failed to turn up at the trial court when the case was considered. T.A. Shaji, the Director General of Prosecution, said the family can decide on whether to retain Mr. Raghunath or have a new lawyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/slain-tribesman-madhus-kin-can-select-prosecutor/article38331469.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna district making rapid strides, says Collector||Collector J. Nivas has said that Krishna district has made rapid strides in development and is in the forefront in implementing various government schemes. Mr. Nivas was speaking after unfurling the national flag at the district police grounds on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day here on Wednesday. Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) participated in the celebrations. Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal, Joint Collectors K. Madhavi Latha, L. Shiva Shankar, K. Mohan Kumar, and Nupur Ajay Kumar, IPS officer (trainee) A. Jagadish and other officers were among those present. The Collector and the SP presented Best Performance Award to 66 officers of various departments on the occasion. Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Shivendra Mohan unfurled the national flag at the Railway Mini Stadium. At Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT), Nuzvid, its Director G.V.R. Srinivas Rao participated unfurled the national flag and appealed to the students to work hard to achieve their goals and reach greater heights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-district-making-rapid-strides-says-collector/article38332042.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||R-Day celebrated with caution as COVID cases rise||The 73rd Republic Day was celebrated with caution across South Coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema on Wednesday as fresh COVID cases were reported in thousands each day. Speaking after inspecting a parade, SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu said the district stood first in the country by administering the first dose of vaccine to all eligible persons. Irrigation projects including the Penna barrage, Sangam Barrage and upgradation of the Somasila-Kandaleru floodflow canal were all set to become a reality with major part of the works already over. Literacy rate had jumped to a whopping 84% in the district from 68.2% thanks to the ''Akshara Chaitanyam'' drive. In Ongole, Prakasam Collector Pravin Kumar unfurled the national tricolour and said Ramayapatnam port project is all set for anchoring following acquisition of 9240 acres for sea port and industrial hub. The district stood second in the State in the implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme benefitting 6.42 lakh families. As many as 2.10 lakh crore mandays were created by spending Rs. 731 crore. In Chittoor, District Collector M. Hari Narayanan and Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) S. Senthil Kumar inspected the police parade and took guard of honour from the police personnel at the Police Training Centre. In his address, the Collector said that top priority was being given to the fields of agriculture, horticulture, and dairy development in Chittoor. He said that the November rains had led to crop damage in 13,000 hectares, and that steps were initiated to bail out the farmers. He said an action plan was grounded to enhance the milk production to 38 lakh litres per day by the next two years. In Kurnool, Collector P. Koteswara Rao said the district was at the forefront by completing the target extending 540 kinds of services to 26.44 lakh beneficiaries through 1,118 gram and ward secretariats. He said during the kharif, Rs. 9.56 crore worth of seeds were distributed to over 30,000 farmers. In Anantapur, Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan said that importance was given to the areas of agriculture and allied fields in the district. She said Nadu Nedu programme had posted tremendous results in the district, while focus was also laid on the Amruth scheme to provide safe drinking water to the people in the urban areas. In Kadapa, Collector Vijayarama Raju said the district received 324% of excess rains in November 2021. The flash floods had wreaked damage to crops in 19,000 hectares, affecting 1.3 lakh farmers. He said that the State government had provided Rs. 5 lakh ex gratia to the victims of the Rajampeta floods. He said that all the 14 projects in the district had received full inflows. An amount of Rs. 604 crore was sanctioned to take up the scheme of diverting Krishna floodwaters into the Gandikota project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/r-day-celebrated-with-caution-as-covid-cases-rise/article64945227.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||District division plan evokes opposition in Prakasam||The State Government’s proposal to create 13 new districts on the lines of Telangana has evoked strong opposition from civil society organisations and opposition parties in Prakasam district. The trifurcation of the district with part of it comprising the Assembly segments of S.N. Padu, Addanki, Parchur and Chirala proposed to be merged with new Bapatla district and another part including Kandukur Assembly segment to be clubbed with SPSR Nellore district will cause irreparable loss to Prakasam district, which remains backward even after its formation five decades ago, said Prakasam District Development Forum president Chunduri Ranga Rao. ‘Will launch a struggle’ “We will bring together like-minded non-governmental organisations for a protracted struggle to oppose the unscientific trifurcation of Prakasam district,” he said as the State government called for submission of objections and suggestions in the next 30 days. Communist Party of India (Marxist) East Prakasam unit secretary P. Anjaneyulu maintained that Lok Sabha constituency should not be taken as basis for formation of new districts as they could be redrawn once again after 2024. Dubbing the reorganisation of districts as a ‘futile exercise’, he felt that it would at best serve to accommodate disgruntled ruling YSR Congress Party leaders in various posts in the newly-formed districts. He asserted that the Left parties would call for a strident struggle to exert pressure on the Jagan Mohan Reddy Government to recall the decision which would not benefit the people of the district, formed by merging the most backward parts of Guntur, Kurnool and Nellore districts in 1970. Suggestions Ongole Town Development Committee Secretary Marella Subba Rao suggested formation of a new district with Markapur as headquarters to speed up development in the western parts of the district, and merge the Assembly segments of Giddalur and Yerragondapalem with Nandayal-headquartered district as these Assembly constituencies were far away from Ongole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-division-plan-evokes-opposition-in-prakasam/article38331505.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call for celebrating R-Day as Ambedkar Day||Activists of the Dalit Hakkula Parirakshana Samiti(DHPS) took out a march here on Wednesday to press their demand for celebrating Republic Day officially as Ambedkar Day as a tribute to the Constitution architect. It was on January 26, 1950, that the Constitution came into effect after its adoption by the Constituent Assembly on November 26, 1949. However, due importance had not been given in perpetuating the memory of Dalit icon Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, Samiti president Neelam Nagendra Rao said while addressing a rally on the occasion. It was after a long struggle that November 26 came to be observed as Constitution Day. A stir on similar lines should be spearheaded across the nation to officially celebrate Republic Day as Ambedkar Day, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-for-celebrating-r-day-as-ambedkar-day/article38331501.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Municipal Park becomes Mahatma Gandhi mandir||A group of retired officials, academicians and others have joined hands to construct an exclusive ‘mandir’ for Mahatma Gandhi and establish 26 statues of freedom fighters and social reformers in Srikakulam. The government, which observed their good intention, allowed them convert municipal park into Mahatma Gandhi Mandiram cum “Bharata Swatantra Samarayodhula Spoorthi Vanam” in Santhi Nagar here. The initial work which was started in February 2021, was completed on January 26, 2022, when the nation recalled the services of the freedom fighters on Republic Day. The park, that looks like a museum, will be inaugurated on January 30 on the occasion of Mahatma Gandhiji’s death anniversary. Mahatma Gandhi’s mandir will highlight his contribution and milestones of the freedom struggle. Gandhiji had a special attachment with Srikakulam district also. He visited various places in the year 1927 and explained about the importance of freedom struggle. After gap of 15 years, he visited Dusi village on April 6, 1942, to make everyone to participate in the struggle for freedom. Apart from statue within the temple, a 15-foot high statue has also been constructed on the top of the mandir. Coordination committee members of mandir M. Prasada Rao, Surangi Mohana Rao, M.V.S.S. Shastri, D. Vishnumurthy, Jami Bhima Sankara Rao and others strived for the construction of Gandhi Mandir. The Gandhi Smarka Nidhi and Gandhi Marg India Foundation have also extended their support. The collective initiative inspired many other philanthropists to donate statues of Buddha, Swami Vivekananda, Mother Teresa, B.R. Ambedkar and others. Statues of eminent freedom fighters of Srikakulam district Garimella Satyanarayana, Gowthu Latchanna and K.S. Tilak have also been established in the park. The organisers planned to establish one library adjacent to Mahatma Gandhi mandir to help youngsters to read about the life histories of those personalities. “We are all enjoying fruits of freedom with the sacrifices of Gandhiji and other leaders. It is our responsibility to enable the coming generations to know the history and their contribution to the nation. We hope the park will make children to move in right path,” said Dr. Vishnumurthy and Mr. Shastri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/municipal-park-becomes-mahatma-gandhi-mandir/article64945308.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||People happy over continuation of Etcherla in Srikakulam district||Several leaders, industrialists and academicians on Wednesday welcomed the State government’s move to create new districts without hurting the sentiments of people of the respective regions. They thanked the government for continuing Etcherla constituency in Srikakulam district although it was part of Vizianagaram Parliamentary constituency. “We all heaved a sigh of relief with the continuation of Etcherla Assembly segment in Srikakulam district since many industries, B.R. Ambedkar University and other institutions come under the constituency,” said Sura Srinivasa Rao, industrialist and founder of SSR Charitable Trust. Mr. Srinivasa Rao distributed sweets to locals with the government’s decision and thanked Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy for understanding the sentiments of the local people. Former Vice-Chancellor of Dr.B.R.Ambedkar University Hanumanthu Lajipathi Rai said that the university would have gone to Vizianagaram district if the governemnt planned to make all Parliament constituencies as new districts. “The government has taken utmost care in protecting interests of Srikakulam district with its decision to continue Etcherla segment in Srikakulam since it is the lone developed area with the establishment of many multinational companies and pharma industries in the region,“ Mr. Lajipathi Rai said . Although Etcherla continued to be in Srikakulam, Rajam town is merged with Vizianagaram district as it is geographically well connected to Vizianagaram via Cheepurupalli Assembly segment. As expected Palakonda has been merged with newly-formed Manyam district which will have headquarters at Parvatipuram. Although Sringavaraipukota is part of Visakhapatnam Parliamentary constituency, the government decided to continue it in Vizianagaram district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-happy-over-continuation-of-etcherla-in-srikakulam-district/article38332016.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to launch electric buses in Aug.||The 73rd Republic Day was celebrated with patriotic fervor at the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Parade Grounds on Wednesday, while Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy unfurled the Tricolour. Listing out the series of development activities taken up by the TTD, the EO said the TTD had successfully provided Vaikunta Dwara Darshan from January 13 to 22 to 3.79 lakh pilgrims, including 6,949 devotees who hailed from backward areas, following COVID norms. The EO dwelt on the recent achievements such as Go Maha Sammelanam, Gudiko Gomata and other projects The official said as a part of its mission of protecting Tirumala, the TTD had completely banned plastic and was set to launch electric bus services to Tirumala from August onwards. Later, the EO listed a series of devotional programmes taken up by TTD, including Gita competitions, Adivo Alladivo programme and various Parayanam programmes. He said that the TTD would soon introduce Venkateswara Vratam and Venkateswara Namakoti. Welfare activities The EO mentioned about various employees’ welfare activities taken up, which included Health Scheme, issuance of Smart Cards, appointment of 119 on compassionate and other valid grounds. He concluded his address seeking the blessings of Sri Venkateswara Swamy to give enough strength to all to overcome the COVID crisis and dedicate in the service of devotees with more enthusiasm. After the cultural events, the EO gave away merit certificates to 25 senior officers, 150 employees and 5 SVBC employees on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-launch-electric-buses-in-aug/article64945226.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine COVID deaths, 13,618 fresh cases reported in State||The State reported nine more deaths due to COVID-19 and 13,618 fresh infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,570 and 22,22,573 respectively. The number of recoveries increased to 21,01,685 with 8,687 patients recovering in the past day. The recovery rate remains at 94.56%. The daily test positivity rate of the 49,143 samples tested in the past day was 27.71%. The daily test positivity rate has come down from 36% on Monday to 29.3% on Tuesday and 27.7% on Wednesday contrary to the increase in the number of samples tested. East Godavari, Nellore and Visakhapatnam reported two deaths each, while Chittoor, Srikakulam and West Godavari reported one death each. Visakhapatnam district reported the maximum of 1,791 fresh cases. It was followed by Anantapur (1,650), Guntur (1,464), Kurnool (1,409), Prakasam (1,295), Nellore (1,007), East Godavari (961), Kadapa (907), Krishna (803), West Godavari (728), Srikakulam (644), Chittoor (494) and Vizianagaram (466). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (3,04,658), Chittoor (2,67,763), Guntur (1,92,186), West Godavari (1,85,376), Visakhapatnam (1,83,098), Anantapur (1,71,262), Nellore (1,57,911), Prakasam (1,49,528), Kurnool (1,34,420), Srikakulam (1,32,061), Krishna (1,26,819), Kadapa (1,24,477) and Vizianagaram (90,119).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nine-covid-deaths-13618-fresh-cases-reported-in-state/article64945125.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court CJ stresses need for swift justice, judicial propriety||Andhra Pradesh High Court Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra stressed the need for a concerted effort to deliver speedy justice to the needy while grappling with unforeseen challenges like theCOVID-19 pandemic. He recalled that Mahatma Gandhi had cautioned the nation against being overwhelmed bya euphoria of freedom and giving up on their goals. “So many years after India became a Republic, many aspirations are yet to be fulfilled. We in the judiciary, which is considered one of the world’s strongest, have an onerous duty to facilitate nation-building. Each one of us should rise to the occasion,” he exhorted the legal fraternity. Addressing members of the Bench and the Bar, judicial officers, their family members and other dignitaries at the 73rd Republic Day (RD) celebrations organised on the court premises on Wednesday, Chief Justice Mishra said theCOVID-19 pandemichas not deterred the nation from remaining strong to march towards the future and that the judiciary has a pivotal role to play in it without compromising on the high standards of judicial propriety. “The adoption of the Constitution was an epoch-making event. The Constitution is a unifying factor and a sacred document that gives us values which should never be forgotten. The Republic is not to be considered as a mere festival or a ritual,” the CJ asserted.  The Constitution is a unifying factor and a sacred document that gives us values which should never be forgotten. The Republic is not to be considered as a mere festival or a ritual Prashant Kumar Mishra HC Chief Justice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chief-justice-stresses-need-for-swift-justice-judicial-propriety/article38331990.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Priority to free power supply to ryots: Energy Secretary||Energy Secretary N. Srikant has said providing free power supply to agriculture for nine hours during day time and reducing the burgeoning cost of power purchases are the top priorities of his department. Unfurling the national flag on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day at Vidyut Soudha here on Wednesday, Mr. Srikant said, out of the approved total power purchase cost of Rs. .31,346 crore last year, the DISCOMshad saved Rs. 4,925 crore by substituting the costly thermal power with power bought from the markets at relatively lesser rates. Of this, the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission took into accountRs. .3,375crore and approved a ‘true down’ to that extent from the retail supply tariff order for FY 2021-22. “An amount of Rs. 1,552 crore is still to be reckoned as true-down. This shows the government’s commitment to reduce the burden on consumers,” he observed. Mr. Srikant further said there were about 18.50 lakh agricultural connections in the State being supplied free power through 6,663 feeders. The government was providing a subsidy of Rs. 7,715 crore towards that scheme annually. Solar power He also said a total of 7,000 MW of solar power would be procured from 2024 in separate lots from the Solar Energy Corporation of India to cater to the farm sector. ‘Transmission losses reduced’ The transmission losses which stood at2.6% in 2020-21 could be reduced to 2.4% so far in 2021-22, and the distribution losses came down from 7.5% in 2020-21 to 5% in 2021-22, Mr. Srikant added. AP-Transco Joint MDs I. Prudhvi Tej and B. Malla Reddy, Directors K. Praveen Kumar and K. Muthupandian, and Genco Directors G. Chandra Sekhar Raju, M.V.V. Satyanarayana, and Syed Rafi took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/priority-to-free-power-supply-to-ryots-energy-secretary/article64945204.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIT-AP felicitates unsung heroes on R-Day||Keeping up with its annual tradition of felicitating unsung heroes among the most common people on Republic Day, the VIT-AP University honoured 25 persons who demonstrated exemplary dedication to their work. They included Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation driver O. Madhu and APSP police constable K. Srinivasa Rao, who were honoured posthumously. Besides, 10 fire services personnel, two RTC drivers and conductor and 12 policemen were given cash awards of Rs. 20,000 each and appreciation certificates in recognition of discharging of their duties diligently. Joint Collector, Guntur, A.S. Dinesh Kumar, unfurled the national Tricolour and presented the awards. He also handed over free laptops to students of 2021 batch who were identified as beneficiaries of the Support the Advancement of Rural Students (STARS) programme. “Service to humanity is service to God,” said Mr. Dinesh Kumar and appreciated the university’s decision on meaningful celebration of the Republic Day and Independence Day by recognising the services of the unsung heroes. University Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy, Registrar C.L.V. Sivakumar, Deputy Director, and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vit-ap-felicitates-unsung-heroes-on-r-day/article38332046.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||AP tableau denied entry in last leg at RD Parade||Even as the nation is celebrating ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, a theme on the national flag presented by the Andhra Pradesh government for the tableau to be displayed in the Republic Day Parade in New Delhi was “not selected” by the expert committee. The State’s tableau was denied entry in the last leg. According to information, A.P.’s tableau was based on the theme of design of the national flag by Pingali Venkayya. The State government planned to showcase the event that occurred in Vijayawada in April 1921. The tableau depicts Pingali Venkayya, who hailed from Krishna district, presenting the National Flag designed by him to Mahatma Gandhi. “The theme passed scrutiny and made it to the final round. The expert committee told us that we will meet on the grounds. But it was not selected,” said an official. The expert committee reportedly cited COVID-19 as the reason. The committee examines the proposals on the basis of theme, concept, design and its visual impact before making its recommendations. A.P. passed all these criteria. Earlier tableau A.P. had sent a tableau based on the theme of Lepakshi temple for the R-Day parade in New Delhi in 2021. The tableau showcased the rich, monolithic rock architecture of Lepakshi temple. Besides the architecture, it also showcased the spectacular monolithic rock structure of Nandi, which is situated near the temple with 27 ft in length and 15 ft in height. A.P.’s tableau’s theme during the 71st R-Day celebrations was Brahmotsavams in 2020. A.P.’s tableau was last selected in 2016. Thereafter, for the three consecutive years, there was no tableau representing the State in the R-Day Parade in New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-tableau-denied-entry-in-last-leg-at-rd-parade/article38331988.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sucharitha oblivious to reality in Atmakur incident’||BJP Rajya Sabha member Y.S. Chowdary has criticised Home Minister M. Sucharitha for objecting to Union Minister V. Muraleedharan’s visit to Kadapa to console party leader B. Srikanth Reddy, who is lodged in a jail there. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Chowdary questioned why Ms. Sucharitha had kept quiet when Mr. Srikanth Reddy and other BJP activists were attacked by a mob at Atmakur in Kurnool district for opposing the illegal construction of a place of worship.The miscreants had not spare the police either, he alleged. Ms. Sucharitha’s claim that the police had saved Mr. Srikanth Reddy was strange, he said. If that was the case, why was Mr. Srikanth Reddy arrested under Section .307, he questioned. The district Superintendent of Police had hinted at the involvement of some anti-national forces in the Atmakur incident, but Ms. Sucharitha was apparently oblivious to the reality, the BJP leader said. Mr. Chowdary also sought an explanation on the arrest of the BJP leaders who were headed to Gudivada to participate in a private event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sucharitha-oblivious-to-reality-in-atmakur-incident/article38331995.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thammineni lauds State’s COVID fight||Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam, on the occasion of Republic Day, unfurled the national flag on the Assembly premises on Wednesday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Seetharam said India was facing many internal and external challenges. Stating that the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic was spreading fast, he said the State, under the leadership of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, was able to control its spread. The village and ward secretariats and the volunteers’ efforts in this regard were commendable, he said. Mr. Seetharam said creation of new districts would take the administration closer to the people. Legislative Council Chairman K. Moshen Raju unfurled the flag on Assembly building.In his address, Mr. Moshen Raju said India had the biggest written Constitution in the world. “India is on top of the world because of the Constitution, which provides equal opportunities to every citizen.” The State government was implementing many welfare schemes, he said, and added that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was striving to make the State number one in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thammineni-lauds-states-covid-fight/article38331996.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Golden Book of the Year’ award for Masula poet||Sreekanth Kopuri, an English poet from Machilipatnam, has won the ‘Golden Book of the Year Award 2022, for his work ‘Poems of the Void’, for best lyrical poetry. One among 50 recipients Other 50 eminent personalities who won this award include Chetan Bhagat (400 days), Sudha Murthy (The Sage with Two Horns), Sadguru Jaggi Vasudev (Karma), Priyanka Chopra (Unfinished), Dalai Lama (Little Book of Encouragement) and a host of others. The award is given to 50 best books every year by Pune-based Wings Publication. “The award ceremony will be organised in Pune tentatively in February due to COVID restrictions,” says Mr. Kopuri, who is a professor of English in Vasavi College in Machilipatnam and divides his time between teaching the writing. His poems and research articles have been published in many journals. Influenced by the works of Jayanta Mahapatra, the first Indian poet to win a Sahitya Akademi award for English poetry, Prof. Kopuri did his Ph.D. on his works. “Poems of the Void’ is a spiritual exploration of the chaos that gradually debilitates the Earth,” he says. “The book is a meditation over the simple and mundane events of life to understand the undercurrent of this disorder, and a struggle for an appropriate metaphor to pictorially communicate this objective to the reader with topics like The Holocaust (after visiting Auschwitz Concentration Camp), post-Marx Marxist ideology, post-Independent India, female foeticide, industrial revolution, Hyderabad bomb blasts, Tsunami, honour killing, love, death, disease, dementia and many,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/golden-book-of-the-year-award-for-masula-poet/article38332040.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two RPF, 15 policemen given Indian Police Medal||Two RPF personnel working in South Central Railway (SCR) Zone have been awarded the prestigious Indian Police Medal (IPM) on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day celebrations. Shaik Mastan Vali, ASI workingat Tadepalli in the Vijayawada Railway Division, and U. Narasimha Rao, Inspector of Secunderabad division, have been selected for the IPM. DIG (Law and Order) V. Rajasekhar Babu, East Godavari SP M. Ravindranath Babu, CID DSP (Nellore) V. Rambabu, ACP East Zone in Vijayawada Commissionerate K. Vijaya Paul, Greyhounds Assistant Commandant in Visakhapatnam B. Vijay Kumar, Additional DCP, Visakhapatnam Commissionerate K. Subramanyam, Guntur Regional Vigilance and Enforcement Officer (RVEO) C. Srinivas Rao, Kurnool DSP Y. Ravindra Reddy, Anantapur DSP Veera Raghava Reddy, Vijayawada CCS SI G. Krishna Rao, Kakinada Armed Reserve (AR) SI S. Simhachalam, Guntur Urban ASI T. Narendra Kumar, Kadapa ASI P. Bhaskar, Kovvur ASI S. Naga Srinivas and ACB ASI (Vijayawada) S. Veera Anjaneyulu were selected for the IPM. B. Kondala Rao, IT Adviser to the A.P. Police, has been awarded the Uttam Seva Puraskaram for the third consecutive year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-rpf-15-policemen-given-indian-police-medal/article38331997.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village Secretariats tableau bags first prize||The tableau of Village Secretariats bagged the first prize at the Republic Day celebrations organised at the IGMC Stadium Complex in Vijayawada on Wednesday. The Women Development and Child Welfare department stood in second place, while the Medical and Health department bagged the third prize. Principal Secretary (Housing) Ajay Jain received the first prize for Tableau — changing face of village — village and ward secretariats. The women welfare department displayed the foundation schools, Anganwadi centres, YSR Sampoorna Poshana schemes on the tableau.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/village-secretariats-tableau-bags-first-prize/article38331986.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ranjith Basha to assume office as VMC chief today||Newly-appointed Commissioner of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation(VMC) P. Ranjit Basha will assume office on Thursday. Earlier stint Mr. Ranjit, belonging to the 2013 IAS batch, was previously Special Commissioner of Andhra Pradesh Rehabilitation and Resettlement, and had earlier worked as Director of Tribal Welfare and Panchayat Raj and Rural Development departments. Outgoing commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh has been posted as Collector of West Godavari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ranjith-basha-to-assume-office-as-vmc-chief-today/article38332043.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New district will pave way for focussed enforcement on LWE||Though the carving out of new districts has been drawing mixed reactions, the mood in the camps of the security forces engaged in anti-Maoist operations is upbeat. They feel that the carving out of Alluri Sitharamaraju (ASR) district is a strategic move to tackle the left wing extremists. The new district is proposed to be carved out of Visakhapatnam district and contains all the 11 Maoist-infested mandals in the Visakha Agency and 11 mandals from East Godavari, which have a Maoist presence. A few senior police officers feel that the focus will improve both on containing the Maoists, as well as on the development front. The district will now be under the control of a Superintendent of Police and the entire police force will be able to concentrate on containing the left wing extremism. More funding At present, Visakha Agency is monitored by the SP of Visakhapatnam, who has about three ASPs in his team to monitor the LWE areas. He has other duties, which include policing the Visakha rural region, which includes the Anakapalle sub-division. But once the bifurcation is done, the entire Agency area will be under a new SP, who can have more number of ASPs to police the district, said a senior police officer. The new district, since it has already been identified by the Union Government as LWE-affected region, will get more funds for development, which includes construction of roads, hospitals and schools and other basic infrastructure. The funds of the State Government and Special Central Assistance will all be now diverted to this new district, and it need not be utilised for other areas, said another senior police officer, who earlier served as SP of Visakhapatnam. Both the SP and the District Collector can now focus on development, as this new district is a special district such as Sukma or Bijapur in Chhattisgarh, he said. Challenges But the challenge for the State Government is to cater funds, build infrastructure and allot more manpower. As of now, the State is in no position to either allot funds or recruit more force or build infrastructure. It is learnt that the higher ups have already given instructions to share and use the existing force on deputation. But if this sharing and deputation continues for long, the district will turn poorer and there are chances of the Maoists, who are on the lowest ebb now, regrouping and turning this region once again into a stronghold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-district-will-pave-way-for-focussed-enforcement-on-lwe/article38331991.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||District making rapid strides in various sectors, says Collector||Patriotic songs, dances and cultural presentations by children of various schools were the highlight of the 73rd Republic Day celebrations organised by the district administration at the Police Parade Grounds here on Wednesday. The presentation ‘Vande Maataram – Sundara Bharatam’ by children of the Government Queen Mary’s High School and the dance by ‘Ye Desamegina...yendhu kalidina …’ were the highlights of the event. Dhimsa dance by children of Pendurthy Santhipuram ZP High School, the ‘war demo’ by students of Pollocks School and Mallakhamb (pole gymnastics) on two poles by students of St. Peter’s High School were the other attractions. Girls and boys presented yoga, aerobics, boxing, kickboxing and karate, under the aegis of the District Sports Authority. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha and other officials presented mementoes to the children. Earlier, Dr. Mallikarjuna unfurled the national flag and saluted it. He received the guard of honour from the police contingent. In his Republic Day address, the Collector briefed about the progress made by various departments in the district. He spoke on the welfare schemes introduced by the State government. He said that the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has secured the 3-Star rating among ‘garbage-free’ cities and the top position in the country in the ‘gathering of public opinion’. The district was one among 30 nominated among 113 districts in the country for the ‘Award of Excellence in District Skill Development Planning’ under AP State Skill Development Corporation(APSSDC), he said. Tableaux, depicting the activities of various departments, were taken around the ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-making-rapid-strides-in-various-sectors-says-collector/article64945151.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Preparations in place for President’s Fleet Review on Feb. 21, says ENC chief||As part of the 73rd Republic Day, a ceremonial parade was held at the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) parade ground at INS Circars, on Wednesday. Vice-Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, ENC, took the salute and inspected a 50-men guard after unfurling the national flag. He later reviewed the platoons comprising naval personnel drawn from all ships, submarines and establishments. The parade was conducted by Vice-Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan, Chief of Staff, ENC, and it was attended by all Flag Officers, Commanding Officers of all ships, submarines and establishments in Visakhapatnam. Addressing the personnel, Vice-Admiral Dasgupta emphasised on the significance of Republic Day and urged everyone to continue to follow the COVID appropriate behaviour. He said that preparations are in place for hosting the President’s Fleet Review on February 21 and the multilateral naval exercise, MILAN, from February 26 to March 4 in Visakhapatnam. Investiture ceremony The Naval Investiture Ceremony was also conducted during the parade. Vice-Admiral Dasgupta presented Nao Sena Medal (Gallantry) to Naveen Kumar, Leading Seaman (UW), for displaying courage, gallantry and bravery in the elimination of two hardcore terrorists in Kashmir. He also presented Nao Sena Medal (Devotion to Duty) to Cmde Rahul Vilas Gokhale in recognition of his overall contribution to the Navy for over 29 years. Lt Cdr Tushar Bahl (Retd) was presented the Lt VK Jain Memorial Award for outstanding applied research in the field of embedded technologies and SAVL Haranandh POA (AH) was presented the Capt Ravi Dhir Memorial Gold Medal for promoting Flight Safety in Naval Air Operations. He also presented the Unit Citations for the year 2020 to Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, and INS Jalashwa for their outstanding performance. Meanwhile, Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) celebrated the 73rd Republic Day at the Port Stadium at Akkayyapalem. VPT Chairmann K. Ramamohanarao unfurled the national flag and took the Rastriya Salami presented by the contingents of CISF. The VPT Chairman spoke on the vital role played by the port by ensuring uninterrupted supply of essential commodities during the pandemic. The efforts would be continued to increase the cargo handling during the 2021-22 fiscal. Mechanisation of berths was going on, he added. Port Secretary T. Venugopal, HODs and employees participated in limited number due to COVID-19 restrictions. DRDA tableau The DRDA tableau bagged the first prize at the 73rd Republic Day celebrations, organised at the Police Parade Grounds. In all 14 tableaux were displayed by various departments to showcase the activities undertaken by them. The Women and Child Welfare and Education Departments bagged the second and third prizes respectively. The other tableaux displayed were by the Medical and Health Department, Jagananna Colony, Rythu Bharosa, YSR Kranthi Padhakam, ITDA Paderu, GVMC Swachh Survekshan, Fisheries, Amma Vodi, District Water Management Association, Civil Supplies and Forest Departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/preparations-in-place-for-presidents-fleet-review-on-feb-21-says-enc-chief/article38332057.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC initiated 2,703 works in 2021, says Lakshmisha||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Lakshmisha said that during the year 2021, the civic body has initiated 2,703 development works worth Rs. 409.69 crore. Out of them, as many as 1,554 works were completed, while 231 works are in progress. While 306 works are yet to be initiated, about 612 works are still in tender stage. The Commissioner was delivering the speech as part of 73rd Republic Day Celebrations at the GVMC office here on Wednesday. He said that as many as 4,456 Ward Secretariats, 10,126 Ward Volunteers have been providing 543 various services of the government to the people through 578 Ward Sachivalayams in the civic body limits. He said that as part of YSR Urban Primary Health Clinics, about 42 new Urban Primary Health Centres are coming up in the GVMC limits. The Commissioner also said that around 95 % works of the Waste-to-Energy Plant have been completed. Mayor G Hari Venkata Kumari, Deputy Mayors J Sridhar and K. Satheesh and others were present. The district police organised Republic Day celebrations here on Wednesday. Inspector General (Visakha Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao and Superintendent of Police (Rural) B. Krishna Rao unfurled the national flag at their offices and later took part in the official programme at the Parade Grounds. Around 40 police personnel from the district police received merit certificates for their services from District Collector A Mallikarjuna in the presence of Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao and Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha. Superintendent of Visakhapatnam Central Prison B. Rahul unfurled the national flag at the Central Jail. Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy unfurled the national flag near Basket Ball court on Wednesday. He also paid floral tributes to the statues of Dr B.R Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhi near administrative building. Management of Damodaram Sanjeevayya National Law University (DSNLU) also conducted Republic Day celebrations at their campus. Vice-Chancellor Surya Prakash unfurled the national flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-initiated-2703-works-in-2021-says-lakshmisha/article38332055.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||PSUs take stock of progress on R-Day||The 73rd Republic Day was marked by unfurling of the national flag, parades, taking stock of the progress achieved, patriotic songs, dances and cultural events by different organisations in the city and the district on Wednesday. Divisional Railway Manager of Waltair Division of East Coast Railway(E Co R) Anup Satpathy unfurled the tricolour and took the ‘Rastriya Salami’ presented by the contingents of Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Civil Defence personnel at the Waltair Railway Foot Ball Stadium. The Divisional Cultural Association of Waltair presented cultural programmes and patriotic songs. RPF commandos performed daredevil motorcycle riding display, performance by the dog squad and narrative skit on railway helpline and Meri Saheli by the special squad of RPF. E Co R Women’s Welfare Organisation president Parijata Satpathy,vice-president Kavita Gupta and secretary Priyanka distributed health drinks and fruits to about 100 patients. Atul Bhatt, CMD, RINL unfurled the national flag, took the salute and inspected the guard of honor accorded by the CISF Jawans, at the Trishna Grounds in the township. He congratulated the RINL collective for netting in a profit after tax of Rs. 790 crore during the first nine months of the fiscal. Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL) Director Y. Sreenivas Rao unfurled the tricolour and paid tributes to freedom fighters, who had sacrificed their lives for the cause of freedom. Dredging Corporation of India (DCI) MD and CEO G.Y.V. Victor unfurled the national flag and underlined the need to preserve nature and resources for the benefit of posterity. Hemant Khatri, CMD of Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL), in his Republic Day address, said that the shipyard had achieved a milestone by completing the construction of 200 ships and repairing 2,000 ships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/psus-take-stock-of-progress-on-r-day/article38332056.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) seeks early solution to border row in Kollaput||The CPI(M) District Committee has appealed to Collector A. Mallikarjuna to find an early solution to the border dispute betweenAndhra Pradeshand Odisha over the jurisdiction of Kollaput panchayat of Dumbriguda mandal, which has created a rift between tribal villagers on both sides of the border a year ago. In a memorandum to the Collector on Wednesday, CPI(M) District Committee secretary K. Lokanadham and district secretariat member Killo Surendrasaid that about a year ago, tribal people from Odisha came to Bodlamamidi and Nittamamidi villages and destroyed 2,000 coffee and 3,000 silver oak plants. Theysaid that the tribal people fromA.P.were living ina state offear, and said the problem was aggravating with the passage of time. They sought intervention of the Collector for an amicable solution to end the problem once and for all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-seeks-early-solution-to-border-row-in-kollaput/article38332050.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman slashes ‘eve-teaser’ in theatre||A young woman, watching a movie at a theatre, reportedly attacked an inebriated youth with a small knife after the latter allegedly subjected her to eve-teasing, in Maddilapalem late on Tuesday. Police said that the 23-year-old woman, irked by the behaviour of the 28-year-old eve-teaser, whipped out a knife from her hand bag and slashed the man on his neck and ear, inflicting minor injuries. The incident came to light after the theatre management informed the local police about the incident, who booked cases against both the woman and the man. MVP Police Station inspectorP. Ramanayya said that based on complaints from both the parties,they registered cases. “We are yet to ascertain the full picture and further investigation is on into the case,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-slashes-eve-teaser-in-theatre/article38331465.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two deaths, 1,791 new virus cases in district||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 1,791 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The death toll has also rose to 1,132, after two more persons succumbed to the virus, as per the State COVID-19 bulletin released on Wednesday. The district has recorded highest single-day tally in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-deaths-1791-new-virus-cases-in-district/article38332054.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Class VIII student ‘ends’ life at Padmanabham||A 16-year-old boy reportedly ended his life by hanging himself from a tree at Padmanabham in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Sai Kalyan, a resident of Samyyavalasa panchayat in Pandrangi and a Class VIII student at Government High School, Padmanabham. According to Inspector of Padmanabham Police Station, Srinivasa Rao, Sai Kalyan used to stay in Government B.C Welfare Boys Hostel, Padmanabham. At around 9 a.m., he reportedly called one of his friends through a mobile phone and informed him that he was going to end his life. After ending the phone call, the boy’s friend immediately called other friends in the nearby village and asked them to rush to the hostel. All of them reached the hostel and informed the same to the warden. They started a search for Sai Kalyan and found him hanging from a tree in the cashew orchards close to the hostel. The body was shifted to Tagarapuvalasa for post-mortem and a case was registered. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline no. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/class-viii-student-ends-life-at-padmanabham/article38332051.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two students from W. G. held for ‘drug peddling’||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB)have arrested two students, identified as Rohit and Rithwik, of West Godavari district for allegedly peddling drugs within the State. The students, who were earlier consumers, laterbecame peddlers and began procuring and supplying drugs to addicts. Police are trying to find out how long the duo has been supplying drugs like MDMA, LSD, Ecstasy and marijuana (ganja) to addicts. “We were shocked over the wide network that the peddlers have developed in Andhra Pradesh. The names of many students and youth of West Godavari, Guntur, Krishna, East Godavari and otherdistricts were found in the mobile call data and thediaries recovered from the accused,” an investigating officer said. Rohit, a native of Bhimavaram,is a degree student and Rithwik, of Nallajarla in West Godavari district, is in his final year of Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) course in Bengaluru. Another accused, named Rahul, was workingat a private firm in Hyderabad. “The SEB personnel picked up a ganja peddlerin Guntur a few days ago. Based on his confession, police arrested Rohit. As per the call data retrieved from his phone, we formed a decoy party and rounded up his brother Rahul,” said SEB Commissioner Vineet Brijlal.  Policerecovered a dairy in which the names of Rithwik and the details of two peddlers of Bengaluru were found, and took Rithwik into custody. A few other suspects are being questioned, the Commissioner told The Hindu on Wednesday.  “We are trying to identify more drug addicts of the gang, whoare students,and have nowturned into peddlers.The drug mafia is targeting degree, PG, engineering, MBA, MCA and BBA students of A.P., Karnataka, Telangana and other States,” SEB Director P.H.D. Ramakrishna said. Modus operandi On being told over phone byRohit, his brother Rahulwould send drugs in small sachets weighing just one or two grams. The sachets would be concealed in the pockets of trousers, which Rahul would send via private bus drivers coming to Bhimavaram from Hyderabad after paying them Rs. 100. “Rohitwould receive the parcels and supply them to consumers in Bhimavaram, Narsapuram, Eluru, Palakol, Guntur, Vijayawada and other places,” an officer said. The decoy party arrested the siblings after receiving the drugs from the bus driver, and more arrests are likely to be made in the racket, Mr. Ramakrishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-arrest-two-students-for-drug-peddling-in-ap/article64945203.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:04 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC slashes fare on Hyderabad routes||However, this 20% discount will be available to Hyderabad-bound passengers on all days of the week, except on Sundays, and for people coming from Hyderabad, the discount rates will not be available on Fridays. A trip from Machilipatnam to BHEL in Hyderabad in Garuda bus, which normally costs Rs. 785, will now cost Rs. 685, Machilipatnam-BHEL Night Rider (seat) which costs Rs. 730 would now be available for Rs. 640 and the cost of Night Rider (berth) has been reduced from Rs. 920 to Rs. 800. Similarly, commuters on the Gudivada- BHEL route travelling by APSRTC’s Indra bus will be paying Rs. 555 against the normal rate of Rs. 610, a Vijayawada-Hyderabad ride in Amaravati bus will cost Rs. 535 against the regular charges of Rs. 650, Vijayawada-Hyderabad Vennela sleeper would cost Rs. 590 against the regular cost of Rs. 730 and Vijayawada-Hyderabad ride in Garuda will cost Rs. 495 as against the earlier Rs. 620.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-slashes-fare-on-hyderabad-routes/article38331987.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:24 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Momentous occasion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/momentous-occasion/article64945309.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doing their bit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doing-their-bit/article64945209.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:02 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blankets distributed to poor||On the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day, Waltair Kalibari, distributed 200 blankets to the poor and the needy in Visakhapatnam on Wednesday. The blankets were given away by East Coast Railway Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy in the presence of the president of the Kalibari Burman and other members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blankets-distributed-to-poor/article38332049.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:36 IST,TELANGANA||Grama One launched in 12 districts of Karnataka||Grama One, which seeks to provide a host of government services under the same roof in rural areas, was launched in 12 districts by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday. The services will be extended to all districts across Karnataka by the end of March. Earlier, Grama One had been run on a trial basis in four districts to understand the challenges since it’s a technology-based service offering. It enables access to a host of services offered by the departments of Agriculture, Horticulture, Revenue, Women and Children Development. “The services being provided at the doorstep will ensure convenience to people who now have to spend time and money to reach taluk office to get services. This will also remove middlemen,” Mr. Bommai said during the virtual launch in Bengaluru. “More than 6 lakh applications have been cleared during the pilot project in 4 districts. I have directed officers to make the system more efficient. Deputy Commissioners should consider this as a priority of the government and bring qualitative changes of life.” Later, speaking to reporters, Mr. Bommai said that about 25 services will be offered in Grama One initially before the number is scaled up to 100. “Grama One would be extended to all gram panchayats in all districts before the end of March,” he said and stated that the programme would be monitored constantly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/grama-one-launched-in-12-districts-to-provide-services-on-doorstep/article38331711.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:36 IST,TELANGANA||Efforts to showcase Kollur 2-BHK project to PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled visit to the city of Hyderabad for unveiling the gigantic statue of Ramanujacharyulu on February 5 could also become the time for showcasing another humongous project of the State government. While not included in the scheduled itinerary of the PM, the State government is making efforts for a stop at the double bedroom housing project at Kollur on Outer Ring Road, sources informed. It is learnt that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is keen on inviting Mr. Modi to inaugurate the prestigious undertaking, which is said to be the largest condominium project in Asia, and one among the biggest in the world. Efforts are on to get the PM’s nod at least for an aerial view of the project if a stop is not possible due to security considerations, sources said. Directions have been issued to get the premises spruced up for the launch in February first week, as the mega township of 117 towers and 15,660 dwelling units has been lying vacant despite completion one and a half years ago. More than 500 labourers have been deployed, along with 50 water tankers and 50 tractors, in order to ready the premises in the shortest possible duration. Best sustainability The project is distinct not for its size alone though. It is designed as the model township for the best sustainability practices, following directions and supervision by Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao. Planned and constructed in 144 acres of government land, the township boasts a sewage treatment plant with the capacity to treat nine million liters of sewage per day, and pipelines laid for use of treated water for gardening. Two dedicated 33/11kV electrical sub stations are planned, of which construction of one has been completed. Power supply is through underground cables, and centralised ducting is provided for all utility infrastructure, which will prevent the need for road cutting in future, officials informed. Power back up is provided for elevators through generators. One more key feature of the project which is designed to house a population of 80,000 to 90,000, is its solid waste management yard. Garbage generated from the township will be treated inside the premises, and not a scrap will be thrown out, an official informed. Similar is the rain water harvesting system, designed to tap every drop of rain falling on the rooftops. Storm water drains have been built apart from the underground sewerage lines, over which walking and cycling tracks are laid. Spaces are earmarked for playgrounds, open air gyms, indoor sports complex, open sports arena, tot-lots, multipurpose ground, amphitheatre, open air auditorium, Bathukamma ghat, commercial complexes, play schools, Anganwadi centres, primary and high schools and even burial grounds/cremation centres. The community will have its own police and fire stations too, apart from Basti Dawakhanas, hospitals, post office and other public facilities, for which space is allocated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/efforts-to-showcase-kollur-2-bhk-project-to-pm/article38331901.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:38 IST,TELANGANA||Centre unresponsive to efforts on CCI revival in Adilabad: KTR||Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao has assured that the government would put in all efforts with the Central government to revive the Cement Corporation of India (CCI) plant in Adilabad. Mr. Rao was speaking to a delegation of leaders from Adilabad district, including MLA Jogu Ramanna, when they called on him at Pragati Bhavan to discuss the agitation mode for the revival of the CCI unit. The Minister informed them that several efforts were already made by the government, and the Central government was assured of all the assistance. He said the government was ready to provide special incentives for reviving the CCI including the incentives given to ground new industries in the state. Representations were given to the Union Ministers several times and despite the best efforts the response from the Centre was not encouraging. Mr. Rao said the State government is promoting industries with new investor-friendly policies and it already has the credit of reviving Sirpur Paper Mill in the combined Adilabad district. On the other hand, the Central government is selling all the public sector undertakings to the corporates at a throwaway price. Even the jewel of Telangana, Singareni, is also being privatised by the Centre, he said. He assured that he would take a delegation of Adilabad youth to New Delhi on the revival of CCI if the situation demands. He said a IT tower and a textile park would also be set up in Adilabad very soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-unresponsive-to-efforts-on-cci-revival-in-adilabad-ktr/article64945271.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:36 IST,TELANGANA||Fluttering flags, tributes mark Republic Day||Fluttering national flags and national anthem renting the air marked the day as institutions and individuals celebrated the 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday across city. Chief Justice of Telangana Satish Chandra Sharma unfurled the national flag at the High Court in the presence of judges and other judicial officers. He recalled the contribution of lawyers to the freedom struggle and how an eminent lawyer, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, played a key role in writing the Constitution as the Head of the Constitution Committee. On the occasion, the Chief Justice felicitated Bikkumalla Upender and Manjula, parents of Mahavir Chakra awardee Col. Santosh Babu, who sacrificed his life at Galwan in a clash with the Chinese forces. The Tricolour was unfurled at the Railway Sports Complex Grounds, Secunderabad by the South Central Railway General Manager, Sanjeev Kishore. He received the guard of honour presented by the contingents of Railway Protection Force (RPF). Hyderabad Police Commissioner, C.V. Anand unfurled the national flag at his office in Basheerbagh. Additional CP (law and order) D S Chauhan and other officers of the Hyderabad police were present. At the GHMC office, Commissioner Lokesh Kumar unveiled the national flag. GHMC Mayor, Gadwal Vijayalakshmi and other officials were present. Deputy Mayor, Mothe Sri Latha Reddy unfurled the National Flag at the camp office in Tarnaka division. The University of Hyderabad (UoH) celebrated the day with Vice-Chancellor Prof. B.J. Rao unfurling the National Flag at the Gurbaksh Singh Maidan on the campus. Earlier, Pro-Vice-Chancellor Prof. R.S. Sarraju unfurled the national flag at the Golden Threshold campus in the city. Prof. D. Ravinder, Vice-Chancellor, Osmania University unfurled the Tricolour at Arts College. Prof. E. Suresh Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of the English and Foreign Languages University unfurled the flag at the campus and called upon the faculty and the staff to strive to further strengthen the EFLU’s image as an institution of international eminence. The national flag was also unfurled at several other organisations in the city, including TS TRANSCO, TSRTC, I &PR Commissionerate, HMWSSB, Telangana State Industrial Development Corporation and the National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC). Several schools and colleges, and residential colonies also joined in the celebrations. The residential societies also organised small events on the occasion, paying tributes to the freedom fighters who brought independence and prepared the Constitution that guides us to function as a secular, democratic and republic nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fluttering-flags-tributes-mark-republic-day/article64945277.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:38 IST,TELANGANA||State should emerge leader in quality education: Governor||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has underlined the need for the State to emerge a leader in quality education and consolidate its position as the innovation hub through constant efforts by promoting innovation eco-system. The State should take the lead in contributing to the realization of self-reliant India, she said. The Governor was speaking after unfurling the national flag at Raj Bhavan on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday. She said Hyderabad was fast emerging a hub for pharmaceuticals, medicine and information technology and was witnessing establishment of offices by several global corporate organisations. At the same time, there was bountiful crop production in the State with Telangana emerging rice bowl of the country in recent past. “I salute the farmers for their toil. Despite pandemic conditions, they have produced a bumper harvest thus ensuring food security to millions of people,” she said. Dr. Tamilisai elaborated on the achievements made by the country towards its march to become self-reliant. The development, production and free distribution of our indigenous COVID vaccine were a true testimony to the country’s spirit of self-reliance. The country had supplied indigenously produced vaccines to more than 150 countries and thanks to the efforts of scientists and pharmacy specialists, India was now called a “pharmacy of the world” and as the “vaccine capital of the world”. A record number of 160 crore vaccine doses were administered in the country and it was marching forward to achieve 200 crore vaccine mark in the months to come. The Governor acknowledged the services of the scientists, doctors, paramedical staff, nurses and other frontline warriors in helping the country implement the world’s largest vaccination drive in a seamless manner. Dr. Tamilisai greeted the frontline workers gathered on the premises in recognition of their services. She said the Republic Day assumed greater importance this year as the country was celebrating 75 years of its Independence as Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav. The Republic Day signified the supremacy of the Constitution and highlighted that the ultimate power rested with people. The Constitution, considered the most comprehensive and one of the best in the world, was proving to be time tested and had successfully shaped the world’s largest and vibrant democracy. “It is high time that we all contribute our bit in shaping our country as self-reliant in our respective fields,” she said. The Governor said the country was emerging strong and secure by constantly modernizing and strengthening its defence systems with new technologies. Getting stronger day by day, the country was successfully facing numerous challenges internally and at its borders. “We are also on a firm path to emerge Atma Nirbhar in our major defence requirements,” she averred adding the relentless efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi had ensured that the country was now considered one of the important global powers and was enjoying a pride place of its own among the comity of nations. She stressed the need for strengthening the country’s efforts to emerge self-reliant through quality education, innovation, research and development and entrepreneurship. Despite repeated pandemic waves due to new variants and their impact on different sectors, the country through its sheer power of resilience bounced back and was witnessing faster economic growth. “We must ensure that the fruits of development reached all the sections of the people. We need to make constant efforts to create equal opportunities and accessible conditions with a special focus on the under privileged sections,” she said.  I salute the farmers for their toil. Despite pandemic conditions, they have produced a bumper harvest thus ensuring food security to millions of people. Tamilisai Soundararajan, Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-should-emerge-leader-in-quality-education-governor/article64945267.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:36 IST,TELANGANA||District wise model to control spread of thalassemia||Thalassemia is a genetic haemoglobin disorder running through families causing shortage of red blood cells and low levels of oxygen in the bloodstream, leading to mild to severe anemia, paleness, fatigue, yellow discoloration of skin (jaundice), and bone problems among the affected. City-based non-profit organisation Genome Foundation took upa study in collaboration with Thalassemia and Sickle Cell Society called “Micro profiling of thalassemia mutations in Telangana”, over a four-year period sponsored by the government. In this, it has documented extensive in-depth demographic information on each of the sample 312 thalassemic children taking blood transfusions and periodic medical check-ups and has come out with a method to control and prevent spread of the disease from identified four high risk districts and 15 low risk districts among the targetted populations. Lead author Dr. V.R. Rao said that the model will help to assess whether thalassemic carrier frequencies or births are increasing or decreasing in the population through screening programmes, encouraging registration of births and a mechanism to modulate knowledge as well as awareness programmes for identification and prevention of thalassemia. Although thalassemia is widely spread in 31 of 33 districts, high risk districts are Rangareddy, Sangareddy, Mahabubnagar and Khammam. Low risk districts are Suryapet, Nalgonda, Warangal, Nagarkurnool, Siddipet, Jangaon, Mahabubabad, Jogulamba, Rajanna Sircila, Nizambad, Medchal Malkajgiri, Nirmal, Medak and Vikarabad. This is where 48 local endogamous sub-populations live with high disease prevalence and among them - five groups: Sunni (27.2%), Lambadi (20.8%), Madiga (12.5%), Mala (4.5%) and Mudiraj (4.5%) contributed 69.5%, and another 43 groups contributing 30.5% as per the study. The study says that when 70% cases belong to five local endogamous sub-populations, it would be prudent to concentrate maximum efforts to preventive programmes in those districts where these are densely distributed, through screening, testing and counselling. Effecting behavioral change is a slow process but has immense impact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/district-wise-model-to-control-spread-of-thalassemia/article38331900.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:38 IST,TELANGANA||CM for big counter intelligence wing on drug menace||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered a detachment of police with a thousand personnel to function as a counter intelligence wing to combat drug menace. He gave the instruction to Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy at a meeting on Wednesday which decided to hold a State-level conference of senior police and excise officials on Friday to discuss measures to make the State drug- free. The conference will come up with a strict action plan to check drug menace, a CMO release said. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and City Police Commissioner C.V. Anand were also present. It was decided on the occasion to invite senior officers in police and excise across the State for the conference. Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Excise Minister V. Srinivas Goud will also be present. Mr. Rao said the counter intelligence wing could be named `Narcotic and Organised Crime Control Cell’ which will function under the supervision of the DGP. It will deal exclusively with drug menace and related crime in an organised manner. He stressed that every effort be made to see no one is spared, irrespective of their position, if found guilty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-for-big-counter-intelligence-wing-on-drug-menace/article64945268.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:36 IST,TELANGANA||TS records 3,801 fresh COVID cases, one death||Telangana recorded 3,801 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. The number of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds occupied by patients with the infection has dropped in the past two days. The daily case load in the State is oscillating above and below 4,000 depending on the number of samples tested in a day. The daily load was above 4,000 whenever over a lakh samples were tested in the past few days, and dropped below 4,000 when the tests dropped below one lakh. On Wednesday, 88,867 samples were examined for COVID and 3,801 were detected with coronavirus. The results of 9,537 were awaited. One more COVID patient has died. The new cases include 1,673 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 421 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 286 from Rangareddy, 184 from Hanamkonda, and 128 from Khammam. The number of COVID patients in ICUs has dropped on Tuesday and Wednesday. However, oxygen bed occupancy continued to increase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-records-3801-fresh-covid-cases-one-death/article64945276.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:44 IST,TELANGANA||Congress to lay siege to all MLA camp offices||Youth Congress will lay siege to the Camp Offices of all the MLAs in 119 constituencies on January 29 to highlight the unemployment issue in Telangana and put pressure on the MLAs. Telangana Youth Congress president Shivsena Reddy said that unemployed youth are resorting to suicides as they have lost hope in the government that has promised to fill up the vacancies but did not fulfil its commitment. The latest victim was Muthyala Sagar of Bayyaram in Khammam district, who committed suicide by jumping in front of a running train, he said. Mr. Reddy said the spate of suicides has to be attributed to the arrogance of the government that is not giving any assurance to the educated youth on the job notifications. He called upon the youngsters not to take their lives but fight against the TRS government that has come to power making tall promises of providing jobs to at least one person in every home. He asked the youngsters to participate in the protest programme on January 29. At a separate press conference, TPCC working president, Mahesh Kumar Goud and digital membership coordinator Harkara Venugopal said the party had enrolled 20 lakh members so far as against the 30 lakh target. They said Nalgonda, Mahabubnagar and Peddapalli Parliamentary constituencies were on top in the digital membership and asked functionaries in other constituencies to expedite the drive. Mr. Goud said that there will be a review of the membership on January 30 by the TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy, and the incharges lagging behind would have to answer for the delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-to-lay-siege-to-all-mla-camp-offices/article38331926.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:36 IST,TELANGANA||NMDC will mine a better future for India: CMD||Hoisting of the national flag and launch of the company’s revamped website as well as an Impact League app marked the Republic Day celebrations at the NMDC head office here on Wednesday. Addressing employees after unfurling the Tricolour, CMD Sumit Deb said that as the country braces up to become a global leader in iron and steel sector, NMDC will continue to mine a better future for India. Reaffirming the company’s commitment to India’s constitutional values, he said, “NMDC’s social initiatives to empower citizens of India do not emerge from statutory obligations, but from a sense of duty and compassion.” The Impact League is a walk/run challenge app, which has been developed as part of the ongoing Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav and Fit India Movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nmdc-will-mine-a-better-future-for-india-cmd/article38331904.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:36 IST,TELANGANA||Housing beneficiaries yet to be selected by govt.||Speculation is on about how the government would select beneficiaries for the Rs. 1,422 crore double bedroom housing project at Kollur, if it is to be launched in February first week. While there are lakhs of applications pending for allocation of 2-BHK houses across the city, a total 15,660 dwelling units are available at the project. Officials inform that the beneficiary list, being prepared by the district administration in consultation with the public representatives of each assembly constituency, is not yet ready. Sources have informed that the State government is baulking from taking hand-over of the completed projects, which lay the burden of protecting the structures on the contractors. Vandalism instances Instances of vandalism are being reported from the Kollur project too, as is the case with all the other 2BHK projects lying vacant despite completion. Recently, copper electrical wiring worth up to Rs. 2 crore has been extracted from the premises, melted and sold, sources reported. Though security arrangements have been put in place to prevent theft at the double bedroom project sites, it is proving to be ineffective.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/housing-beneficiaries-yet-to-be-selected-by-govt/article38331896.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:36 IST,TELANGANA||Colonel remembered||Deputy Director General of NCC Directorate (AP&TS) Air Commodore P. Maheshwar presented a memento on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and DG NCC to B Santoshi, widow of Colonel Santosh Babu, who was slain in the Chinese aggression two years ago, as part of “Shaheedon Ko Shat Shat Naman”, along with 16thBattalion of the Bihar Regiment, on Republic Day on Wednesday. NCC cadets paid floral tributes to Santosh Babu remembering his supreme sacrifice. He was Commanding Officer of 16 Bihar Regiment in Ladakh sector and in response to the Chinese belligerence in Galwan valley in May 2020, the battalion was mobilised as quick reaction force. It had engaged into hand-to-hand combat with the PLA troops on May 15, 2020. Colonel Babu and 19 others laid down their lives in the line of duty. For his conspicuous bravery in the face of enemy, he was conferred Maha Vir Chakra (posthumously).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/colonel-remembered/article64945282.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:38 IST,TELANGANA||‘Raj Bhavan launched several initiatives’||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has outlined the initiatives launched by the Raj Bhavan to reach out to the unreached as part of her Republic Day speech. One such special initiative was the nutritional intervention to improve nutritional status of the people belonging to tribal groups in select districts like Adilabad, Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Nagarkurnool. As part of the project, officials concerned were working to improve livelihoods, health, nutrition and employment opportunities for these groups through a multi-pronged approach. Likewise, constant efforts were made to economically empower women through the Atma Nirbhar self-employment training programmes. Initiatives like the Chancellor Connects Alumni and galvanizing higher education system in the State with a series of programmes to promote the National Education Policy-2020 were likely to have transformative impact in the near future. The Governor said promotion of education, health, nutrition, entrepreneurship and employment opportunities among women were vital for faster progress of the State as well as the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/raj-bhavan-launched-several-initiatives/article38331927.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:38 IST,TELANGANA||Dictators ruling country and State, alleges Revanth||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) chief and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy, who unfurled the national flag at Gandhi Bhavan on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day, said Congress was the only party that can uphold the constitutional values in the country. Mr. Reddy said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had been violating the very spirit of the Constitution and suppressing people with their dictator-like attitude. While Mr. Modi had taken away the rights of people, KCR was behaving like a feudal lord, he alleged. KCR had completely dismantled the grievances mechanism and had been suppressing all voices of dissent. There was not even a functional Secretariat where people could visit to lodge their complaints., he said. Congress had fought for the freedom of the country and since then it had been fighting for ensuring freedom, social justice and independence for people of the country, he said. The result of such a democratic attitude of the party was the adoption of the Constitution on January 26, 1950, under the leadership of BR Ambedkar. Mr. Reddy ridiculed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for its Congress-mukth Bharat slogan and reminded that Congress was not a party born for power but that was born to lead India’s independence struggle 138 years ago. “Is it possible for the BJP to distance people from the Congress which has brought freedom and liberties to people,” he asked. He said that the Congress enjoyed the credit for establishing and strengthening the four pillars of democracy - the Legislature, Executive, Judiciary and Media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dictators-ruling-country-and-state-alleges-revanth/article38332023.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:44 IST,TELANGANA||Inter-State ganja gang busted||The police of Sangareddy district arrested a three-member gang of ganja smugglers and seized Rs. 2 crore worth of ganja weighing about 1,000 kgs. According to Superintendent of Police M. Ramana Kumar, on a tip-off the police of Sadashivapet stopped a lorry at Nandikandi Best Tea Point on NH- 65 and seized 500 ganja packets, each weighing about two kgs, worth of Rs. 2 crore. The ganja was being transported from Rajahmundry in East Godavari district to Nanded in Maharashtra. The accused were identified as Shiak Salim, Aziz Khan and Salim. All of them belong to Maharashtra. Police have also sized a lorry, three cell phones and Rs. 3,500 cash from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inter-state-ganja-gang-busted/article38331916.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:38 IST,TELANGANA||‘State govt. responsive to tribal issues’||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) working president and Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao said that the government is positive to the issues of tribals and it has directed the officials to take decision in favour of tribals on land related issues. Representatives of different Tribal organisations met Mr. Rama Rao at Pragati Bhavan on Wednesday. “With the spirit of ‘Mava Mate -Mava Raj’ from the tribals we have fought for separate Telangana. We have transformed all the tandas and Adivasi gudems as panchayats and brought the government close to the people. The government has also been focusing on extending medical facilities to the tribals,” said Mr. Rama Rao while interacting with them, adding that a meeting with medical officials would be held shortly and quality medical services would be extended to them. The Minister has also assured to hold a meeting with the officials of various departments to address the problems being faced by the tribals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-govt-responsive-to-tribal-issues/article64945269.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:36 IST,TELANGANA||SBI CGM: work for excellence in customer service||State Bank of India (SBI), Hyderabad Circle, Chief General Manager (CGM) Amit Jhingran on Wednesday appreciated the bank staff for the tireless efforts they put in amid the challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic. Mr. Jhingran, who was participating in Republic Day celebrations at the SBI Local Head Office in Koti here, exhorted them to work towards achieving excellence in customer service. He thanked customers for their valuable support and trust. The event was organised by adhering to COVID protocols, SBI Hyderabad Circle said in a release. “We are all going through a tough phase due to the fresh challenges posed by the third wave. The country is putting the best efforts in combating the spread of the virus,” he said on Wednesday. Besides providing uninterrupted banking service inspite of the challenges, SBI has also been at the forefront in the fight against the pandemic through various COVID relief measures, including setting up of oxygen plants as well as donation of medical equipment, ventilators and PPE kits to government hospitals, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sbi-cgm-work-for-excellence-in-customer-service/article38331909.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:44 IST,TELANGANA||Two RPF officials get Republic Day awards||Two Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel of South Central Railway have been awarded the prestigious Indian Police Medal on the occasion of 73 rd Republic Day - 2022. The awardees are: Inspector Narasimha Udugu (Secunderabad Post) who has detected many theft cases of relay coils, cable drums, copper pots of loco and secured railway property worth crores and bringing dreaded criminals to book. He has busted the gangs of theft of passenger belongings and made possible recovery of Rs. 1.35 crore stolen property. He has also detected more than 45 gangs of Railway touts by recovering Rs. 25 lakh worth of reservation tickets. Asst SI Mastan Vali Shaik (Tadepalli, Vijayawada division) has booked more than 900 offenders under Railway Act and apprehended 9 criminals involved in 15 thefts of passenger belonging cases with recovery of stolen property worth Rs. 3.28 lakh. He also apprehended 10 smugglers while they were transporting Ganja by trains and seized 50 kg worth Rs. 1.5 lakh, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-rpf-officials-get-republic-day-awards/article38331925.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:36 IST,TELANGANA||Karimnagar achieves 100.19% second dose coverage||Karimnagar district has achieved 100.19% coverage of the second dose of COVID-19 vaccination, thereby becoming the first district in the State to achieve this feat, the health department said. The district also surpassed its target and achieved 104% vaccination of its eligible population with the first dose, sources added. In recognition of the relentless efforts made by the frontline healthcare workers and other field functionaries of the health department in this regard, a function was held in their honour at the auditorium in the Collectorate here on Wednesday. Civil Supplies and BC Welfare Minister G. Kamalakar presented cash incentives of Rs. 1 lakh each to the staff of the five Primary Health Centres in the district for their remarkable contribution in achieving this feat. The Minister lauded the efforts of the staff of the health and other allied departments led by Collector R V Karnan in vigorously implementing the COVID vaccination drive with remarkable success. Booster dose drive The Collector said around 72.46% of teenagers aged 15-17 years have been administered COVID vaccine in the district so far. The booster dose vaccination drive is progressing at a brisk pace and 34.47% of the eligible persons have been covered across the district till date. Additional Collector (local bodies) Garima Agrawal, District Medical and Health Officer Dr. Juveria and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/karimnagar-achieves-10019-second-dose-coverage/article64945279.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:37 IST,TELANGANA||‘CPI(M) fears Lok Ayukta verdict may not favour CM’||Opposition Leader V. D. Satheesan on Wednesday said the Communist Party of India (Marxist) wanted to curtail the powers of the Kerala Lok Ayukta as it feared that the judicial body may deliver a strong verdict in the cases pending before it against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Referring to CPI (M) State Secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s statement that the body could not throw out those elected to public office, Mr. Satheesan asked Mr. Balakrishnan to recall an instance when the judicial body had tried to topple the Left government. ‘Provisions twisted’ “The move to dilute the powers of the Lok Ayukta was made to save Mr. Vijayan and R. Bindu, Minister for Higher Education, from the cases pending before the body as the party feared that the verdict may not favour them,” he said. Rejecting the stance by P. Rajeeve, Minister for Law, that the amendment to the Kerala Lok Ayukta Act, 1990 was made as its Section 14 violated Articles 163 and 164 of the Constitution, Mr. Satheesan alleged that the Law Minister twisted the provisions to suit the interests of the government. “The Law Minister should explain the circumstances that necessitated such a decision,” he said. Mr. Satheesan said that the Opposition would have extended support if the government wanted to bring an amendment that allowed the parties concerned to appeal against the verdict of the Lok Ayukta before the Kerala High Court. “There have already been instances, where people had approached the High Court and even the Supreme Court as in the case of K. T. Jaleel, former Minister for Higher Education [who resigned after the Lok Ayukta found him guilty of nepotism]” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpim-fears-lok-ayukta-verdict-may-not-favour-cm/article38331456.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:37 IST,TELANGANA||‘Rathasaptami’ to be held in ‘ekantham’||With no respite from the spiraling Omicron cases of COVID-19, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has resolved to celebrate the annual ‘Rathasapthami’ in ‘ekantham’. Going by the sentiments attached to the festival, the TTD has so far preferred to adopt a wait-and-watch approach. But, with no dip in cases, the TTD has decided to confine the festivities to the inner portals of the temple. The event, which is also known as ‘Surya Jayanthi’, is scheduled for February 7. It is also referred to as mini-Brahmotsavams, which attracts huge crowds annually as the deity of Lord Venkateswara is brought out on seven ‘vahanams’ in a single day from dawn to dusk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rathasaptami-to-be-held-in-ekantham/article38331910.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:22 IST,||Rampant human trafficking from Gujarat in the spotlight||The death of a family of four across the U.S.-Canada border while trying to get into the U.S. illegally has once again brought to the surface the rampant human trafficking rackets operating in parts of Gujarat where going to the U.S. or Canada at any cost remains a craze. The death of Jagdish Patel, his wife Vaishali, their children Gopi and Dharmik who froze in extreme cold has prompted the Gujarat police to launch a probe into the activities of local agents who illegally send families to the U.S. and Canada charging huge sums from them. Gujarat Police chief Ashish Bhatia has now asked CID (Crime) anti-human trafficking branch to investigate the networks of agents operating in the State. The family belonged to the Dingucha village in north Gujarat, a region where migrating to U.S. or Canada is a first priority among the Patel community. According to sources, the family was apparently from a larger group of Indians who were allegedly sent to Canada by the local agents who would then have smuggled them to the U.S. illegally. Though the Gujarat government has not yet made any official comment on the family, the police has started the probe in the area where the local agents have been luring families to send them abroad. Accordingly, this family had, as per the local sources, left for Canada in January first week and from there they were to be taken into the U.S. by international agents who operate the trafficking network. The police believe that probably a large group of people had walked for hours in extremely cold conditions with temperatures hovering around -35°C to the U..S.-Canada border. The Patel family might have lost their way and separated from the large group during the night. Subsequently, their bodies were found just 10m from the U.S. border on the Canadian side. ‘No complaints’ “Since the craze is high to go abroad without a valid visa, there are network of agents who promise them illegal entry by charging huge sums. Unfortunately, no one come forward to file the complaint since it’s entirely illegal,” a police official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rampant-human-trafficking-from-gujarat-in-the-spotlight/article64945362.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:22 IST,||‘Untraceable’ families in Turkey found||Amid reports that six members of two families from a village in Gujarat’s Gandhinagar district were abducted in Istanbul by traffickers, police on Wednesday cited their parents saying they are found and currently staying at a hotel in Turkey and will return in the next two-three days. Police also quoted their relatives to deny any abduction angle. The six members became untraceable after reaching Turkey on visitor visa earlier this month, a senior police officer said. Though there were reports that the two families, comprising two couples and two children, were abducted in Istanbul by human traffickers, their parents back here denied the abduction angle, said a senior police officer of the Ahmedabad crime branch who had questioned the agent through whom the two families had acquired visitor visas. “These two families have already been found. They are staying at a hotel in Turkey and are coming back in the next two-three days. They went to Turkey on a valid visitor visa with the help of an agent,” the officer said. “Once they land here, we will talk to them and find out what exactly happened to them and what were their plans after landing in Turkey,” said the officer. The matter came to light after the crime branch launched the preliminary probe into the alleged involvement of local agents following the death of four members of a family while attempting to cross into the US through the US-Canada border illegally a week back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/untraceable-families-in-turkey-found/article38331819.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:20 IST,||‘Hold Punjab govt. accountable for violating HC order’||Former Punjab Minister and senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who has been booked for allegedly allowing illicit drugs smuggling, on Wednesday urged the Election Commission to hold the Congress government in the State accountable for violating High Court directives and conducting raids on his residence. Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Majithia said attempts were being made to prevent him from contesting the Assembly elections and this was why police was pressed into action to raid his residences even before the High Court ruled on his anticipatory bail plea. The Akali leader said, “It seems the law is different for me and the same rules are not applied to Congressmen, be it Sukhpal Khaira, who is accused of drug smuggling, or Sidhu Moosewala, who is accused of firing an AK-47. No raids have been conducted at either of their houses.” Mr. Majithia said his legal team was considering moving a contempt petition against Congress government. The Akali leader also demanded a NIA inquiry into the purported audio tape expose of Director-General of Police S. Chatttopadhay saying the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab could have even resulted in an assassination bid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hold-punjab-govt-accountable-for-violating-hc-order/article38331811.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:22 IST,||Tamil Nadu showcases tableau rejected by Centre||Republic Day celebrations in Tamil Nadu saw the showcasing of the tableau featuring the sacrifice of freedom fighters — the Marudu Brothers, Velu Natchiyar, Kappalottiya Tamizhan V.O. Chidambaram Pillai and many others. The tableau, originally conceived of by the Tamil Nadu government for participation in the Republic Day celebrations in New Delhi, was rejected by the Centre. One tableau depicted the hanging of the Marudu Brothers — Chinna Marudu and Periya Marudu — at Tirupattur after they were defeated by the British. Velu Natchiyar was seen riding a horse. National poet Subramania Bharthiyar was prominently featured in a tableau along with VVS Iyer, Quaid-e-Millath and others. However, the tableau with Periyar drew the most amount of attention of the participants. He was the leading figure of the tableau showcasing Tirupur Kumaran, who continued to hold the flag even after he fell prey to the lathis of the British police. Earlier, Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi unfurled the National Flag in the presence of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Chief Secretary Irai Anbu and other dignitaries. In his message, Mr. Stalin said, “Let us reaffirm the upholding of the secular ethos of the Constitution on this Republic Day and be proud of the great achievements to uplift the people of our nation in all spheres.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tamil-nadu-showcases-tableau-rejected-by-centre/article38331818.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:22 IST,||Three-fourth injured auto workers lost two fingers on an average, says report||Around three-fourth of the auto-sector workers who sustained injuriesover the past five years have lost almost two fingers on an average to crush injuries, according to aSafe In India (SII) Foundationannual report. It is based on data of around 2,500 workers who suffered non-fatal injuries at factories in Faridabad-Gurugram-Neemrana auto belt. Almost 80% of them were employed in the supply chains of some of the largest auto-sector brands. Titled “Crushed 2021”, the report, third in a series on the state of auto sector workers safety in India, claimed that over 50% of the injuries reported to the SII occurred on power press machines with 2.04 fingers lost on an average and many losing whole hands. “A majority of the workers injured on power presses are inadequately trained and have low education levels. Young and old workers lose fingers equally on power presses. A majority of the crush injuries were on power presses that should have had safety sensors but did not. Most factories violate many extant regulations; potential criminal offences,” said the report released during a two-hour-long online event on Wednesday. ‘Safety steps bypassed’ More than a hundred auto workers who suffered the injuries also joined the event from 11 locations in Gurugram and Faridabad to share their experiences. They claimed that safety measures were bypassed by the companies to ensure increased production and also that they were not provided any safety gears such as ear plugs and helmets, except during audit inspections. Most of them conceded that they were not given any formal training in operating the machines and had learnt it from their seniors. Unfortunately, the proportion of workers with severe injuries — loss of body parts and bone fractures — has not reduced in the past five years indicating continuing underlying dangerous working conditions, the report said. Maruti-Suzuki, Hero, Honda suppliers remain largest contributors to accidents in Gurugram (93%) and Faridabad (75%), as per the report with Bajaj, Eicher, JCB, Tata Motors, TVS, Yamaha suppliers are also significant contributors in Gurugram, Faridabad, Rudrapur and Neemrana. Almost one-fifth of the member companies of the Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India also reported accidents, stressing the fact that the problem was not confined to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, the report claimed. Quoting the report, Sandeep Sachdeva, Co-founder and CEO, SII, said the lower the salary and the education, the worse was the injury received. As many as 92% of those injured were migrants, 81% educated only up to grade 10 and 71% earned less than Rs. 10,000 a month with no overtime pay for many despite a 12-hour shift, said Mr. Sachdeva. The injured workers had not received their ESIC e-Pehchaan Card on the day of joining their jobs, as per ESIC regulations requirement. Interestingly, all the injured workers did receive their card a few days after the accident. The report claimed the government data had grossly under-reported factory injuries, inspections had come down and the new Labour Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions Code might make matters worse. Kamal Jaswal, IAS (retd.), also present at the event, said it was the moral responsibility of the original equipment makers to ensure that the safety measures were adhered to in their supply chains and the “bloodied” spare parts should not be accepted by them. He said the safety environment at workplace was a right guaranteed in the Constitution and there were various Acts and rules for it. Recommendations The 78-page report also made certain recommendations and suggestions to the OEMs, auto companies associations and the Central and State governments to reduce the accidents. Anil Swarup, IAS (retd.), lauded the efforts of the Foundation in bringing out the detailed report and said the suggestions were “practical” and “doable”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-fourth-injured-auto-workers-lost-two-fingers-on-an-average-says-report/article64945361.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:20 IST,||BJP to name candidates for Manipur polls today||All preparations have been made to announce names of BJP candidates on Thursday for all the 60 Assembly constituencies where election will be held on February 27 and March 3. Security measures were taken up at an unprecedented scale to maintain law and order as the party leaders feel that those denied ticket are likely to indulge in violence. Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren, Public Works Minister T. Bishwajit, State party president A. Sharda Devi arrived in Imphal on Tuesday night in a chartered flight after the crucial parliamentary board meeting. They had been summoned to Delhi by the national leaders to take their suggestions on the finalisation of the BJP list. The parliamentary board has finalised the list on the basis of the recommendations from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party national president J.P. Nadda, Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Tight security is in place in all trouble prone areas despite politicians seeking BJP ticket in each constituency having pledged to support the selected candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-to-name-candidates-for-manipur-polls-today/article38331812.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:22 IST,||Khadi discount utilised for clothes bank||In a unique initiative, a public service institution in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur town has utilised the discount offered by the State government on the khadi fabric for creation of a clothes bank, from which woollen clothes are being distributed to the poor and needy people. The garments were procured from Khadi Gramodaya Samitis for donating them during winter. The State government had announced 50% discount on khadi products on Gandhi Jayanti, which was applicable till December 31. The Samriddh Bharat Abhiyan Sansthan requested Tourism Minister Vishvendra Singh, representing Bharatpur district’s Deeg-Kumher Assembly constituency, to get the discount extended by at least one month to facilitate the creation of a clothes bank.  Sansthan’s convener Sita Ram Gupta told The Hindu here on Monday that while the discount was extended till January 30, the institution approached the Khadi Gramodaya Samitis with the offer to purchase their entire stocks if they gave 65% discount.  “We have procured khadi woollen garments worth Rs. 15 lakh for just Rs. .4.20 lakh, clearing the stocks of Samitis, and started distributing them in the regular camps organised in Bharatpur, Alwar and Dholpur districts,” Mr. Gupta said. Women’s rights activist and recipient of an award for women’s empowerment Renu Sikarwar has joined hands with the Sansthan to strengthen the clothes bank. Mr. Gupta said the initiative had also struck at the market in the rural areas, where the shopkeepers were making enormous profits by selling the woollens at exorbitant prices. Besides, it will promote khadi products in the villages. Attention needed Mr. Gupta, an electrical engineer-turned corporate executive, said though the government was taking a number of steps for meeting the food and housing needs of the poor, it was paying little attention to arranging clothes for them. The Sansthan has approached the Chief Minister’s Offices in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka for launching similar clothes banks for the benefit of the needy people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/khadi-discount-utilised-for-clothes-bank/article64945363.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:22 IST,||Protect federal character of Constitution: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday greeted the people of the country on the 73rd Republic Day and urged them to take a pledge to protect the basic structure of the Constitution, particularly its federal character. She saluted the freedom fighters and jawans who have sacrificed their lives to protect the country and ensure the safety and security of the citizens. The Trinamool Congress supremo also called on the country, whom she described as pillars of the Indian democracy, to protect, preserve and follow the ideals of justice, liberty, equality and fraternity. “Heartiest greetings to all on the Republic Day. On this day, let us once again take pledge to protect the basic structure of the Indian Constitution, including and particularly its federal character,” she tweeted. “Let us strive to protect, preserve and follow the ideals of Justice, Liberty, Equality and Fraternity, as enshrined in our Constitution, which, among other things, gives us our inalienable rights,” Ms. Banerjee said in another Twitter post. A short programme was held on the Red Road in the heart of Kolkata to celebrate the day with strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols, amid the presence of Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, the Chief Minister and Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/protect-federal-character-of-constitution-mamata/article38331815.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:22 IST,||‘Maharashtra has done remarkable work’||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday praised the State government for having done remarkable work over the last two years. In his Republic Day speech, Mr. Koshiary mentioned the leadership award conferred on Maharashtra at the recent UN Climate Change Conference, and also the State’s Electric Vehicles (EV) policy The Governor, who shares stormy relations with the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and has also indulged in letter wars on various issues with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in the past, said, “We have a target of completing the electrification of public transport. BEST electric buses are already in service in Mumbai.” He said the State had announced various incentives for people shifting to electric vehicles. “The Supreme Court has hailed the Mumbai model for successful planning to combat against the coronavirus pandemic. The NITI Aayog and the WHO have also appreciated the efforts taken by Maharashtra on this front,” he said. “We did not let our economy collapse or come to a standstill in the last two years (during the pandemic),” the Governor said. Highlighting industrial growth, the Governor said, “In the last two years, 96 Memoranda of Understanding worth Rs. 1.88 lakh crore had been signed. Between October 2019 to March 21, FDI to the tune of Rs. 1.71 lakh crore has been made. The hospitality sector is now recognised as an industry by the State with facilities (being given) in terms of tax concessions,” he said. “We are planning to make Mumbai a global-level tourist city, and as part of this an international tourism complex on 14 acres of land will come up in Worli with an investment of Rs. 1,000 crore,” he said. The Governor also spoke of newly-launched initiatives like the WhatsApp Chatbot facility of the Mumbai civic corporation and the “e-peek Pahani” in the agriculture sector for farmers to register their crops using the mobile application. CM greets citizens Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray unfurled the Ttricolour at his official residence in south Mumbai to mark the 73rd Republic Day. In a message, Mr. Thackeray greeted citizens on the occasion expressing confidence that the united country can tackle any challenges that come in its way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-has-done-remarkable-work/article64945366.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:22 IST,||FIR against Google CEO, 5 others||A First Information Report (FIR) has been registered here on court orders against Google, its CEO Sunder Pichai and five other employees of the company in an alleged copyright violation case, city police said on Wednesday. The search engine giant said in its reaction that it has a set mechanism which copyright owners can use to protect their content on platforms such as YouTube. As per a police officer, the case was registered at the MIDC Police Station in suburban Andheri on the orders of a magistrate’s court on Tuesday evening. Film director Suneel Darshan had approached the court seeking registration of a case against Google and its top officials over alleged copyright infringement, he said, without giving more information about the nature of the copyright violation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fir-against-google-ceo-5-others/article38331814.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:20 IST,||Mixed response to redeveloped Central Vista Avenue||The redevelopment work for the much-anticipated Central Vista Avenue was completed just in time for the 73rd Republic Day celebrations, but spectators who attended the event on Wednesday expressed mixed reactions. The most common complaint was that portions within the redeveloped area were “in an unfinished state, causing inconvenience to public movement”.  Noor Shams said he and his friends navigated with difficultly through muddy portions of barren land near the entry points leading to the seating area.  “The work here is clearly unfinished. The surrounding areas are filled with mud due to the rains, and it has to be fixed. The mud is so loose that the foot gets stuck in it. Arrangements for such an event should be proper, especially when there is limited attendance due to COVID restrictions. The vehicle parking designated to us was full and so were the seats at the venue,” he said, adding that he has been a regular attendee at the annual Republic Day and Independence Day celebrations events for several years. Another attendee said there was confusion over the parking of vehicles as “most of them reached their full capacity”, adding that “better arrangements” were in place during events in previous years. Expected inconvenience Some were unhappy with the overall arrangements whereas a few expressed satisfaction with the redeveloped Rajpath stretch, where the annual Republic Day parade was held on Wednesday, adding that “small inconveniences” were expected. According to the details shared by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the redeveloped area, which spreads across 85.3 hectares, houses 16,500 metres of redeveloped cross pathways while the number of benches stand at 422. The total number of trees in the area, which previously stood at 3,890, has been increased to 4,087 while storm water drains have been introduced along with granite pathways, according to the Ministry. Apart from this, 114 signages showcasing a compact design and 915 light poles in the garden areas are part of the redevelopment plan. Pending work The pending work includes a step-based garden set-up, eight amenity blocks and four underpasses for pedestrians, which is currently in progress. “Most of the redeveloped area that I could see was on the Rajpath stretch, but there are portions surrounding this which are still with construction material and looks incomplete. It seems to be unfinished, so one can’t look at the Rajpath and say that the whole area has been redeveloped completely,” said a spectator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mixed-response-to-redeveloped-central-vista-avenue/article64945373.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:20 IST,||Delhi celebrates Republic Day under tight security||Amid tight security at Rajpath due to threats, the 73rd Republic Day celebrations went off without a hitch in the Capital on Wednesday. Security personnel, including teams of Delhi Police and Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) jawans and commandos, guarded entry checkpoints set up outside Rajpath. Thorough frisking was carried out at several locations before entering the venue. More than 20 entry gates were installed across the area, which were connected by bridges constructed as part of the Central Vista Redevelopment Plan, even as entry was restricted due to COVID-19 protocols. “Strict COVID-19 protocols are being followed and several teams of Delhi Police and Central Forces have been stationed here to prevent any mishap. The situation has been smooth so far and there has been no breach in security protocols,” an officer stationed at one of the checkpoints said. The officer added that Delhi Police personnel were manning areas surrounding Vijay Chowk and India Gate since 2 a.m. “Invitation cards along with identity proofs are being checked and attendants wearing black garments are being directed to remove them as per rules,” the officer said. Database of suspects Senior officers said that multiple CCTV cameras at around 30 locations consisting of a database of around 50,000 suspected terrorists were installed in and around Rajpath in view of the “security threat”. Similarly, network jammers were installed to ensure airspace security. “A total of 71 Delhi Police DCPs and 65 companies of CAPF were deployed to oversee the security situation,” a senior police officer said. Attendants said that all health protocols had been maintained, including socially distanced seating arrangements, sanitiser dispenser at every gate and temperature being checked before entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-celebrates-republic-day-under-tight-security/article64945378.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:20 IST,||DDMA to decide on easing COVID-19 restrictions today||A few of the restrictions currently in place to break the chain of COVID infection are expected to be lifted following a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) here on Thursday. The DDMA meeting, to be chaired by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal in the presence of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and experts, will be convened at 12.30 p.m. Concerns remain Sources said the continuing variation in the test positivity rate (TPR) noticed over the last week is still a matter of concern, while some relaxations in the restrictions currently in place are likely to be allowed. Apart from discussing the current restrictions, Mr. Baijal will also preside over an assessment of the current trends related to COVID-19 infections and the ongoing vaccination drive in the city. According to government sources, the positivity ratio, which was above 13% when the Delhi government had sent a proposal to convene a meeting of the DDMA, was being seen with concern. Rise in TPR and cases The TPR of COVID-19 increased slightly on Wednesday to 10.59% from 10.55% on Tuesday, according to a Delhi government bulletin. It had peaked on January 14 at 30.64% and remained at that level for the next day and has been on a decline since then. The number of new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours too increased to 7,498 from 6,028 a day earlier. This is also due to an increase in the number of tests. A total of 70,804 tests were done in 24 hours, up from 57,132 on Tuesday. Twenty-nine fresh fatalities were reported, taking the death toll to 25,710, as per the bulletin. Of the total 15,420 hospital beds for COVID-19 patients, 86.14% were vacant as of Wednesday. On January 13, 28,867 fresh cases were reported in the city, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic. Last week, the government had proposed to lift the night and weekend curfews and allow city markets to open without restrictions but it was rejected by the DDMA, which had, instead, advised a review of the situation before doing so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ddma-to-decide-on-easing-covid-19-restrictions-today/article38331803.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:20 IST,||‘A year on, no clarity on R-Day violence cases’||Over a month after farmer leaders were promised quashing of police complaints on the violence that erupted in the national capital on Republic Day last year, no update has been received on that front, said a lawyer representing the farmers.  Speaking to The Hindu , advocate Jasdeep Dhillon said those who were either arrested at that time or had received notices to join the investigation keep calling him for help. “About 200 protesters were arrested at that time and about 200 received notices. All arrested persons are now out on bail but they want to know the status of the cases. We have heard nothing from either the government or the police about what’s happening with the FIRs,” he said, adding that the Haryana government had initiated a move to withdraw the cases and sent letters to all District Magistrates and Superintendents of Police in this regard.  A senior officer from the Crime Branch said they have not yet received any communication from the government regarding the withdrawal of prosecution. Red Fort march On January 26 last year, farmers protesting against the now-repealed farm laws had sought permission to hold the tractor rally on a route specified by the police, but they marched to the Red Fort instead and hoisted the Nishan Sahib — a triangular flag sacred to the Sikhs — there leading to a clash between the security personnel and the protesters. The same day, protesters also reached central Delhi and vandalised public property in the ITO area. The police had to use force to control the situation. A protester, Navreet Singh, died in the ruckus at ITO. His family said he was shot dead by the police but the security agency said he died after his tractor overturned. “His post-mortem report had stated that he died of a blunt force injury and not a bullet injury,” a police officer said.  According to advocate Dhillon, over 50 cases were registered between January 26 and 29, including two cases on the Red Fort incident and one on the central Delhi violence. The remaining cases mostly pertained to the rioting reported on the day. A senior police officer said about 14 cases were transferred to the Crime Branch at the time of the investigation and chargesheet has been framed in one case.  An officer said the Central government had sought details of the FIRs and the ongoing probe in the cases when talks were on between them and the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-year-on-no-clarity-on-r-day-violence-cases/article64945376.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:19 IST,||‘Non-cardholders return empty-handed as ration runs dry’||For the past four days, Kushma, a resident of Jagdamba camp in south Delhi, has been lining up in front of a nearby school that is distributing free foodgrains to non-ration cardholders. But with no luck. “I usually turn up at the centre at 5 a.m. and stay there from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. But the centre only entertains a limited number of people every day and turns down the remaining,” said Ms. Kushma who lives with her daily wager-husband and two children. Lack of clarity In another jhuggi jhopri (JJ) cluster in Motilal Nehru camp near Munirka here, 30-year-old Kisna said there was a lot of confusion over where ration will be provided for those who do not have a card. “I came to know only today that there is a centre in Ber Sarai. I will go there on Thursday,” she said. Like Ms. Kushma, her family too has been hit by the latest COVID-19 wave. “My husband, who is a plumber, has got work on 14 days so far this month. The free ration would be of great help,” she said. During the second wave of COVID-19 last year, the Delhi government formulated a policy to provide ration to people without cards through a non-public distribution scheme. The policy provided for 5 kg of grain per person as a one-time relief and had a predetermined cap of 20 lakh people. Subsequently, the Delhi government removed the cap on the number of people to be covered under the scheme and also did away with the restriction of one-time distribution, making it need-based till the pandemic continues. A recent report published by NGO Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan (DRRAA) said that dry ration was not being distributed to migrant workers, daily wagers, domestic workers, rickshaw pullers, etc. who do not possess ration cards at several designated distribution centres. ‘Barely functional’ Activist Anjali Bhardwaj said the scheme of providing ration to those who do not possess ration cards is barely functional as the government has not supplied ration stock in most of the designated centres. “It is a matter of grave concern that during the COVID-19 pandemic when people are bearing the brunt of financial distress due to the various restrictions and lockdowns, the Delhi government is failing to ensure basic food security to its people,” the NGO said. “Providing ration to those who do not possess cards, and undertaking timely disbursal of foodgrains under the PDS are key to ensuring food security and preventing hunger and starvation,” the NGO said. The NGO said that 282 schools have been designated as distribution centres for non-PDS ration where people can walk in and register and avail of grains. Between January 19 and 21, 2022, the DRRAA volunteers checked the status of distribution at 76 out of the 282 schools designated as distribution points located in Chirag Delhi, Mangolpuri, New Seemapuri, Sangam Vihar, Nehru Nagar, Sarojni Nagar, Ashok Vihar, Badarpur, Vivek Vihar, Rohini, Shakarpur, Trilokpuri, etc. by either visiting the schools or contacting them over the phone. Turning away people “We found that 79% of the centres had no stock of ration and were therefore not supplying ration to people. The schools were turning away people who were seeking ration. People reported queuing up from 4 a.m. in the hope of getting foodgrains from the schools,” the DRRAA said.  Responding to the NGO’s report, the Delhi government told The Hindu , “These are completely baseless allegations, crafted to raise a false sense of alarm.”  “The Kejriwal government is fully committed towards the underprivileged and as per the demand, dry ration is being provided to non-PDS beneficiaries from 86 centres. At least 82 such centres are constantly distributing ration to all beneficiaries,” a government official said. “As of January 21, 2022, over 37,000 beneficiaries have collected ration this month, whereas a total of 33.77 lakh beneficiaries collected their ration in 2021-22. The Kejriwal government stands firmly in support of the rights of the poor and is doing its best to ensure that no one sleeps hungry at night,” the official said. Corroborating with the government’s statement, two residents of Motilal Nehru camp here, Prema and Gyanvati, said that they managed to get hold of their share of dry ration only this morning after trying for the past four days. However, Poonam, another resident of Motilal Nehru camp, said she and a few others were yet to get their share. “I have been going to the centre for the past two days. There is always a lot of crowd there. I usually turn up around 4 a.m., leaving my children at home. Since Republic Day is a holiday, I will try my luck on Thursday now,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/non-cardholders-return-empty-handed-as-ration-runs-dry/article64945379.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:20 IST,||AAP, BJP spar over running of dispensaries||The Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday accused the North Delhi Municipal Corporation of illegally handing over land belonging to two government treatment facilities to private individuals. AAP leader Dilip Pandey alleged corruption in the deal and added that without bringing the proposal in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation House, tenders for the auctioning of these two properties were issued by the corporation. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor called the allegations “white lies” and said that the North body had floated no such tender. He said the dispensaries were shut due to financial crunch faced by the civic body. So, the corporation has invited expression of interest from NGOs to maintain the buildings and run free-for-all charitable dispensaries but nothing had been finalised till date, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-bjp-spar-over-running-of-dispensaries/article38331810.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:20 IST,||President’s medal for Civil Defence volunteers||On the eve of Republic Day, the President’s Medal for Distinguished and Meritorious Service were awarded to officers for the commendable service rendered in Delhi Civil Defence Corps in the Directorate of Civil Defence Delhi. The President’s Home Guard and Civil Defence Medal for Distinguished Service was awarded to Satvinder Puri, Chief Warden Honorary (West District). The Home Guard and Civil Defence Medal for Meritorious Service was awarded to Hazi Sharif Ahmad, Chief Warden Honorary (East District), Ramesh Verma, Additional Chief Warden Honorary (East District) and Kamlakar Sharma, Divisional Warden Honorary (East District).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/presidents-medal-for-civil-defence-volunteers/article38331807.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:20 IST,||HC orders community service to landlord who outraged tenant’s modesty||The Delhi High Court has ordered a landlord, who groped and kissed his tenant forcefully when she went to the bathroom, to do community service to “atone for his sins” and quashed the FIR against him. The Judge passed the order after the woman said she had forgiven the landlord and did not wish to proceed with the matter any further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-orders-community-service-to-landlord-who-outraged-tenants-modesty/article38331806.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:22 IST,||BJP names six more for Goa||The BJP on Wednesday announced its second and final list of six candidates for the February 14 Goa Assembly elections. It included Assembly Speaker Rajesh Patnekar, who will contest from his current constituency of Bicholim. But Siddhesh Naik, son of Union Minister Shripad Naik who was reportedly seeking a ticket from Cumbharjua, does not figure in the list. Jainita, former State Minister and sitting MLA Pandurang Madkaikar’s wife, has been fielded from this constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-names-six-more-for-goa/article38331813.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:50 IST,||Xi offers Central Asian nations $500 mn||Two days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Thursday, hosts India’s first virtual summit with Central Asian leaders, China’s President Xi Jinping offered $500 million in assistance to the region and pledged to ramp up trade. Mr. Xi on Tuesday chaired his own virtual summit with Central Asian leaders, two days ahead of Mr. Modi hosting a first-of-its-kind virtual summit with the leaders of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Mr. Xi’s virtual summit with the same five countries was held “to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations”, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said. The Chinese President pledged to “import more quality goods and agricultural products from countries in the region” and “strive to increase the trade between the two sides to $70 billion by 2030.” China’s trade with the five countries crossed $40 billion in 2018, roughly 20 times India’s trade with the region that year. Much of that trade has been driven by Chinese appetite for energy resources, and Mr. Xi on Tuesday flagged “several big projects of strategic importance” including the China-Central Asia natural gas pipeline, the China-Kazakhstan crude oil pipeline, the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan highway, and the China-Tajikistan expressway. Rapid growth He said the China-Europe Railway Express which runs through Central Asia “has seen rapid growth” since the launch of his Belt and Road Initiative, which was first announced by Mr. Xi during an official visit to Kazakhstan in 2013. Mr. Xi announced China would “provide a grant assistance of US$500 million to Central Asian countries in support of livelihood programs”. He repeated his backing, already voiced earlier this month, to the embattled Kazakhstan government in the wake of protests there and a crackdown by the authorities, saying China “firmly opposes attempts by external forces to foment colour revolutions in Central Asia, firmly opposes interference in other countries’ internal affairs under the pretext of human rights, and firmly oppose any force that tries to disrupt the tranquil life of the people of our six countries.” “As a friend and neighbour, China has firmly supported Kazakhstan in its effort to maintain stability and stop violence, and will continue to support and help Kazakhstan to the best of our ability,” he said. In the virtual summit, Mr. Xi also announced that China would provide 50 million doses of vaccines to the five countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/xi-offers-central-asian-nations-500-mn/article64945414.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||U.S. varsity votes to add caste as a ‘protected category’||The California State University (CSU) system’s board of trustees voted unanimously on Tuesday to ratify a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) with its faculty union that adds caste to the list of categories that are protected against discrimination. The move comes after a few hundred individuals allied with trade coalitions and rights groups as well as faculty wrote in support of the move, which was opposed by a smaller group of 80-plus faculty that said it would target Indian and South Asian origin individuals for special scrutiny. The addition of caste as a ‘protected category’ to the CBA with the union (the California Faculty Association or CFA), follows from an earlier move by the campus system to bring caste into the purview of its anti-discrimination policy. Thenmozhi Soundararajan, executive director of Equality Labs, a Dalit rights organisation that works for institutional recognition of caste discrimination, said the “undemocratic efforts of opponents who are opposed to caste equity” could not derail things — a reference to the opposition from a faculty group that opposed the change. The group had the backing of the Hindu American Foundation (HAF) that had written to oppose the move. Denial of rights “Neither the CFA nor the CSU has the right to negotiate a denial of constitutional rights to equal protection and due process,” Suhag Shukla, executive director of HAF, said in a statement to the trustees that she posted to her Twitter account. Ms. Shukla said she was not given the opportunity to provide testimony but the statement contained what she had planned to say. “Combatting discrimination of all kinds is a shared goal, but mandating disparate treatment of only Indian and South Asian faculty with a non-facially neutral class is discriminatory and not a solution,” she said in the statement. “This agreement includes the inclusion of caste as a protected category. We strongly support the inclusion of caste. It is about non-discrimination, not discrimination,” CFA President Charles Toombs said as per a statement posted on the Equality Labs website. ‘Will defend our win’ “We have already won and we will defend our win even if we have to go to the highest court in the United States. Justice will not be denied. We now look forward to implementing these policies,” Ms. Soundararajan said. The recognition of caste as a dimension of discrimination is gaining institutional support in the U.S. For instance, in December, Harvard University ratified an agreement with its Graduate Student Union in December which included caste as a protected category. Among those who sent letters and statements of support for the inclusion of caste in the Cal State CBA were the California Trade Justice Coalition — an alliance of unions and rights groups and APALA AFL-CIO, an Asian American workers alliance affiliated with the AFL-CIO, the country’s largest federation of unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-varsity-votes-to-add-caste-as-a-protected-category/article38331387.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||Record weekly COVID cases: WHO||The World Health Organization said there were 21 million new coronavirus cases reported globally last week, the highest weekly number of COVID-19 cases recorded since the pandemic began. The number of deaths was largely unchanged, at more than 50,000. In its weekly assessment of the pandemic, issued late Tuesday, the UN health agency said the number of new coronavirus infections rose by 5% and that the rate of increase appears to be slowing; only half of regions reported an increase in COVID-19. Earlier this month, the previous highest number of cases — 9.5 million — was recorded amid a 71% spike from the week before, as the hugely contagious omicron variant swept the world. WHO said the biggest increase in cases was seen in the Middle East, with a 39% rise, followed by a 36% jump in Southeast Asia. Deaths increased in Southeast Asia, the Middle East and the Americas, but fell in other regions. On Monday, WHO’s director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus cautioned against talk that the pandemic might be entering its “endgame,” warning that conditions remain ripe for new variants to emerge, with vast swathes of unvaccinated people in some countries amid rapid virus transmission. Still, Mr. Tedros said it might be possible for the world to exit the acute phase of the pandemic, if goals like immunising at least 70% of each country’s population are met later this year. In Britain, researchers at Imperial College London recorded the highest-ever prevalence rate of COVID-19 in England earlier this month, estimating that about one in every 23 people tested had the virus. The scientists said there were indications the massive spike caused by omicron had started to level off but that infection rates remained high. Scientists have said that omicron is far less likely to cause serious disease and hospitalization but spreads much faster than previous COVID-19 variants, including delta. Sweden announced on Wednesday that several coronavirus restrictions will be extended for another two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/record-weekly-covid-cases-who/article64945415.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||Russia hits out at West over threats of sanctions on Putin||Russia hit back on Wednesday at U.S. threats of direct sanctions against President Vladimir Putin, saying moves against the leader would be ineffective and hurt efforts to lower tensions over Ukraine. Officials from France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine were set for talks in Paris on Wednesday in the latest bid to ease a crisis. The West has warned Russia of severe consequences if it does invade Ukraine, and on Tuesday, Washington said there could be sanctions personally targeting Putin. Reacting to the news, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed the threats as worthless because senior Russian officials are barred from holding assets abroad. But such a move, he said, would do serious damage to diplomatic efforts to ease tensions over Ukraine. “Politically, it’s not painful, it’s destructive,” Mr. Peskov said. The Kremlin has previously said any U.S. sanctions personally targeting Mr. Putin would be akin to crossing a red line. U.S. President Joe Biden said on Tuesday that any Russian attack on Ukraine would trigger “enormous consequences” and could even “change the world”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-hits-out-at-west-over-threats-of-sanctions-on-putin/article64945421.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||U.S. House Speaker Pelosi announces re-election bid||With the fragile majority of the Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives under threat, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, 81, announced that she will seek re-election in this autumn for another two-year term. Ms. Pelosi, elected from San Francisco, is currently in her 18th term. “While we have made progress much more needs to be done to improve people’s lives. This election is crucial: nothing less is at stake than our Democracy. But we don’t agonise — we organise,” Ms. Pelosi said on Twitter, where she posted a video announcing her run. Democracy in the U.S. was under assault, she said, because of an “assault on truth,” an assault on the U.S. Capitol (a reference to a mob attack in January 2021) and “ a state by state assault on voting rights.” Multiple challenges Ms. Pelosi’s announcement comes as Democrats are struggling to get their infrastructure Bill passed by the Senate due to differences with the conservative members of their own party. The country also faces rising inflation as it battles an Omicron wave. President Joe Biden’s approval ratings have slipped from the high fifties around the middle of last year to the low forties last week. Democrats currently have a wafer thin 222-212 majority in the House. Twenty nine of them are not seeking re-election, as per the Associated Press, compared to 13 Republicans. who will step down. Ms. Pelosi did not indicate whether she would run for party leadership in the House again — a topic of contention when she reclaimed the leadership for the fourth time in 2021. Progressive Democrats such as Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez (New York) had said in 2020 that the Democrats needed new leadership in Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-house-speaker-pelosi-announces-re-election-bid/article64945418.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||U.S. should give legal security guarantees on NATO: Russia||The U.S. should give legally binding guarantees to Russia to stop eastward expansion of NATO, said a senior Russian official here on Wednesday. Roman Babushkin, Deputy Chief of Mission of the Russian Embassy, described NATO as the “mechanism of confrontation” and emphasised that Russia is not planning to invade Ukraine.  “First of all, we expect a written response by the U.S. to the Russian proposals regarding security guarantees and official commitments for non-expansion of NATO eastwards coming back to the implementation of multilateral decisions of 1997 and 1999 in this regard as well as in regard of the principle of undivided security,” said Mr. Babushkin in a statement to The Hindu, stressing that “any security arrangementshould take into account the security interests of other states.”  In a press conference in Kiev, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Wednesday said, “The number of Russian troops amassed along the border of Ukraine and the Occupied Territories of Ukraine is large. It posesa direct threat to Ukraine. However, at the moment, this number is insufficient for a full-scale offensive against Ukraine along the entire Ukrainian border .” ‘Mysterious’ campaign The Russian official, however, said there is an “extraordinary disinformation campaign” going on to project a threat of imminent invasion of Ukraine. He described the campaign as “mysterious” and said it is aimed at using sanctions against Russia. He said economic sanctions are counterproductive and are against the “culture of diplomatic communication”, hinting that western obstructions on Russia-aligned media outlets amount to curbing freedom of expression. Mr. Babushkin blamed NATO’s increased presence in the region for prompting Russian military build up, saying “Russia has absolutely no reason and, consequently no plans to invade Ukraine. Our troops at the border are deployed on our own territory and only for defence purposes due to escalated NATO military activities in Ukraine.” The Russian envoy described NATO as the “mechanism of confrontation” that is suffering from an identity crisis since the end of the Cold War. “It is not true that NATO is ensuring the European security — it is impossible without Russia and mutually respectful dialogue based on the principle of undivided security, meaning that no one should build up security arrangements at the expense of security interests of other states.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-should-give-legal-security-guarantees-on-nato-russia/article38331393.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||Syrian Kurds retake prison after IS attack||Kurdish forces on Wednesday retook full control of a prison in northeast Syria where Islamic State group jihadists had been holed up since attacking it six days ago. The brazen IS jailbreak attempt and ensuing clashes left more than 180 dead in the jihadists’ most high-profile military operation since the loss of their “caliphate” nearly three years ago. Ghwayran prison in the city of Hasakeh was thought to hold around 3,500 IS inmates when the initial attack was first launched on January 20 with explosives-laden vehicles steered by suicide bombers. The Kurdish authorities have insisted no inmates escaped from the compound but the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group has said significant numbers were sprung. In a statement, Farhad Shami of the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) said days of operations had “culminated with our entire control” over the prison after all holdout IS fighters had surrendered. With U.S. and other foreign forces stepping in to support Kurdish elite units, the neighbourhood around the prison was secured and the besieged militants inside the prison started turning themselves in. The SDF — the semi-autonomous Kurdish administration’s de-facto army — had said earlier Wednesday that more than 1,000 IS inmates had surrendered. The Observatory confirmed that the attack was over, after nearly six full days that turned the largest city in northeast Syria into a war zone. Thousands of Hasakeh residents were forced to leave their homes after at least 100 IS fighters stormed the facility last Thursday, in their biggest show of force in years. Over 180 dead In a mosque located at a safe distance from the chaos, hundreds of women and children were huddled together in the biting winter cold. Fighting in and around the prison since Thursday has killed 181 people, including 124 IS jihadists, 50 Kurdish fighters and seven civilians, according to the Observatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/syria-kurds-retake-jail-end-six-day-is-attack/article64945419.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:50 IST,||Yemen govt. forces sweep through Marib||Forces of Yemen’s internationally recognised government and their United Arab Emirates-backed allies swept through a strategic central province, forcing Houthi rebels out of its second largest district, officials said on Wednesday. The development in Marib province is another setback for the Iranian-backed Houthis, who for a year attempted to take control of the oil-rich province. Their offensive crumbled when the UAE-backed Giants Brigades helped reclaim the nearby Shabwa province earlier this month before advancing in Marib under air cover from the Saudi-led coalition. Government forces and the Giants retook the district of Harib and its center south of Marib city after nearly two weeks of fighting, pushing their way to the nearby district of Juba, said Brig. Abdou Megali, a military spokesman. The Houthis had taken the two districts last year, part of their offensive on Marib. Fighting also raged between government forces and the Houthis elsewhere including in the provinces of Jawf and Taiz, he added. The Giants posted footage purportedly showing their forces roaming through what they said was the center of Harib. Two other military officials from inside the coalition also said the district had been taken. They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/yemen-govt-forces-sweep-through-marib/article38331398.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||U.K.’s Johnson defiant as ‘partygate’ report looms||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday defended his government’s record, vowing to fight on as he braced for a potentially damning report into lockdown-breaching parties. The final report from an investigation by senior civil servant Sue Gray has not yet been submitted to Downing Street, the government said. The dramatic confirmation that London’s Metropolitan Police force has started its own investigation could complicate the release of Ms. Gray’s report, but Opposition insisted on its publication in full. Mr. Johnson, in a heated session of weekly questions in Parliament, said he could not comment further on the “partygate” revelations pending the investigations. But he said the government — from its pandemic response to economic recovery, and “bringing the West together” against Russia’s threats to Ukraine — was not going anywhere. “We’ve taken the tough decisions, we’ve got the big calls right, and we -- and in particular I -- are getting on with the job,” the prime minister said. Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Ms. Gray’s report was “fairly imminent”, and the Opposition Labour Party anticipated that Mr. Johnson would give a statement in response later Wednesday or Thursday. But regardless of its findings, Labour leader Keir Starmer said Mr. Johnson had already “shown nothing but contempt for the decency, honesty and respect that define this country”, and called anew for his resignation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uks-johnson-defiant-as-partygate-report-looms/article38331392.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||The substance of the U.P. elections||Om Prakash Rajbhar, who heads the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, was once a key actor in the non-Yadav Other Backward Classes (OBC) cast of characters in the Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition. He has been among those most vocal on why Uttar Pradesh is ripe for churn and change. Mr. Rajbhar’s slogan of ‘ Ghulami Chhodo, Samaj Jodo (Quit slavery and forge social unity’) is more than just a backdrop for his television interviews. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s three OBC Ministers have jumped ship, along with a steady trickle of other OBC leaders heading out, citing the same mantra in their resignation letters — neglect of backwards, Dalits, farmers and unemployed youth. These lines are contours of a much larger story which appears to be taking shape beyond the State elections that begin in February.  Big Bang spectacles in the form of the Kashi corridor and incendiary anti-Muslim rhetoric were effective devices to shut out all other conversation. But they were also clear articulations of the Hindutva vision for India, which wants saffron to replace the vision of a rainbow Indian nationalism. This has meant offering Backwards a space, but under a decidedly Hindu umbrella. A generation has gone by since Mandal, and now OBC youngsters empowered by its fruits, have logically longed for more. The 2010 economic slowdown soured many dreams, but in Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a significant OBC section found a hero. OBCs made their presence felt in the 2014 election. There was a record turnout of 68% of 18 to 25 yearolds who represented 25% of voters — higher than the national average. The Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) records that 34.4% of them supported Mr. Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party, which was three percentage points above the overall support for the party. It appeared they were willing to give up the hard-earned material benefits of ‘social justice’ for the emotional succour of ‘accommodation’ under the saffron umbrella. Mr. Modi, and then Mr. Adityanath, had been able to fold everyone into the ‘Kamandal’. Historically, the land economy of Uttar Pradesh was centred on the exploitative and unreformed zamindari system. The thick overlap between land ownership, economic strength and social hierarchy made social reform next to impossible, unlike Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, which saw vibrant social movements led by the likes of Sree Narayana Guru, Periyar and Jyotiba Phule, respectively, leavening the soil for a more egalitarian order. What Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has recently termed the ‘Dravidian model’, where social reform was successfully welded into economic uplift, or what Kerala saw in terms of multiple initiatives such as the People’s Plan, focussing on a bottom-up or capabilities approach, never made it to Uttar Pradesh. There is economic distress The downturn in the economy since 2016 has led to desperation in Uttar Pradesh; while not shown on television or most newspapers, a rapid fall in living standards has led to a churn being triggered off. Uttar Pradesh may have been BIMARU (Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, a term to describe backwardness) but it has done successively worse and that has added to the misery. Labour force data has established that U.P.’s total working-age population has increased by over 2 crore over the past five years, but the total number of people with jobs shrunk by over 16 lakh. Youth unemployment has increased five times since 2012. The Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) of U.P. grew at a compound growth rate of only 1.95% over 2017-21. In contrast, the rate was 6.92% over 2012-17 during the previous State government. Inflation, especially food inflation, has hurt the poorest who form the bulk of U.P.’s population. NITIAayog’s first Multi-Dimensional Poverty Index ratings have U.P. in the bottom three, with 37.79% being poor, far higher than the national average. The Aayog’s Health Index showed U.P. to be continuing to be the worst performer. This was for data before the novel coronavirus pandemic struck. The state of affairs of pandemic management in the State was made clear by bodies seen afloat in the Ganga, and later buried in shallow graves on the river banks. The context There is a clear social component to the economic slide, as demonetisation, the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and then the mishandling of COVID-19 have disproportionately affected the informal economy, which for a State like U.P. is in effect its only economy. This informal economy is where the majority of the population finds work and sustenance, and comprises, not by a coincidence, the socially backward. There was no relief as far as the crisis in agriculture was concerned and farmers in U.P. became more anxious with the enactment of the new farm laws; this is why the farmers’ agitation has been able to strike a deep chord in the State. Unease with a Chief Minister running a caste-conscious administration got full expression. The failing economy has fuelled the feel-bad sentiment in the State. The refusal of the BJP to conduct a caste census or declare the numbers of the Socio Economic and Caste Census (SECC) conducted in 2011, has provoked more anger among numerically smaller castes and their leaders, who had so far subsumed themselves in the Hindutva tent. This has been exacerbated by upper caste dominance which has played out in five years. In 2017, the Vidhan Sabha in Lucknow consisted of 44.3% upper caste MLAs, their highest share in the State’s Assembly since 1980. The BJP set up a commission headed by Justice (retired) G. Rohini to sub-categorise castes to apportion reservation more fairly to under-represented castes. This commission was to submit its report in 2018, but is expecting to get its twelfth extension, according to a media report. A social justice committee headed by Allahabad High Court judge Justice (retired) Raghavendra Kumar in October 2018 submitted a report to the State government, but it is still being studied. For a new model The stage seems set for a change — of discourse and the all-important narrative — as voices from within the BJP fort are beginning to air radically different sentiments from what Hindutva proponents would want them to. Added to backward class angst and thwarted desires, along with the ruined economy, is the experience of Dalits in the State. Apart from being hit economically, by virtue of being at the bottom of the social hierarchy, they have also been at the receiving end of crimes in the State. Last year, according to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, crimes against them in U.P. constituted 25% of all crimes recorded against Dalits in India. The Bahujan Samaj Party has gone into virtual silent mode and this has allowed the Samajwadi Party to try and extend its reach and construct a broader coalition encompassing Dalits too in a way that Rashtriya Janata Dal Lalu Prasad Yadav managed to in Bihar in the early 1990s.  This could be a time when U.P. sees itself emerging into its own, with its own version of Dravidian modelling, finally being able to hardwire politics with a call for real social and economic change. It would be a moment for U.P. to savour if it can make true the Socialist Lohiaite call for ‘ Picchde paanve sau mein saath ’ (Backwards must get 60%, as they are 60% of the population’) widening the definition of backwards into non-forwards. This 60% is not just about reservation in government jobs but about their due share in the economy, politics and other institutions of the State. It is not caste assertion but about their rights, both constitutional and socio-economic.  The BJP’s idea is of benefaction from the Leader, while the clear desire which is being expressed now is to accord them what is theirs by right. Devising its own comprehensive model may be the answer to U.P.’s ferment, one where economics, participation and representation is driven by people-propelled policies; not those diverted by demonising “internal enemies”, or in the name of ancient India, a respect for the ‘status-quo’ caste hierarchy which has served its people very poorly. These tremors, the counter-cry of 85 versus 15 (referring to the notional Backward and Forward numbers) challenging the 80 versus 20 Hindutva discourse and the politics of one-leader, one-nation, call for politics in India’s most populated State, and therefore India, to move into another gear.  These are noises which no conch shell sounds can drown out. It will haunt whoever comes to power in March. Uttar Pradesh is on the cusp of change. There seems to be a clamour for real change, real power and empowerment. As Mr. Rajbhar’s slogan puts it pithily, it is about no ‘ghulami’, or no slavery; backwards not being content with playing the Kevat or Shabari to Lord Ram on a saffron stage, but wanting to write their own Epic. Like the farmers’ stir provided a road map to all sections of society by making sure they do not get steam-rolled, voices gathering in India’s most populated State, may well provide a grammar and a vocabulary to resist the national discourse in place since 2014. That is the significance of the U.P. elections; not necessarily its result.  Seema Chishti is a journalist-writer based in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-substance-of-the-up-elections/article64945422.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:32 IST,||The Dravidian model of public health||The recent Supreme Court judgement upholding the constitutionality of reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBC) in National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET)‘s All-India Quota (AIQ) seats for undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses is a landmark in the history of social justice in the country. “The propriety of actions and dedication to public service should also be seen as markers of merit, which cannot be assessed in a competitive examination,” observed the bench comprising Justice D.Y. Chandrachud and Justice A.S. Bopanna. In the light of these crucial observations, it is high time that we demystify the narrow definitions of merit. “Merit should be socially contextualised and reconceptualised as an instrument that advances social goods like equality that we as a society value,” the apex court said. In this regard, the practices followed by Tamil Nadu, where the notion of merit has taken into account the role of historical privileges instead of an illusory inborn ability, can be replicated to facilitate social advancement throughout India. A tectonic shift Successive Dravidian governments in Tamil Nadu have had a broad and an inclusive understanding of ‘merit’ and its social implications. Hence, affirmative action to provide reservation for in-service doctors has stood the test of time for well over four decades. The introduction of the scheme reserving 50% of the postgraduate and super-specialty medical seats for government doctors ushered in a tectonic shift in providing tertiary health care in government hospitals. It resulted in the expansion of public health infrastructure in the State. This progressive reform paved the way for ensuring the availability of specialists in multiple disciplines such as gynaecology, anaesthesia, general medicine, paediatrics, general surgery and orthopedics, which were scarce in almost every district headquarters hospital across the State 40 years ago. This was complemented by super-specialty departments like Urology, Nephrology, Cardiology and Neurology in the Madras Medical College (MMC) in the 1960s and 1970s. The provision of reservation for government doctors in super-specialty courses contributed to a steady rise in the availability of multi-specialty experts not only in metropolitan cities like Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai, but also Tier-2 cities as early as the 1990s. Today, the public health sector in Tamil Nadu has 900 super-specialists in different disciplines, a number comparable only to a few European countries. The unique scheme had a dual effect. It encouraged young MBBS graduates to serve in rural areas, as serving for three years in Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in rural areas is an eligibility criterion for graduates to avail themselves of the reservation policy. As a consequence, State PHCs and government hospitals never witnessed a shortage of doctors and people got better healthcare facilities at their doorsteps. The healthcare managers in the Tamil Nadu government were not short-sighted while formulating the policy. They unveiled a unique superannuation bond for these government doctors to ensure that those who secure postgraduate or super-specialty seats by availing themselves of in-service reservation will serve the government till their retirement. This legal binding has ensured that a vast majority of the specialists continues their service in the government sector throughout their career. The main aim of this superannuation bond was to prevent the brain drain either to the private sector or to places abroad. It has proved to be a win-win situation for doctors and the government. This unique scheme is present nowhere in the country. If one attempts an objective analysis of the contribution of two prestigious institutions — MMC and IIT-Madras —where ‘bright’ and ‘meritorious’ students land, in societal advancement and regional development, MMC would shine largely due to its adoption of reformatory policies that are consistent with the societal needs of Tamil Nadu. A myopic view However, with the introduction of NEET and Regulation 9 by the Medical Council of India (MCI), the admission policy has undergone a sea change. The weightage for government doctors who serve in rural areas has reduced. The MCI has framed a policy of giving only 50% of postgraduate diploma seats to service doctors, exempting postgraduate degrees. Besides lack of consultation with stakeholders, the policymakers in Delhi are yet to put forth their rationale for this myopic view in the public domain. Shockingly, the Union government went to the extent of filing affidavits opposing in-service reservation before the Madras High Court and Supreme Court when the new rule was challenged by the Tamil Nadu Medical Officers Association. While the State government rightly says that dismantling incentives to serving doctors would jeopardise healthcare delivery system in the State, the Union government is opposing the very idea by hiding behind the nebulous regulations of MCI, a regulatory watchdog without any legal teeth to formulate policy. With this move, the Union government has put the rural healthcare delivery system in peril and pushed young doctors, who find it difficult to compete with their urban counterparts who have access to niche coaching institutes, out of the system to prepare for competitive exams instead of serving the poor in rural areas. It is unfortunate that the affidavits filed by the Centre on both the OBC reservation and the government in-service doctors reservation cases in the court are based on a narrow reading of what constitutes merit rather than an inclusive prism called public health. Instead of trying to widen the scope of a time-tested practice, which would ensure robust supply of specialist and super-specialist doctors to strengthen public health care, the Union government is hell bent on unleashing misery. Its lament about the unwillingness of doctors to work in rural areas and its attempt to push them to take up compulsory rural service after MBBS or to introduce a bridge course for AYUSH doctors to incarnate them as rural physicians is purely rhetorical. In continuation of the maladies of NEET, from 2017, it became compulsory for individual States to surrender all the seats of super-specialty courses to the central pool for common counselling, forgoing the domiciliary needs (15% of MBBS seats, 50% of postgraduate seats but 100% of super-specialty seats are surrendered to Centre, which is known as AIQ) and also abolishing government doctors’ reservation. Disposing of a case filed in the Madras High Court by members of the Service Doctors and Postgraduates Association for the reintroduction of 50% service doctors’ reservation in super-speciality courses, the court has directed the Centre to provide reservation for service doctors in super-specialty courses. Will the Union government act in accordance with the recent judgement of the Supreme Court, which has advocated a broader definition of the concept of merit by facilitating a smooth reintroduction of in-service doctors and domiciliary reservation for respective States in super-specialty courses from the current academic admission year? Sakthirajan Ramanathan is Assistant Professor of Nephrology, MMC; Sundaresan Chellamuthu is Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Specialty Hospital and State president, Government All Doctors Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-dravidian-model-of-public-health/article64945444.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||Unlock India’s food processing potential||What’s for dinner? The answer concerns every living being. Food connects us all and is tied to our community, traditions, our past and our future. The challenge to feed the 10 billion population by mid-century is therefore being deliberated on several fronts. It demands efficient ways of production that are both economically viable and ecologically sustainable. Fortunately, technologies are emerging that revamp the traditional approach of farm to fork and with a lower environmental footprint. One of the largest producers of fruits and vegetables in the world to boost processed food in large quantities, India has formulated a unique Production-Linked Incentive Scheme (PLIS) which aims to incentivise incremental sales. Progress so far A sum of Rs. 10,900 crore has been earmarked for the scheme and to date, 60 applicants have already been selected under Category 1 (https://bit.ly/3rMdqTc) which incentivises firms for incremental sales and branding/marketing initiatives taken abroad. Beneficiaries have been obliged to commit a minimum investment while applying for the scheme. Assuming the committed investment as a fixed ratio of their sales and undertaking execution of at least 75% of the projects, the sector is likely to witness at least Rs. 6,500 crore worth of investment over the next two years. A study in the United States concluded that a 1% increase in public infrastructure increased the food manufacturing output by 0.06% in the longer run (https://bit.ly/3rOeE0l). This correlation holds good for India too as a higher investment is being concentrated in States such as Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. These States as reported by the Good Governance Index 2020-21, ranked among the highest in the ‘Public Infrastructure and Utilities’ parameter with ‘Connectivity to Rural Habitations’ showing the highest improvement (https://bit.ly/3nZ98Xz). For the exports market, it is now established that sales promotion is positively related to increased sales volume, but inversely related to profitability. To bridge this gap, of the 13 key sectors announced under the PLIS, the ‘Food Processing PLIS’ earmarks a dedicated Category 3 for supporting branding and marketing activities in foreign markets. This ensures that India’s share of value-added products in the exports basket is improved, and it may leverage on its unique geographical proximity to the untapped markets of Europe, the Middle East/West Asia, Africa, Oceania and Japan. Easing access to credit As a result of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the past two years have been witnessing a significant number of people working from home. This has accelerated the demand for products from the ready-to-eat market which saw a rise of approximately 170% in sales volume between March-June 2020, as stated by Netscribes (global data and insights firm). The pandemic has bolstered consumer awareness of functional foods, which is expected to provide a launchpad for health-orientated start-ups and micro-food processing units. However, the access of micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to finance is a perennial problem in the country, predominating due to a lack of proper credit history mechanism for MSMEs. Smart financing alternatives such as peer-to-peer (P2P) lending hold potential for micro-food processors as can be observed by the United Kingdom Government-owned British Business Bank (akin to India’s MUDRA Bank, or Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Bank) which has helped more than 1,18,000 small businesses get access to more than U.S.$17.88 billion (https://bit.ly/3Aziz4T). Access to working capital has in theory been addressed by the Trade Receivables Discounting System (TReDS), a platform for facilitating the financing/discounting of trade receivables of MSMEs through multiple financiers. However, the platform requires considerable scaling-up and simultaneous enforcement of stringent measures for corporates to comply with. Integrating the TReDS platform with the Goods and Service Tax Network’s e-invoicing portal will make TReDS more attractive and give relief to financiers. A sustainable food ecosystem With growing populations, changing food habits and unrestricted use of natural resources, nations must come together and lay out a road map for a common efficient food value chain. New alternatives are being explored which have immense potential in replacing the staples of rice and wheat in the form of Nutri-cereals, plant-based proteins, fermented foods, health bars and even fresh fortified foods for pets. By welcoming the new brands in the category, PLIS aims to create an enabling ecosystem for innovation in both food products and processes. Post the 1929 Great Depression, hemlines of a skirt were indexed to predict the financial state. Almost a century later, luminosity and night lights data obtained from satellites indicate the extent of economic progress. No wonder, 50 years hence, the progress of nations will be benchmarked to their ability to sustainably feed their populations. Harsh Vardhan, an IIM-Ahmedabad graduate, is a thought leader for Invest India (under the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/unlock-indias-food-processing-potential/article64945426.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:31 IST,||Remembering the Holocaust||Marked by the United Nations each year on the 27th of January, International Holocaust Remembrance Day provides an opportunity to recount the atrocities of the Holocaust that resulted in the death of an estimated 6 million Jews. The day marks the anniversary of the liberation of the Nazi German concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau in January 1945. The aphorism for Holocaust remembrance remains unchanged: Never Again. A turning point in history, the Holocaust is one of the most visible acts of violence and discrimination. Yet, lessons of the past seem to fade in the mists of time. Are those who do not remember the past condemned to repeat it? Holocaust distortion and denial As the Holocaust recedes in time, the forces of antisemitism, racial and religious intolerance, and discrimination and hate speech pose new challenges to global civilisational values, thereby running the risk of repetition of the crimes of the past. Holocaust ignorance, distortion and denial are growing at an alarming rate. The Anti-Defamation League Global 100, an index on antisemitism, found that antisemitic sentiments are disturbingly pervasive, with more than a quarter of the people surveyed, an estimated 1.09 billion people, harbouring antisemitic attitudes around the world. Across Asia, only 23% of persons surveyed had heard of the Holocaust and believe the historical account. Data from North America and Europe show that younger people are less likely to be aware of the historical accounts of the Holocaust, with less than half of those surveyed under the age of 35 having ever heard of the Holocaust. Considering India’s youthful demography, these statistics are important. The youth proved to be particularly vulnerable to the techniques employed by extremists to spread hateful and racist ideologies, which underscores the importance of empowering the youth with the knowledge, capacities, and agency to reject hate. Engaging the youth with the painful history of the Holocaust and the ethical and moral issues it highlights has contemporary relevance as a tool to help fight hatred and prompt discussion of the societal contexts that enable exclusionary policies to divide communities. With an ever more globalised young generation, capitalising on the power of education, communication and connectivity is important as they are effective tools to galvanise people into action. India’s growing global influence and efforts towards digitisation provide further impetus to expand youth networks so that young people across the world can connect, share experiences, and negate extremist mindsets, ultimately strengthening efforts to disavow violence and discrimination. However, this needs to be carefully monitored as the lack of critical skills to filter out or navigate misinformation or disinformation on social media can leave the youth vulnerable to hate speech online. According to a publication by the Center for Countering Digital Hatred, antisemitism can be found on all social media platforms. The situation is worse in languages other than English, as social media companies including Facebook and YouTube lack global content moderation teams. This is important to note especially in the Indian context, as the youth make up a greater portion of the Internet user base. Malicious words have the power to spark a wildfire, for it is words that started the Holocaust. Therefore, to prevent Indian youth from disseminating various forms of hate speech, both online and offline, we must educate them about the Holocaust and antisemitism today to deepen reflection about contemporary issues that affect societies around the world, such as the power of extremist ideologies, propaganda, the abuse of official power, and group-targeted hate and violence. Addressing antisemitism India’s vision to create inclusive and equitable education that includes more detailed knowledge of various cultures, religions, languages, and gender identities to develop respect for diversity through the National Educational Policy 2020 already creates a fertile ground for working on Holocaust education programmes. To further this vision and strengthen the resilience of Indian society against antisemitic discourses, the Embassies of Israel and Germany, with the support of UNESCO, are organising a workshop on antisemitism for policymakers, school principals and educators this February. Using existing training resources, experts from UNESCO, Israel and Germany will equip educators with the knowledge and approaches needed to use the history of the Holocaust to make ‘Never Again’ an actionable promise emanating from our classrooms. With the community of Holocaust survivors dwindling, we need the youth to take forward the lessons of the past. It is imperative that they are empowered with knowledge to combat myths and falsehoods, and to be able to withstand influence from violent extremism and hate speech. Naor Gilon is Ambassador of Israel to India, Walter J. Lindner is Ambassador of Germany to India and Eric Falt is Director, UNESCO, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/remembering-the-holocaust/article38331378.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:32 IST,||The endless row over SCCL||Differences over the apportionment of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL), the public sector miner, continue to affect Telangana and Andhra Pradesh more than seven-and-a-half years after the bifurcation of erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh. The vexatious issue continues to figure in the agenda of high-level meetings convened by the Union Home Ministry. Division of SCCL and its subsidiary APHMEL figured in the agenda of the recent meeting of Chief Secretaries of the two States convened by Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla. There was no discussion on the issue though, as the meeting focused more on financial issues such as power dues between the two States. The Andhra Pradesh government insists on apportioning SCCL and its subsidiary Andhra Pradesh Heavy Machinery and Engineering Limited (APHMEL) on the basis of the population ratio (58:42), as incorporated in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act of 2014. But the Twelfth Schedule of the Act categorically states that of the total equity of SCCL, 51% should be with Telangana and 49% with the Government of India. Section 92 of the Act states that the successor States should follow the principles and guidelines issued by the Central government on and from the appointed day (June 2, 2014), on matters relating to coal, oil and natural gas among other things. Moreover, the Act made it mandatory to bifurcate institutions that have operational jurisdiction in both the successor States. Andhra Pradesh cannot claim exclusive rights over the institution which had operational jurisdiction in both the States, officials assert. Differences between the two States deepened following an order issued by the Andhra Pradesh government in 2018. The order sought demerger of APHMEL based on the recommendations of a committee headed by retired IAS officer Sheela Bhide that the entity should pass to Andhra Pradesh in its entirety since all its assets and liabilities are located in that State. The Telangana government took serious objections to the “unilateral” decision of the neighbouring State government and requested the Centre to issue an interim direction suspending the recommendation. “It is apprehended that Andhra Pradesh may resort to unilateral taking over of the valuable assets of APHMEL based on their location near Vijayawada,” the then Chief Secretary S.K. Joshi said in a letter to the Union Home Ministry. APHMEL is a subsidiary of the State-owned SCCL which owned 81.54% of the equity. The erstwhile Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation held 5.79%, the government of erstwhile united Andhra 0.86%, and public shareholders 11.81%. The Telangana government is firm that the institution is a subsidiary of the SCCL and will continue to be the same. Only 0.86% equity of the then State government, amounting to Rs. 14.90 lakh, was apportionable in the population ratio (58 for Andhra and 42 for Telangana) between the two States. The matter was settled when a circular was issued by the SCCL board approving the change of 51% shareholding of the Andhra Pradesh government in the name of the Telangana government in line with the provisions contained in the Twelfth Schedule of the Act from June 2, 2014. The SCCL board comprises representatives from the Central government. However, the Centre continues to entertain requests from Andhra Pradesh. It allows the issue in the agenda of discussions between the two States despite repeated representations made by Telangana. It is time for the Centre to put an end to the controversy. Doing so would help shift focus to other issues between the two States. rajeev.madabhushi@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-endless-row-over-sccl/article64945443.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||Taxing drama||In what should be the last act of a long and winding tax dispute drama, British firm Cairn Energy has said it has concluded all steps prescribed by the Indian government in order to be eligible for the refund of a contentious retroactive tax levy. The firm, now rechristened as Capricorn Energy, expects to get back Rs. 7,900 crore. Cairn Energy was the second major firm pursued by the I-T Department for taxes it believed had accrued in the past, using retro-active legislative changes introduced in the 2012 Budget by then Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee. The original target for this move, that has sharply dented India’s credibility, was Vodafone, which had secured a Supreme Court verdict against the tax department’s demands for past transactions. Empowered to dig up similar transactions, involving the indirect transfer of assets situated in India, the I-T Department had, since 2014, pursued Cairn over a group restructuring undertaken in 2006, culminating in a tax demand of as much as Rs. 24,500 crore. Cairn and Vodafone had initiated arbitration proceedings against the Indian tax authorities’ actions, and won in late 2020. But in Cairn’s case, the taxman had recovered part of its ‘dues’ by forcibly selling its shares even as arbitration proceedings were pending — an action that led to The Hague awarding it penal damages of $1.2 billion. As part of the Government’s compromise formula worked out belatedly last August through amendments in the tax law, Cairn had to drop all legal proceedings seeking to enforce the arbitration award against India, forgo the damages and indemnify the Government against all future claims or liabilities. Last month, Vodafone also availed these provisions. The Government should, on its part, work swiftly to process their paperwork and preferably remit their dues before the financial year concludes. While this will be a necessary first step towards restoring some of the damage caused to Brand India, it may not be immediately sufficient — from labelling it as tax terrorism while in the Opposition, this government dithered on corrective action till its eighth year in office. Even in the eight months following the loss of the Cairn arbitration, it shuffled its feet, from denial and obfuscation to working out legal amendments to fix the mess. The only ostensible trigger for the change was global courts approving seizure of Indian assets as Cairn sought to enforce the arbitration award. Whether this was an outcome of bureaucratic bravado, official obstinacy, political paralysis or a combination of all three, India needs to abandon such fickleness and demonstrate greater certainty and predictability across economic policy, be it about GST or global trade engagement, in order to bolster its credentials as an ideal investment destination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/taxing-drama/article38331374.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||Keeping faith||At a time when most other India-Pakistan exchanges are suspended, even a simple proposal by the Pakistan Hindu Council, forwarded by Pakistan to India, to allow pilgrims of both countries to travel by air to avoid cumbersome journeys seems a leap. Islamabad-Delhi ties now are possibly at their worst ever in peace times, with no political dialogue at a bilateral or multilateral level for over five years. After many terror attacks, India has stopped normal communications and cultural exchanges, and after the Government’s moves on Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan stopped all trade ties. Both sides have downsized their diplomatic missions. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has ensured that the borders have been virtually sealed for two years, with few direct routes operating between them. Even the movement of pilgrims may have been cancelled but for the conscious attempt by the two governments to make an exception for faith-based travel — as was done for the Kartarpur corridor that came up in 2019, the same year the two countries nearly went to war over the Pulwama attack. Religious exchanges, of mainly Muslim pilgrims from Pakistan, and Hindus and Sikhs from India, are governed by a protocol signed in 1974, and allowed to continue. While the routes for Sikh pilgrims, from Indian Punjab to the Pakistani Punjab province, are relatively easy, hundreds of Indian and Pakistani pilgrims crossing over at the Wagah/Atari border to travel further to the Hinglaj Mata Mandir in Balochistan, the Paramhans Mandir in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the Ajmer Sharif dargah in Rajasthan, the Nizamuddin Aulia in Delhi and other such shrines, face more circuitous routes. To avoid the extra time in travel, the Pakistan Hindu Council, which has now signed an MoU with Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) to facilitate faith-based tour groups, has asked that PIA charters from Karachi and Lahore be allowed to fly direct to Indian cities this week, with a view to also allowing reciprocal air charters from India. This would be the first time such air travel has taken place in years, and the first time ever that pilgrimages would be accorded this facility. As pilgrim groups on both sides are vetted before being allowed to travel, the precedent is unlikely to pose any additional security threat. In an atmosphere fraught with tensions, such people-to-people initiatives can only help build some modicum of goodwill. No evident harm to national interests has come from other such recent moves embarked on by the two governments, such as the LoC ceasefire announcement in February, or the decision to reopen the Kartarpur corridor in November, or the Government’s nod for cricket under the T20 World Cup as well as other sporting events. While the Government’s reflex position may be to deny the request, it may prove wiser to give the proposal some deliberate consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/keeping-faith/article38331371.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:31 IST,||Cheering heroes at Delhi parade||New Delhi, Jan. 26: A grateful nation to-day paid homage to its valiant soldiers, sailors and airmen who laid down their lives and honoured those who displayed exemplary valour in defence of the country during the recent war with Pakistan. The Republic Day this year was turned into a day of commemoration with the Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, laying a wreath at a specially erected memorial under the arcade of the India Gate, where a four foot-high flame was lit on top of the historic monument. The simple memorial consisted of a small pedestal placed on a platform with a reversed rifle and a steel helmet on top symbolising the sacrifice of the unknown warrior who laid down his life so that his countrymen might live in freedom, dignity and peace. The solemn ceremony which lasted only a few minutes was conducted with splendid simplicity befitting the poignant occasion. As the buglers drawn from the three Services sounded the Last Post — and the guard of honour reversed arms — the Prime Minister laid the wreath and stood in silence for two minutes. Before the customary Republic Day parade began, the President, Mr. V.V. Giri, presented four Param Vir Chakras and two Ashok Chakras to the winners after detailed citations were read out of their conspicuous gallantry and supreme heroism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cheering-heroes-at-delhi-parade/article38331377.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||Letters||The Central government’s stand seems logical (Page 1, “Centre to remind States again of IAS cadre rules”, January 26). The fact is that the number of officers being deputed to the Central government is reducing. Thus, it is necessary to ensure that there is the required number of officers deputed for effective governance. However, the Odisha government’s statement provides another dimension. It has asked the Central government to find out why many officers are not opting for central deputation. The reason, as opined by the Central government, is political patronage at the State level. However, that may be a simplistic view. Personal reasons such as a reluctance to shift one’s family frequently and other grounds such as a reluctance to learn a new language, besides rules and work conditions may have to be considered as well. The short-term solution could lie in the implementation of new rules while also working out a long-term solution, or incentives, keeping cadre requirements in mind. L.T. Chandran, Hyderabad   This is not the first time that offers of Padma awards have been turned down (Inside pages, “Buddhadeb refuses Padma Bhushan award”, January 26). E.M.S. Namboodiripad rejected the Padma Vibhushan. P.N. Haksar and Swami Ranganathananda cited personal inhibitions. Parkash Singh Badal returned the award in protest against the farm laws. The family of the late Chief Justice of India, Justice J.S. Verma, refused to accept the award conferred to him posthumously by saying that accepting it would be against his principles. In a way, individuals refusing to accept or returning (in protest) the high-profile Padma awards appears to be an act of contempt of the nation. At least, it is for the Government to treat the awards as valuable and to definitely ensure avoiding such contemptuous situations. Perhaps Governments must withdraw from the job of instituting and offering awards; vested political and personal interests could play a role in the process. P.R.V. Raja, Pandalam, Kerala   I was looking for an escape from the stranglehold of the novel coronavirus pandemic especially as it has affected children. I was buried under a plethora of medical evidence, mostly speculative, to stay away from any adventurous step that might harm my family or community. Closely following these protocols and submitting myself to the herd mentality, I have crossed two and a half years of my post-retirement life only to find my children and grandchildren facing enormous trauma in terms of managing online learning mandated by the school authorities. We, parents, owe it to our children to give them holistic education — where they meet their peers, interact with their teachers, participate in a little fun and frolic and learn subjects ‘on the go’. The gadget invasion has, undoubtedly, turned the world topsy-turvy for children, giving them a false sense of learning. It is time we set the clock back and reenergise the conventional method of imparting wisdom to avoid the curse of posterity. Within the parameters of hygiene and safety, let us give our children a fresh breath of life and start. R.K. Chakravarti, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/letters/article64945424.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:53 IST,||India probes China, Vietnam over ‘dumping’ of vinyl tiles||India has initiated an anti-dumping probe against imports of a certain type of tiles, used for covering the floors in residential and commercial buildings, from China, Taiwan and Vietnam following a complaint by domestic players. The Commerce Ministry’s investigation arm Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) is probing the alleged dumping of “vinyl tiles other than in roll or sheet form”. Welspun India Ltd., Welspun Flooring Ltd. and Welspun Global Brands Ltd. had filed a petition to impose anti-dumping duty on the imports from China, Taiwan and Vietnam, according to a notification of the DGTR. The applicants, it said, had alleged the dumping of the product was affecting domestic industry which started commercial production in September 2019. “On the basis of the duly substantiated written application by or on behalf of the domestic industry, and having satisfied itself, on the basis of the prima facie evidence submitted by the industry about the dumping... the authority hereby initiates an investigation,” the directorate said. If it is established that the dumping has caused material injury to the domestic players, the DGTR would recommend an anti-dumping duty on these imports. Countries start anti-dumping probes to determine whether their domestic industries have been hurt because of a surge in cheap imports. As a countermeasure, they impose these duties under the multilateral regime of the World Trade Organisation (WTO).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-probes-china-vietnam-over-dumping-of-vinyl-tiles/article64945211.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:53 IST,||Vedanta demerger details to become clear by March-end, says Agarwal||Metals and mining group Vedanta Ltd. will announce the contours of a proposal to spin off key businesses into separate listed companies by March-end, chairman Anil Agarwal said. While the zinc business is already housed in a listed subsidiary, the plan is to demerge the aluminum, iron and steel, and oil and gas businesses into standalone, listed entities. This will ‘unlock value for all stakeholders’ as well as create businesses that are positioned better to capitalise on their distinct market positions and deliver long-term growth and enable strategic partnerships, he told PTI in an interview. It will also help tailor the capital structure and capital allocation policies based on business-specific dynamics, as also create distinct investment profiles to attract deeper and broader investor bases. ‘Natural progression’ “It (demerger) is a natural thing to do. Market is very good and production (at different divisions of Vedanta) is going well. And so we think having separate companies will create valuation,” he said. “Maybe in a month and a half, sometime before March-end we will announce the full (contours).” Vedanta Ltd. had in November announced that its board of directors had formed a sub-committee to evaluate a potential spin-off of its aluminum, iron and steel, and oil and gas businesses into separate listed units. Following the sub-committee’s evaluation, the board could also consider other alternatives such as strategic partnerships. The spin-off will result in three new listed entities with shareholding mirroring that of Vedanta Ltd. After this, London-based parent Vedanta Resources group will comprise five listed entities — Vedanta Ltd., the three newly listed firms and the listed zinc subsidiary, Hindustan Zinc, in which Vedanta Ltd. holds 64.9%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vedanta-demerger-details-to-become-clear-by-march-end-says-agarwal/article64945213.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:53 IST,||Take a ‘balanced’ approach to fiscal deficit, says Toyota JV||The Union government has to take a ‘balanced approach’ to tackle the growing fiscal deficit while continuing to nurture the economy, Toyota Kirloskar Motor said in a pre-Budget expectation statement. Constrained by the unprecedented scale of the COVID-19 crisis, the government had to make several unplanned expenditures towards healthcare and social sectors in addition to taking other measures to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on the economy. “Going forward, the government has to take a balanced approach to tackle the growing fiscal deficit while continuing to nurture the economy,” the Japanese carmaker’s unit said. Faceless assessment The government’s focus on a faceless tax assessment scheme, aimed at enhancing transparency and building confidence in the system, would improve revenue collection and add to the ease of doing business, it noted. “We feel the government should further continue to strengthen these measures for lasting benefits,” it said. PLI scheme Through Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI) for several key identified sectors, the government had sought to transform the economy by attracting investments, especially in import-dependent industries. “These measures will help create a vibrant and competitive local manufacturing ecosystem for advanced and green technologies at global scales. “We hope these benefits will also trickle down the entire supply chain thereby boosting the growth of our MSMEs,” the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/take-a-balanced-approach-to-fiscal-deficit-says-toyota-jv/article64945210.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:53 IST,||Jio-bp expands with Delhi EV charging hub||A joint venture of billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) and energy major BP has opened one of the country’s largest EV charging hubs in Delhi, as the duo scale up the fuel-retail network, offering multiple fuel choices, including EV charging infrastructure. Reliance BP Mobility Limited, operating under the brand name Jio-bp, is working with multiple demand aggregators, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and technology partners with a vision of being the leading EV charging infrastructure player in India, RIL had said last week. “Jio-bp has constructed and launched one of the country’s largest EV charging hubs in Dwarka, Delhi with BluSmart as its primary customer,” it had said. RBML had introduced its first Jio-bp branded mobility station at Navde, Navi Mumbai in October last year. And since then, it has been scaling up the network. In 2019, BP had bought a 49% stake in more than 1,400 petrol pumps and 31 aviation turbine fuel (ATF) stations owned by Reliance for $1billion. The existing petrol pumps of Reliance had since been transferred to the joint venture, which plans to scale them up to 5,500 by 2025. Reliance holds the remaining 51% stake in Reliance BP Mobility Limited (RBML). RBML has already received the marketing authorisation for transportation fuels. Petrol pumps with RBML have since increased to 1,448, according to latest information available from the Petroleum Ministry. RBML had 1,427 outlets at the end of September 2021. India’s auto fuel retailing is dominated by public sector oil companies that own a majority of the 81,099 petrol pumps in the country. Rosneft-backed Nayara Energy is the largest private fuel retailer with 6,496 pumps. Shell has 310 petrol pumps. India’s market for fuels and mobility is rapidly growing. It is expected to be the fastest-growing fuels market in the world over the next 20 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jio-bp-expands-with-delhi-ev-charging-hub/article38331366.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:53 IST,||Loan demand to rise in Feb., March: Shriram unit||Signalling a return to normalcy, India’s largest truck finance firm, Shriram Transport Finance Company, on Wednesday said its collection efficiency had returned to 100% in the second half of January after undergoing a brief blip in the first fortnight. Shriram Transport Finance Company vice-chairman and MD, Umesh Revankar said collection rates would rise in February and March as more people get vaccinated and the Omicron variant becomes less impactful on business than originally feared. Collections rates reflect confidence levels in borrowers, often seen as a proxy of economic activity. “Third wave (of COVID-19) was only temporary... people have come out of fear and business has returned to normal. Some States imposed some restrictions but later reversed them,” he told PTI. Disbursements could reach pre-COVID-19 levels, demand could “shoot up” in the coming months, STFC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loan-demand-to-rise-in-feb-march-shriram-unit/article64945214.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:53 IST,||Capital expenditure by coal CPSEs climbs 28.3%||The government on Wednesday said the Ministry of Coal, through its CPSEs, has registered a 28.3% year-on-year growth in capital expenditure (capex) to Rs. 12,605.75 crore for the period ended December. The Ministry of Coal, through its Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs), had registered capex of Rs. 9,822.28 crore a year earlier. This capex achievement is also 75% of the Ministry of Coal’s annual target, the Ministry said in a statement. Coal India (CIL) is one of the CPSEs under the Coal Ministry. CIL had earlier said its capital expenditure jumped more than two-fold to Rs. 1,840 crore in the first quarter of this fiscal, compared with Rs. 844 crore a year earlier. It said the jump was a reflection of its stepping up investments in evacuation infrastructure, land acquisition and procurement of heavy equipment. CIL has achieved 94% of the target of Rs. 1,960 crore, set for April-June quarter of the ongoing fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/capital-expenditure-by-coal-cpses-climbs-283/article64945216.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:53 IST,||Kinetic to set up e-bike unit for Rs. 100 crore||Kinetic Green Energy & Power Solutions, which has partnered Chinese EV major Aima Technology Group to co-design and develop electric two-wheelers for the Indian market, plans to invest about Rs. 80-100 crore in the project, which entails three new models this year itself, its founder-CEO Sulajja Firodia Motwani has said. Pune-based Kinetic Green entered the rapidly-growing domestic electric two-wheeler space last year, after establishing its presence in the e-three-wheeler segment, with two scooter models -- Zing and Zoom. The Kinetic Group had in the mid-1980s partnered Honda Motor to manufacture scooters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kinetic-to-set-up-e-bike-unit-for-rs-100-crore/article38331359.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:03 IST,||Medvedev fights back from the brink; Swiatek rallies to beat Kanepi||Daniil Medvedev rallied from two sets down and saved a match point before beating No. 9 Felix Auger-Aliassime 6-7(4), 3-6, 7-6(2), 7-5, 6-4 on Wednesday to move into the Australian Open semifinals. The U.S. Open champion’s bid to become the first man in the Open era to win his second Grand Slam title in the next major tournament is still on track after the 4-hour, 42-minute comeback victory. Medvedev will play French Open runner-up Stefanos Tsitsipas on Friday in a rematch of last year’s semifinals at Melbourne Park. Medvedev won at the same stage last year, but lost the final to Novak Djokovic. Tsitsipas beat No. 11 Jannik Sinner 6-3, 6-4, 6-2. Facing defeat Wednesday, Medvedev got a break. A six-minute delay in the third-set tiebreaker for the roof on Rod Laver Arena to be closed during a rain shower swung the momentum mostly his way. Auger-Aliassime won only one of the last six points in the tiebreaker after dominating for the first two sets. He missed a match point on Medvedev’s serve in the 10th game of the fourth set. Medvedev saved it with a big first serve out wide and then held with an overhead winner. ‘What would Novak do?’ “I was not playing my best, and Felix was playing unbelievable, serving unbelievable — he was all over me,” Medvedev said. "I didn’t know what to do so I (asked) myself, ‘What would Novak do?’ “And I just thought, OK, I’m going to make him work. If he wants to win it, he has to... fight to the last point.” The temperature dropped for the men's quarterfinals from the highs of the afternoon, when Iga Swiatek beat 36-year-old Kaia Kanepi 4-6, 7-6(2), 6-3, with the payoff being a spot in the semifinals against Danielle Collins. “This match was crazy,” the 20-year-old 2020 French Open champion said. “First set I think my mistake was I had so many break points, I felt like I missed my chances. In the second set … I felt like she’s playing so fast that I can’t be tight. I had to finish my forehands.” The temperature reached 36 degrees Celsius on Day 10, continuing a week of hot weather. Collins won the opening match before the heat peaked, swinging it in her favour with a key service break in the final game of the opening set on her way to a 7-5, 6-1 victory over Alize Cornet. The 115th-ranked Kanepi was coming off a three-set win over second-ranked Aryna Sabalenka and took the match to Swiatek, who saved nine set points before losing the first set. Swiatek rallied in the second and third sets. And, after being broken while serving for the match the first time, she eventually clinched it on Kanepi's serve. After the first three quarterfinals were decided in straight sets — Ash Barty beat Jessica Pegula and Madison Keys beat Barbora Krejcikova on Tuesday — the last one went all the way. As she left the court, Swiatek wrote on the TV camera lens: “Thank you for the support. # Tired.” Collins' win means there are two Americans in the semifinals. Keys will play Wimbledon champion Barty.  I’m going to leave Australia with my head held high and go into the rest of the season knowing I can play well against the best players in the world Auger-Aliassime||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/medvedev-fights-back-from-the-brink-swiatek-rallies-to-beat-kanepi/article38331480.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:03 IST,||Afghan proud of the Afghans||Asghar Afghan took everyone by surprise when he retired from international cricket during the T20 World Cup at Abu Dhabi three months ago. But he had already done enough to raise the standard and pro life of cricket in Afghanistan. He was the captain of Afghanistan’s first ever Test, and went on to play in five more. He also featured in 114 ODIs and 75 T20Is. Hot properties Afghan is glad that the Afghanistan cricketers have become hot properties across the globe. “Players of my generation like Mohammad Nabi and Nawroz Mangal wanted to raise the benchmark of Afghanistan cricket,” said Afghan, who is playing for Asia Lions in the Legends League Cricket here. “Our aim was to show that the youngsters in our country could play cricket and make money from it. We have shown the world our talent.” His own potential was on display the other night as he starred in Lions’ win over India Maharajas. He made a 28-all 69, took two wickets and walked away with the Man-of-the-Match award. ‘Plenty to learn’ “It felt nice to do well for a team which has so many big stars,” he said. “There is plenty to learn from these great cricketers. And it is nice to talk and spend time with them.” Looking ahead to the T20 World Cup to be held later this year in Australia, he said India and Pakistan could do well. “India generally does well in Australia and Pakistan has excellent bowlers,” he said. “The match between those teams should definitely be worth watching.” (The writer is in Muscat at the invitation of Legends League Cricket).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/afghan-proud-of-afghans/article64945134.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:03 IST,||Siddharth knocks out Sheng||Little-known Siddharth Pratap Singh seized the opportunity to create a flutter and knocked out sixth seed Xiaodong Sheng in straight games for a place in the men’s singles pre-quarterfinals of the $75,000 Odisha Open badminton at Cuttack on Wednesday. On a day when some of the more illustrious players saw their comeback end in the second round, Siddharth performed far better than his World ranking of 138. He ousted the 72nd-ranked Canadian citizen 21-17, 21-4 in 27 minutes. Lacking form, fitness Not long ago, Neha Pandit, Ruthvika Shivani and R. M. V. Gurusaidutt were among the champions in the National-ranking events. But, on this day, the trio exited lacking form, fitness and the necessary drive. Neha, a replacement for Saina Nehwal at the top of the draw, ran out of steam and lost in 55 minutes to Smit Toshniwal 20-22, 21-18, 10-21. Ruthvika, the 2016 South Asian Games champion, lasted just 22 minutes on the court against Ananya Praveen, losing 12-21, 8-21. Gurusaidutt lasted only 22 minutes against Kaushal Dharmamer, who raced to a 21-13, 21-17 victory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/siddharth-knocks-out-sheng/article38331471.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:04 IST,||PM Modi writes to Gayle, Rhodes||As India celebrates its 73rd Republic Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has written to celebrated cricketers Jonty Rhodes and Chris Gayle, acknowledging their “profound connection” with the country. While South African Rhodes, a former Mumbai Indians fielding coach who resides in the country for a considerable part of the year, has a daughter named ‘India’, West Indian swashbuckler Gayle has been a big hit among cricket fans for his exploits in the IPL. Modi, in his letter to Rhodes, wrote: “I would like to convey my Republic Day Greetings to You. Over the years, you have developed a profound connection with India and its culture. This is truly reflected when you named your daughter after this great nation. You truly are a special ambassador of the strong relations between our nations,” the letter that Rhodes shared on his social media page said. “Thank you narendramodiji for the very kind words. I have indeed grown so much as an individual on every visit to India. My whole family celebrates Republic Day with all of India, honouring the importance of a Constitution that protects the rights of the Indian people JaiHind,” Rhodes tweeted. Jamaican Gayle also spoke about his special bond with Indian public. “ I woke up to a personal message from Prime Minister Modi reaffirming my close personal ties with him and the people of India. Congratulations from the Universe Boss,” Gayle tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pm-modi-writes-to-gayle-and-rhodes/article64945132.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:38 IST,||Odisha looks to break into top-four||Odisha FC showed some resolute defending when it played a goalless draw against ATK Mohun Bagan in its last match but it will break into the top four if it can secure three points against a high-flying Hyderabad FC side. Season of ups and downs It has been a season of ups and downs for Odisha FC. While it has been able to churn out convincing wins, consistency has been an issue for the side. In their last five matches, the Kalinga Warriors have won and lost two games each while the fifth one ended in a draw. Odisha has kept a clean sheet in its last two matches. However, interim coach Kino Garcia will be well aware that Hyderabad won 6-1 when both teams met earlier this season. “Hyderabad FC are in really good shape and one of the best teams in the tournament. They have had the same coach. We are ready to face them and we are sure not to concede so many goals against them,” Garcia told the media. Hyderabad FC will come into the match confident after the 4-0 drubbing of SC East Bengal in its last match, where Bartholomew Ogbeche scored his first hat-trick of the season. Coach Manolo Marquez knows that a win against Odisha will keep his team at the top. Determined backline But with a determined backline and an in-form Arshdeep Singh, who has a save percentage of 84.61%, it would not be a walk in the park for Hyderabad. Marquez hinted at the possible exclusion of either Ogbeche or Javier Siverio against Odisha. “I had said before that we had to find the correct moment for both players to play together. Both played ninety minutes three days back so we have to see if we start both or only one of them.”  Hyderabad are in really good shape and one of the best teams in the tournament Garcia OFC interim coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/odisha-looks-to-break-into-top-four/article38331893.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:59 IST,||Senegal bests 9-man Cape Verde||Sadio Mane got up from a horrible clash of heads that left him dazed on the ground, possibly with a concussion, to score a goal and help put Senegal into the quarterfinals of the African Cup of Nations on Tuesday. Senegal won 2-0 against Cape Verde, which had two players sent off in the last 16 game in Cameroon’s western city of Bafoussam. The Liverpool star didn’t finish the match and later was taken to the hospital, though he said on social media that he was OK. Magical Morocco followed Senegal into the last eight by coming from behind to beat Malawi 2-1. The Moroccan comeback was completed by a magical free kick by Paris Saint-Germain’s Achraf Hakimi, who curled the ball over the wall and into the top corner for the winner in the 70th minute. In the Senegal-Cape Verde game, Cape Verde’s second red card was dished out to goalkeeper Vozinha when he raced out of his area and tried to head a ball clear with Mane chasing it down. Bad clash The players’ heads clashed badly as they leapt in the air and Vozinha clearly sustained a concussion as he tried to get up and ended up staggering around. Vozinha left on a stretcher and wasn’t around to see the red card referee Lahlou Benbraham held up for him. But questions will be raised over Mane being allowed to continue after he hit the ground face first following the collision, rolled over and lay still on his back for a moment, clearly dazed.  The results (last-16): Senegal 2 (Mane 63, Dieng 90+2) bt Cape Verde 0; Morocco 2 (En-Nesyri 45+2, Hakimi 70) bt Malawi 1 (Mhango 7) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/senegal-advances/article64945199.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:58 IST,||Team & I are devastated: Dennerby||A devastated Thomas Dennerby questioned the Asian Football Confederation’s (AFC) organisation and handling of the COVID-19 outbreak within the Indian women’s team, which led to its ouster from the home AFC Women’s Asian Cup. “My team and I are devastated. Our dreams are forever killed,” said the Indian national team coach. “[This was] Six months of sacrifice, dreams and passion. This is my worst experience as a head coach ever.” A depleted India was forced to withdraw from its second group game against Chinese Taipei on Sunday before AFC confirmed the team’s removal from the tournament as per the guidelines. The Swede suggested that the contingent may have contracted the virus from the team hotel, which was in regular touch with the team, in Navi Mumbai. Explaining the sequence of events, Dennerby said, “On the 16th, we were tested at the hotel and we had the first case of positive result. “On the 18th, we had pre-match testing, and had three new cases. “Our physio and strength and conditioning coach tested positive, who were very close to the hotel staff to prepare for the gym.” The 52-year-old said the AFC conducted RT-PCR tests showed seven hotel staff returned positive results on January 19 a day before India played its opening match against Iran. Why the wait? “What we didn’t know was the hotel staff were tested on 17th afternoon. After that, the AFC did not send the report to the hotel until the 19th. “Why didn’t the AFC send the report immediately? Why wait a whole day? “Why weren’t the hotel staff not tested every three days as the team?” he added.  AFC responded via email to the Hindu , stating the body aims to ‘deliver a successful Championship in collaboration with the AIFF and the LOC by prioritising the safety, health and well-being of all the players, officials and stakeholders.’  It added, “The AFC has successfully conducted major tournaments across Asia in the face of serious challenges posed by the pandemic by implementing strict medical and health protocols that are in line with the host country’s medical regulations.”  Why didn’t the AFC send the report immediately? Why wait a whole day? “Why weren’t the hotel staff not tested every three days as the team? Dennerby||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-team-and-i-are-devastated-dennerby/article38331513.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:15 IST,||A proud moment as women umpires make history of sorts||The appeal is loud and confident from the bowlers, the ’keeper and the close-in fielders. But the umpire’s dreaded finger doesn’t go up. The decision is reviewed, but it still isn’t lbw: the replays show the ball is going down the leg-side. A couple of days later, Humaira Farah recalls the incident with pride. She is not proud just because she got it right, but also because she, along with four other women, made history of sorts at the Legends League Cricket. It is not every day that you see only women officiating in an entire men’s tournament. Besides the four umpires, the match referee is also a woman. “The organisers need to be congratulated on their decision to have female umpires for all the matches,” says Shubhda Bhosle Gaikwad, who hails from Gwalior. “For me this is nothing less than a dream.” It could also make many girls dream of a career in umpiring. These are good times for women’s cricket anyway. Its popularity is increasing rapidly, the MCC has made a woman its president, for the first time in more than two centuries, and has turned batsmen into batters. Women have also broken through the glass ceiling of commentary. “Yes, we should have more female umpires, too,” says Renee Montgomery, the Mumbai-born Hong Kong-based flight attendant whose passion has flown her down here. “It’s been a great experience.” South African Lauren Agenbag nods in agreement. “I grew up watching cricketers like Morne Morkel and Kevin Pietersen, so it’s amazing that I get to officiate in matches featuring them,” she says. Most experienced Humaira, the first female umpire of Pakistan, is the most experienced of the lot. “Now we have some 15 women umpires back home,” she says. “I have been an umpire in over 150 matches, and I am so happy to be here for this tournament.” Match referee Shandre Fritz, a former South Africa all-rounder, completes the fabulous five of female officials. (The writer is in Muscat at the invitation of Legends League Cricket)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-proud-moment-as-women-umpires-make-history-of-sorts/article64945389.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:03 IST,||Bishnoi gets a call-up; Kuldeep and Hooda recalled for ODIs||Kuldeep Yadav and Deepak Hooda have been recalled for the ODIs while rookie spinner Ravi Bishnoi received a maiden call-up for India’s limited-overs series against the West Indies. While Rohit Sharma, who passed a fitness test earlier in the day, will lead the side, the selectors have given key pacers Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami a break with an eye on the T20 World Cup later this year. “Ravindra Jadeja is undergoing his final stage of recovery post his knee injury and will not be available. Axar Patel will be available for the T20Is,” BCCI secretary Jay Shah said in a statement.  While the BCCI statement made no reference to R. Ashwin, The Hindu understands that the veteran off-spinner has been given a three-week break to recover from a niggle and will recover well in time for the Test series against Sri Lanka, scheduled to start on February 25.  The selectors have also recalled Kuldeep while Bishnoi’s selection was on expected lines as he has been on the selectors’ radar for a while. The duo will lead India’s spin attack along with Washington Sundar, who has recovered from COVID-19. Shahrukh misses out Hooda emerged as the surprise pick as he was preferred over M. Shahrukh Khan. It is understood that besides Hooda’s prolific form for Rajasthan, his adopted home, in the domestic arena, the fact that he fulfils the need for an all-rounder and a big-hitter down the order worked in his favour.  The squads: ODIs: Rohit Sharma (Capt.), K.L. Rahul (Vice-capt.), Ruturaj Gaikwad, Shikhar Dhawan, Virat Kohli, Surya Kumar Yadav, Shreyas Iyer, Deepak Hooda, Rishabh Pant (wk), Deepak Chahar, Shardul Thakur, Yuzvendra Chahal, Kuldeep Yadav, Washington Sundar, Ravi Bishnoi, Mohd. Siraj, Prasidh Krishna, and Avesh Khan.   T20Is: Rohit Sharma (Capt.), K.L. Rahul (Vice-capt.), Ishan Kishan, Virat Kohli, Shreyas Iyer, Surya Kumar Yadav, Rishabh Pant (wk), Venkatesh Iyer, Deepak Chahar, Shardul Thakur, Ravi Bishnoi, Axar Patel, Yuzvendra Chahal, Washington Sundar, Mohd. Siraj, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Avesh Khan, and Harshal Patel.   The schedule: ODIs : Feb. 6, 9 and 11. All matches at Ahmedabad (1.30 p.m. start).   T20Is: Feb. 16, 18 and 20. All games at Kolkata (7.30 p.m.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bishnoi-gets-a-call-up-for-west-indies-series/article64945137.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:03 IST,||Collins is now fitter, stronger and pain-free||A resurgent Danielle Collins said feeling herself again after difficult surgery, coupled with improved strength and stamina, helped power her into the last four of the Australian Open. Collins underwent surgery last year for endometriosis — where tissue similar to the lining of the womb starts to grow elsewhere — and said being pain-free had made a huge difference. “I think I’ve gotten a lot stronger physically over the last couple of years. My strength and conditioning and my fitness... they have been the important areas of my training. “That has transferred over to my tennis, the way that I’m able to play physically. My stamina on court has also improved tremendously. I think the power and speed have improved too. “To be able to get back to this level and be as physical as I have has been so rewarding,” said Collins. “Especially playing against the girls I’ve played against in the last couple of matches... really good competitors, great athletes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/collins-is-now-fitter-stronger-and-pain-free/article38331676.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:03 IST,||Udanta’s brace helps BFC cruise past CFC||Bengaluru FC rode on Udanta Singh’s brace to whip Chennaiyin FC 3-0 in the Indian Super League (ISL) on Wednesday. CFC, which could have gone to the top of the points table with a win, sits in the fifth spot with 18 points. BFC (17 points) moved up to sixth. Iman Basafa scored the first goal for BFC, which replaced first-choice goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu with Lara Sharma. Iranian Basafa converted from the penalty spot — a result of Sunil Chhetri being brought down in the box in the 12th minute — to give BFC the early 1-0 lead. Just before half-time, Bengaluru doubled its advantage. Chhetri moved past his markers before serving the ball on a platter to Udanta, who made no mistake with the finish. After the restart, Udanta rounded CFC goalkeeper Debjit Majumder to score his second goal. CFC tried to put inexperienced BFC custodian Lara under pressure, but he was up to the task and kept a clean sheet.  The result:   Bengaluru FC 3 (Basafa 12, Udanta 42 & 52) bt Chennaiyin FC 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/udantas-brace-helps-bfc-ease-past-cfc/article64945136.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:59 IST,||Zuccarelli wins feature event||P. Shroff trained Zuccarelli (Trevor up) won the Kingfisher Ultra Derby Bangalore, the stellar attraction of the races held here on Wednesday (Jan 26). The winner is owned by Five Star Shipping Co. Pvt Ltd rep by Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy & Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy, M/S DT Racing & Breeding LLP rep by Mr. D.R. Thacker, Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala & Mr. A.S. Narielwala. Trevor, who confidently kept Zuccarrelli in the last position till 800m, gradually improved to be fifth rounding the bend. The gelding responded tremendously and went clear in the last 300m giving his jockey an armchair ride to victory. The results 1. TOTALIZATOR CUP (Div III), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: SHINING ROCK (P. Surya) 1, Mystical Merkabah (Rajesh Kumar) 2, Magellan (Srinath) 3 and Only You (Shane Gray) 4. Not run: Mark One. 4-1/4, 1-1/4 and 1. 1m 12.90s. Rs. 70 (w), 14, 11 and 23 (p), SHP: 45, THP: 43, FP: 205, Q: 80, Trinella: 1,466 and 817, Exacta: 1,561 and 711. Favourite: Mystical Merkabah.  Owners: Mr. Rohit Raman, Mr. N. Krishnamurthy, Mr. B. Prithviraj & Mr. Satish G. Kundapur. Trainer: B. Prithviraj. 2. SADDLE UP CUP (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 5-y-o & over: UNYIELDING (S. John) 1, Tifanny (Shane Gray) 2, Ultimate Speed (S. Saqlain) 3 and Bahurupah (Mark) 4. 3-1/4, 2-3/4 and 2. 1m 13.27s. Rs. 14 (w), 11, 21 and 78 (p), SHP: 52, THP: 147, FP: 68, Q: 61, Trinella: 1,751 and 1,059, Exacta: 26,281 and 22,527. Favourite: Unyielding.  Owners: Mr. Darius R Byramji & Mr. K. Mahaveer Chand. Trainer: Darius Byramji. 3. TOTALIZATOR CUP (Div I), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: GOLDEN WINGS (S. Saqlain) 1, Douglas (Shane Gray) 2, Classic Charm (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Tactical Command (Srinath) 4. Not run: Thousand Words. 1-3/4, 1-1/4 and Shd. 1m 12.69s. Rs. 266 (w), 45, 11 and 29 (p), SHP: 34, THP: 59, FP: 832, Q: 341, Trinella; 15,098 and 19,412, Exacta: 60,430 and 25, 898. Favourite: Douglas.  Owner: Dr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar. 4. MYSORE RACE CLUB TROPHY (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): WILD EMPEROR (Neeraj) 1, Arrowette (Akshay K) 2, Roudy (Sandesh) 3 and Stellar Gold (C.S. Jodha) 4. Not run: Mighty Zo and Twilight Tornado. 3/4, 4-1/2 and 1/2. 1m 26.44s. Rs. 24 (w), 14, 14 and 13 (p), SHP: 37, THP: 34, FP: 104, Q: 58, Trinella: 138 and 49, Exacta: 417 and 200. Favourite: Wild Emperor.  Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: Faraz Arshad. 5. INDIAN REPUBLIC TROPHY (1,200m), rated 60 to 85: THE SOVEREIGN ORB (Suraj) 1, Watchmystars (Akshay K) 2, Griffin (L.A. Rozario) 3 and Psychic Warrior (S. John) 4. Shd, 4-1/2 and 3/4. 1m 11.83s. Rs. 14 (w), 10 and 15 (p), SHP: 19, THP: 30, FP: 24, Q: 17, Trinella: 81 and 60, Exacta: 62 and 21. Favourite: The Sovereign Orb.  Owners: Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt Ltd rep by Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy, Mr. Chaduranga Kanthraj Urs & Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni. Trainer: S. Attaollahi. 6. KINGFISHER ULTRA DERBY BANGALORE (2,400m), 4-y-o (Terms): ZUCCARELLI (Western Aristocrat - Circle Of Bliss) Trevor 1, All Attractive (Excellent Art - Balmoral Castle) Suraj 2, Silvarius (Multidimensional - Silverina) Srinath 3 and Eternal Blaze (Multidimensional - Majestic Opinion) C.S. Jodha 4. Not run: Kensington Court and Setareh. 15-1/4, 1 and 1-1/4. 2m 31.24s. Rs. 13 (w), 12 and 21 (p), SHP: 35, THP: 42, FP: 52, Q: 52, Trinella: 389 and 129, Exacta: 837 and 255. Favourite: Zuccarelli. Owners: Five Star Shipping Co. Pvt Ltd rep by Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy & Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy, M/S DT Racing & Breeding LLP rep by Mr. D.R. Thacker, Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala & Mr. A.S. Narielwala. Trainer: P. Shroff.  7. T.B. HANUMANTHARAJ MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 5-y-o & over: MICHIGAN MELODY (Arshad) 1, Lucky Chance (Akshay K) 2, Silver Dew (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Schafenberg (Shreyas Singh) 4. Lnk, 3/4 and 2-3/4. 1m 12.90s. Rs. 85 (w), 19, 13 and 22 (p), SHP: 36, THP: 35, FP: 458, Q: 110, Trinella: 2,071 and 710, Exacta: 24,987 and 10,708. Favourite: Recall Of You. Owner: Mr. Satish G. Kundapur. Trainer: Azhar Ali.  8. TOTALIZATOR CUP (Div II), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45: FLYING QUEST (C.S. Jodha) 1, Clever Hans (P.P. Dhebe) 2, Scribbling Hopper (Akshay K) 3 and Mega Success (Vivek) 4. Not run: Augusto. 1-3/4, Hd and 1-1/4. 1m 13.71s. Rs. 116 (w), 27, 13 and 16 (p), SHP: 41, THP: 37, FP: 544, Q: 188, Trinella: 967 and 500, Exacta: 7,437 and 5,578. Favourite: Clever Hans.  Owner and trainer: Mr. Mahmood Khan. Jackpot: Rs. 16,826 (seven tkts); Runner-up: 233 (217tkts); Treble (i): 1,058 (eight tkts); (ii): 2,557 (nine tkts).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zuccarelli-claims-kingfisher-ultra-derby-bangalore/article64945196.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:44 IST,||Mooney set for Ashes test 9 days after surgery||Three metal plates in her face, a wire on her bottom teeth and on liquid diet after a surgery to fix her broken jaw just over a week ago, Australia keeper-batter Beth Mooney is geared up to make the playing XI for the one-off women’s Ashes Test against England starting here on Thursday. Mooney was injured while batting in nets nine days ago and while speaking to ‘SEN Radio’ ahead of the one off Test in the multi-format series, spoke about how she coped with the massive setback. “(The medical staff) were pretty adamant to me not long after we got the diagnosis that we could aim for the Test match,” Mooney said. “We went and got a 3D CT scan of my skull, and there were two clear breaks pretty much straight down my chin, and then where the ball hit the side of my face, there was another clear break down the side there. “I’ve got two plates in my chin and one near my ear and a few screws. I don’t think you can speed up a broken bone, it’s going to be broken for five more weeks, but it’s certainly a lot more comfortable now than it was a week or so ago,” she added. The only worry for Mooney is how she would keep up with the physical intensity of the match given her diet right now is made up entirely of soups, ice creams and milk-shakes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mooney-set-for-ashes-test-9-days-after-surgery/article64945249.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:44 IST,||Alicia has an edge over her rivals||The South India Oaks (2,400m), the star attraction of the races to be run this afternoon (Jan. 27), has a field of eight runners. Among them, Alicia, who ran second in the Bangalore Oaks, appears to have an edge over her rivals. A carried amount of Rs. 44,798 will be added to the mini jackpot pool. STEP BY STEP HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 00 to 25, 12-00 noon: 1. Bay Of Naples (8) P. Sai Kumar 60.5, 2. Bright Light (2) Shahzad Alam 60.5, 3. Beauregard (12) A.M. Alam 59.5, 4. Coup De Etait (6) P.P. Dhebe 59.5, 5. Priceless Treasure (5) Yash Narredu 59.5, 6. Ocarina (10) Ramandeep 58.5, 7. Awesome Gift (7) Dhanu Singh 58, 8. Driftwood Pacific (1) Angad 57.5, 9. Rajputana (3) C. Umesh 56, 10. Azeria (9) A.S. Peter 55, 11. Vibrant Approach (11) S. Kamble 54.5 and 12. Price Striker (4) A. Ayaz Khan 50.  1. BAY OF NAPLES, 2. PRICELESS TREASURE, 3. RAJPUTANA KUMARARAJAH M.A.M. MUTHIAH MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,100m), rated 20 to 45 (No whip), 12-30 p.m.: 1. Proud (4) Ankit Pal 60, 2. Strong Breeze (11) C. Brisson 58.5, 3. Star Hopper (5) Nikhil Naidu 57.5, 4. Streek (2) Angad 57.5, 5. Alexanderder (7) Yash Narredu 57, 6. Andromeda Sky (9) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 7. Star Proof (10) Shaliyar Khan 56.5, 8. Glorious Victory (12) Inayat 54, 9. Mayflower (6) B. Dharshan 54, 10. Fabulous Show (3) P. Sai Kumar 51, 11. Renzaccio (8) A. Ayaz Khan 51 and 12. Majestic Charmer (1) Farhan Alam 50.5.  1. ALEXANDER, 2. STRONG BREEZE, 3. STAR HOPPER DR. M.A. CHIDAMBARAM MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,100m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 1-00: 1. Fast Play (6) Sai Vamsi 56, 2. Paris O'Connor (10) Nikhil Naidu 56, 3. Sinatra (5) A. Imran Khan 56, 4. Single Malt (8) C. Umesh 56, 5. Gold Kite (1) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 6. Great Spirit (4) S. Kamble 54.5, 7. Royal Falcon (3) Ramandeep 54.5, 8. Shez R Star (7) Ashhad Asbar 54.5, 9. Timeless Romance (9) Nakhat Singh 54.5 and 10. Zucardi (2) Akshay Kumar 54.5.  1. SINGLE MALT, 2. SINATRA, 3. SHEZ R STAR TURF AUTHORITIES OF INDIA TROPHY (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 60 to 85, 1-30: 1. Yours Forever (6) Ankit Pal 60, 2. Oscars Thunder (8) A. Ayaz Khan 58.5, 3. Oui Sauvage (3) Santosh G 58.5, 4. Treasure Delight (1) Nikhil Naidu 57.5, 5. Spicy Star (10) C. Brisson 54, 6. Pense'e (5) Neeraj 53.5, 7. Star Templar (7) Farhan Alam 53.5, 8. Beethovan (9) C. Umesh 52.5, 9. Catelyn (4) P.P. Dhebe 51.5 and 10. Mr Kool (2) Akshay Kumar 51.  1. PENSE'E, 2. OUI SAUVAGE, 3. SPICY STAR A.M.K.M. AL. MUTHUKARUPPAN CHETTIAR MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 2-00: 1. Mon General (1) A.M. Alam 60.5, 2. Off Shore Breeze (6) Nikhil Naidu 58, 3. Anastasia (10) Yash Narredu 57, 4. Papparazi (5) Dhanu Singh 56, 5. Skylight (7) C. Umesh 56, 6. Empress Eternal (2) Nakhat Singh 55.5, 7. Pirate's Love (8) Angad 55.5, 8. Ms Boss (3) Ashhad Asbar 53.5, 9. Golden Marina (9) P. Sai Kumar 53, 10. Rhiannon (4) Koshi Kumar 53, 11. Star Symbol (12) Akshay Kumar 53 and 12. Katahdin (11) P.P. Dhebe 52.5.   1. ANASTASIA, 2. PIRATE'S LOVE, 3. KATAHDIN TURF AUTHORITIES OF INDIA TROPHY (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 60 to 85, 2-30: 1. Gods Plan (8) P. Trevor 61.5, 2. Classic Remark (5) Inayat 59.5, 3. Emelda (3) Akshay Kumar 59, 4. Alpha (1) A. Ayaz Khan 58, 5. Wah Ms Zara (4) B. Dharshan 55, 6. Rippling Waters (7) Nakhat Singh 53, 7. Glenary (2) C. Umesh 52.5, 8. Hebron (9) Farhan Alam 52 and 9. Torbert (6) C. Brisson 52.  1. GODS PLAN, 2. GLENARY, 3. WAH MS ZARA NATIVE KNIGHT HANDICAP (2,000m), rated 20 to 45 (0 to 19 eligible), 3-00: 1. Ganton (2) C. Umesh 60, 2. Majestic Wind (10) Nikhil Naidu 56, 3. Turf Beauty (8) K. Mukesh Kumar 56, 4. Moresco (4) Shane Gray 55.5, 5. Right Move (7) C. Brisson 55.5, 6. Illustrious Ruler (5) Nakhat Singh 55, 7. Star Glitter (6) Dhanu Singh 54, 8. Welcome Winner (11) P.P. Dhebe 54, 9. Wellington (3) C.S. Jodha 53.5, 10. Easy Rider (9) Yash Narredu 52.5 and 11. Golden Streak (1) S. Kamble 51.5.  1. EASY RIDER, 2. MORESCO, 3. RIGHT MOVE A CHERIYAN MEMORIAL TROPHY (2,000m), rated 40 to 65 (20 to 39 eligible), 3-30: 1. Penang (5) A. Imran Khan 60, 2. Avellino (9) Shane Gray 59, 3. Divina (4) C. Brisson 57.5, 4. Optimus Commander (1) Ram Nandan 56, 5. Royal Commander (6) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 6. Walking Brave (3) Yash Narredu 54.5, 7. Inkonito (8) P. Vikram 51, 8. Exemplify (2) C.S. Jodha 50 and 9. Southern God (7) Farhan Alam 50.  1. EXEMPLIFY, 2. WALKING BRAVE, 3. DIVINA SOUTH INDIA OAKS (2,400m), (Gr. II), 4-y-o Fillies only (Terms), 4-00: 1. Alicia (2) P. Trevor 57, 2. Annexed (3) Nikhil Naidu 57, 3. Chashni (7) P.P. Dhebe 57, 4. Icelandic (6) Suraj Narredu 57, 5. Mystical Rose (8) Yash Narredu 57, 6. Princess Gloria (4) S. John 57, 7. Santorini (1) C. Umesh 57 and 8. Secret Of Life (5) Akshay Kumar 57.  1. ALICIA, 2. PRINCESS GLORIA, 3. MYSTICAL ROSE Jkt: 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9; Mini Jkt: 6, 7, 8 & 9; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3, (ii): 4, 5 & 6; (iii): 7, 8 & 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alicia-has-an-edge-over-her-rivals-in-the-south-india-oaks/article38331512.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:03 IST,||Determined Korea dethrones India||The Indian women’s hockey team’s hopes of defending the Asia Cup title went up in smoke as Korea secured a 3-2 win in the semifinal at the Sultan Qaboos Complex here on Wednesday. India started brightly and took the lead in the 28th minute through Vandana Katariya before Korea made a brilliant comeback after the change of ends. It scored thrice through skipper Enubi Cheon (31st), Seung Ju Lee (45th) and Hyejin Cho (47th) to stun the holder. Vandana scores Two minutes from the breather, India secured back-to-back penalty corners and Vandana scored off the second. The Koreans marched out a completely different side after the breather and drew parity in the 31st minute when Cheon sounded the boards off a penalty corner after the first shot was saved by Savita. Gurjit’s 100 Poor penalty corner conversion cost India dear as Gurjit, who completed 100 international caps, was off-target. Just before the end of the third quarter, Korea nosed ahead through Lee as Savita made a mess of a routine save. Two minutes into the fourth and final quarter, Korea made it 3-1 when Cho pushed home past an off-balance Savita after receiving a pass from Hyejeong Shin. With time running out, Lalremsiami reduced the margin for India six minutes from the hooter, guiding in Vandana's high ball but it was too little too late.  The results (semifinals): Korea 3 (Cheon 31, Lee 45, Cho 47) bt India 2 (Vandana 28, Lalremsiami 54); Japan 2 bt China 1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/determined-korea-dethrones-india/article64945139.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:59 IST,||Gunathilaka returns; Malinga is bowling coach||Sri Lanka's Danushka Gunathilaka will return to international cricket after a ban for breaching COVID rules with his inclusion for next month's Twenty20 tour of Australia, selectors announced on Wednesday. The all-rounder and two others were sanctioned after they admitted breaching a bio-secure bubble in Durham during a tour of England last June. Legendary pacer Lasith Malinga was appointed specialist bowling coach of the team while Rumesh Ratnayake has been named as the interim coach.  The squad: Dasun Shanaka (Capt.), Charith Asalanka (vice-captain), Avishka Fernando, Pathum Nissanka, Danushka Gunathilaka, Kusal Mendis, Dinesh Chandimal, Chamika Karunaratne, Janith Liyanage, Kamil Mishara, Ramesh Mendis, Wanindu Hasaranga, Lahiru Kumara, Nuwan Thushara, Dushmantha Chameera, Binura Fernando, Maheesh Theekshana, Jeffrey Vandersay, Praveen Jayawickrama, Shiran Fernando .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gunathilaka-returns-malinga-bowling-coach/article64945197.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 04:15 IST,||Ritvik enters quarterfinals||Ritvik Nadikude got past fourth seed Vineeth Mutyala in the pre-quarterfinals of the ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament here on Wednesday. Ritvik led 6-2, 2-1 when Vineeth retired. Ritvik will face seventh seed Kriish Tyagi in the quarterfinals. Second seed Saheb Sodhi gave a walkover to qualifier Tarun Korwar.  The results (pre-quarterfinals): Boys: Denim Yadav bt Lakshya Chugh 6-1 (retired); Akash Gaonkar bt Jason David 6-4, 6-1; Ritvik Nadikude bt Vineeth Mutyala 6-2, 2-1 (retired); Kriih Tyagi bt Prajwal Tewari 6-3, 6-2; Deep Munim bt Arnav Paparkar 6-3, 6-1; Daksh Agarwal bt Shivam Kadam 6-1, 6-3; Azmeer Shaikh bt Suresh Keerthivassan 6-1, 6-1; Tarun Korwar w/o Saheb Sodhi.   Girls: Sonal Patil bt Priyanka Rana 6-1, 6-2; Gauri Mangaonkar bt Durganshi 6-1, 7-5; Nandini Dixit bt Saijayani Banerjee 6-1, 6-1; Harshini Nagaraj bt Diva Bhatia 6-3, 6-4; Sree Tanvi Dasari bt Aanya Choubey 6-2, 6-1; Chahana Budhbhatti bt Sreenidhi Reddy 6-0, 6-1; Amishi Shukla bt Maithili Mothe 6-4, 6-3; Kashish Bote bt Shakshi Thakkar 6-2, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ritvik-enters-quarterfinals/article38331783.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:27 IST,||Kohli stays in second spot||India stalwart Virat Kohli retained his second spot in the ICC men’s ODI batting rankings on the back of his decent performance in the recently-concluded South Africa series. Another India senior player Rohit Sharma also maintained his third place despite not playing in the South Africa series as he was recovering from an injury. Kohli has 836 rating points, while Rohit has 801. Pakistan captain Babar Azam leads the ODI batting rankings with 873 points. South Africa’s Rassie van der Dussen broke into the top 10 after a brilliant outing in the series against India. He went up 10 places to be at No. 10 spot with 750 rating points. In the bowling rankings, Lungi Ngidi and Keshav Maharaj made big leaps. Ngidi went up four places to occupy the No. 20 spot. India pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar, who had an ordinary ODI series, meanwhile dropped four places to lie at no 22. Maharaj, who impressed with his economy rate, went up 18 places to occupy the No. 33 spot. There wasn’t too much movement in the top 10 with Kiwi Trent Boult and Australian Josh Hazlewood in the top two positions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-retains-ranking/article64945304.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:03 IST,||Perera hangs up his boots||Sri Lanka all-rounder Dilruwan Perera has announced his retirement from all forms of international cricket with immediate effect. In his retirement letter written to Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC), Dilruwan said he will continue playing domestic Cricket. He scored 1,456 runs and scalped 177 wickets during his international career across formats. “Dilruwan Perera announced his retirement from all forms of international cricket. SLC wishes him the very best for his future endeavours,” a statement from SLC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/perera-hangs-up-his-boots/article38331677.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:59 IST,||Vidit stays in third spot||Vidit Gujrathi drew with Hungary’s Richard Rapport to hang on to the tied third spot in the Masters section after nine rounds of Tata Steel chess tournament at Wijk aan Zee, near Amsterdam, on Monday. A fifth draw took Vidit’s tally to 5.5 points and he joined Shakhriyar Mamedyarov who lost to leader Magnus Carlsen (6.5). Anish Giri (6) overpowered Sam Shankland to hold the second place. A day of rest did not influence R. Praggnanandhaa’s form. The youngster crashed to his third successive defeat after running into Sergey Karjakin. In the Challengers section, Arjun Erigaisi (8 points) stretched his lead to two points after beating China’s Zhu Jiner in 52 moves. However, Surya Shekhar Ganguly (4) tumbled to the ninth spot after this third loss in four games.  The results (9th round):   Masters (Indians unless stated): Richard Rapport (Hun, 5) drew with Vidit Gujrathi (5.5); R. Praggnanandhaa (2.5) lost to Sergey Karjakin (Rus 5); Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 6.5) bt Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze, 5.5); Anish Giri (Ned, 6) bt Sam Shankland (USA, 3.5); Nils Grandelius (Swe, 2) lost to Fabiano Caruana (USA, 5); Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 4.5) drew with Daniil Dubov (Rus, 3.5); Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 4) drew with Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 4.5).   Challengers (involving Indians): Arjun Erigaisi (8) bt Zhu Jiner (Chn, 2.5); Jonas Buhl Bjerre (Den, 5.5) bt Surya Shekhar Ganguly (4) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/draw-keeps-vidit-in-the-third-spot/article38331520.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 06:04 IST,||U Mumba too strong for Bulls||U Mumba thrashed Bengaluru Bulls 45-34 in a ProKabaddi League (PKL) match here on Wednesday. Abhishek Singh scored 11 raid points for Mumba and was ably supported by Ajith Kumar with eight. But it was the defence that won it the encounter with Rahul Sethpal clinching a High 5 (7 tackle points plus a bonus point).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/u-mumba-too-strong-for-bulls/article38331484.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:27 IST,||Former State footballer Nagendra passes away||Former State footballer A.D. Nagendra passed away here on Wednesday. He was 79. Nagendra’s family stated that he was ill for some time now, and that he was in the ICU of a city hospital for around 10 days. Nagendra was part of the then Mysore State team which won the Santosh Trophy in 1969. Nagendra, a dependable defender, helped his side upset Bengal in the final played in front of a packed Sree Kanteerava Stadium here. Nagendra also featured in the Mysore side which won the Santosh Trophy title in 1968. On the club circuit, Nagendra represented Jupiter SC and State Bank of Mysore. After his playing career came to an end, Nagendra entered football administration. He was a governing board member of Karnataka State Football Association (KSFA) at the time of his passing, and had previously served as the treasurer of KSFA. He has also coached senior State and junior India teams. KSFA condoled his demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-state-footballer-nagendra-passes-away/article38331686.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 05:49 IST,||Dhoni one of the sharpest minds: Greg||Australian great Greg Chappell has rated former India captain M.S. Dhoni as “one of the sharpest cricket minds”, saying his decision-making skills set him apart from his great contemporaries. “By competing against more experienced individuals on a variety of surfaces early in his development, Dhoni developed the decision-making and strategic skills that have set him apart from many of his peers. His is one of the sharpest cricket minds I have encountered,” Chappell said. Dhoni began flourishing in the Rahul Dravid-Greg Chappell era, his knock of 183 not out in an ODI against Sri Lanka being the highlight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhoni-one-of-the-sharpest-minds-greg/article38331472.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 14:55 IST,||In Bharata’s absence||Citizens of Ayodhya rejoiced over Dasaratha’s choice of Rama as his successor. Dasaratha said to Rama, that since He (Rama) was the son of his (Dasaratha’s) first wife, He had been chosen to be the future king of Ayodhya. So Dasaratha referred to Rama being the eldest of his sons and also the son of his senior-most queen. The rule regarding succession was that the eldest son should be king after his father, said Navalpakkam Vasudevachariar, in a discourse. It was possible that someone might raise a question about whether this meant that the first son should be king, or the son born to the chief queen should be king. So to keep people from asking such questions, Dasaratha referred to Rama as his eldest son, and as the son of his chief queen. Dasaratha told Rama that he wanted to celebrate Rama’s anointment when Bharata was away. Not that Bharata would be jealous of Rama. Bharata was devoted to Rama, besides being a virtuous man himself. But when it came to power, there was always the possibility that even a righteous person might do something regrettable. There was another reason for Dasaratha wanting to celebrate Rama’s coronation soon. When he had married Kaikeyi, Dasaratha told her father Asvapathi that Kaikeyi’s son would be made king of Ayodhya. Dasaratha had not made a promise but mentioned such a possibility. At that time, Kausalya had no sons. So Dasaratha might have thought that in case Kaikeyi should have a son first, he could become king. But Rama was born to Kausalya before Bharata was born to Kaikeyi. However, what if Dasaratha’s words were taken as an assurance by Asvapthi’s family? In that case, there could be obstacles to Rama ascending the throne. So Dasaratha wisely wanted Rama to be anointed while Bharata was away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/in-bharatas-absence/article38331443.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:46 IST,||Shoot at sight||Nagesh Kukunoor describes his first Telugu film Good Luck Sakhi , starring Keerthy Suresh as a 10-metre rifle shooter, as “a bright, sunny film to watch in these messed up [pandemic] times.” It has taken the Hyderabadi writer-director a little more than two decades to do a homecoming, with a full-fledged Telugu film.   Filmed partly in 2019 and in 2020 after the first lockdown, the film has taken its time to arrive in theatres, with each wave of COVID-19 throwing the release schedules of several films out of gear. Settling down for this interview in his office, Kukunoor reminisces, “I moved on from Good Luck Sakhi and made Season 2 of City of Dreams (Disney + Hotstar); when I returned to the film months later to check the colour grading on a large screen, I watched it with a smile. It’s a happy film in an utopian space that I keep returning to.”   Kukunoor had written Good Luck Sakhi years ago, intending to collaborate with late director Hrishikesh Mukherjee. A fictional story emerged after he spotted a news clipping of shooters Chandro Tomar and Prakashi Tomar 23 years ago.  His co-writer Rohit Banawlikar chanced upon the story a few years ago, and suggested that it be revived. “Keerthy has filled the role with joy. Sakhi is my kind of heroine — real, spunky but not over the top.” Good Luck Sakhi is set in a fictional village and besides sport, the story discusses gender issues and questions the notion of luck. “I wrote it as a wacky sports romance comedy, trying to keep the Hrishi- da vibe alive. The story is narrated in a lighter vein and the problems are not overwhelming.”  Good Luck Sakhi also forged Nagesh’s collaboration with music composer Devi Sri Prasad, who is synonymous with catchy numbers in star-studded big budget films. Kukunoor remembers the music sessions in DSP’s Chennai recording studio. “He is like a mad bundle of energy, so full of ideas and with an ever-present smile. The first song that was released, ‘Bad luck Sakhi’, has a Hollywood musical vibe to it but is in sync with the Indian rural setting.”   Kukunoor ensured that he had complete control over the story and script. He recalls an incident when he met producer Tutu Sharma for Rockford (1999), his second film, soon after the runaway indie hit Hyderabad Blues (1998). “He read the script and gave me suggestions. I stood my ground and stated that I wrote the script according to how I perceive the story. He trusted my conviction and let me be. Since then, I have never let anyone throw constraints in the name of box office.”   Thumbs up||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/shoot-at-sight/article64945440.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:48 IST,||‘Not an ego trip ’||Speaking to Anthony Horowitz invariably involves looking ahead. Last time when we spoke for Moonflower Murders , we were also speaking of the third book in his Daniel Hawthorne series. And now as we talk of the third book, A Line to Kill (Penguin Random House) we are also talking about the third James Bond novel Horowitz has been commissioned to write by the Ian Fleming estate.  The Hawthorne series features a disgraced police detective-turned-consultant, Hawthorne, with a fictionalised version of Horowitz as his sidekick and chronicler. “When my publishers asked me to do a detective series, I started to think about what I could do that was original, and had never been done before,” says Horowitz over video call from London. “My first thought was, is the detective British or from another country, man or woman? What is the ethnicity, sexuality, marital status? Does he have problems? Does she want to be something different? Is she a robot, vampire, spaceman or ghost?” From many angles Realising all these permutations had been done, Horowitz began to wonder what would make his series different. “I started to think about the relationship between the detective and his sidekick and had this sudden flash of inspiration. If I was a sidekick in the book, it would turn everything on its head because suddenly instead of being the cleverest person in the book, the author who knows everything, I would know nothing. I would be at the mercy of my detective. If my detective did not solve the crime, I would not have a book.” The 66-year-old author says this allowed him to have enormous fun with the genre. “At the same time, I hope I was giving the audience all the pleasure of a whodunit, the clues, the suspects, the red herrings and the surprise of the ending.” Anatomy of a whodunit There was no danger that the book would come out like an ego trip, says Horowitz. “At the end of the day, I’m only the narrator, not the main character. You do not learn a great deal about me in the book. The book is about Hawthorne, and me writing about Hawthorne. What it does allow me to do as a writer, is to write about the nature of a whodunit.” Horowitz writes in different genres, from YA with Alex Rider and The Diamond Brothers to the Sherlock Holmes and James Bond continuation novels apart from whodunits and horror. Horowitz says he prefers not to use words such as easy and difficult when describing writing. “Writing is never difficult for me. James Bond is perhaps the biggest challenge to write because I’m working in the shadow of Ian Fleming and there is so much research to do to get it right and to get the correct tone of voice. I find the process of writing one of immersion and absorption.” Insisting he loves all his writing, Horowitz admits a partiality for the Alex Rider books, which has helped a whole generation find literature, books and reading.  On the television front Horowitz says, Magpie Murders has been adapted into a six-episode series with Lesley Manville as the editor Susan Ryeland and Tim McMullan as Atticus Pünd, the detective in the book within the book. The Full Monty director, Peter Cattaneo, helms the show.  “Lesley is absolutely wonderful and Cattaneo is one of the most brilliant directors I’ve worked with.” Alex Rider is now in its second season based on Eagle Strike adapted by Guy Burt with Otto Farrant returning to play the titular character. There is also Toby Stevens playing the chief antagonist. “I know the first season was popular in India.”  Forever Bond With a Mind to Kill , Horowitz’s new James Bond novel, is expected in May 2022. “I cannot give anything away because they will be unhappy with me ( laughs ). I will say I was thrilled to be asked to return for the third time. This book is part of a trilogy following Trigger Mortis (2015) and Forever and a Day (2018). It is a quieter book compared to the other two.”  Reconciling Bond’s attitudes to today calls for acknowledging the original books by Ian Fleming were written in the ‘50s. “That was how things were then. You have to put the books in their historical context. If you are offended by them, do not read them. I still think that they are great books, very much of their time.”  The sequence at the end of Live and Let Die (1954) when Bond is dragged over the coral reef is brilliant, says Horowitz.  “The beginning of the novel, when Bond is captured and Mr Big’s henchman, Teehee, breaks Bond’s finger, makes me sweat when I read it. There are, however, parts of the book which I would not write myself, which we would feel uncomfortable reading.” Horowitz says he sees no need to prune out the uncomfortable bits from the legacy sequel as it is not the way he thinks. “It would never even come to my mind. There is so much in the Bond world, which is so great and so wonderful. Let us celebrate that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/not-an-ego-trip/article64945430.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:48 IST,||The biggest wave yet||Murthy Megavan fondly remembers the first time he touched a surfboard. The year was 2001. “It was Surfing Swami’s [Jack Hebner, one of the pioneers of Indian surfing] board. I was fascinated.” Two years later, he bought his very first surfboard. The fisherman-turned-surfer’s story — as a 10-year-old, just before he dropped out of school, he hopped atop a broken wooden door to ride waves — has been much written about. Having grown up in Kovalam, a fishing village by the sea known for its curvaceous shoreline and relentless waves, Murthy and the ocean go back a long way. Chennai’s burgeoning surf culture was pioneered by the Covelong Point Surf School (now, Surf Turf), run by TT Group’s Arun Vasu, one of India’s leading windsurfers. It was here that Murthy — who collaborated with them from 2013 to 2020 — came into his own as an instructor. Visitors, tourists and children from the village quickly took to his tutelage. Today, after 35 years of riding the waves, Murthy finally stands in front of his own surf school. With his characteristic toothy smile he states, “It’s nothing short of a dream come true.” As one negotiates the bumpy byroad that leads to Covelong Point Beach, Murthy Surf School stands out between empty plots of land; a white building, parts of it still sheathed in scaffolding. At the entrance, 12-time surfing world champion from the US, Kelly Slater seems to have caught a wave; albeit as a projecting mural. Inside, surfboards in every possible colour are lined up in a storage room. Next to this “board room”, where minor repairs can also be done, is the kitchen where Murthy and his wife Sarala, plan to whip up homemade coastal delicacies for students and customers. He lists: “Prawn curry, fish curry, coconut chutneys, dal…it will be simple and home-made.” At the entrance, Murthy also plans to set up a small surf shop where basic gear like T-shirts, caps and sunscreen will be sold. But what he is most excited about is the office room that will double up as a counselling centre for people from Kovalam and nearby villages. It was during his time at The Banyan , Kovalam as a community outreach manager that he realised the importance of addressing mental health among his community. Sheena Ramanalukkal, his ex-boss, joined in offering to lead these sessions. She is also a partner at the school. Be it surfing or counselling, the services will always be provided free of cost for people from the village. Murthy’s team comprises 10 instructors: while five of them are National-level surfers, the rest are young surfers with a knack for teaching, and all of them hail from Kovalam. The instructors, who have trained under Murthy who himself is an International Surfing Association (ISA)-certified instructor, will prioritise one-on-one lessons. Apart from surfing, kayaking and stand up paddling classes are on offer. However, Murthy wants to ensure that students learn more than just technique at his school. “I want to give people the experiences that I have had in the culture I grew up in. While kayaking, we can watch dolphins. I will also take them fishing! I know all the right spots,” he says.  The self-taught surfer’s professional journey with the watersport has not been devoid of challenges. But he says with a laugh, “ Neraya enjoy pannanen (I enjoyed a lot)! I really learned a lot about life through surfing.” In 2020, his decision to become independent was not an easy one to make. He recalls, “I believed in three things: in myself, the ocean which is akin to my mother, and my customer.”  Murthy is clear about his goal for the school. “I want to teach many more children from our fishing village. In the village, there are many boys who have dropped out of school to go fishing. They should be able to learn surfing and open their own schools in the future, and make a living.” At the moment, the village has seven surf schools, a spurt led by Surf Turf. As his school slowly came together, for almost a year-and-a-half, Murthy continued to take classes with the help of his jeep, a tent and a Syntax tank. He would drive to Covelong Point beach, pitch a tent and start his lessons. “I bought a tank and kept water ready for my students because I didn’t have a shower room or toilets. Still, there were many who joined me,” he smiles, adding “I would tell them, the ocean is my office.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-biggest-wave-yet/article64945431.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:46 IST,||Getting creative with sugarcane||In 2019, EP Jeevan launched a food truck which focussed entirely on health food, providing freshly extracted sugarcane juice for morning walkers at Besant Nagar beach. But then the pandemic struck, and he had to close down.  Early this year, he launched again. This time he has partnered with Erode Amman Mess in Adyar to set up a juice bar, Absolute Sugarcane, selling sugarcane juice in a range of flavours, as well as tender coconut water and nungu (ice apple) based juices.  After completing his Engineering degree at BITS-Pilani, Jeevan worked with many MNCs since 2009. He has now emerged as a food entrepreneur, with a mission to popularise natural cane juice and traditional regional drinks among the younger generation. To that end, The Absolute Sugarcane menu lists “classic” and “exotic” options. “Classic cane juice comes in variation of lemon, mint or ginger, but it is our exotics that are most popular. Among them, the cane pineapple mojito and coconut cane slush are hits,” says Jeevan. The former is a refreshing cocktail of minced pineapple, mint leaves and basil seeds blended with cane juice. Nungu paal , traditionally considered a healthy summer drink, is made here with tender coconut water, cream and ice apple, then served chilled. Their other must-trys are the nungu sherbet, elaneer vettiver cooler, which has a mild flavour of this herbal root and glory ginger, where instead of crushing the ginger along with sugarcane, it is cut into thin strips for a brighter flavour.  “We see sugarcane juice vendors near bus stops and railway stations: the drink is affordable and accessible to all. But many of us are wary of the ice or water used in the process, or the condition of the juice extracting machine,” he says, adding, “My idea was to make cane juice in a hygienic manner and in many variations. We procure sugarcane from farmers in Erode region in Tamil Nadu. Ice apples are available for almost nine months in a year and tender coconuts are available round the year. While tender coconuts are sourced from all over Tamil Nadu, ice apples are from Villupuram, Puducherry and from Kerala,” says Jeevan. Growing up, Jeevan, a State-level athlete, says he spent long hours in his school and college playgrounds. While returning home from practice, stopping for a sugarcane drink was an everyday ritual. During those days, he had wondered why such a highly nutritious, delicious, all-natural product was only sold by the roadside.  “We just launched another outlet at Kilpauk and soon more outlets will be launched in a phased manner,” says Jeevan, adding “We introduce new flavors from time to time, and will soon be launching padhaneer (a thin sap extracted from the inflorescence of the palmyra tree).”  Absolutely Sugarcane is located in Adyar (7904115106) and in Kilpauk (6380244873). It is also available on Zomato.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/getting-creative-with-sugarcane/article64945438.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:47 IST,||The sea breeze blew in blue dragons||Despite being just half an inch long, the Glaucus marginatus is often called the blue sea dragon. It belongs to an intriguing class of creatures — those that live not on land or underwater, but on the surface of the ocean, under the beating sun, perpetually at the mercy of currents and tides. “Blue dragons actually walk and climb on the surface water tension,” says city-based naturalist M Yuvan, adding, “They eat blue button jellyfish that float on the water. So does the fascinating purple storm snail, who blows itself a balloon to float up to the surface of the sea, and feasts on blue buttons.”  The “balloon”, also referred to as a bubble raft, is created by a secretion from the foot of these snails. It is one of the features that makes these snails particularly alluring to Nature lovers; the other feature being the unusual, pale lavender colour of its shell. “These creatures, as well as goose barnacles, are surface dwellers that usually live far out on the ocean, and form their own, floating micro biome of sorts,” says Yuvan. He adds: “All of these washed ashore in millions last week. I saw them on the shore at Neelankarai Kuppam; two of my colleagues went and checked Kovalam and Akkarai beaches. They were also seen at Urur Kuppam in Besant Nagar; basically, there were mass strandings in multiple stretches of Chennai.” Though these strandings were seen and documented on January 20, they had probably occurred a few days before, muses Yuvan, “going by the condition that we found them in”. He adds: “If we had managed to see them on the same day, the blue dragons would have been in beautiful colours. In case of the blue buttons as well, what we saw left behind were just the floats [the flat, central discs that help the creature stay afloat. It is usually surrounded by brilliant blue tentacles]. The organism had vanished.” The reason for this stranding is still unclear, though Yuvan suspects it has something to do with the shoreward winds of January. “It could also be because of some kind of event happening inside the sea,” he muses, but all is conjecture at this point. The only thing known for sure is that such strandings, though unusual, are not entirely unheard-of. For instance, the Australian coastline has seen multiple cases of mass strandings of surface dwellers in the past five years. Yuvan points out that there is a mass stranding in Odisha once every two years or so, and there has been an isolated incident in Gujarat as well. A few blue buttons had also been swept in near Chennai during the Nivar cyclone in 2020. “These creatures are completely at the mercy of the wind and the sea,” says Yuvan, “So, the cause lies in the complexity of wind systems, and how they behave close to the coast and far out in the sea — all of which, we do not have a clear understanding of. There are also occasions, sometimes, of a sudden boom in jellyfish numbers. Then, they get beached a lot because there is too many of them.” Intriguing creatures This is not the first time forces of Nature have washed up intriguing creatures of the sea to our lands. An incident like this, though unfortunate, it nevertheless gives students and naturalists a chance to observe creatures that they would otherwise not get a chance to see. The last time Yuvan had seen such a large-scale stranding had been in January 2019, “all along the Urur Kuppam and Adyar Estuary area”. He recalls: “That particular stranding had also included Portuguese man-of-war.” That is a brilliantly coloured, translucent creature with long tentacles. It resembles a jellyfish, but is actually a siphonophore: a colony of identical smaller individuals that together make up an entire creature. In the same stranding in 2019, the team had seen something called a by-the-wind-sailor, a creature whose anatomy includes a float and a fin-like sail that help it drift afloat above water, and tentacles that extend down below water. Another creature of intrigue in these strandings is the blue barnacle, a creature that attaches itself to steady or floating objects — including debris like water bottles or slippers — and populates it densely. “The number of barnacles on an object is a good indicator of how many months it has been washed ashore. It is even used in forensics in some countries,” he states. Yuvan usually notices a rise in goose barnacle numbers in January, but the reason for it is still an enigma, yet to be unravelled by Nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-sea-breeze-blew-in-blue-dragons/article64945434.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:47 IST,||A s t a b l e life||Yet another cake is being cut at the Chennai Equitation Centre (CEC) on Old Mahabalipuram Road. With an increasing number of children taking up horse riding, the stables often turn into venues for celebrations with young riders, for wins as well as birthdays of both horses and riders. “There are cakes and carrots,” laughs Isabelle Futnani who trains riders at CEC. She is visibly pleased with the recent haul of medals by her students at the Junior National Equestrian Championship in Mumbai. “My girls won three golds, one silver and two bronze,” she says. In equestrian sports, boys and girls compete together in the different disciplines (Show Jumping, Tent pegging, Dressage and Equitation) and there is no separate category, she adds. It is a similar tale of victory at Madras School of Equitation, Velachery, which has been competing in national and regional events for the last 15 years. “Our total medal tally stands at 50 so far, with two of our students winning three gold medals at the Junior National Equestrian Championship last month,” says Prem Kumar KS, president, Madras School of Equitation (MSE). Over the last few years, Isabelle and Prem have noticed a rise in interest in this sport. CEC now has 80 students from 40, while MSE’s donor riding members have also increased. Picking up on the trend, a clutch of new riding schools have come up in Chennai as well as other cities in Tamil Nadu, including Coimbatore, Ambur, Vellore and Tiruppur, over the past few years. A new awakening Coimbatore’s Adhav Kandasamy, 12, won a gold medal at the Junior National Equestrian Championship 2021 held in Mumbai. He joined Equine Dreams, an equestrian club in his hometown, when he was four. Adhav’s coach Saravanan K says there has been a rise in enrolments over the last few years. “About 10 years ago, people here just knew about horse racing. But now they are aware of the existence of a competitive sport like equestrian,” he says. Surendar Nagaraj, who was a trainer at Equine Dreams from 2012 to 2017, is now looking to get an international coaching license with the British Horse Society. Having travelled to Europe, where equestrian is extremely popular, he reckons India still has some catching up to do. “For instance, our national-level events have 30 to 50 competitors. Over there you see 800 to 900 equestrian athletes and about 1,000 horses in a single event. There are big cash prizes too, unlike here. Equestrian is not a part of sports quota, which means it can’t fetch you benefits like a Government job.” For those who want to ride more casually, Walk & Trot takes riders on horse safaris along the windy coast of Panayur on Chennai’s scenic East Coast Road. Started by NR Janarthanan and Sabari Girish in 2018, this riding school teaches the basics, so even beginners can eventually do long rides. The pandemic too has clearly played a role, as more people started exploring horse riding as a means to get away from the city, and the confines of their homes. “In the quest for Nature and the outdoors, they are giving this a shot,” says Isabelle, adding that of late she has noticed a lot of adults aged 44 to 50 taking up this activity as a hobby. Saddle up Despite being low key, riding has been a popular sport in Chennai since the 1940s when the Riding Club of Madras (with the help of Madras Race Club [MRC]) opened its doors in Guindy. Classes were attended by adults and children as young as 10. In the 70s, riders interested in polo started the Madras Polo and Riders Club near Guindy. A decade later, a few riding members of both clubs along with MRC started the Madras Riding School, known as MSE since 1999, after a change in management. Both CEC and MSE, over the years have had students who started learning as early as five and continued to do so for over a decade or even more. “Our oldest rider is 74-year-old Dr Nagajothi,” says Prem. He adds, “Often, it is the bond with the horse that draws the rider for a session of riding everyday. There are regulars who reach here at 5.30 am six days a week to practise horse riding.” In Chennai, competitive equitation picked up steam in 1990 with in-house competitions and shows at Wellington, and Lovedale in Udhagamandalam. From 2000 regional shows at Chennai Equitation Centre (OMR), Red Earth Riding School (Pondicherry) and Embassy International Riding School (Bengaluru) garnered more attention. And then the International Dressage Development League, a brain child of Kapil Modi, Delhi-based equestrian and participant at the Asian Games, gave a leg up for children in equitation and dressage. In recent years, horse riding has become more prominent as more schools embrace it. “I became interested in horses after I saw them competing at the Guindy Race Course many years ago,” says Janarthanan who then trained for 15 years. He has 10 students at Walk & Trot now, mostly in the eight to 12 age group. They also offer packages for casual riders. The 15-kilometre ride (priced at around Rs. 3,000) from Neelankarai to Kovalam is most popular, he says. It starts at 6am with breakfast and the trail runs along the shore and through the woods. For those who like riding through forests they offer a safari from Chengalpet to Thiruvannamalai. “This sport combines athletics with team spirit,” says Isabelle, adding, “It’s a special feeling, especially for a child, who, in spite of weighing 30-40 kilograms is able to command a horse that weighs 500 kilograms.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-s-t-a-b-l-e-life/article64945433.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:48 IST,||For a happy pregnancy||Is it possible to have a ‘perfect’ pregnancy? Why not? Asks Durga Shakti Nagpal. In her memoir, Grow Your Baby Not Your Weight (Rupa), the bureaucrat and a mother of two explains how to ease one’s journey to motherhood. “A woman’s body is perfectly designed to bear a child. You just need to be on the right track,” declares Durga Shakti, emphasising the need to eat right and stay physically active.  Her debut book, which has been endorsed by celebrities like Akshay Kumar, Shilpa Shetty and Hema Malini, covers not just the first three trimesters but also birth, breast feeding, and post-partum blues. It addresses pregnancy-related myths and beliefs, as well as the role of an older child and the family’s active involvement during and after pregnancy. “The book reminds aspiring mothers to treat it as something natural and not a medical condition,” says Durga Shakti. The book explains how it is possible to be pregnant with minimal weight gain, while maximising the nutrition. “Every chapter is accompanied by medical advice from a gynaecologist,” says the author. She also touches upon balancing a career and motherhood, based on her experiences as an IAS officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/for-a-happy-pregnancy/article64945429.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:46 IST,||On the politics of food||“Knock on a stranger’s door and ask for food. What you receive depends on who you are and who opens the door. If you knock on the door of a trans person’s home, however, you will never be turned away because they have faced hunger pangs and the humiliation of rejection all their lives,” says Srijith Sundaram, an activist for the LGBT community in Chennai.  His play Biryani Durbar, recently staged in Bengaluru, depicts the life of trans people with all its harsh realities. The protagonist Nooramma is portrayed by activist A Revathi.  The idea for this play had been germinating with Srijith over the past few years. “During the second wave, I helped with the running of the Trans Community Kitchen in Chennai and saw a transformation in how the community was perceived — from being the ones who begged for food to becoming providers.” A team of 20-plus volunteers help run the kitchen founded by Sankari G, Sowndharya Gopi and Srijith Sundaram. It operated from two locations: Porur and the Tsunami Quarters in Ernavur, apart from smaller kitchens in New Washermanpet and Tondiarpet. Their aim was to provide food for those in need as well as those home-bound due to COVID-19. As the lockdown eased, the team utilised their infrastructure to provide medical support and to help vendors and small entrepreneurs get back on their feet. Apart from organising and distributing food to migrant workers, hospital staff and ambulance drivers, members of the Trans Community Kitchen also began attending funerals of COVIDd-19 victims who were alone on their final journey. While scripting the play, Srijith wove in real-life incidents and experiences of the trans community.  Srijith says he was supported by his mentor, A Mangai, and Carnatic vocalist TM Krishna whose music is featured in Biryani Durbar .   Srijith hopes to stage Biryani Durbar at the upcoming Chennai Pride and have a re-run in Bengaluru in the next two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-the-politics-of-food/article64945437.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:47 IST,||Ode to inner demons||When Chennai-based Pavithra Krishnaswamy and Goutham Kumar create music, you can count on it to calm you.  The duo does not swear fealty to any genre, and believes that their songs cannot be clubbed together. “We are still building our digital presence. Since these are the early days of releasing our music, we want to try and put out as many diverse-sounding songs as possible, to give our listeners a taste of all the possibilities,” says Pavithra. Having said that, The Coconut Milk Project does invariably lean towards soothing, minimal, acoustic compositions, featuring a guitar and perhaps two more instruments at most. Their latest release, however, available on Spotify and YouTube, steps away from this sound.  ‘Imposter’, released earlier this month, toes the line between being lightly hummable, while conveying a familiar angst. “It is backed with many more instruments, and a lot more layers — it’s a different vibe altogether,” says Pavithra. The song is also anxious: its lyrics are the internal dialogue of someone who considers themselves an imposter, and is waiting to be found out. Lyrics are addressed to an unidentified “imposter”, and the monologue that ensues is one that many of us will remember from our own personal experiences. Imposter Syndrome, after all, is fairly common and widespread. The term stands for a psychological pattern of self-doubt, in which a person doubts his or her skills, abilities and accomplishments — no matter how hard-earned or well-deserved — as fake, and lives in perpetual fear of being exposed. This concept was part of the reason why the duo decided to go bigger with its music. “We wanted it to be a little more out there. We wanted it to be a little richer,” says Goutham. “When we went to the studio to record, we had an acoustic version in mind: with just a shaker, guitar and vocals. Ashwin [Vinayagamoorthy, founder of Chennai-based recording studio Shimrr Studios] and the team suggested we try something different. We weren’t convinced at first, but agreed to meet in the middle. Once we heard the result though, we realised that this song has a lot more scope than we had imagined,” he recalls. The final number features not only Pavithra and Goutham’s lyrics and vocals, but also bouzouki and guitars by Sridhar Varadarajan and bass guitar by Kabeeb Sivaprasad. The overall impact is chirpy, notwithstanding lyrics whose tone is mildly concerned in some moments, and outright ominous in others. “This is one of those songs where the words and the music came together at the same time,” says Pavithra, adding, “A lot of our music comes from a place of self-reflection. When we started writing this song, we hadn’t earmarked it as a song about the imposter syndrome in general. But the lyrics invariably began to take that shape, and we decided to go ahead. We took a call to be cheeky about it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ode-to-inner-demons/article64945435.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:46 IST,||Raju Jeyamohan on his ‘Bigg Boss’ journey and winning the title||Raju Jeyamohan, the winner of the recently-concluded season of Bigg Boss Tamil, hosted by Kamal Haasan, says he is elated with how the viewers of the show have encouraged and accepted him.   “I’m thrilled to have been a part of something that everyone enjoys. Winning a show like Bigg Boss is possible only if audiences really like you,” says the actor.  Throughout the fifth season of the show, Raju emerged as a fan favourite thanks to his jokes, witty one-liners, mimicry style and camaraderie with his fellow housemates. Another constant, Priyanka Deshpande, spoke highly of Raju’s patience and calmness, during the finale. “I never thought my patience was a big quality until now. Early on in the show, people often asked me why I was quiet and not reacting much to anything. But as days went by, this worked in my favour. Taking most things lightly definitely helped me.” In the finale, Raju spoke highly of his housemates and how they had a great part to play in his success. “In a house, it is the people around us who determine the kind of person we are going to be. All the other contestants had a great part to play in this. Imman Annachi, in particular, was a great source of support and encouragement.” Raju says he enjoyed the ‘Cinema Cinema’ task where he dressed up as actor MR Radha, as well as the week when the house became a boarding school. “I’m yet to sit and watch the show in its entirety though; I hope that one day, all of us who were in the house, can get together and watch our favourite episodes,” says Raju, who has starred in a few TV shows and films and has also worked as an assistant to director Bhagyaraj in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/raju-jeyamohan-on-his-bigg-boss-journey-and-winning-the-title/article64945442.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:46 IST,||Music for the muhurtam||By now, you have probably heard about the metaverse wedding reception that Chennai couple Dinesh SP and Janaganandhini Ramaswamy is planning. Musician MS Krsna is looking forward to it for more reasons than one. He will be performing in this first-of-its-kind event, and up his sleeve is the premiere of the music video of his latest single titled ‘Odathey Oliyathey’. “I’m thrilled that it will be one of the first videos from the Indian independent scene to play in a metaverse event,” says the 23-year-old singer-songwriter.  The idea of this single came about during the most unlikely of places: when he was on his way to work on a bike. “Many of my best ideas come in the strangest of places,” he recalls, “I was studying to be an audio engineer at SRM and was also working as an assistant director on Tamil film Vaazl , directed by Arun Prabhu. I was on my feet all the time and this song is also about how one has to have the stamina to receive the good things that come into your life.”  Krsna, who describes the song as ‘upbeat, joyous and peppy’, has worked with Ken Royson of Atti Culture fame for the music video, which would be showcased during the metaverse wedding. “We conceptualised a story and visual treatment for the song and decided to shoot it at my school, Abacus Montessori, where my music journey as a performer began.” The video will also feature Napier Naveen, Rahul Muralidhar and Gooth, besides an animated storyline by Adhiti Harikumar. “‘Odathey Oliyathey’ will be a key project in defining the kind of music that I make.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/music-for-the-muhurtam/article64945441.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:46 IST,||That one incident||Vishal Venkat always wanted to be a cricketer. But life had other plans for him. After he finished his Engineering degree, he was smitten by the world of filmmaking. Stints in television and ad commercials helped him, as he puts it, “discover that he had a passion for filmmaking”.  Today, 29-year-old Vishal is all excited about his debut Tamil feature, Sila Nerangalil Sila Manidhargal (SNSM) , featuring Ashok Selvan, Reyaa, Nasser and Manikandan among others.   Releasing in theatres this Friday, the film revolves around how one incident changes the life of many people. “The protagonists are from different walks of life but one incident changes them completely,” says Vishal. The script was initially a short film idea, which he later fleshed out into a full-fledged feature. “Shooting was a hard task, especially given the challenges that came post the pandemic, but we were able to pull it off,” says the filmmaker. Despite many big films opting to take the OTT route, the makers of SNSM have decided to go ahead with a theatrical release. “It is a hard decision to take in today’s times. But if the content is good, audiences will support the film. We are confident that that will happen with SNSM .”  Srinivasa Ramanujam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/that-one-incident/article64945439.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:47 IST,||Khaddar vs burger||In Chicago’s cruel winter, at -3 degrees Celsius, it was a khadi jacket that kept Kamal Haasan warm. To be precise, a jacket from KH House of Khaddar, his just-launched designer label. Now, khaddar has taken over his wardrobe. “Khaddar needs no introduction. It’s woven into the fabric of the nation. We cling on to the thread and climb,” says Kamal at the virtual press conference to launch the website for House of Khaddar in India. “We are proud to launch our business on Republic Day,” he says, adding, “Let’s hope khadi will do better than burgers in India.” The brand’s first collection, titled Nunool, was showcased in Chicago in November 2021. “Whenever we spoke of exporting khaddar to the West, the first question asked was ‘who would want to wear an Indian politician’s costume?’ It’s not a politician’s costume: it is a historic thread that connects people like freedom fighters and the free Indians of today.” The actor says he is emotionally connected to the fabric, as his father, who was a lawyer and part of the Independence movement, used to wear khaddar to court. The first collection for Fall Winter is heavy and has a lot of trenches, jackets, trousers, skirts and dresses in olives, browns, blues and pinks. Amritha Ram, the designer, put everything together with the layering concept in mind, so people can use each piece in different ways. Amritha says the next collection will be launched at the Paris Fashion Week.  Kamal also takes pride in the fact that KH House of Khaddar is eco-friendly, conscious about sustainability, and the welfare of the weavers associated with the label. “The fabric is hand-dyed using organic dyes. Our dyes have zero chemical waste and zero carbon,” he states, adding, “We have taken Gandhiji’s advice seriously and become the change we wanted.” For details, log on to www.khhk.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/khaddar-vs-burger/article64945432.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||Rajpath, draped in hues||Around noon yesterday, the iconic Rajpath turned into a canvas of colours, song and dance, as 480 performing artistes embodied threads of the country‘s rich cultural diversity. Though this year’s Republic Day parade marked many firsts, perhaps the most vibrant of them was the Vande Bharatam — the Nritya Utsav showcase led by the Ministry of Culture. What resulted in a smartly-executed display of colours and celebration of the arts, was months in the making. Young dancers from all over India, across genres like classical, folk and contemporary, were assessed and selected for the parade. Designer Sandhya Raman, with decades of experience in clothing artistes, especially dancers, was called in as the creative visualiser of the showcase. “This is the first time that the Ministry had taken an approach keeping design in mind. It was a really challenging job,” says Sandhya. Why did they land on the rainbow? “The rainbow is who we are. We are so different in our hues and shapes, and yet we come together,” says the designer. Sandhya worked with the larger concept of colour and of how every single dancer can be placed within the spectrum. “We started with the spiritual section of the rhythmic patterns of culture, clothed in yellows, reds and oranges. We had glimpses of white coming in, signifying serenity.” From there, the reverse of the VIBGYOR is what we saw with the Bharatanatayam dancers clad in red, Odissi artistes in orange and then the Kuchipudi dancers in yellows. The folk section was a sea of green: Sandhya adds, “We wanted to highlight it and show the ‘nurture of Nature’ in this particular showcase.” The final part threw light on contemporary choreography, where greens merged into blues and purples, resulting in colours of the national bird, peacock. “The peacock showed how the youth of India is going to bring out the beauty in our lives,” says Sandhya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rajpath-draped-in-hues/article64945427.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:49 IST,||Juniper on the beach||In Goa, Nilgiris tea meets Himalayan juniper and cashewnuts on the beaches and in the bars. While the past two pandemic years slowed business, and closed down many bars and restaurants, across the country, Goa has been bustling with new ideas and launches. Over the past two years, a host of home-brewn gins have mushroomed across the State, building on the impact created by Greater Than, Hapusa, Stranger & Sons and Jaisalmer, the gin brands that began celebrating Indian botanicals.  In 2020, Jin Jiji launched its India dry gin, with the unique flavours of botanicals like chamomile and tulsi . This was followed by Clearly Good Gin, India’s 1st Blue and Vapour-Infused gin created by Goa-based Shubham Khanna. The year 2021 witnessed the launch of multiple brands: Seqer, DOJA, Tāmras, to name a few. “Each of these has a unique story. While Seqer — from packaging to the botanicals used — preserves and boasts of the Goan identity, Tāmras has unique botanicals like sweet lime, lemon verbena, Nilgiri tea, Egyptian grapefruit and Indonesian cubeb peppers. Doja is a small-batch gin with a blend of Indian and Japanese botanicals,” says Rojita Tiwari, a certified drinks professional, educator and consultant.  Today, customers, bartenders and restaurateurs in India can choose from about 11 indigenous gins from Goa, most of which are competitively priced between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 2,000 for a 700-750ml bottle. The reason for this sudden explosion can be attributed not only to the growing popularity of this spirit, but also to the business environment in the State being conducive to experimental launches. A chance question by a bartender in London, about Indian gins prompted Devika Bhagat and Khalil Bachooali, founders of Tāmras, gin, to set up their own distillery — The Adventurist Spirits Distillery in Colvale, North Goa — rather than go in for contract bottling. “It’s a 1,000 square metre space where we experiment, test, distil, blend and bottle and have an experience centre for tours and tastings,” says Devika. “Gin is primarily being made by up-and-coming millennials, who want business practices to be straightforward,” says Devika. “The Goa Government and the Excise Department are supportive of new brands and distilleries. Excise licenses are also reasonable and don’t eat into your set-up costs and initial investment. Familiar botanicals  Adriel Sequeira, founder of Seqer gin, believes that gin is the most versatile of all spirits and offers a lot of potential. Seqér gin is a blend of 10 botanicals, including one that is synonymous with Goa: cashewnuts. These are locally sourced, from right within the distillery premises. Cashewnuts were selected not only as a tribute to Goa and its beloved feni by this proudly local brand, but also to lend a distinct texture to the gin.   If local cashewnuts are what make Seqer stand out, the distillation and dilution process of Tāmras is its USP. Devika explains, “We use the multiple distillation and slow-dilution/desaponification process.” Their botanicals include mausambi (sweet lime), Indian mint ( pudina ), lotus flowers and lotus seeds. Devika says they are one of the few in the world using fresh whole citrus fruit. “By individually distilling mausambi , Indian lemon and grapefruit, we can distil our requirements for the whole year in those four winter months, when these fruits are harvested.”  Spicy cocktails Indian spices contribute as much to these gins as botanicals. Jai Anand, founder, Doja, , who opted for an Indo-Japanese collaboration to further his craft gin vision, believes that Indian spices like fennel, coriander, green cardamom and Himalayan peppermint, help amplify the flavours of Japanese botanicals such as yuzu lemon, with hints of cedar, sansho pepper, and Hinoki. Their Japanese master distiller Tsui San determined which Indian spices matched with base Japanese botanicals in the Goa-based, East Side Distillery. “The primary aromas in a gin have to be juniper, followed by the unique botanicals that the distiller wants to showcase,” explains Rojita. She adds, “The Juniper does not make such a difference as much as the botanicals, which play a major role in defining the gin. Unless it’s a juniper-forward gin such as Hapusa, juniper normally acts as a base aroma.” Rakshay Dhariwal, partner at Passcode Hospitality in Delhi says, “Over the past year with Ping’s, Jamun and now Saz on the Beach in Goa, we’ve noticed people like to try new gins. Gins like Greater Than and Stranger & Sons are doing very well, but they have been around for a while and have created a huge following. Pumori, Tamras and Doja are also getting popular.” From being declared one of the eight best gins in the world by the International Wine And Spirit Competition in 2020, to winning the highest honours at The Asian Spirit Masters 2021, Stranger & Sons, has managed to put Indian gin on the world map. Hapusa, the Himalayan dry gin from Nao Spirits, produced and distilled in Goa, also bagged a gold medal at the prestigious The International Wines & Spirits Competition 2021. In an attempt to retain customer’s attention in a crowded market, brands have been hosting gin-fuelled events across Goa The Himalayan takeover by Hapusa, conducted in Goa in November 2021, celebrated Himalayan ingredients – Edible camphor, Earl Grey tea, Cardamom and Timbur. Cocktails using these were created, from the Forest Trail using Hapusa, camphor, tonic and kaffir lime leaf, to a refreshing Earl of the Himalayas, fragrant with Earl Grey tea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/juniper-on-the-beach/article64945428.ece
27 January 2022||January 27 2022 03:46 IST,||InKo Centre filler||In the seventh edition of its The Cultural Heritage series, Chennai-based InKo Centre presents an online performance of Cheoyongmu, a Korean dance form that was derived from a legendary folk tale about a mythical character named Cheoyong. The masked dance form can be traced back to the Silla kingdom. and is packed with symbolism. The performance will be streamed on January 27, at 6 pm. Visit inkocentre.org for details and the link to the performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/inko-centre-filler/article64945436.ece
