30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||Opposition slams govt. as report says India bought NSO spyware||A fresh political storm has erupted over a report in the New York Times that said the Indian government had purchased the Israeli NSO group’s Pegasus software in July 2017 to carry out targeted surveillance on citizens. The investigative report claimed that the high-level visits by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and even a UN vote on a Palestinian organisation were part of a larger back-room deal.  The revelations that come just two days before the Budget session of Parliament, have provided fresh ammunition to Opposition parties to corner the government on the issue. ‘Parliament misled’ They attacked the government on Saturday, accusing it of “misleading” Parliament and the Supreme Court. The Congress said the alleged use of spyware on Opposition leaders, Supreme Court judges, journalists and activists was an “act of treason”, and said the party would raise the issue in the upcoming Budget session.  In the report published on Friday, the NYT said ties between Mr. Modi and Mr. Netanyahu had “warmed” because of their agreement for the sale of “a package of sophisticated weapons and intelligence gear worth roughly $2 billion — with Pegasus and a missile system as the centrepieces”.  Several countries in list  The NYT did not divulge sources for the claim that India had bought the Pegasus system, and did not respond to an e-mail from The Hindu asking for any details used to verify the report. In their detailed investigation, the paper’s reporters named several countries including India, the UAE, Hungary, Poland and Mexico on the list of those who had purchased the spying software, and said these countries had not just strengthened ties with the Netanyahu government, but also shifted positions on support to Palestine and muted opposition to Israel at the United Nations.  “In June 2019, India voted in support of Israel at the U.N.’s Economic and Social Council to deny observer status to a Palestinian human rights organisation, a first for the nation,” the report said.  Syed Akbaruddin, India’s Ambassador to the UN at the time, however, denied the last claim. “The vote was a decision taken by me locally (as UN Permanent Representative in New York). No one talked to me about it before or after,” Mr. Akbaruddin, now retired, said in response to a query from The Hindu , adding that “The NYT seems to have wrongly made an insinuation.”  ‘No transaction’  The government, including the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of External Affairs did not respond to the NYT report.   In August 2021, after the original revelations of the extent of Pegasus spyware found on thousands of telephones worldwide were published by online news publication, The Wire, and international news agencies, the Ministry of Defence had said in Parliament that the “Ministry of Defence has not had any transaction with NSO group technologies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/opposition-slams-govt-as-report-says-india-bought-nso-spyware/article64990782.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:17 IST,||3,590 new COVID cases in Telangana||Telangana has recorded 3,590 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The daily case load stayed less than 4,000 from the past four days. The daily case load in the State has been oscillating around 4000 from the past one week. While 95,355 samples were tested on Saturday, results of 3,960 were awaited. Two more COVID patients have died. The new 3,590 infections includes 1160 in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 257 fromMedchal Malkajgiri,215 from Rangareddy, 132 from Hanmakonda, 121 from Khammam, 119 from Karimnagar, 118 from Sangareddy, 115 from Siddipet and 105 from Bhadradri Kothagudem. ICU occupancy The number of COVID patients in ICUs, which dropped on Tuesday and Wednesday has increased. The number which touched 830 has dropped to 807 and 788 on Tuesday and Wednesday respectively. The occupancy started to increase gradually thereafter. 852 in ICU On Saturday, 852 COVID patients were in ICU. From March 2, 2020 to January 29 of this year, a total of 3.19 crore samples were put through COVID test and 7,58,566 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 40,447 were active cases, 7,014,034 have recovered, and 4,085 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3590-new-cases-detected/article64990929.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||PAC Chairman says he can prove State’s ‘fiscal profligacy’||Terming Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy’s claims on the State’s financial position as misleading,Assembly Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Chairman Payyavula Keshav on Saturday said he “can prove the government’s fiscal profligacy” and the manner in which it had raised loans more thantwo times the FRBM limit set by the Centre. Mr. Keshav said it was an open secret that the government had not been able to service the existing debt, and wondered who would give fresh loans in such a precarious situation. Addressing the media in the virtual mode, Mr. Keshav said that Mr.Rajendranath Reddy should publish a WhitePaperon the government’s finances if the State was not in such dire straits as it appeared to be, and refrain from “self-certification.” He said Andhra Pradesh got a major relieffrom the loan ceiling, but banks and financial institutions were still reluctant to lend due to the Stat’s “poor track record.” The power utilities werein a complete mess, and many other sectors were teetering on the brink of collapse, Mr. Keshav observed. He said the government should throw light on the loans taken by it directly and through variouscorporations, and theactual expenditure incurred on development projects and welfare schemes. Healleged that the Finance Minister made acontradictory statement. On the one hand he said the coronavirus pandemic had caused substantial fall in revenues and on the other he said State’s performance was better in spite of the impact of the pandemic. Mr. Keshav sought to know why the overallrevenue and expenditure details were not being displayed on the Chief Minister’s dashboard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pac-chairman-says-he-can-prove-states-fiscal-profligacy/article64990777.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||BSF, Pak. Rangers resume dialogue||After three years, the border guarding forces of India and Pakistan have revived sector commander-level talks. The Border Security Force (BSF) and the Pakistan Rangers held two meetings in the past six months. The latest was on January 5. A senior government official said both meetings were on the request of Pakistan and the first was held on July 24, 2021. The talks were previously held in August 2018. After 2017, talks at the level of Directors-General have not taken place. After the January 5 meeting, held at the Octroi outpost in Jammu, the BSF said in a statement that “both sides agreed to conduct such meetings at regular intervals for better understanding and to maintain peace and tranquillity on border ... BSF also strictly objected to the drone operations carried out by Pakistan regularly violating the IB [International Boundary]”. Last year, the BSF spotted more than 70 drones and two of them were shot down. Dropping of arms and ammunition from unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) is one of the biggest challenges faced by the BSF. At the meeting, the BSF delegation emphasised the infiltration attempts from the Pakistani side and regular recovery of arms, ammunition and narcotics on the IB. The official said the talks were revived to also ensure accountability. “If the senior officers communicate, then it helps in resolving many issues and any wrong can be pointed out,” he noted. The sector commander talks are led by an officer of the rank of Deputy Inspector-General of the BSF and a Brigadier rank officer of the Pakistan Rangers. According to D.K Pathak, former Director General (DG) of the BSF, the channel of communication should always be open as it helped in solving issues smoothly. “Sometimes there are incidents at the border for which one cannot wait for the long chain of diplomatic command. Cross-border incidents could be resolved quickly if officers on both sides are in regular communication,” Mr. Pathak said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsf-pak-rangers-resume-dialogue/article64990775.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||Govt. looking at alternative to ensure timely salaries||In a step that took it closer to a confrontation with the employees over revised pay scales 2022, the State government ordered that disciplinary action should be taken against Drawing & Disbursing Officers (DDOs) Sub-Treasury Officers (STOs) etc., who failed in discharging their duties by 6 p.m. on January 29 (Saturday), as per AP Civil Services Conduct Rules and, more importantly, to ensure timely payment of salaries for January by proposing an alternative mechanism if the situation warranted. Special Chief Secretary (Finance) S.S. Rawat stated in a circular memo that comprehensive instructions were issued earlier to enable the disbursal of salaries, pensions etc. and timelines were set for pay fixation and preparation of pay bills for January 2022. Notwithstanding those instructions, many DDOs had not prepared the said pay bills and the STOs did not approve the bills. The government had decided that it cannot remain a bystander to the flagrant violation of its instructions, and the acts of omission that led to the non-payment of salaries and other benefits to employees, pensioners, contract workers, village and ward employees, outsourced workers, full/part time contingent employees, daily wage workers as also home-guards, ASHA workers, Anganwadi workers, mid-day meal service providers etc. Hence, the instruction to take action against the officers responsible for the impasse. On the other hand, the government issued G.O. Ms.No.12 on Saturday allowing House Rent Allowance (HRA) to be paid at the rate of 16% to all employees in the offices of Heads of Departments (HoDs) who relocated from Hyderabad and whose office locations fall in the 8% HRA area, on a par with employees working in the Secretariat at Velagapudi and other HoD offices in Vijayawada. It was stated in the G.O. that orders were issued on a previous occasion for the implementation of revised pay scales 2022 for all employees drawing their pay as per the RPS 2015. Upon a representation received from the HoDs of the Director of Works Accounts and Pay and Accounts Office for allowing 16% HRA, the decision to double the HRA from 8% to 16% was taken. Protests Meanwhile, leaders of the PRC Sadhana Samiti staged demonstrations at various places in the State in protest against the government’s stubbornness in not addressing the concerns raised by them. They expressed regret that the government was blaming employees for the deadlock even as the PRC Sadhana Samiti made it amply clear that they were willing to participate in the negotiations provided the G.Os were cancelled or at least kept in abeyance till the issues were sorted out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/revised-pay-action-against-erring-officers/article64990783.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:27 IST,||Governor seeks govt. view on Ordinance||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has solicited the State government's view on the Congress-led United Democratic Front’s (UDF) allegation that the proposed Kerala Lok Ayukta amendment Ordinance aspired to relegate the ombudsman to a minor advisory role in cases relating to charges of corruption and maladministration against public officials. The Raj Bhavan had reportedly sent the relevant communication to the Chief Minister's Office for comments. Officials privy to the matter described it as a routine administrative procedure. Nevertheless, the development is of some political import as the proposed executive order emerged as the latest battleground between the government and the Opposition ahead of the upcoming budget session of the Assembly. Bid to shield CM, Bindu A UDF delegation had met Mr. Khan on Thursday and alleged that the government had attempted to dilute the Kerala Lok Ayukta Act, 1999 to shield Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Higher Education Minister R. Bindu from a possible declaration of guilt in separate cases of corruption and nepotism currently under the ombudsman's scrutiny. Such a declaration under Section 14 of the Act would be binding on the competent authority, the Governor in the case of the Chief Minister, to eject the erring official from public office. Section 14 ruling also pointedly lacks an appeal provision. Left Democratic Front (LDF) Independent legislator K. T. Jaleel had felt the brunt of the law when he had to quit the previous Pinarayi Vijayan government following an adverse ruling under Section 14 from the Lok Ayukta. The CPI(M) had argued that the "harsh" provision potentially opened the door for the Centre to meddle in the State's affairs. Moreover, it felt the section could unsettle an elected government based on an ombudsman's ruling on an individual's complaint. The UDF seemed emboldened by the perceived rumblings of discontent in the LDF against the "hasty CPI(M) push" to amend the Act via an "impetuous" executive order "without consultations" in the ruling alliance. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran had suggested that a Bill in the House was more in order than an amendment Ordinance. Opposition charge Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan sought to put the ruling front on the defence by appealing against the executive order to CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury. In an open letter to Mr. Yechury, Mr. Satheesan said the Kerala CPI(M)'s move to render the ombudsman legally impotent ran against the grain of the party's abiding support for the potent Lok Pal and Lok Ayukta laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-seeks-govt-view-on-ordinance/article64990885.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:45 IST,||DMK organ slams Governor, says this is Tamil Nadu, not Nagaland||Murasoli , the official organ of the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), has castigated Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi, saying he cannot behave like a “big brother” since “it is not Nagaland, but Tamil Nadu”.   The column, titled Kokkentru Ninaitharo; Tamilaga Aalunar Ravi , reminded the Governor that even though there was no unanimity on various issues, the entire State stood united on the two-language policy and its opposition to the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET).  ‘Unanimous opinion’  “The Governor should understand it and get consent for the unanimous opinion of the State by properly intimating the Centre. If he behaves like a big brother, we would like to intimate him about the the ancient saying, Kokkentru Ninaithaiyo Konganava ,” said the column, penned under the pesudonym Silanthi (Spider).   The saying is from the story of sage Kausika, who, after burning down a kokku (egret), tried to use his power on a housewife who made him wait. When he failed in his attempt, the housewife asked him, “Do you think I am also an egret?”  The column said the Governor, as the representative of the Centre, should intimate it about the unanimous opinion of the people of the State, instead of imposing the Centre’s decision here.  Recalling the boycott of Mr. Ravi’s farewell ceremony by journalists in Nagaland, the Murasol i column said the incident showed how he had hurt journalists there.  “He is not a politician who experienced the climate of politics before becoming a Governor. He was a police officer who was appointed Governor after his retirement. The police department may require methods of threat and intimidation, and they may yield results there. But they will be of no use in politics, and the Governor should understand that,” the column added.  The Murasoli piece said the argument of the Governor that NEET had increased the number of government school students entering medical colleges was unjustifiable when the entire State was opposing it and the Assembly had adopted a resolution against it.   The Governor should understand it [opposition to NEET] and get consent for the unanimous opinion of the State by properly intimating the Centre  Column inMurasoli||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dmk-organ-slams-governor-says-this-is-tamil-nadu-not-nagaland/article64990833.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||3 COVID deaths, 11,573 new cases||The State reported three deaths and 11,573 fresh COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning. One death each has been reported from Chittoor, Guntur and Visakhapatnam districts. However, 9,445 people infected by the virus recovered in the last 24 hours and the State so far has tested a total of 3,24,06,132 samples. The cumulative toll and tally of the pandemic in the State has increased to 14,594 and 22,57,286 respectively and the number of active cases touched 1,15,425. During the past day, the YSR Kadapa district recorded the highest number of 1,942 positive cases, followed by Kurnool (1,522), Guntur (1,298), Visakhapatnam (1024), Krishna (969), East Godavari (951), Anantapur (926), Nellore (706), Prakasam (655), West Godavari (580), Chittoor (479), Srikakulam (274) and Vizianagaram (247) positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-covid-deaths-11573-new-cases/article64990784.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:55 IST,||Karnataka reports 70 COVID deaths in one day||The number of COVD-19 fatalities jumped by 40% in one day, with the State reporting 70 deaths on Saturday. This is the highest number of deaths since the start of the third wave. Barring four people, the rest succumbed in hospitals, with Bengaluru Urban reporting the maximum number of deaths at 13, followed by Mysuru (nine), and five each in Dakshina Kannada and Kalaburagi and Udupi. However, hospitalisations across the State remain low with around 5,477 people of the 2.88 lakh active cases in hospitals. Health Minister K. Sudhakar, in a tweet, said that the overall hospitalisation rate as of January 28 was 1.90%. Of these, 0.42% were occupying oxygenated beds and 0.24% were on ICU/ventilator support. The percentage of patients in non-oxygenated beds was 1.24%. Cases continued to rise on Saturday, with the State reporting 33,337 new positives. Bengaluru Urban district accounted for 16,586 cases. It was followed by Mysuru with 2,431 cases. Tumakuru, Dharwad and Haasan reported over a thousand cases each. The positivity rate for the day was 19.37% while the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) jumped to 0.20%. There are currently 2,52,132 active cases in the State, while the number of discharges is 69,902. The total number of discharges to date is 34,65,995. A total of 1,72,062 tests, including 1,29,779 RT-PCR tests were conducted, taking the total number of samples tested to 6.15 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-reports-70-covid-deaths-in-one-day/article38347639.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||Retreat tunes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/retreat-tunes/article64990776.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||‘No need to panic about NeoCoV virus’||Indian Medical Association (IMA) State president C. Srinivasa Raju said in a press release that there was no need to panic about the NeoCov virus. He stated that as per the World Health Organisation (WHO), animals, particularly wild animals, were the source of more than 75% of all emerging infectious diseases in human-beings. Coronaviruses were often found in animals, including in bats, which have been identified as a natural reservoir of many of these viruses. NeoCov is a bat virus and had not infected humans so far. It could not bind efficiently to the human ACE receptor and since its discovery in 2013, no mutation took place., he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-need-to-panic-about-neocov-virus/article38347391.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||India-Israel ties important amid global change: PM||The importance of India-Israel ties has further increased in a world facing several major transformations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. The speech by the Prime Minister marked three decades since New Delhi established formal diplomatic ties with Tel Aviv on January 29, 1992, when P. V. Narasimha Rao was the Prime Minister. “Thirty years ago, on this day, full diplomatic relation was established between India and Israel, starting a new chapter between two sides. Though the chapter was new, the history of our countries is very old. For hundreds of years, our people maintained close relation. Since time immemorial, the Jewish community has lived in India without any discrimination and flourished here while contributing greatly to our economic growth,” Mr. Modi said. India launched a logo earlier this week featuring the Star of David and the Ashoka Chakra that will be used in events to celebrate the landmark year in bilateral ties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-israel-ties-important-amid-global-change-pm/article38347359.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:17 IST,||Man held for spreading Maoist ideology||Gangadhara police arrested Odisha-based Anem Chandra Rao, ‘secretary’ of Marxist Leninist Study Centre (MLSC), on charges of spreading Maoist ideology through social media and acting as a ‘recruiting agent’ for naxals based in other States. Police said 59-year-old Rao, a native of Berhampur in Odisha, was apprehended in Hyderabad on Friday afternoon. The police were on the lookout for him in connection with a case of seizure of explosive materials from one Malyala Suresh of Kondayapalli of Karimnagar district at Laxmidevipalli village in Gangadhara mandal on January 10 this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arrested/article38347885.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||Cong. will see landslide win: Channi||Ahead of the Punjab Assembly election, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has said that the Congress is not facing anti-incumbency in the State. The party will register a landslide victory, Mr. Channi said in an interview with The Hindu . The party, he said, has decided to announce a chief ministerial candidate because the people wanted it.  Taking credit for action against Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, the Chief Minister said he had launched “Mission Clean” against the sand, drug, and liquor mafia. He said the Opposition was levelling allegations as they “don’t have anything to use against me”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-will-see-landslide-win-channi/article38347360.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:11 IST,||Tourism spots to open||Minister for Tourism B.S. Anand Singh said all tourist places in the State would be opened to the public from Monday. However, tourists had to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour during their visits to the places, Mr. Singh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tourism-places-to-open/article38347650.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:45 IST,||99 nominations received for T.N. civic polls||During the first two days of the filing of nominations for ordinary elections to urban local bodies, 99 nominations were received, the State Election Commission said. Twenty-two nominations were received for corporation ward member posts, 30 for municipality ward members and 47 for town panchayat ward members till Saturday. A total of 12,838 posts, including 1,374 corporation ward members, 3,843 municipality ward members and 7,621 town panchayat ward members, will be filled through the February 19 polls. The TNSEC also announced that if those holding posts in rural local bodies filed their nominations to contest in urban local bodies, provisions were available in the relevant Act to take action towards their disqualification from their old posts, irrespective of whether they secure a win in the urban local body polls. An official release said the undertaking provided by such candidates about their place of residence in their affidavits accompanying their nomination papers would be considered under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994, and if it is established that the candidate doesn't reside in that place, they would be summarily disqualified from their old posts. As Inspectors of Village Panchayats, Collectors would initiate necessary action in this regard, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/99-nominations-received-for-tn-civic-polls/article64990832.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:55 IST,||Biden to send troops to Europe||U.S. President Joe Biden is maintaining pressure on Russian leader Vladimir Putin over Ukraine after announcing a small troop deployment to eastern Europe. The U.S. already has tens of thousands of troops stationed across mostly Western Europe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/biden-to-send-troops-to-europe/article38347637.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:31 IST,||99 nominations received for T.N. civic polls||During the first two days of the filing of nominations for ordinary elections to urban local bodies, 99 nominations were received, the State Election Commission said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/99-nominations-received-for-tn-civic-polls/article38347828.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||NEARBY-3||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has said he is taking back his objectionable comments on certain law and order issues hampering the development of Kadapa district, and has tendered an apology to the people for hurting their sentiments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearby-3/article38347390.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||NEARBY-2||About 15.2 lakh farmers in the State are deprived of the payment instalments under the Centrally-sponsored ‘PM Kisan Samman Nidhi’ that provides input subsidy to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearby-2/article38347389.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||NEARBY-1||Education Minister A. Suresh said that students, their parents, and all other stakeholders should understand that the ongoing exercise of mapping the government schools would only change the location of the schools for students. “It will not lead to closure of any school,” he reiterated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearby-1/article64990781.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:12 IST,||‘Will have region-specific strategies for polls’||The former Water Resources Minister M.B. Patil, who has been appointed as chairman of the Congress campaign committee, has said the party will have region-specific strategies for 2023 Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-have-region-specific-strategies-for-polls/article64990949.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:56 IST,||HC protects job of KSRTC driver convicted in case||Showing leniency to a 40-year-old driver of KSRTC, the High Court of Karnataka has not only limited his conviction in a minor road accident case to fine but also made it clear that the conviction will not affect his career with the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-protects-job-of-ksrtc-driver-convicted-in-case/article38347641.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:45 IST,||Elephant remains found in noon meal centre||The Forest Department has started an investigation, following the discovery of the skeletal remains of an elephant inside a noon meal centre. Officials believe the animal got trapped and died eventually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/elephant-remains-found-in-noon-meal-centre/article38347438.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:45 IST,||24,414 COVID-19 cases, 46 deaths in State||Fresh COVID-19 infections in the State continued to register a slide with fewer than 25,000 cases diagnosed on Saturday. A total of 24,414 persons tested positive, taking the tally to 33,03,702. Forty-six deaths were recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/24414-covid-19-cases-46-deaths-in-state/article64990831.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:18 IST,||Rajasthan education board chief sacked||The Rajasthan government on Saturday sacked the State Board of Secondary Education’s chairman D.P. Jaroli and suspended the Board Secretary over the leak of the question paper of the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers in September 2021. The exam was held to recruit teachers to government schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-education-board-chief-sacked/article38347787.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:18 IST,||House panel to take up plea to disqualify 2 MPs||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has referred petitions submitted by the Trinamool Congress and the YSR Congress Party under the anti-defection law against MPs Sisir Adhikari and K. Raghu Rama Krishna Raju, respectively, to the Privileges Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/house-panel-to-take-up-plea-to-disqualify-2-mps/article64991048.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:08 IST,||99 nominations received for T.N. civic polls||During the first two days of the filing of nominations for ordinary elections to urban local bodies, 99 nominations were received, the State Election Commission said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/99-nominations-received-for-tn-civic-polls/article38347744.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:45 IST,||AIADMK slams attack on Corporation official||Condemning an incident in which DMK MLA K.P. Shankar allegedly assaulted an official of the Greater Chennai Corporation, AIADMK leaders O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami urged the government to take strong action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-slams-attack-on-corporation-official/article38347439.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:27 IST,||Hotel industry seeks ease in curbs in Mumbai||As cases of COVID-19 continue to drop, the hotel industry in Mumbai wants pre-pandemic timings to be restored. Presently, the restrictions mandate hotels to close at 10 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hotel-industry-seeks-ease-in-curbs-in-mumbai/article38347947.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:21 IST,||Kateel releases IOC’s composite LPG cylinders||Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel released the new ‘Indane composite LPG cylinders’ of the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi markets, in Mangaluru on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kateel-releases-iocs-composite-lpg-cylinders/article64990998.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:39 IST,||Rajasthan education official sacked||The Rajasthan government on Saturday sacked the State Board of Secondary Education’s chairman D.P. Jaroli and suspended the Board Secretary over the leak of the question paper of the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers in September 2021. The exam was held to recruit teachers to government schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-education-official-sacked/article38347946.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:39 IST,||Plea to disqualify two MPs with House panel||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has referred petitions submitted by the Trinamool Congress and the YSR Congress Party under the anti-defection law against Sisir Adhikari and K. Raghu Rama Krishna Raju, respectively, to the Privileges Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plea-to-disqualify-two-mps-with-house-panel/article64990976.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:35 IST,||Theyyams in a bind||The sacred groves of north Malabar fell silent with no performance of Theyyams, ritualistic embodiment of deities, in the past two years thanks to the pandemic. Shorn of their divine accoutrements, towering Theyyam performers took to sundry labour. Not many were forthcoming to wipe the tears of the hapless men, who in their Theyyam roles had offered a divine shoulder for people to cry on!  The sacred groves and shrines began to be decked for a normal Theyyam season towards the end of last year when it looked as if COVID-19 was making a slow retreat. Messengers fanned out to locate the performers who have taken to menial jobs. The beats of the Chenda brought back people to the groves in December. The Theyyams danced in a frenzy, holding aloft their ritual swords, their outer edges lined with bells, and wearing their thick bell metal anklets. They embraced the aggrieved, offering them turmeric tilak on peepal leaf and chanting, “May there be good, may there be good, may everything be better!”  But by January, with regulations returning, grandiose Theyyam performances that drew massive crowds were called off. Theyyam does not lend itself to a restrictive environment with a sparse crowd. It doesn’t separate the devotee from the deity. In fact, the deity goes into the crowd, holds the hands of the grieving, listens to their pleas and places its calming hand on their heads. With a new wave of the pandemic raging, Theyyam is held in a restricted manner in some places. This season, too, will pass in another four months. The only hope that drives the performers is that the restrictions will soon be lifted and the deities will soon be back in their majestic best.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/theyyams-in-a-bind/article64991097.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:33 IST,||The peoples without a state||The often-violent Assam agitation from 1979 to 1985 had a domino effect on some of the other north-eastern States. The agitation, spearheaded by students, was aimed at expelling the “illegal immigrants” — by which they referred to “Bangladeshis” — who they claimed were outnumbering the indigenous communities.  The present-day hill States were fairly untouched by the riots in undivided Assam of the 1960s and early 1970s that targeted Bengalis through the politically-charged ‘Bongal kheda’ (chase out the Bengalis) campaign. In 1979, weeks after the Assam agitation started, the Bengalis of Shillong, Meghalaya, became the victims of the first major riot. Sporadic communal violence that continued till the 1990s did not spare the other non-tribal communities such as Biharis, Marwaris, Nepalis, Punjabis and Sindhis, viewed as “ dkhars” (outsiders). The situation was the worst in 1987, which was marked by curfews throughout the year.  The Assam agitation also impacted Arunachal Pradesh and the politics of xenophobia was primarily directed at four communities — Chakmas, Hajongs, Tibetans and Yobins — who had settled there before Arunachal Pradesh was upgraded from the North-East Frontier Agency (NEFA) in 1972. These four communities were largely settled in the present-day Changlang district when NEFA was under the Ministry of External Affairs up to 1965 and then under the Ministry of Home Affairs until 1972. The Yobins, formerly called Lisus, came from northern Myanmar. The migration of the Tibetans started in 1959 with the flight of the 14th Dalai Lama from Lhasa and peaked during the 1962 war with China. The main concentrations of the Tibetans today are in West Kameng and Tawang districts of Arunachal Pradesh. The Buddhist Chakmas and the Hindu Hajongs came from present-day Bangladesh. Communal violence in 1964 and the construction of the Kaptai dam on the Karnaphuli River displaced about 100,000 Chakmas from the Chittagong Hill Tracts (CHT) of Bangladesh. Around the same time, religious persecution made about 1,000 Hajongs cross over from Mymensingh district of Bangladesh. Some Chakmas were settled in areas of Mizoram and Tripura contiguous to the CHT. The flow of Chakmas to Arunachal Pradesh continued till 1969. Those who came later were mostly from Bihar’s Gaya, where former Union Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Mahavir Tyagi had tried to settle them in. Over time, the Chakma-Hajongs became more of a political issue than a humanitarian problem in the State with indigenous groups mobilising on a plank of pushing back refugees. Amid growing opposition to the continued settlement of Chakmas in the State, the Arunachal government had planned a special census from December 11 to 31, 2021, leading to criticism that Chakmas and Hajongs were being subjected to “racial profiling. The census was put on hold after the Chakma Development Foundation of India (CDFI) approached the Prime Minister’s Office. But it remains a sensitive political issue in the State. ‘Refugees go back’ Documents with the Committee for Citizenship Rights of the Chakmas and Hajongs of Arunachal Pradesh (CCRCHAP) show that New Delhi had granted migration certificates to about 36,000 Chakmas and Hajongs settled in the erstwhile NEFA. These certificates indicated legal entry into India and the willingness of the Centre to accept the migrants as future citizens. But indigenous groups led by the All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) said the papers were inconsequential since neither the local people nor their representatives were consulted before settling the refugees in their backyard. They also pointed out that the prolonged stay of the refugees violated the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation (BEFR) of 1873 that requires outsiders to visit the State with a temporary travel document called Inner the Line Permit, also applicable in Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland. The Chakma-Hajongs were at the core of the first bandh that Arunachal Pradesh experienced in April 1980. The AAPSU had imposed the shutdown to highlight a few demands, including resolution of the Assam-Arunachal boundary problem, detection and deportation of foreign nationals from the State and withdrawal of land allotment permit and trade licence from the non-Arunachalees. Inspired by the Assam agitation, the AAPSU organised a series of district-level bandhs in August 1982, primarily demanding the ouster of “outsiders”. In 1985, the government-backed students’ body adopted a resolution for asking the Centre to immediately remove the refugees settled permanently in the State and take steps against a possible influx of people displaced internally by the anti-foreigners agitation in adjoining Assam. The ‘refugees go back’ slogans returned after a lull in 1994 when the AAPSU organised a march to Delhi, demanding action against “illegal foreign nationals”, who, they claimed, were threatening to change the demography of the region. Pointing out that the Indian government violated the legal provisions prohibiting people from outside entering Arunachal Pradesh, the AAPSU organised a ‘people’s referendum rally’ in September 1995 against making the State a “dumping ground” for “foreigners”. December 31 that year was set as the deadline for the then Congress government to eject the refugees, compelling the Centre to form a high-level committee to look into the issue. According to Chakma organisations, the State government had by then systematically denied the refugees access to social, economic and political rights they were entitled to under Indian and international laws. The employment of Chakmas and Hajongs was banned in 1980 and all trade licences issued to then in the 1960s were seized in 1994. There were reports of blockades and attacks on the refugee camps and Vijoypur, a village in the Changlang district, was reportedly destroyed thrice between 1989 and 1995. In September 1994, the State government allegedly began a campaign to close down schools in the refugee areas and to relocate the Chakma-Hajongs. Deportation bid The AAPSU flagged the increasing population of the Chakma-Hajongs to justify the perceived threat to the identity and culture of the indigenous people. It said the population of the refugees had by the new millennium swollen to 65,000 from the 57 families originally settled in the State after a temporary stay in Assam’s Ledo in 1964. “Their population is more than 1 lakh today,” AAPSU’s general secretary Tobom Dai said. However, Santosh Chakma, general secretary of the CCRCHAP, said the figure was exaggerated. “A special census of the Chakma-Hajongs conducted in 2010-11 revealed the population was under 50,000. According to our estimate, it is about 60,000 now with 95% of them born in India to merit citizenship under Section 3 of the Citizenship Act,” he said. The State government’s aborted move to hold the special census followed Chief Minister Pema Khandu’s Independence Day speech in which he said “all illegal immigrant Chakmas will be moved and settled in some other places” as the Constitution does not allow them to live in a tribal State. Following the controversies, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the Ministry of Home Affairs and the State government to submit a report on the alleged racial profiling of the Chakmas and Hajongs. The Chakma Development Foundation says there is no provision in the Constitution as a tribal State that stops the Chakmas from staying in Arunachal Pradesh. It also said the government has not processed their citizenship applications despite the Supreme Court’s orders in 1996 and 2015 to do so. The solution, Chakma organisations said, lies in the State respecting the rule of law and the judgments of the Supreme Court and the politicians stopping using the Chakma-Hajong issue for political benefits.  In Focus   Chakma organisations say the government has not processed their citizenship applications despite the Supreme Court’s orders in 1996 and 2015 to do so||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-peoples-without-a-state/article64991104.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,||Akali Dal-BSP heading for victory, says Badal||As century-old Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) fights to wrest power from the Congress in Punjab, former Chief Minister and party’s patron Parkash Singh Badal, at the age of 94, is all set to take on his political opponents in the coming Assembly election.  In an exclusive interview with The Hindu , Mr. Badal, who is the party’s candidate from his traditional Lambi constituency, said the SAD-Bahujan Samaj Party alliance was heading towards a most decisive mandate in its favour. The SAD was not just the best option but the only one. “Our past performance gives us the confidence to challenge our opponents to point out a single issue we promised but didn’t deliver,” he said.  The ruling Congress has reduced governance to a circus joke, and new Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has wasted a great opportunity by resorting to tantrums, he alleged. Hits out at Kejriwal Hitting out at Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party supremo Arvind Kejriwal, he accused him [Mr. Kejriwal] of refusing to release Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar, who has already completed his punishment term, just to polarise the voters in Punjab along communal lines. “He [Mr. Kejriwal] is trying to negate the teachings of the great Guru Sahiban, saints and seers on the soil that belongs to them — Punjab — and where their spirit of human brotherhood, secular ideals, peace and communal harmony permeates the air. He won’t succeed in his bid to communally polarise Punjab. In Punjab, we love one another, regardless of our religious affiliations, too much for any evil force to succeed in setting us apart,” he said. On the FIR registered against SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a drugs case, he said repression had always boosted the Akali Dal’s morale. “The more they try to repress the Akali spirit, the more powerfully it will rebound against our oppressors.” (To read interview, visit https://bit.ly/Parkash)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akali-dal-bsp-heading-for-victory-says-badal/article64990756.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||House panel to take up plea to disqualify 2 MPs||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has referred petitions submitted by the Trinamool Congress and the YSR Congress Party under the anti-defection law against Sisir Adhikari and K. Raghu Rama Krishna Raju, respectively, to the Privileges Committee. Mr. Birla’s move comes 18 months after the YSRCP and nearly seven months after the Trinamool had originally moved the petitions. The YSRCP had written to Mr. Birla seeking to disqualify Mr. Raju, Lok Sabha member for Narasapuram, in July 2020, for publicly criticising the Andhra Pradesh government led by CM Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mr. Raju, it was believed, was headed to the BJP. However, he has not formally joined any other political outfit. The YSRCP has been pursuing the disqualification petition assiduously with the Speaker and has been upset with the delay. Mr. Adhikari, Lok Sabha member for Kanthi in West Bengal, quit the Trinamool to join the BJP last March in the run-up to the Assembly election. His son, Suvendu Adhikari, defeated Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram in May last. Ms. Banerjee was later elected to the Assembly from Bhabanipur in a byelection. Privileges committee Soon after the election, the Trinamool Congress’s Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay had written to Mr. Birla seeking to disqualify Mr. Adhikari under the anti-defection law. Both the petitions are now with the Privileges committee headed by BJP MP from Jharkhand, Sunil Kumar Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-to-disqualify-two-mps-with-house-panel/article64990764.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,||Active caseload hovers around 20 lakh||The country recorded 2,30,920 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The total number of infections has reached 4.08 crore, and the active cases are around the 20 lakh mark. The figures are based on the State bulletins released until 10 p.m. on Saturday. However, Ladakh, Tripura, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Lakshadweep had not yet released data for the day. Kerala recorded 50,812 infections on Saturday, followed by Karnataka (33,337) and Maharashtra (27,971). On Saturday, 872 deaths were recorded in India, considerably higher than the average levels recorded in the last week. The total number of recorded fatalities since the onset of the pandemic has reached 4,93,243. Kerala reported the most deaths with 405 fatalities (311 were from a backlog), followed by Karnataka (70) and Maharashtra recorded 61 deaths. On Friday, 17.5 lakh tests were conducted (the results for which were made available on Saturday). The test positivity rate (the number of cases detected per 100 tests) was 13.1%. As of Saturday, 92.3% of the eligible population has been vaccinated with at least one dose, while 69.2% have received both doses. In the 15-17 age cohort, 61.5% of the population have received their first dose. Altogether, 94,03,09,541 first doses, 70,45,25,104 second doses, and 1,11,29,477 booster doses have been administered across India. Andhra Pradesh reported three deaths and 11,573 fresh COVID-19 cases in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. One death each has been reported from Chittoor, Guntur and Visakhapatnam districts. As many as 9,445 people infected by the virus have fully recovered in the last 24 hours and the State so far, has tested a total of 3,24,06,132 samples. The cumulative toll and tally of the pandemic in the State has increased to 14,594 and 22,57,286 respectively and the number of active cases touched 1,15,425. During the past day, the YSR Kadapa district recorded the highest number of 1,942 positive cases, followed by Kurnool (1,522), Guntur (1,298), Visakhapatnam (1,024), Krishna (969), East Godavari (951), Anantapur (926), Nellore (706), Prakasam (655), West Godavari (580), Chittoor (479) and Srikakulam (274).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/active-caseload-hovers-around-20-lakh/article64990751.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||Use externment orders with caution: SC||The Supreme Court has held that a person cannot be barred by authorities from entering a place on mere suspicion. The court said authorities can pass an order of externment against a person only under extraordinary circumstances. ‘Very sparingly’ The discretion should be used “very sparingly” as it deprived a person of his or her right of free movement in the country. An externed person may not even be able to stay with his family or home. “There cannot be any manner of doubt that an order of externment is an extraordinary measure. The effect of the order of externment is of depriving a citizen of his fundamental right of free movement throughout the territory of India,” a Bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S. Oka observed in a recent judgment. There is even a possibility that an order of externment would deprive a person of his livelihood. SDM order “Such an order also prevents the person even from staying in his own house along with his family members during the period for which this order is in subsistence. In a given case, such order may deprive the person of his livelihood,” Justice Rastogi observed. The court was hearing a challenge against a Sub Divisional Magistrate’s (SDM) order of a two-year externment against the appellant, Deepak, under the Maharashtra Police Act. Two years is the maximum period of externment under the Act. The Bombay HC had refused to intervene, following which Deepak had moved the apex court. Reminding the authorities on the conditions before ordering externment, the court said there should be “objective material on record on the basis of which the competent authority must record its subjective satisfaction that the movements or acts of any person are causing or calculated to cause alarm, danger or harm to persons or property”. Fundamental right Noting that clause (d) of Article 19(1) of the Constitution provides citizens a fundamental right to move freely throughout the territory of India, the court said an externment order “must stand the test of reasonableness”. “These reasons which necessitate or justify the passing of an extraordinary order of externment arise out of extraordinary circumstances,” the court noted, quashing aside the SDM’s order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/use-externment-orders-with-caution-sc/article64990771.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||‘No anti-incumbency against the Congress’||Ahead of the Assembly election, Punjab Chief MinisterCharanjit Singh Channi , in an exclusive interview, shares his thoughts on the party’s decision to announce a chief ministerial candidate, his work and the Opposition’s charges against him. Excerpts: Why has the Congress decided to announce a chief ministerial face for the Punjab election, which Mr. Rahul Gandhi claimed was not usual? It is because the people of Punjab are demanding the Chief Ministerial face this time in the run-up to the Assembly election, and our party leadership accepted the demand of Punjabis. The Congress had promised the eradication of the drug menace, justice in the 2015 sacrilege, employment and complete farm loan waiver, among others. These promises remain unfulfilled. Why should the people vote for the Congress again? After becoming the Chief Minister, I constituted a new Special Investigation Team to probe sacrilege cases and launched ‘Mission Clean’ to curb the sand, drug and liquor mafia, and action was taken against powerful people, including senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who was sheltered by Capt. Amarinder Singh when he was Chief Minister for four-and-a-half years in Punjab. My government waived off debt up to Rs. 2 lakh for farmers who have land up to five acres. A new law will be introduced to provide reservation for local youth in government and private jobs. Do you think anti- incumbency against the Congress will damage the party’s electoral prospects? There is no anti-incumbency against the Congress in Punjab. People have liked my four months of work. I am approachable to people and have doled out funds for their welfare, which were earlier missing as former Chief Ministers were focused on filling their own coffers. I am confident that Congress will register a landslide victory. The Congress’s former State president Sunil Jakhar had demanded that the party should disown the statement that only “a Sikh must be Chief Minister of Punjab” as it has damaged the party. How do you react? It is his personal opinion and everyone has the right to express themselves freely. There is no harm in it. Announcing the Chief Ministerial face, whether it is a Hindu or Sikh face, is the prerogative of the high command. I, as a staunch worker of the Congress, will abide by the decision. The Opposition parties have been accusing you of patronising the sand mining mafia. What do you have to say? The Opposition doesn’t have anything to raise against me as I have done work in just four months which they couldn’t do in decades. They are frustrated and making scurrilous claims to malign my image. I dare them to present even a single piece of proof to show my involvement in sand mining across Punjab.  People have liked my four months of work. I am approachable to people and have doled out funds for their welfare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-anti-incumbency-against-the-congress/article64990760.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:33 IST,||A voice of minority rights||In a rare move, amid a suspension of most bilateral ties between India and Pakistan, the Ministry of External Affairs announced on Friday that it was “positive” and “willing to engage” with the Pakistani authorities to discuss a proposal from the Pakistan Hindu Council that requested pilgrims from both sides be allowed to fly to religious destinations rather than the circuitous border route by foot that they presently have to take. Talks between the two sides, which sources said could begin as early as this week, have put the spotlight on the organisation in Pakistan that is gaining traction for its work on what some would call twin “lost causes”: the rights of religious minorities in an increasingly Islamic Pakistan, and bettering ties between India and Pakistan that have reached their lowest ebb in 75 years. For nearly two decades, Pakistani doctor and legislator Ramesh Kumar Vankwani and his organisation, the Pakistan Hindu Council (PHC), have taken up the problem of the nation’s most vulnerable religious minorities. As a teenager in the 1980s, Mr. Vankwani had watched the situation deteriorate with the promulgation of blasphemy laws during military dictator General Zia Ul Haq’s tenure. One of the four sons of a Hindu doctor in Sindh province, all of whom qualified as doctors, Mr. Vankwani studied at the Jinnah Sindh Medical College before deciding in 2000 to join politics. He stood and won one of the nine seats in the Sindh Provincial Assembly, which are reserved for non-Muslims by the by the Constitution, and voted on through a “separate electorate” system. An earlier attempt to stand for a regular seat from Sindh’s Thaparkar constituency, where a large number of Hindus live, failed. Political career Mr. Vankwani had been vocal about minority rights throughout his political career, but it was in 2005, after he fought the case for three young girls abducted and forcibly converted, that he decided to set up the PHC to build more awareness for the problems faced by non-Muslims, including blasphemy charges, land grab, and killings. Their numbers have dwindled since Partition. If in 1947 minorities made up more than 20% of the population, it reduced to less than 5% by 2017, when the census found Hindus form 2.14% and Christians form 1.27% of the population. Some of the other campaigns Mr. Vankwani has been at the forefront of are the movement to restore temples that have been bulldozed or seized across the country, and he was instrumental presenting the Supreme Court case that ordered the reconstruction of the ‘Swami Paramhans Mandir’ in Khyber Puktunkhwa, which had been demolished and occupied by a local cleric in 1997. This month, Mr. Vankwani also convinced the Imran Khan government to allow chartered flights to take visiting Hindu pilgrims to the remote area in KPK to visit the restored temple. Mr. Vankwani’s latest mission is to promote “faith tourism” with India. Since 2016, there have been no high level meetings between Indian and Pakistan leaders, and since 2019, trade and travel routes have been snapped. The Delhi-Lahore bus, and the Samjhauta express train, and all air links that catered to thousands of Indians and Pakistanis wishing to cross over are suspended. If the PHC’s proposal to send Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) charters with pilgrims, each of whom will be charged about $1,500 for a four-day tour, including shrines in Ajmer, Delhi, Agra and Haridwar, is accepted, it will be one of many firsts. The flights would mark the first time a Pakistani airline has landed in Delhi in three years, and the first time ever it would have landed carrying worshippers who are allowed under the 1974 joint protocol on religious pilgrimages. If the PHC’s second proposal, to bring Indian airliners on reciprocal flights to Pakistan, is cleared, it would be the first such flight since 2008. When asked if his promotion of minority rights and of good ties with India during times of high tension means he is targeted in Pakistan, Mr. Vankwani shrugs and says that agenda is “not hidden” and he cannot be criticised for being honest about what he is pushing for.  “I feel if I help religious people, be they of any religion, to visit these shrines, I will also gain blessings in the process. I want to be a bridge between India and Pakistan,” Mr. Vankwani told The Hindu of his almost Sisyphean struggles thus far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-voice-of-minority-rights/article64991106.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:33 IST,||The colonel who seized power||In December 2021, Burkina Faso’s then President Roch Christian Kabore appointed the little-known Lieutenant Colonel Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba as the commander of the country’s third military region, responsible for security in the capital Ouagadougou. Mr. Kabore was under pressure from both the civilians and the military to strengthen security in the wake of repeated attacks by Islamist militants. In November, some 49 military officers and four civilians were killed in a jihadist attack in the northern town Inata, which had triggered protests. Mr. Kabore betted on Lt. Col. Damiba to bolster counter-terror measures as well as shore up support for his government among the soldiers. Seven weeks later, Lt. Col. Damiba, wearing military fatigues and a red beret, appeared on the national TV with a caption next to him, who announced that the military had deposed Mr. Kabore as President and suspended the Constitution. Lt. Col. Damiba, who celebrated his 41st birthday just three weeks earlier, is the new ruler of the West African country. Mr. Kabore is now a prisoner of the junta. Mr. Kabore was first elected President in 2015 at a time when Burkina Faso was undergoing a painful transition to elected democracy from the dictatorship of Blaise Compaoré, whose regime fell in 2014. In 2015, the military had carried out a coup, but it was so unpopular that the Generals returned power to the transitional government after a few days. This led to the election of Mr. Kabore. But Mr. Kabore’s political rise was also marked by growing of Islamist violence across the Sahel. Burkina Faso was the hardest hit. In the past six years, some 2,000 people were killed and about 1.5 million were displaced by Islamist insurgency. Mr. Kabore was re-elected in 2020, but the government’s growing inability to check violence and increasing number of corruption allegations have turned him unpopular. Lt. Col. Damiba seized on this public resentment against the government to topple it through a mutiny last week. And unlike in 2015, the coup was greeted by demonstrators in the streets of Ouagadougou. Lt. Col. Damiba’s military career is similar to that of the other elites in the Burkinabe military. He studied at a military academy in France, the former colonial ruler of Burkina Faso, and was a member of the infamous Regiment of Presidential Security (RPS), the presidential guard of the former dictator Mr. Compaore. Training in U.S.  Between 2010 and 2020, Lt. Col. Damiba got military training in several programmes in the U.S. He was posted to the northeastern town of Dori as Commander of the 11th Infantry Commando Regiment (RIC) and to the northern town of Ouahigouya as Commander of the 12th RIC before he was promoted by Mr. Kabore. Last year, he published a book on the growing jihadist violence in the Sahel titled, West African Armies and Terrorism: Uncertain Responses .  In his first public address after the coup, the writer-colonel said his key priority would be to defeat the jihadists. But it would not be easy given that jihadists, belonging to al-Qaeda and the Islamic State, have established widespread networks across the Sahel, particularly in West Africa. The junta will also have to deal with the geopolitical dynamics of the region. France has a military presence in West Africa, but despite French counter-terrorism measures, Islamist violence has only increased in recent years. This prompted several countries in the region to turn to Russia for help. The Wagner Group, a Russian private military company, has already deployed paramilitaries in Mali, Libya and the Central African Republic to fight the Islamists.  One of the last decisions of President Kabore was to refuse a request from the Burkinabe military to take help from Russia. Lt. Col. Damiba met Mr. Kabore earlier this month asking him to engage the Wagner Group to strengthen its counter-terror measures. But Mr. Kabore shot down the request because “he didn't want to run into any problems with the West for aligning with Russia”, an official close to the former President was quoted as saying by the Daily Beast .  In his address to the nation, Lt. Col. Damiba said Burkina Faso needed “international partners more than ever” to “exit this crisis as soon as possible”. But he didn’t specify who he is referring to — the West, African nations or Russia?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-colonel-who-seized-power/article64991105.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,||Parasitic plant found in Nicobar eco hotspot||A new genus of a parasitic flowering plant has recently been discovered from the Nicobar group of islands. The genus Septemeranthus grows on the plant species Horsfieldia glabra (Blume) Warb. The parasitic flowering plants have a modified root structure spread on the stem of the tree and are anchored inside the bark of the host tree.  The plant was found on the periphery of the tropical forest in one of the biodiversity hotspots referred to as the Nicobar group of islands separated from the Andaman group of Islands by a wide gap of 160 km with heavy tidal flows. Heart-shaped leaves  The genus Septemeranthus has a distinct vegetative morphology, inflorescence architecture and floral characters.The leaves of the plant are heart-shaped with a very long tip and the ovary,fruit and seeds are ‘urceolate’ (earthen pot-shaped). The flowers have five persistent bracts having conspicuous margins. The name Septemeranthus is derived from the Latin word ‘septem’ meaning ‘seven’, referring to the arrangement of flowers.The details of the discovery were published in the Journal of Botanical Taxonomy and Geobotany Feddes Repertorium .The genus belongs to the family Loranthaceae, a hemi-parasite under the sandalwood order Santalales and is of widespread importance. Plants which are hemi-parasites are partially dependent on their host plants for nutrition.For instance, the newly discovered plant that derives nutrients from its hosts has green leaves capable of photosynthesis.  Feeds birds Loranthaceae is currently represented by nine genera and are found all across the country.What makes the new genus unique is that it is endemic only to the Nicobar group of islands. Lal Ji Singh, Joint Director, Botanical Survey of India, who has discovered the genus, said, “ During field studies, I found the birds consume viscous seeds of this new genus and seeds have potential of pseudo viviparous germination that deposit on the leaves and branches of their same plant which is already attached to host plants. After germination, the life cycle of the genus starts all over again.”  Hemi-parasites include are commonly referred to as mistletoes that contain 18 families, 160 genera and over 2,200 species.They need a host tree or shrub in order to thrive and exhibit a worldwide distribution in tropical as well as temperate habitats that evolved approximately five times in the order and are important in forest ecology, pathology and medicine. They play an important role as they provide food for frugivorous birds.In addition to Septemeranthus,four other genera on non-parasitic plants, Nicobariodendron (Hippocrateaceae), Pseudodiplospora (Rubiaceae), Pubistylis (Rubiaceae), Sphyranthera , (Euphorbiaceae) have also been discovered earlier from Nicobar group of islands, highlighting the ecological significance of the region. Recently a new species in the hemiparasitic family Loranthaceae, Dendrophthoe laljii have also been discovered from the Nicobar group of islands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parasitic-plant-found-in-nicobar-eco-hotspot/article64990752.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,||Kashmir traders demand stimulus package||Facing prolonged spells of lockdowns since 2019, traders in Kashmir have had to sell manufacturing units and switch to businesses of daily consumables to earn even a meagre income. There are growing calls among traders’ groups for a review of the 64-hour weekend lockdown practice. They are seeking a stimulus package to survive. “The fresh lockdown has adversely impacted the livelihood of daily wagers and the business community. Financial instability has marred the community. We urge Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to announce a financial sustenance package,” Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industries president Sheikh Ashiq said. Niyaz Ahmad, a resident of the old city’s Rajouri Kadal, has shut his high-end kitchenware shop and sells eatables in a mobile van in the interiors of Srinagar city. “People seem to have stopped spending on luxury items. I sell eatables and plastic items in the interiors of the city where police crackdown on shopkeepers is less,” Mr. Ahmad said. Many manufacturing units have also laid off employees and put their units on sale. “Purchasing capacity has gone down since 2019. It’s time to sell off the factories that are not able to fetch enough money,” Iftikhar Ahmad, a joinery factory owner, said. Kashmir saw its first prolonged lockdown after the Centre ended J&K’s special constitutional position on August 5, 2019. According to the Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industries, the losses for the period were more than Rs. 17,000 crores. It was followed by two prolonged spells of lockdown due to COVID-19. 64-hour shutdown The J&K authorities have imposed a 64-hour lockdown from Friday afternoon till Monday morning in the wake of the third wave. However, traders’ bodies are opposing the move and seeking a stimulus from the government to survive. “The lockdown has alarmed travellers. Around 50% of tourist influx has come down,” Kashmir Economic Forum president Showkat Chowdhary said. “Hospitalisation rates, not case count, should determine curbs and restrictions,” said Doctors Association of Kashmir president and influenza expert Nisar ul Hassan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kashmir-traders-demand-stimulus-package/article64990753.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||Bihar asks teachers to trace tipplers||Government school teachers and principals in Bihar will now have to keep an eye on people consuming liquor and involved in its illegal trade. Prohibition has been in force in the State since April 2016. A directive in this regard has been issued to officials, teachers and principals by the Education Department. A stringent Bihar Prohibition and Excise (Amendment) Act, 2016 was enforced in Bihar on April 5, 2016 declaring it a dry State. “There is information that some people are still consuming liquor on the sly and their families have to face its ill-effects. So, it is directed that district education officials, principals, teachers and volunteers identify the consumers and suppliers of liquor and inform about them to the Prohibition and Excise Department’s toll-free number,” said a directive issued on January 28 by the Additional Chief Secretary (Education) Sanjay Kumar. The directive is addressed to all regional deputy directors, district education officers and district programme officers, asking them to call a meeting of principals, teachers and volunteers (members of shiksha samitis and sevaks) of government-run primary, middle and secondary schools to identify such tipplers and traders of liquor. “The credentials of the informers will be kept confidential,” said the directive. The directive has also asked department officials to “ensure the premises of schools are not used for booze”. The district education officials have also been asked to “convene a meeting of volunteers in schools to make them aware about necessary information on de-addiction.” Earlier, reports of empty liquor bottles being recovered from school premises had been coming in from different places. Teachers upset “For the government, school teachers and principals are the most vulnerable section of system to be engaged in any activity, besides imparting education to students — be it holding elections, mid-day meals, campaigns to make any government programme successful or whatever,” said a government primary school teacher of Naubatpur in Patna district. “It’s simply a ridiculous directive. What can be more humiliating for a teacher than identifying tipplers and those involved in illegal liquor trade?” he added, preferring anonymity. “You know very well that if I disclose my identity, departmental action will be ordered against me within hours,” he quipped. Asked if they would protest such a “ridiculous” move by the government, he said, “That depends on officials of our association. But we must oppose it.” Cornered by all-round criticism over “failure” to implement the liquor law under the Prohibition Act, the State government has also been mulling over relaxing some of its stringent provisions during the upcoming Budget session of the State Legislature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-asks-teachers-to-trace-tipplers/article64990768.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,||India, Oman to hold 10th military cooperation meeting||After a gap of three years, India and Oman are set to hold a meeting of the Joint Military Cooperation Committee (JMMC) during the visit of Mohammed Nasser Al Zaabi, Secretary General, Ministry of Defence of Oman, here from Sunday to Tuesday. This will initiate a series of high-level defence engagements between the two countries next month, officials said. Mr. Zaabi would be co-chairing the JMCC with Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar, an official source said. The JMCC is the highest forum of engagement between India and Oman in the field of defence that evaluates and provides guidance to the overall framework of defence exchanges between the two sides. The JMCC was to hold discussions annually, but a meeting could not be organised since 2018, when the meeting of the 9th JMCC was held in Oman, it has been learnt. Given the three-year gap, the 10th edition is expected to “comprehensively evaluate” the ongoing exchanges and “provide a road map for further strengthening the defence ties in the coming years”. Mr. Zaabi is expected to call on Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, and in line with India’s emphasis on boosting exports, will get insights into the Indian defence manufacturing capabilities to explore possible opportunities for procurement and joint production. More talks to follow His visit will be followed by a series of high-profile engagements in February that includes visits by Navy and Air Force chiefs of Oman encompassing staff talks between the Indian Navy and the visiting Navy chief as well as a bilateral Air Force exercise in Jodhpur. The annual bilateral Air Force exercise this year will see the participation of over 150 personnel from Oman. Visits of the naval and Air Force chiefs of Oman are taking place after five years and would enable a high-level re-engagement between the forces of two sides, officials noted. While India’s defence engagement with the Gulf region has significantly expanded in the last few years, Oman remains India’s closest defence partner in the region. It is the only country in the region with which all the three services of India conduct regular bilateral exercises and staff talks. Defence exchanges between the two countries are guided by a framework MoU (Memorandum of Understanding), which was renewed in 2021. As part of its anti-piracy patrols in the Gulf of Aden, the Indian Navy has deployed its P-8I long-range maritime surveillance aircraft for anti-piracy patrol sorties from Salalah in Oman on few occasions, extending the reach and operational turnaround. Oman also actively participates in the Indian Ocean Naval Symposium (IONS).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-oman-to-hold-10th-military-cooperation-meeting/article64990749.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,||Cases down but still need to be vigilant: Health Minister||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Saturday said that though active COVID-19 cases and positivity rate had fallen in most of the States in the last two weeks, “we still need to be vigilant and not lower our guard.’’ Speaking at a virtual meeting with health ministers and senior officials of Odisha, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and West Bengal on Saturday he urged them to monitorthe casepositivity rate onadaily basis and increase the RT-PCRtesting rates,as most of the States exhibited lower share of the test compared to rapid antigen tests. The States were advised to keep a close watch on the number of hospitalisation and deaths.“It is important to analyse at the State-level the proportion of vaccinated and unvaccinated of the hospitalised cases, the deaths and those on ventilators and oxygen support,” Mr. Mandaviya advised. He also urged all the States to fullyand effectivelyutilise the Emergency COVID Response Plans-II fundsfor strengthening the existing healthcare infrastructure and create new ones as perrequirement. “As the located funds under ECRP-II shall lapse on March 31, 2022,Stateswere requested to review the progress on a regular basis, as thishealthcare infrastructure will not only be utilised during the present pandemic, but will serve the people in the future too,’’ stated a press note issued by the Health Ministry after the meeting. Oxygen plants The Minister asked the States to complete the installation and commissioning of oxygen plants and storage tanks expeditiously. Highlighting vaccinationasa critical tool of pandemic management, he urged States toaccelerate vaccination of all eligible population, especially of the 15-17 age group and those whose second dose is due.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cases-down-but-still-need-to-be-vigilant-health-minister/article64990748.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,||WHO official says focus must be on reducing transmission||Though some cities or States in India may be beginning to see plateauing of COVID-19 cases, the risk persists and focus must be on reducing transmission and implementing situation-specific measures, senior WHO official Poonam Khetrapal Singh said on Saturday. Responding to a query on whether coronavirus cases have started plateauing in India, Dr. Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region, said the risk of COVID-19 remains high and no country, irrespective of their current transmission scenario, is “out of the woods” yet. “Our focus must be on reducing transmission. Implementing situation-specific public health and social measures and increasing vaccine coverage — that’s the way forward for all countries in the ongoing pandemic,” Dr. Singh said. Asked if the pandemic is entering the endemic, Dr. Singh said, “We are still in the midst of the pandemic and the focus should be to curtail the virus spread and save lives.” “By becoming endemic doesn’t mean that the virus will not be a cause of concern,” she said. “There appears to be a lower risk of severe disease and death following Omicron infection as compared to other variants. However, due to the very high numbers of cases, many countries have seen a significant increase in the incidence of hospitalisation, putting pressure on healthcare systems,” she said. She stressed on the need to rapidly accelerate efforts to vaccinate at-risk populations in all countries. “There is growing evidence on vaccine effectiveness for Omicron, but we still have a lot to learn. So far, we think that vaccines are less effective against Omicron infection and symptomatic disease compared to Delta. Having a booster shot seems to increase protection,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-official-says-focus-must-be-on-reducing-transmission/article38347289.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||Politicians line up at Deras ahead of Punjab election||As the election to the 2022 Punjab Assembly draws closer, politicians cutting across party lines are making a beeline for the different Deras in the State, yet again bringing their importance to centre stage. In the recent days, several leaders of all key political parties have been visiting the Deras to seek ‘blessings’ and garner support and vote of the followers. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi visited Dera Sachkhand at Ballan village in Jalandhar. Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Bharatiya Janata Party’s Punjab in-charge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat also paid a visit. Major Deras In Punjab, there are six major ‘Deras’ — Radha Soami, Namdhari, Dera Sacha Sauda, Nurmahal, Nirankari and Dera Sachkhand Balan. They draw their discourses from multiple traditions such as Islam, Sufism, Kabir Panth, Christianity and Sikhism, and couch them in regional dialects, myths and symbols. “Together, these Deras have influence in at least 56 of the 117 Assembly constituencies — Radha Soami in 19, Dera Sacha Sauda in 27, Dera Nurmahal in eight, Dera Nirankari in four, Dera Ballan in eight, and Dera Namdhari in two. Not all the Deras actively engage in politics. However, the Dera Sacha Sauda came into prominence in the 2007 Assembly election when it openly supported the Congress. As a consequence, the Akalis suffered losses in at least 21 constituencies. In the subsequent elections in 2012, they supported the Akali Dal, when the SAD-BJP alliance won. All the political parties try to out-compete each other to woo Deras,” said Pramod Kumar, director of the Institute for Development and Communication. Deras are, broadly speaking, ‘counter public’ of the dominant socio-spiritual spaces, particularly for the marginalised sections of society and have been integral to Punjab’s social set-up. Since their inception, they have played a role in the religious and cultural domain of the Punjabi society and their reach into its political realm continues to baffle political pundits, given their thick spread over all three geographical regions of Majha, Malwa and Doaba. New algorithm Pointing out that these Deras refute caste and creed differentiations and present a new algorithm in the complex grammar of the State’s electoral politics, Ronki Ram, Shaheed Bhaghat Singh Chair Professor of Political Science at Panjab University, said, “Despite their internal distinctive identities, Deras represent the syncretic culture of Punjab. There is hardly a village or town where there is no Dera of one or the other nomenclature,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/politicians-line-up-at-deras-ahead-of-punjab-election/article38347271.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||Tikait makes veiled appeal against BJP||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said if he had to tell farmers whom to vote for, it would be a failure of the 13 months of training they had received on the Delhi border. Speaking to a television channel, Mr. Tikait said he did not believe in passing his followers with “grace” marks. “They know where they have to cast their ballot,” he added. When reminded that the three contentious farm laws had been passed by the Centre and the State government had no role, Mr. Tikait said if farmers wanted to sell their produce at half the minimum support price (MSP), they were free to vote for the ruling dispensation. This is the third time in a week that Mr. Tikait, who proclaims that his organisation is apolitical, has made a clear appeal to vote against the ruling dispensation and made a veiled appeal to garner support for the Samajwadi Party- Rashtriya Lok Dal alliance. Earlier this week, Mr. Tikait said Hindu-Muslim and Jinnah rhetoric were “State guests” till the elections were over. “People should be wary of statements made from government platforms. I don’t know who will win the elections but I can certainly say people will not vote for the ruling party,” he said. On Thursday, in Bijnor, Mr. Tikait said the BJP government ignored the interests of farmers. “The government that failed the trust of farmers had to face their ire. I am not telling you whom to vote but I can say only those farmers would vote for BJP who want to sell their crop for half the MSP,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tikait-makes-veiled-appeal-against-bjp/article38347269.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||J&K govt. to delineate smaller waterbodies, canals||In a first, the Jammu and Kashmir government on Saturday decided to delineate and demarcate smaller water streams and canals termed as “gair mumkin khads, daryas, nallahs” etc. recorded in revenue records, which do not form a part of water channels but have been recorded in revenue records. The decision was taken during a meeting of the Administrative Council chaired by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha held in Jammu. The Council approved 3-tier committees mandated to conduct khasra-wise surveys of all lands recorded as such. ‘Delineate lands’ Officials have been tasked with preparing maps and delineate lands that do not form part of any water course, source or annual drainage system as per spot verification, to establish baseline for conducting the delineation exercise as per the status of the land in records of 2010. They were also directed to take remedial action for the illegal encroachments, constructions actually obstructing the natural flow of water in the channel. The decision will give a major relief to the people who are put to hardship because of erroneous and misleading entries of such water bodies in their revenue records. Land transcations “This will put an end to litigations pending in various courts, besides allowing owners of such lands to transact and carry out various economic, non-economic activities allowed as per land use under the Master Plans of development of local areas,” the government spokesperson said. Officials have been directed to use a global positioning system for generation of digital maps, conducting actual spot verification to establish the desirable width of water course and channels especially in the proprietary lands and removal of illegal encroachments on identified water courses through remedial action. “The exercise will be conducted in a phased manner in districts of Jammu, Samba and Kathua in three months and remaining districts in one year,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-govt-to-delineate-smaller-waterbodies-canals/article64990770.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,||Small parties eye wins outside Purvanchal||So far, the Apna Dal(Sonelal), headed by Union Minister Anupriya Patel, an ally of the BJP, has declared candidates for three seats, all of them outside Purvanchal, where it has popular support in the Mirzapur-Prayagraj-Varanasi belts. In 2017, it won nine seats, all of them in the eastern parts, including Mirzapur, Varanasi, Sonbhadra, Pratapgarh and Jaunpur. This time, the Apna Dal(S) has fielded Haider Ali Khan, a member of the erstwhile Rampur royalty from the Suar seat in Rohilkhand in northwest U.P. against Abdullah Azam, son of senior Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, who is lodged in jail and is the candidate from Rampur Sadar. The Apna Dal, which claims influence among the Kurmi OBC community which is traditionally associated with farming, has also declared candidates for Ghatampur in Kanpur and Kaimganj in Farukkhabad in central U.P. In Sandila seat in Hardoi, which has a substantial population of non-Yadav OBCs and Dalits, the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party has fielded its State president, Sunil Arkvanshi. It has also named candidates in Misrikh in Sitapur and Balha in Bahraich, both reserved seats. In 2017, the SBSP won four seats out of the eight it contested, all of them in east U.P. Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar won from Zahoorabad in Ghazipur but his son Arvind Rajbhar lost in Bansdih in Ballia. This time, sources said, the senior Rajbhar, who was a Cabinet Minister in the BJP government till he was expelled for rebellion in 2019, is expected to contest from Shivpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/small-parties-eye-wins-outside-purvanchal/article38347277.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,||‘BJP indulging in negative politics’||Responding to the charges of appeasement by the BJP leaders, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of indulging in negative politics. At a joint press conference with Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Chaudhary Jayant Singh, Mr. Yadav said they were here to counter the negative politics of the BJP and save the syncretic tradition of the region. He said, “From this Ghazipur border [Ghaziabad] to that Ghazipur border [a district in East UP], we will wipe off the BJP.” The public support, he said, they were getting had rattled the BJP and like a wrestler on the verge of defeat, it was flouting the rules of the game. “A flustered BJP is going door to door flouting the COVID guidelines, while we are putting our point across through the media,” he said. Party sources said it was being done because they apprehended that a large section of the media that under the thrall of the BJP would have ignored them had they taken the door-to-door route. It is reflected in Mr. Yadav’s newfound ease with the media where he is taking even provocative questions with a smile. He asked if the farm laws were in favour of farmers, why did the government take them back. “The BJP has humiliated the farmers,” he said. He questioned the government on the claim of providing ration to 80 crore people in the country. “It means that many people are poor. Where is the development then,” he asked. Mr. Yadav said a Samajwadi canteen scheme where one would get a thali for Rs. 10 would be initiated. Mr. Singh said he was wary of the misuse of the postal ballot during the polls. He also appealed to the Election Commission to ensure that the postal ballots were counted first, as per rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-indulging-in-negative-politics/article38347621.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:39 IST,||Apna Dal(K) finalises 7 seats in SP alliance||The Apna Dal(Kameravadi), headed by Krishna Patel, mother of Union Minister Anupriya Patel, on Saturday said it had finalised seven seats in the coming Uttar Pradesh polls. The party, which claims a support base among the Kurmi OBCs, said it would contest over a dozen seats as part of an alliance with the Samajwadi Party. A spokesperson of the party said it had finalised its candidates for Rohaniya and Pindra in Varanasi, Mariyahu in Jaunpur, Marihan in Mirzapur, Ghorawal in Sonbhadra, Pratapgarh Sadar and Allahabad West seats. Ms. Anupriya Patel heads the Apna Dal(Sonelal) named after Ms. Krishna’s husband, Sonelal Patel. Both parties stake claim to his legacy as well as the Kurmi vote. The Apna Dal(Sonelal), a BJP ally in the State, has nine MLAs. The one headed by Ms. Krishna Patel has none.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/apna-dalk-finalises-7-seats-in-sp-alliance/article38347276.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||Policeman shot dead by militants in J&K||A policeman was shot dead by militants in south Kashmir and three members of The Resistance Front (TRF) were arrested in central Kashmir on Saturday. A police spokesperson said Head Constable Ali Mohammad Ganie was shot at by the terrorists near his residential house at Hasanpora Tabala area of Bijbehara, Anantnag around 5.30 p.m. “In this terror incident, he had received grievous gunshot injuries... He succumbed to his injuries,” the police said. The deceased was posted at the Kulgam Police Station. “Investigation is in progress and officers continue to work to establish the full circumstances of this terror crime. The area has been cordoned and search in the area is going on,” the police said. This is the second attack on a police personnel in Kashmir in the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, the police said a terror module was busted by arresting three terror associates in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal. “Acting on specific information, a special joint checkpoint was established by the Police, Army and CRPF at Shuhama area of Ganderbal. During checking, movement of three suspects was spotted and were intercepted by the joint forces,” the police said. They said during a search, incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including two Chinese pistols, three pistol magazines, 15 rounds of ammunition, two hand grenades and three mobile phones, were recovered. “During preliminary investigation, it was revealed that the trio was working as terrorist associates of TRF and were involved in providing shelter, logistic support and transportation of arms and ammunition to the active terrorists across the district,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/policeman-shot-dead-by-militants-in-jk/article38347256.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||SBI withdraws rule on hiring pregnant women||Following outrage, the State Bank of India on Saturday withdrew a controversial order that termed women into their second trimester of pregnancy “unfit” for recruitment and promotions. The country’s largest public sector bank said it would return to status quo in appointments. However, its employees union is not satisfied with the response as the earlier norms too discriminate against pregnant women. In an e-circular issued on December 31, 2021, the SBI had informed its local offices across the country of its revised medical standards. According to these norms, a woman who is pregnant for more than three months would be considered “temporarily unfit” and would be allowed to rejoin work only four months after delivering a child. Following several representations from different employee unions, as well letters from the Delhi Commission for Women, and outrage over social media, the bank issued a statement suspending these instructions. The unions also say that the new rules are an attempt to deny women their right to maternity benefits under the Code of Social Security, 2020. This entitles a woman to payment of average daily wage for up to 26 weeks of maternity leave, nursing breaks and permission to visit a creche four times a day as well as renders unlawful any attempt by the employer to discharge a pregnant employee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sbi-withdraws-rule-on-hiring-pregnant-women/article38347253.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||India-Israel ties crucial amid global change: PM||The celebration is likely to include several high-level interactions and visits, including a possible visit of Prime Minister Naftali Bennett to India. To mark the ocassion, prominent landmarks includuing the Gateway of India in Mumbai and the Teen Murti-Haifa Chowk here as well as the remains of the iconic Masada fortress in Israel were lit in the colours of the national flags of both countries. New goals Prime Minister Naftali Bennett greeted India on the Republic Day, wishing for “continued peace and prosperity”. “India-Israel ties have acquired greater significance as the world today is experiencing several major changes. What can be a better moment to frame new goals for our bilateral cooperation than this when India is celebrating its 75th year of independence and Israel will mark its 75th independence next year and both sides are marking three decades of bilateral ties,” said Prime Minister Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-israel-ties-crucial-amid-global-change-pm/article64990767.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,||Hotel industry seeks ease in curbs in Mumbai||As cases of COVID-19 continue to drop in number, the hotel industry in Mumbai wants pre-pandemic timings to be restored in Mumbai. In a letter to both guardian Ministers of Mumbai city and suburbs, Aslam Sheikh and Aaditya Thackeray respectively, the Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHAR) — the apex body of the industry —requested for restoration of dine-in services in restaurants and bars to earlier timings. It drew their attention to other States that have done so and are getting back to normalcy. Presently, the restrictions mandate hotels to close down at 10 p.m. Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR said, “The industry is in dire straits with many restaurants and bars shut forever and others barely able to keep their shutters up.”.” Sukesh Shetty, general secretary, AHAR said, “Given our business model, the prevailing timings are further throttling the industry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hotel-industry-seeks-ease-in-curbs-in-mumbai/article38347280.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||Report says India bought NSO spyware||Also in Parliament during the last session, IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, who himself is on the list of citizens whose phone was allegedly hacked, had said that reports of India’s Pegasus use were “baseless” and “highly sensational”.  Launching an attack on the U.S. newspaper for the latest report, Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways and Civil Aviation General V.K. Singh (retd.) called the New York Times a “ supari ” (hit-job) newspaper.  With the top court The investigation over whether the Modi government bought the Pegasus spyware, and used it to hack the phones of a number of citizens not wanted in any criminal cases and carry out illegal surveillance on them is now with the Supreme Court. The court appointed a special committee headed by Justice R.V. Raveendran (retd.) on October 27, and scheduled another hearing “after eight weeks”, which has not been listed at present.  At a press conference on Saturday, the Congress said the NYT investigation confirmed the government had indeed purchased the spyware. “The buck stops at the Prime Minister’s door. The BJP duped Parliament and misled the Supreme Court. They used public money to spy and snoop upon their own people… This is an act of treason,” Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said.  “Modi government misled the Supreme Court which directly questioned it on the purchase and use of the questionable software. In its sworn affidavit, the government (represented through the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology) claimed to unequivocally deny any and all of the allegations made against the government,” Mr. Surjewala said. Congress leader in Parliament Mallikarjun Kharge said the party would speak to other Opposition parties to formulate a cohesive strategy on the issue. ‘Rights abused’ In a tweet from its official account, the Trinamool Congress called the Pegasus report proof of “state-sponsored surveillance” that “blatantly abused the rights of Indians”. The CPI(M) also joined the chorus of criticism. Party general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted, “Spying on the Election Commission, political leaders, Supreme Court and Officers conducting sensitive investigations is a serious subversion of democracy. Unacceptable. This govt. must go.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/report-says-india-bought-nso-spyware/article64990766.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||Adityanath, Shah rake up Muzaffarnagar riots||A day after Akhilesh Yadav and Jayant Singh’s joint press conference in Muzaffarnagar, the BJP’s central and State leadership raked up the 2013 riots on Saturday. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who held meetings in Baghpat on Saturday, tweeted, “In Muzaffarnagar riots, more than 60 Hindus were killed and more than 1,500 were sent to jails. Villages after villages were vacated. This is the identity of the Samajwadi Party.” The riots happened in August-September 2013 during the Samajwadi Party rule. Sixty-two people belonging to two communities lost their lives and around 50,000 were displaced after the riots. “In Muzaffarnagar riots, innocent Hindus lost their lives and fake cases were filed against them. When we said the culprits are ‘others’, they should be set right and took back the cases, those who instigated the riots felt bad,” said Mr. Adityanath.  He charged SP chief Akhilesh Yadav with giving tickets to those involved in riots in Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar. “The only development I could see during the SP rule was the extension of the boundary wall of kabristan (burial ground). Criminal spots like Sotiganj were their bastion. Today, our bulldozer has cleared such spots.”  Praise for Balyan In Muzaffarnagar, Home Minister Amit Shah said he had just taken over the charge of Uttar Pradesh when the riots happened. “Till today, I have not forgotten the pain of the riots. Have you?” He went on to allege that during the riots, the police acted keeping in mind the vote bank of one party. “Those who were affected were made accused and those who instigated the riots were turned into victims. Thousands of fake cases were lodged against those affected,” said Mr. Shah. He praised Union Minister, Muzaffarnagar MP and BJP’s Jat face in the region Sanjeev Balyan for leading the fight for justice of the affected both in the court and on the streets. “The BJP stands by the affected. Vote with care. If you commit the mistake of 2012, those who instigated the riots will sit on the throne in Lucknow.” Meanwhile, Mr. Shah continued his attempt to find cracks in the SP-Rashtriya Lok Dal alliance in order to woo the Jat vote bank. “They say they are together. We can see they are together. But will they be together after the day of counting? After March 10, [SP leader] Azam Khan will replace [RLD chief] Jayant bhai,” he said. “Right now, he is in jail. But after the results, he will be back. The distribution of tickets by the SP makes it apparent. Isn’t it?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adityanath-shah-rake-up-muzaffarnagar-riots/article64990762.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:39 IST,||AAP’s prime focus is on development: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said a law should be enacted against wrongful religious conversion but nobody should be subjected to harassment. He said this while responding to a query on religious conversion during an interaction with businesspersons in Jalandhar. Mr. Kejriwal said he believes religion is a private matter of an individual and every individual has the right to practise the religion of his and her choice; however, if anyone is threatened to convert or is offered money for conversion, then that is wrong. He said a law should be made against wrongful religious conversions, but such a law should not be misused to harass anybody. Poll pitch Later, at a press conference, Mr. Kejriwal said the politics of AAP is centred around development and progress while other parties in Punjab have their agenda set on corruption and running mafias. He presented 10 plans to beautify the cities of Punjab. “We have shown by working for the people in Delhi. We have provided good education, medical and other facilities to the people of Delhi. Today we have come up with guarantees for cities. We will make the cities of Punjab No. 1 in the country,” he said. The AAP convener said his party will implement doorstep delivery services in Punjab. “People will get freedom from middlemen-brokers and long queues. For all government work, be it an electricity connection or getting a ration card, government employees will go to the houses of the people. All cities of Punjab will get underground cabling system.” He said in Punjab, 16,000 village and ‘mohalla clinics’ will be built for cities and villages, government hospitals spruced up and schools improved. “If voted to power, the AAP government will provide 24 hours of free electricity and drinking water to all the people. Also, we will construct the broken roads of the markets and build parking and toilet facilities in markets,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said the safety of people, especially women, is their utmost priority. He said, “To improve security, we have installed a large number of CCTV cameras in Delhi. Today, the number of CCTV cameras installed in Delhi is more than in New York and London. In Punjab when the AAP government is formed, CCTV cameras will be installed in every city to ensure the safety of women.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aaps-prime-focus-is-on-development-kejriwal/article64990866.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||BSF, Pakistan Rangers resume dialogue||The official said the talks were revived to also ensure accountability. “If the senior officers communicate, then it helps in resolving many issues and any wrong can be pointed out,” he noted. The sector commander talks are led by an officer of the rank of Deputy Inspector-General of the BSF and a Brigadier rank officer of the Pakistan Rangers. Regular communication According to D.K. Pathak, former Director General of the BSF, the channel of communication should always be open as it helped in solving issues smoothly. “Sometimes there are incidents at the border for which one cannot wait for the long chain of diplomatic command. Cross-border incidents can be resolved quickly if officers on both sides are in regular communication. A small misunderstanding could lead to massive firing and shelling at the IB, that can trouble the local population, if such channels are open, then it can be taken care of,” Mr. Pathak, who led the Director General-level talks with the Pakistan Rangers in 2015 in Delhi, said. A.P. Maheshwari, former CRPF Director-General, said, “In their true spirit, such mechanisms are purported to evolve smooth operational practices at cutting edge level in consonance with the agreed ground rules. In turn, it helps avoid further conflict of interest. How much do they actually materialise depends on the intent and the content at a given point of time, backed by the credibility quotient.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsf-pakistan-rangers-resume-dialogue/article38347268.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:40 IST,||Ticket rush: more security for Manipur BJP chief||A perceived battle for tickets has made the authorities in Manipur increase the security of BJP State president A. Sharda Devi. The BJP is said to have at least three ticket aspirants for each of the 60 Assembly seats. “Some special measures have been taken for her security. But the rush for tickets in each constituency underlines the growing popularity of our party,” a BJP spokesperson said from Imphal. Party insiders said the names of the candidates have almost been finalised in consultations with CM N. Biren Singh and senior Minister Thongam Biswajit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ticket-rush-more-security-for-manipur-bjp-chief/article38347791.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:38 IST,||11 years after man’s death, solatium given||More than 11 years after the death of her 23-year-old son, the Bombay High Court recently directed the Western Railway to pay Rs. 40,000 as compensation with the interest of 8% to his mother. The case dates back to May 11, 2010 when Abdul was travelling from Andheri to Dadar on a valid second class pass ticket. He ran to board the local train as it was leaving Andheri, fell off and sustained a fatal injury. He died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11-years-after-mans-death-solatium-given/article38347259.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||NDA seals seat-sharing deal in Bihar||The ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar on Saturday officially sealed the deal for distribution of 24 vacant Legislative Council seats to which election is likely to be held in February-March. “For the last four elections, both the BJP and the JD(U) have been contesting together and this time too, we hsve come together to contest the upcoming State Council poll. The BJP will contest 13 seats, out of which it will spare one seat to alliance partner, the Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party (RLJP) led by Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras. The JD(U) will contest 11 seats,” announced senior BJP leader and Bihar in-charge of the party Bhupendra Yadav. Asked about accommodating two other NDA allies, the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), Mr. Yadav kept repeating: “We’ll take our alliance partners into confidence.” Senior JD(U) leader and State Education Minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and State party president Umesh Kushwaha were present on the occasion. “We have agreed on the seats mutually and respectfully. The BJP will accommodate alliance partner RLJP,” Mr. Choudhary said. Of the 24 Council seats falling vacant, 13 were held by the BJP, eight by the JD(U), two by the RJD and one seat by the Congress.  Meanwhile, the Opposition Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) leaders are in Delhi to finalise seat sharing.  Earlier, RJD chief Lalu Prasad had indicated that the Congress might be given six or seven seats out of the 24 Council seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nda-seals-seat-sharing-deal-in-bihar/article38347252.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,||Noted activist Bandukwala passes away||Well-known human rights activist and former professor of physics at Vadodara’s M.S. UniversityProfessor J.S. Bandukwala died at his residence in Vadodara on Saturday morning. He was 77 and is survived by a son and a daughter. He was living alone. Former chief of People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), Prof. Bandukwala had been suffering from diabetes and cardiac ailments. He had also served as the president of the M.S. University Students’ Union in 1981 before he joined the teaching job. In 2002, his house was attacked by rioters. A vocal critic of communalism, Prof. Bandukwala strived for peace and communal harmony in the city. As an activist, he was very vocal about ghettoisation of Muslims and other marginalised sections of society. He fought against the ghettoisation of Muslims when the Vadodara Municipal Corporation proposed to relocate some slums in the city. In a letter to the State Chief Minister in 2018, he called the relocation apartheid against the minorities, who, according to him, were being forced to live in certain pockets in the city. As a human rights activist, Prof. Bandukwala always raised his voice against communal elements in all communities and strived to work for harmony and an inclusive society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/noted-activist-bandukwala-passes-away/article38347623.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,||No poll stimulus||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-poll-stimulus/article64990759.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:54 IST,||Two groups of militants trapped||Two groups of militants have been encircled by security forces at two separate locations in the Kashmir valley on Saturday, triggering fierce firefights. One group of militants, believed to consist of 2-3 persons, was encircled during a search operation in Pulwama’s Naira area in the evening. Another group of militants was encircled in central Kashmir’s Budgam. The number of militants trapped could not be confirmed by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-groups-of-militants-trapped/article38347619.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:39 IST,||Rajasthan education official sacked||The Rajasthan government on Saturday sacked the State Board of Secondary Education’s chairman D.P. Jaroli and suspended the Board Secretary over the leak of question paper of the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) held in September 2021. The Board had conducted the examination for recruitment of teachers to government schools. The police investigation has confirmed that the question paper was leaked from the Education Department’s building, Shiksha Sankul, in Jaipur. The orders for dismissal of Mr. Jaroli and suspension of Board’s secretary A.K. Sengwa were issued after a high-level meeting presided over by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot late on Friday night. Mr. Gehlot said action would be taken against all those involved. Mr. Gehlot said the State government would take strict action against everyone responsible for dereliction of duty and negligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-education-official-sacked/article38347281.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Online sari sale a money-spinner for weavers in Ariyalur district||A government initiative to improve the earnings of at least 7,000 handloom weavers in Ariyalur district through e-commerce has begun to bear fruit within months, with close to Rs. 1 lakh being earned in online sales. Launched in August 2021 by S.S. Sivasankar, Minister for Backward Classes, the programme has brought women weavers operating through self-help groups (SHGs) into the fold of entrepreneurship development, and also raised the profile of Ariyalur’s traditional handloom cotton and silk saris. It operates by allowing SHGs to list their saris online at a payment gateway linked to the Ariyalur district administration’s official website (ariyalur.nic.in). The link, run by Snapbizz.com, a Bengaluru-based digital service provider that facilitates small businesses, takes customers to a photo gallery of Ariyalur handloom saris that can be bought online.  “Ariyalur has a strong weaving community, and women are active in SHGs, but they were not really capitalising their skill by marketing their own products. Most of the weavers are serving as contractual labourers supplying orders for bigger sari showrooms in cities like Kumbakonam, Thirubhuvanam and Chennai. We wanted to change this image of Ariyalur being a weaving outsourcing hub, and showcase its own tradition,” P. Ramana Saraswathi, District Collector, Ariyalur, told The Hindu .  Currently, the listing has handlooms from Jayankondam, Thirumanur and Animadam blocks of the district. The technical component of the web initiative is supported by corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding from a private bank. Sales took off ahead of Deepavali and the year-end festive season last year, with at least 11 saris sold for a total of Rs. 93,000 by early January. “With everything shifting online during the pandemic, we felt this venture too would be suitable for e-commerce,” said Ms. Saraswathi. “The saris are priced at manufacturing cost; so what is listed as Rs. 4,000 may actually be sold at Rs. 10,000 in a city showroom. The affordability is a major attraction for customers,” she added. Ms. Saraswathi has grouped the traditional weaves under the brand ‘Asathal Ariyalur’ (Amazing Ariyalur) and wants to expand operations this year by approaching bigger e-commerce platforms like Amazon. The GST application for this is in process, while physical sari stores in Ariyalur and Chennai are also being planned. “We hope to include other indigenous products such as the Irular and Kuravar communities’ beadwork accessories and groundnut and sesame oil to the ‘Asathal Ariyalur’ brand umbrella and market them online,” she said. For weaver M. Subasini, who typically weaves up to 300 saris per month on contract from her home-based loom in Ulkottai village, the online initiative has meant a better income. “Companies can pay us a daily wage of Rs. 500 per sari, but only when there is work. Going for online sales has brought me and the other members of my SHG a bigger share of profits. It has helped me save enough to pay my children’s fees,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-sari-sale-a-money-spinner-for-weavers-in-ariyalur/article64990869.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Schoolgirl’s kin called ChildLine alleging harassment by stepmother’||The police probe into the death of the Class XII schoolgirl from Ariyalur, who ended her life recently, has established that her grandaunt had made a call to ChildLine in July 2020, alleging that the girl was being “harassed and tortured” by her stepmother. According to police sources, Ms. Saraswathi, who worked and retired as headmistress in Panchayat Union Middle School in Vadugapalayam, the native village of the girl, made the call to 1098, in July 2020.  “It has come to light that it was the girl’s grandaunt who contacted Childline alleging torture by her stepmother in Vadugapalayam. A police team has conducted enquiry with her [grandaunt] and recorded her statement,” a senior police officer told The Hindu. In a video that went viral on social media, Ms. Saraswathi says she lodged the complaint based on information from a few girls. She says in the video that she was forbidden to speak to the girl.  An official in Ariyalur district said that a team of ChildLine workers met the girl and her close relatives and enquired about the complaint. Since the girl apparently denied any ill-treatment, the complaint was subsequently closed. The State’s health helpline 104 provides anti-suicide counselling and Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline is 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schoolgirls-kin-called-childline-alleging-harassment-by-stepmother/article38347718.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Civic polls: Chennai Corpn. begins fixing critical booths||The Greater Chennai Corporation is set to increase the number of web cameras installed, for surveillance of critical and vulnerable polling booths as the number of such booths are expected to increase. At least 1,089 booths are expected to get web cameras, as they have been classified as critical and vulnerable. A series of meetings are being held this weekend with police officers in each of the 15 zones to finalise the number of critical and vulnerable polling stations by Monday. According to the tentative list, the number has increased from less than 850 in 2011 to 1,089 in 2022. During the Assembly elections in 2021, Chennai district had 648 vulnerable and critical polling booths in the core city. Officials will start preparations for monitoring vulnerable and critical polling booths shortly. More than 61 lakh voters are expected to elect 200 councillors during the election to be held on February 19. Web-streaming of polls Following Madras High Court orders, the civic body has started making arrangements for web-streaming of the election from vulnerable and critical booths. Arrangements will be made for video recording of election proceedings in all polling booths. Vulnerable polling booths will be identified based on the criminal record and presence of anti-social elements in the neighbourhood and the reports of untoward incidents during previous elections. The booths that had recorded more than 90% turnout and also those where one candidate dominated in the previous elections will be declared as critical.  Vulnerable polling booths will be identified based on the criminal record and presence of anti-social elements in the neighbourhood||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/critical-polling-booths-being-identified/article64990956.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||State logs 24,414 fresh cases, 46 deaths||Fresh COVID-19 infections in the State continued to register a slide with fewer than 25,000 cases diagnosed on Saturday. A total of 24,414 persons tested positive, taking the overall number of cases to 33,03,702. Among those who arrived from abroad, two travellers from Bangladesh and one each from the United Arab Emirates and Qatar tested positive. In Chennai district too, fresh cases fell significantly in the past 24 hours. With another 4,508 persons testing positive in a day, the number of infections to date in the district rose to 7,25,459. As on date, 6,77,734 have been declared to have recovered from the virus post-treatment. Currently 38,799 persons are undergoing treatment either at home or in healthcare institutions. So far, 8,926 persons have succumbed to the infection. Among the neighbouring districts, Chengalpattu has registered the highest tally, logging 1,614 fresh cases. In Kancheepuram, 512 fresh cases were identified and in Tiruvallur 640 more tested positive for the virus. Though western districts also reported lower infections as compared to Friday, fresh cases were relatively high in Salem, which reported 1,264 cases. Erode logged 1,198 and Tiruppur 1,649. Coimbatore had the highest number of fresh cases with 3,309 testing positive for the virus. Of the 46 new deaths recorded, 20 were being treated in private healthcare facilities and 26 in government hospitals. Till date, 37,506 persons have succumbed to the infection in the State. In a day 27,885 persons returned home after treatment, taking the number of recoveries to 30,57,846. The health department has temporarily removed a private laboratory in R.S. Puram West in Coimbatore from the ICMR list of approved labs for COVID-19 testing due to “administrative reasons,” the daily bulletin of the public health department stated. At present, there are 330 functioning testing facilities, including 69 in the government sector and 261 in the private sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-24414-fresh-cases-46-deaths/article64990850.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:42 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK condemns attack on GCC official; urges action against MLA||Condemning an incident in which DMK MLA K.P. Shankar allegedly assaulted an official of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, on Saturday, urged the government to take strong action against the Tiruvottiyur legislator. Motive questioned In two separate statements, Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami questioned the motive behind the MLA’s action of interrupting road-laying work. They also asked why no police complaints were received over the incident and why no action had been initiated against Mr. Shankar. Alleging that public officials have been threatened by members of the ruling party, Mr. Panneerselvam recalled incidents in the recent past and underlined the words of former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai that partymen should not interfere in the functioning of the government. ‘Anti-democratic’ “It is clear that an anti-democratic government is functioning now,” the former Chief Minister charged. The action of the MLA in assaulting a government official was an act of violating the Constitution, Mr. Panneerselvam charged and condemned the incident on behalf of the AIADMK. In his statement, Mr. Palaniswami asked, “Even after it has come to light that the ruling party MLA was involved in violence, why was he stripped of his party post alone and why no case was registered against him?” Claiming that people in fishing hamlets near Tiruvottiyur alleged that he had assaulted some people there, Mr. Palaniswami charged, “No action has been taken against those responsible for the incident so far.” He further called upon government officials, police officials and members of the public to file a complaint when attacks of such nature are unleashed on them.  In two separate statements, Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami questioned the motive behind the MLA’s action of interrupting road-laying work. They also asked why no no police complaints were received and no action had been initiated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-condemns-attack-on-gcc-official-calls-for-action/article64990852.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Indian industry is investing only 0.4-0.5% in R&D’||“The Production-linked Incentive(PLI) scheme is not a solution to life. It is a bridge given by government for 5 years. In these 5 years, industry has to make themselves globally competitive,” saidPawan Goenka, chairman, SCALE Committee and chairperson-designate for INSPACE - Department of Space, at asummit on Future of Manufacturing. The event wasorganised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, Southern Region. He pointed out that Indian industry was investing only 0.4-0.5% in R&D. It had to be improved for India to be a global manufacturing hub. He added, “Industry needs to take the leap of faith to expand capacity, the demand will follow.” C.K. Ranganathan, chairman, CII, Southern Region, said MSME entrepreneurs needed constant upskilling and upgrading. “This would be transformative for MSMEs,” he said. Investing in R&D was critical for the growth of industry and that the leadership of all enterprises should focus on it to build a better future. The summit highlighted and showcased South India as a desirable and attractive destination for investments in manufacturing. The focus sectors of the summit includedauto and auto-components,chemicals,electronics and light engineering,food processing and aerospace, drones and robotics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-industry-is-investing-only-04-05-in-rd/article64990953.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||17 police officers transferred||The State government has transferred 17 police officers and most of them have been posted in the Greater Chennai Police, Tambaram and Avadi commissionerates. According to a notification from the Home Department, N. Kumar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Traffic South, has been moved from Greater Chennai Police to Tambaram as DCP, Traffic, in a redesignated post. M.R. Sibi Chakravarthi, Superintendent of Police (SP)-II, Cyber Crime Division, has been transferred as DCP, Tambaram. Pa. Moorthy, who moved from his post as SP, SID, CB CID, has been posted as DCP, Headquarters and Administration, Tambaram. G. Subulakshmi, SP, CIU, Prohibition Offences, has been posted as DCP, Central Crime Branch, Tambaram. J. Mahesh has been posted as DCP, Avadi, in a redesignated post. M.M. Ashok Kumar, DCP, Traffic West, Greater Chennai Police, has been transferred as DCP, Traffic, Avadi. P. Perumal, SP, Enforcement, has been transferred as DCP, Central Crime Branch, Avadi. G. Umaiyal, Commandant, TSP IV Battalion, Kovaipudur, has been posted as DCP, Headquarters and Administration, Avadi. S.S. Mageshwaran transferred from SP, Prohibition, Madurai and posted as SP, Prohibition, Chennai. Deepa Ganiger, DCP, Anna Nagar, has been posted commandant, TSP VIII, New Delhi viz.. T. Senthil Kumar who has been shifted to TSP Battalion, Kovaipudur. DCP Adyar P. Mahendran DCP Administration, has been transferred as DCP, Adyar. A. Pradeep, DCP (Traffic), North, has been posted as DCP, St.Thomas Mount viz. Arun Balagopalan who has been transferred as SP, Cyber Crime Division. R. Shiva Prasad has been transferred from Washermenpet and posted as DCP, Anna Nagar. V. Balasubramanian DCP, Crime Branch, has been posted as DCP- Intelligence Section- II. Albert John, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Vellore Sub Division, has been posted as DCP, Traffic North, Greater Chennai Police, according to a press release||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-a-major-reshuffle-17-police-officers-transferred/article38347739.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Focus needed on not just the quantity but quality of sleep’||Focus is needed on not just the duration of sleep a person gets but also on the quality of sleep, said doctors at the webinar on sleep disruptions among children organised as part of The Hindu’s Wellness Series on Saturday.  The webinar on the topic “Rock-a-bye Baby - Sleep disruptions in children - a slow pandemic” was organised in partnership with WeLittle Hospital. Addressing the webinar, Umakanth Katwa, Instructor of Paediatrics, Harvard Medical School, said that both the duration and the quality of sleep were crucial for overall wellbeing of people. He said that sleep related issues faced by people have worsened during the COVID-19 pandemic and pointed out that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the U.S. has declared insufficient sleep to be a public health epidemic. Highlighting that sleep loss could affect all age groups, including children, Dr. Katwa said that this could in turn affect their learning, memory, cognition and development. “This can have an impact on the rest of their lives,” he said. He said that there was now a push to include the requirement of adequate sleep in the National Health Policy of India as the revision to the policy in 2017 failed to include sleep. Nasal breathing Shifa Shamsudeen, a preventive paediatric dentist and the founder and director of WeLittle, spoke on the importance of nasal breathing among children and its impact on craniofacial development and their overall health. She said that while there was awareness about nutritional and educational requirements of the children, the awareness on quality of sleep was inadequate. She added that even the inadequate awareness was largely about the quantity of sleep a child should get and not on the quality. Common symptoms She said that snoring, breathing via mouth, choking or snorting arousals, restless sleeping, grinding of teeth, periodic limb movement and waking up frequently are some of the common symptoms parents can look for among children. She said that lack of quality of sleep can manifest as fatigue, aggressiveness and irritability observed in children during the day. “We should always remember that mouth is to eat and nose is to breathe,” she said. Stating that early identification of sleep disruptions and improper breathing through mouth can help addressing the problem easily, she pointed out that hundreds of children who visited the hospital have benefitted through orofacial myofunctional therapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-needed-on-not-just-the-duration-but-also-quality-of-sleep-say-doctors/article64990862.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:42 IST,TAMIL NADU||A million birds recorded in synchronised bird census||Counting of around a million birds of about 80 species in the first-ever synchronised bird census in Tamil Nadu, has revealed that the State's coastal wetlands support global populations of migratory birds. The census was conducted in thirteen coastal districts, including Chennai and Kanniyakumari, with pre-training, orientation and trial runs. The Tamil Nadu Forest Department joined hands with the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), in collaboration with Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON). About 45 civil society groups and non-governmental organisations, and about 10 colleges and universities participated in the two-day exercise. Large congregations of the greater flamingos, approximately 40,000, were recorded. The greater flamingos were found in large numbers in major areas like Point Calimere (20000), Valinokkam (10000), Dhanushkodi (2000), Thoothukudi (2000), Kanniyakumari (600), among other minor sites, said Shekhar Kumar Niraj, PCCF and Chief Wildlife Warden, Tamil Nadu. Interestingly the world’s longest non-stop flying wader, bar-tailed godwit and ruddy turnstone, and the highest flying bird, the bar-headed geese, were also recorded in large numbers. In a major highlighter, the Arctic breeding waders, little stints, constituted the major populations, followed by Curlew Sandpipers, another major find. Several hundred grey-headed lapwing were seen in Pallikaranai and Kaliveli. Major congregations of waders such as marsh sandpipers, lesser sand plover, redshanks, ruffs, great knots, spotted redshanks, and a number of uncommon species like the Eurasian curlew, whimbrel, ruddy turnstone, were seen at Point Calimere, Pichavaram, Adyar creek, Kaliveli Lake, Thoothukudi, and Ramanathpuram. Major congregations of ducks included Northern pintails, Northern shovellers, Eurasian Wigeon, and gargeney. They were spotted at Point Calimere, Kanniyakumari, Muthupet, Adyar creek, Pulicat lagoon, Kaliveli Perumpakkam and Elcot areas. Large populations of terns such as caspian, whiskered, greater crested tern and lesser crested terns were seen at Point Calimere, Rameswaram, Pulicat and Kanniyakumari coastal areas. Major population of gulls were also registered at Point Calimere, Rameswaram, and Pulicat. The results of the census during January 28 and 29, and during the pre-census surveys from January 9 to 19, suggest that Tamil Nadu’s coastal wetlands support global populations of migratory birds and are extremely important for conservation measures and monitoring, said Mr. Niraj. Major habitats include mudflats, marshlands, salt pans, creeks, estuaries and lagoons. Sandy beaches and dunes, mangrove forests, mudflats, salt marshes, backwaters and creeks are the natural ecosystems. The duration of stay of migratory birds depends on the water conditions of the marshes and swamps, which is influenced by rainfall patterns. The flourishing rain in 2020 and 2021 have nourished the ecosystem, allowing the successful migration of shorebirds to their nesting sites and thus, their abundant population are here during their subsequent current non-breeding season, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-million-birds-recorded-in-synchronised-bird-census/article64990853.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||Husband can be jailed for affair, rules HC||If an extramarital relationship of a man causes serious domestic discord between the married couple, then he can be convicted for causing mental cruelty to his wife under Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sentenced to imprisonment, the Madras High Court has said. Justice D. Bharatha Chakravarthy gave this ruling while confirming the conviction of Nakkeeran, alias Jeroan Pandi by a trial court in Tiruvannamalai district in November 2011. The judge, however, reduced the quantum of jail term from two years to six months of rigorous imprisonment. Though it was argued on behalf of the convict that the Supreme Court in K.V. Prakash Babu versus State of Karnataka (2016), had held that extramarital relationship per se would not amount to subjecting wife to mental cruelty, the judge said the verdict must be read in its entirety. Previous judgement In that judgment, the top court held that solely because a person was involved in an extra marital relationship and there was some suspicion in the mind of the wife, it could not be regarded as mental cruelty to attract the offence of abetment of suicide under Section 306 of the IPC. In the same decision, the Supreme Court had said the concept of mental cruelty depends on the social strata of the people involved, their individualistic perception and their level of endurance and sensitivity. The court said it would be difficult to generalise but it could be appreciated based on facts of individual case. Taking a cue from those observations, Justice Chakravarthy said in the case before him, it had been proven through prosecution witnesses that the convict indeed had an extramarital relationship. The police had produced the birth certificate of a child born out of this relationship. ‘Affected mental health’ “Therefore, the court cannot close its eyes to the hard evidence and the facts of this case. The extramarital relationship has caused such an effect on the mental health of PW1 (wife) that it resulted in serious domestic discord, forcing her to leave her matrimonial home. “Considering all the factors cumulatively, I hold that the action of the accused in having extramarital relationship which has caused grave mental trauma and affected the mental health of PW1 would certainly amount to cruelty to her under Section 498A of IPC,” the judge concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/husband-can-be-jailed-for-affair-rules-hc/article64990847.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||Colourful murals to adorn Chennai airport’s pillars||For a passenger walking from one terminal to the other at Chennai airport, it may be an eyesore with construction work on in many areas. But soon, it may change as the pillars of the travelator may sport exquisite murals on the art and culture of the State. Outside the terminals at the airport, there is a long bridge built for installing a travelator to connect the domestic and international terminals. The travelator was fixed some years ago and it was linked to the Airport Metro station as well. Now, the Ministry of Civil Aviation is keen on airports showcasing the local art and architecture in the best possible way and to promote tourism, sources said. Following this, there is a proposal at the airport to create murals along these pillars. “Tamil Nadu is a land of temples and hence, there will be an attempt to replicate the temple architecture in the form of murals and showcase them through other means as well. This is what we have been mulling over, and once this plan is approved, it will be implemented in such a way that any passenger who comes in will find it welcoming,” a source said. There is a plan to paint mandala art at the base of the pillars. The interiors of the existing terminals are in line with giving importance to the State’s culture and architecture. Meanwhile, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has been trying to complete the first phase of modernisation project in five months. The entire Rs. 2,000-crore phase II project may be completed in another year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colourful-murals-to-adorn-airports-pillars/article64990842.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:02 IST,TAMIL NADU||Crackdown on single use plastics kicks off in Koyambedu wholesale market||To ensure a plastic-free environment in the Koyambedu wholesale market, the Market Management Committee (MMC) has started a drive to create awareness against single use plastics and seize such packaging material. On Saturday, a team inspected the shops in the flower market and seized single use plastic carry bags. The team said the single-use plastics were becoming rampant in the flower market and accounted for a big chunk of littered waste. Traders have been advised to use alternative material such as banana leaves, cloth bags and mantharai leaves. “We advised retail vendors and trucks bringing flowers to the market from the neighbouring districts to shift to eco-friendly packaging material,” an official said. The team seized goods packed in plastic covers and imposed fines on five shops. Similar drives would be conducted in vegetable and fruit markets in the Koyambedu complex. The Koyambedu MMC plans to seal shops who continue to use plastic material. It has been decided to set up 10-15 shops at the entrance of the flower market to sell cloth bags. Traders’ association wanted the MMC to distribute cloth bags to traders and retailers to help spread awareness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crackdown-on-single-use-plastics-in-koyambedu/article64990958.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC creates mechanism to comply with SC diktat on interim orders||The Madras High Court has created a mechanism to comply with the Supreme Court diktat that an interim stay of civil or criminal proceedings before the trial courts will get expired automatically after six months, unless such stay is extended by the High Court by way of a speaking order. In a circular issued to the Registry, the High Court’s Registrar-General, P. Dhanabal, instructed the officers as well as the staff concerned to list all pending stay petitions, in which relief had already been granted, once in six months, so that the judge concerned could pass appropriate orders. Making it clear that the interim stay petitions must be listed promptly and without fail, the R-G said the counsel on record would also be at liberty to bring the issue to the notice of the portfolio judge concerned if such interim stay petitions do not get listed once in six months.  “The above circular shall be scrupulously followed by all concerned,” the R-G said, and referred to a verdict delivered by a three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court in Asian Resurfacing of Road Agency Private Limited versus Central Bureau of Investigation on March 28, 2018.   The interim stay petitions must be listed promptly and without failRegistrar-General||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-creates-mechanism-to-comply-with-sc-diktat-on-interim-orders/article38348055.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Winners of CPB Photo Awards 2021 announced||The Chennai Photo Biennale Foundation has announced the winners of the CPB Photo Awards 2021. Submissions were made in three categories — News and Current Affairs, Climate Change and Conservation, and Social Documentary. Kunal Patil was declared winner of The Danish Siddiqui Award for Photo of the Year, Zishaan Akbar Latif won the award for the Photo Story of the Year, Harsha Vadlamani won the News and Current Affairs [Single Image], Arun Sharma won the Climate Conservation [Single image] category while Siddharth Behl won the award for the Photo Story on Climate change and conservation, CPB said in a press release. The awards were made possible with generous support from Sidhant Khanna, Srishti Digilife India and Nazar Foundation, the CPB said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/photo-biennale-winners/article38347733.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||Schools told to follow SOPs ahead of reopening||With the State government allowing schools to resume in-person classes from February 1, the school education department has directed officials to prepare for the same. In a circular, the School Education Commissioner has directed all Chief Educational Officers to ensure schools are prepared to reopen and strictly follow all standard operating procedures (SOPs) to keep students safe. Schools are allowed to have 100% strength on campus. Senior students from Classes X and XII, who are to take the public exams, were supposed to attend revision exams in January, which also got postponed as schools were closed. Teachers are now expecting a fresh schedule for these revision exams.  In-person classes for Classes I-XII is suspended in Tamil Nadu till January 31, owing to the rise in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-told-to-follow-sops-ahead-of-reopening/article38347721.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fishers seek waiver of GST bill on diesel subsidy||Fishermen have urged the State government to provide diesel subsidy to new boats without insisting upon GST bills for engines and boats. “Fishermen, who purchase catamarans, have to additionally shell out Rs. 7,000 and those buying larger fishing boats have to pay Rs. 20,000 if they pay GST. At a time when fish catch is down, it is unfair to insist upon GST bills,” said Varadan, a community leader. Diesel prices were high and many owners had not sent their boats on voyages. “In such a situation, denying diesel subsidy is unfair. Even if one boat gets a GST bill, the owner has to wait for some more time since Fisheries Department officials say that verification can be done only if there are a certain number of boats. Ultimately, it is the fishermen, who stand to lose,” said Nanjil Ravi of Akhila India Meenavar Sangam. Officials said submission of GST bills was a must for subsidy. “Irrespective of GST bills, we register the boat. Sometimes, owners misplace GST bills. We wait for them to get copies. We verify boats as and when they are brought in,” said an official. Meanwhile, at Thengaipattinam fishermen have complained that of the 750-odd mechanised boats, only 350 got diesel subsidy. Sesadima of Thoothur near Thengaipattinam said they save a considerable amount of Rs. 25,000 per 1,000 litres of diesel. “The officials refuse to give us diesel passbooks citing various reasons. They want to verify boats once in two months which is not possible. Our boats fish off the coast of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala. If we are to bring back boats from Maharashtra, we would have to spend close to Rs. 1.5 lakh,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishers-seek-waiver-of-gst-bill-on-diesel-subsidy/article38347714.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:06 IST,TAMIL NADU||Officials warned against skipping poll training||Collectors of Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu have issued orders for appointment of polling officers in the 200 wards of the Greater Chennai Corporation. At a meeting in Ripon Buildings on Saturday, Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said departmental action would be initiated against government employees who skip the training on Monday. In a bid to fight the apathy among employees of various line agencies towards election duty, the Corporation officers issued orders appointing polling officers on Saturday. In Chennai district, 18,057 polling officers were served orders. A total of 3,053 in Tiruvallur, 3,252 in Chengalpattu and 1,916 in Kancheepuram have received orders. The training will be held at 24 centres on Monday. Mr. Bedi also held a meeting with political party representatives about model code of conduct. All candidates have been asked to limit the number of campaigners to three persons at a time to prevent spread of COVID-19,.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-warned-against-skipping-poll-training/article38347730.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested in Rs. 3.20-crore in mask scam||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) has arrested two persons who allegedly colluded with a former Deputy General Manager of the Indian Telephone Industries (ITI) Ltd. to cheat a fertilizer company of Rs. 3.20 crore. The city police, last August, arrested K.V.N. Rajan of Ambattur, former DGM of ITI Ltd (Tamil Nadu and Puducherry), who allegedly approached ICMC Pvt. Ltd., a fertilizer company, claiming they had bagged the order to procure masks and nitrile gloves to be supplied to government hospitals to fight COVID-19. Rajan reportedly told the proprietor of ICMC, Kannan, that ITI Ltd. did not have the provision to invest money in advance. He requested Mr. Kannan to make the investment required with the promise of huge profits. Trusting him, the company sent Rs. 3.20 crore to three companies, but did not get the masks or gloves. The police arrested B. Gnanaprakasam, 52, and M. Sivakumar, 56.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-persons-arrested-in-mask-scam/article38347440.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police rescue four minors||Four minor girls, who were brought to the city on the pretext of getting them jobs in a hospital and a spa, but were later forced into sex trade, were rescued. Four persons were arrested. The victims, aged between 14 and 17, were rescued in the Flower Bazaar police station limits on Thursday. The rescued girls have been admitted to a government home. District Child Welfare Committee North member Lalitha, who is an advocate, spoke to the victims through an interpreter. Based on her complaint, the police registered a case was booked against four persons, including senior citizens Chalema Kaitun and Anwar Hussain, Allavudin and Mainudeen under the POCSO Act, the IPC and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act. According to the Child Welfare Committee member, all these girls were from poor families. The eldest of them was married at the age of 15 and was abandoned by her husband after she had a child. The senior citizens flew her to Bengaluru last December and she was later brought to Padur. The gang brought three other girls to the place. The families of the girls were paid Rs. 13,000 each by the traffickers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-rescue-four-minor-girls/article38347736.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||First dose coverage crosses 90%||The State achieved 90.30% coverage in the first dose of COVID-19 vaccination on Saturday, at the end of the 20th mega camp. As many as 68.66% of beneficiaries have received their second dose, according to health department officials. A health bulletin said as on date, 26,01,610 beneficiaries amounting to 77.75% of the eligible population in the 15-18 age group, had been vaccinated, while 3,80,570 persons eligible for the precautionary dose (booster) were covered as well. In the camp 10,17,919 beneficiaries over the age of 15 were vaccinated. While 2,55,902 received their first dose, 7,27,417 got the second, and 34,600 were administered their precautionary dose. In 4,423 vaccination camps held by the government, a total of 9,077 healthcare workers, 9,822 frontline workers and 5,60,615 from 15-18 age group were covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-dose-coverage-crosses-90/article38347715.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:04 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman who killed husband not arrested||A 43-year-old woman, who allegedly murdered her husband on Thursday in Otteri, was not arrested since she had no intention to commit the murder and it was an act of self-defence as per the preliminary investigation, said the police. The murder of a 43 year-old man by his wife was reported in Otteri Police station limits on Thursday night. The police said the couple had two children — a 20-year-old daughter and a 10-year-old son. They had frequent quarrels as the man was jobless and addicted to alcohol. The family lived on the rent from the houses that it owned. On Thursday, the inebriated man allegedly attempted to sexually assault his daughter while she was asleep. On hearing her cries, her mother came to her daughter's rescue. He tried to attack her and she retaliated by hitting him with a hammer on his head. The man collapsed. The shocked woman and her children called the police and reported the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-who-killed-husband-not-arrested/article38348054.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM delivers pledge against untouchability||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday administered the pledge against untouchability to Ministers, senior officials and staff at the Secretariat in Fort St. George on Saturday, to mark the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-administers-pledge-against-untouchability/article38347724.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ravi launches two books||Governor R.N. Ravi on Saturday received the book The Authentic Yoga by P.Y. Deshpande and Tales from the Vedas and Upanishads Retold by Daaji Kamlesh Patel Heartfulness Institute in Chennai on Saturday. “In a strife torn world replete with weapons of mass destruction and conflicting ideologies, yoga is more relevant today than ever before,” Mr. Ravi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ravi-launches-two-books/article38347734.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation imparts poll training to first-level officers||Coimbatore Corporation that has divided the city into 95 election zones trained the first-level officers at the Corporation Kalaiarangam in R.S. Puram on Saturday. According to a press release, Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, who inaugurated the training programme, said each of the 95 election zones would have a zonal officer, an assistant zonal officer and an assistant. Plus, there would be 10 zonal reserve teams In all, the Corporation would deploy 315 personnel in the 95 election zones. The zonal personnel who would undergo the training on Saturday would in turn train staff to be deployed in booths on the polling day. The Corporation would organise that second-level training on January 31 at in the North Zone at PSG College of Technology , in the East Zone at the Ramanathapuram Girls’ Hr. Sec. School, in West Zone at the R.S. Puram Girls’ Hr. Sec. School, in the South Zone at the Kuniamuthur R.K.V. Hr. Sec. School and in the Central Zone at Nirmala College for Women. There they would be told how to conduct the urban local bodies polls, how to fill forms and operate control and ballot units. The Commissioner told the election zone officials that though the Corporation would use electronic voting machines it would not use voter verified paper audit trail machines and there would be no provision to vote NOTA. At the January 31 training centres, the Corporation had made arrangements for polling staff to cast their votes using postal ballots by issuing Form 15. And, there they should follow COVID-19 protocol as mandated by the State Election Commission. Corporation Deputy Commissioner M. Sharmila, assistant commissioners and others participated in the Saturday’s training programme. The Corporation also cleaned the Victoria Town Hall that housed the Council. Workers removed furniture, dusted the walls and cleaned the area to ensure that the place was ready to welcome the persons to be elected councillors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-imparts-poll-training-to-first-level-officers/article64991054.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Murugan interviews BJP candidates in Coimbatore||Union Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying and Information and Broadcasting L. Murugan on Saturday interviewed candidates from the BJP who applied to contest in the urban local body elections. Party sources said that the interview was held at the party office on V.K.K. Menon Road in the presence of senior leaders of the State unit including vice-president P. Kanagasabapathi, general secretary G.K. Selvakumar and agriculture wing president G.K. Nagaraj. Mr. Murugan conducted the personal interview of around 50 candidates from Thudiyalur and Kavundampalayam, following which the senior leaders continued the day-long interview process. Around 485 applications have been received from the BJP members to contest in the upcoming elections for 41 local bodies in Coimbatore district – one corporation, seven municipalities and 33 town panchayats. The final list of candidates will be released following the completion of alliance talks with the AIADMK, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murugan-interviews-bjp-candidates-in-coimbatore/article64991055.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:37 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chinna Thambi impresses Forest Dept.||The Forest Department has been impressed by the behaviour and performance of Chinna Thambi, the crop-raiding tusker which gained notoriety three years ago in 2019, during a recent initiative to clear dry bamboo clumps using camp elephants from Top Slip within the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR).  Senior ATR officials told The Hindu on Friday that six elephants including Chinna Thambi were deployed to clear the dry bamboo clumps along the roads between Sethumadai and Top Slip.  Bamboo plants in this area saw gregarious flowering in 2020, marking the end of its life. The dry flowers and plants of the bamboo accumulate to form large clumps, which could get ignited easily and might cause forest fires, if left unattended. Hence, the Forest Department decided to rope in elephants from Kozhikamuthi elephant camp, which houses 27 elephants in total, to clear the dry bamboo clumps, officials said. A senior official said that among the six camp elephants engaged in this initiative for the past one week, Chinna Thambi stood out in obeying the commands of the mahout and kavadi and in mingling with fellow camp elephants. Its ability to “react intelligently” to the commands is reminiscent of Kaleem, the renowned kumki elephant from Kozhikamuthi elephant camp which was engaged in several operations by the Forest Department, he claimed. With Kaleem being over 50 years old, the Forest Department is planning to train more camp elephants as kumkis in ATR. “We are planning to prepare a minimum of six camp elephants as kumkis,” the official said, indicating that Chinna Thambi will be one of these elephants. Another official noted that the camp elephants were engaged to clear the dry bamboo clumps in Top Slip to ensure that the elephants stay active and also to check how they respond to the commands of the mahouts and kavadis outside the elephant camp. The six elephants comprised three male and three female elephants and also included Muthu, the 20-year-old male elephant that was known as ‘Arisi Raja’ during its capture in 2019. Aged over 25 years, Chinna Thambi was captured twice as a wild elephant – in January and February 2019 – and was lodged in a kraal at Varagaliar elephant camp in ATR, where it was trained for around five months and was eventually shifted to the Kozhikamuthi elephant camp later in the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chinna-thambi-impresses-forest-dept/article64991037.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||Skeletal remains of elephant found inside noon meal centre||The Forest Department has commenced an investigation, following the discovery of the skeletal remains of an elephant inside a noon meal centre, adjoining a government-aided school in Valparai, that remained locked due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Sources in the Revenue Department said the centre was next to the Government Aided Elementary School in the High Forest Estate in Valparai taluk. As the school has been designated as a polling station for the upcoming urban local body elections, officials on election duty for Valparai Municipality inspected the school on Friday. As they opened the noon meal centre, they found the skeletal remains of an elephant. Manombolly Forest Range Officer A. Manikandan and Forest Veterinary Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division A. Sukumar, visited the school on Saturday to examine the skeletal remains. Preliminary investigations suggest that the skeletal remains belonged to a juvenile male elephant, aged around six years during its death, officials said. They believe that the deceased tusker may have entered the noon meal centre through a small opening on the wall in search of food around four to five months ago and might have been trapped inside the room and eventually, died. Samples from the skeletal remains will be sent for forensic analysis and further investigations will be carried out, according to the Forest Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/skeletal-remains-of-elephant-found-inside-noon-meal-centre/article64990846.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 17.50 lakh seized from Dindigul realtor||A flying squad deployed by Coimbatore Corporation seized Rs. 17.50 lakh from a Dindigul realtor on Saturday morning. According to sources, the squad, led by Junior Research Officer V. Sureshkumar, stopped a vehicle near Holy Trinity Convent School in Sungam and while checking it found Rs. 17.50 lakh. The occupant of the vehicle, Sadakathullah Hameed, 42, of Dindigul district, told the squad that he was a realtor and was in Coimbatore on a business trip. The team took him to the Corporation office for further inquiry and after issuing an acknowledgement receipt for the cash seized, deposited the money in the sub-treasury in South Taluk office. This is the first major seizure in the city after the State Election Commission imposed the Model Code of Conduct after announcing urban local bodies polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flying-squad-seizes-rs-1750-lakh-from-realtor/article38347751.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:38 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two students allotted seat in CMC under 7.5% quota||Two students gained admission into first year M.B.B.S. course at the Coimbatore Medical College under the 7.5% quota reserved for government school students. According to the college Dean A. Nirmala, R. Siva of Government Higher Secondary School, Dharmapuri, who had scored 383 in NEET, and N. Vaishnavi of Government Girls’ Higher Secondary School, Tiruppur, who had scored 373 in NEET, were the first two students to get admission.After getting allotment orders in the counselling held in Chennai the students reached the college on Saturday to complete the admission formalities.The college had 13 seats earmarked for government school students under the 7.5% quota, Dr. Nirmala said and added that the college had 200 seats in all in first year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-students-allotted-seat-in-cmc-under-75-quota/article38347767.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:38 IST,TAMIL NADU||Student entrepreneurs to compete in national-level contest||Two student entrepreneurs, one from Madurai and another from Coimbatore, who won at the Entrepreneurs’ Organisation (EO) Coimbatore Chapter’s Global Student Entrepreneur Awards, will take part in the national-level contest to be held in February. Rishab Gupta, president of EO Coimbatore, said in a press release that the Coimbatore chapter received 75 applications for the awards this year. Of these, 15 were short-listed for the semi-finals and six reached the finals. The winner and runner-up will now take part in the national-level EO Global Student Entrepreneur Awards contest to be held in Vishakapatnam next month. As many as eight student entrepreneurs selected from across the country will participate in the global competition to be held in Washington. Surya Varshan, a 21-year-old student entrepreneur from Madurai, started Naked Nature, a start-up on wellness products three years ago. At present, he sells more than 60 products. He won the award at the contest hosted by Coimbatore chapter of EO on Saturday. Twenty-one-year-old S. Smrithi, founder of Shikha Creations and another student entrepreneur from Coimbatore, sells eco-friendly terracotta jewellery and home décor online. She is the runner-up. They take home prize money of Rs. 1 lakh and Rs. 50,000 respectively. They will be mentored to participate in the national-level competition, said Mr. Gupta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-entrepreneurs-to-compete-in-national-level-contest/article38347766.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Movement plants 2.1 cr. trees in Karnataka, T.N.||Cauvery Calling Movement, through farmers, had planted 2.1 crore trees in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, Isha Agroforestry Coordinator Tamil Maran said at a press meet held here on Saturday. The planting by the Movement was amid the challenging COVID-19 pandemic period. During the time, the organisation had also encouraged 1.25 lakh farmers to switch to tree-based farming.Isha Agroforestry, a part of the Isha Foundation, was started by Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev in 2019 to revitalise River Cauvery to improve the livelihood of farmers dependent on it.The Movement had raised 32 nurseries to provide saplings to farmers, who wished to migrate to tree-based farming, Mr. Maran said and added that the result of the migration was that farmers had seen an improvement in soil health in their lands and also increase in income.. The Movement had results from scientific studies conducted on lands of farmers who had migrated that showed that the soil carbon content had improved drastically within a few weeks of switching over to tree-based farming. The 2.1 crore trees that the Movement had planed were in nine districts in Karnataka and 18 in Tamil Nadu.Mr. Maran also said that there were instances where the farmers who switched over to tree-based farming also took up pepper cultivation. The farmers’ success not only demolished the myth that pepper was a crop cultivated in the hills but also showed that the farmers’ income went up multifold.Farmer Valluvan of Anamalai, near Pollachi, said the tree-based cultivation had helped improve his coconut yield as well. From 100-110 nuts a tree there was an improvement to 150 nuts a tree in his farm after he switched over to the tree-based farming. The falling leaves from the trees in his farm reduced evaporation, reduced the quantity of water needed for irrigating the crops and also improved soil health, he added. Farmer Vanji Muthu also shared his success story at the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cauvery-calling-movement-plants-21-crore-saplings/article38347748.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school teachers to be trained in spoken English||The Department of School Education plans to conduct spoken English course for teachers from government schools across Coimbatore district by collaborating with volunteers. Chief Educational Officer N. Geetha said on Thursday that around 200 teachers from government schools will be covered in the first phase under 'Let's Teach English', a Chennai-based initiative driven by volunteers. “This will be a one-to-one session that will be held once in a week for one to two hours,” she said, adding that the course is scheduled to be held for 10 weeks. This initiative will initially target teachers working in government primary schools, where the usage of English in classrooms is generally low, she said. Teachers in government middle schools will also be trained in this initiative as required, the CEO said. Improving the spoken English skills of teachers will enable them to impart the skills to the young students in government schools, according to Ms. Geetha. District Collector G.S. Sameeran recently posted on Twitter seeking volunteers for this initiative. Those aged above 21 years, who are fluent in English and Tamil and having a mobile phone shall register as volunteers online at https://bit.ly/teachspokenenglish, according to his post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-school-teachers-to-be-trained-in-spoken-english/article38347752.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Handover weapons’||Collector G.S. Sameeran has asked licensed weapon holders outside the city limits to handover their weapons to the nearby police station or authorised armoury. A release said as the Model Code of Conduct was in force following the State Election Commission announcing urban local body polls, the weapon owners would do well to deposit their arms.The administration had asked the Coimbatore Rural Police Superintendent to ensure that all weapon owners had deposited their fire arms, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/handover-weapons/article38347759.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:16 IST,TAMIL NADU||Remand prisoner escapes||A remand prisoner at Coimbatore Central Prison, who was admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for COVID-19 treatment, allegedly escaped from the hospital in the early hours of Saturday. Police sources said that G. Gajendran was remanded in judicial custody in the prison in July 2020. After testing positive for COVID-19 earlier in the month, he was admitted to the hospital. On Saturday, he managed to escape from the ward after an Armed Reserve police constable, V. Balaji, who was monitoring him was allegedly asleep. The Race Course police registered a case. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Armed Reserve) for Coimbatore City Police T.V. Muralidharan placed Balaji under suspension on charges of dereliction of duty on Saturday. Girl’s head severed in accident In a freak accident, a 10-year-old girl died as her head was severed after her shawl got caught in the wheels of a two-wheeler near Annur on Friday evening. The police said that S. Dharshana was taken by her mother to the Government Hospital in Annur on a two-wheeler from their residence in Vadakkalur. The two-wheeler was driven by their neighbour Vignesh (26). While returning home on Annur-Othimalai road, one end of the girl’s shawl got caught in the rear wheel of the two-wheeler and her head was severed from the body due to the force exerted. The Annur police registered a case against Vignesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remand-prisoner-escapes/article38347769.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Youth killed in accident||A youth was killed and six others were injured in a road accident at Chettipalayam in the outskirts of Coimbatore on Saturday. According to the police, Neil George (22), a first-year MBA student at a private college, was travelling in a car with six of his friends on Chettipalayam-Negamam road. The vehicle approached Periyakuili Pirivu near Chettipalayam around 4.45 p.m. when it lost control after seeing a truck approach in the opposite direction and the car turned turtle. Neil George died on the spot due to heavy bleeding injuries while his friends Brijesh, Sree, Varshini, Nancy, Vasanth and Michael escaped with injuries. One of the injured persons was learning how to drive with the help of others and allegedly drove the car in a rash manner, which led to the accident, the police alleged. The Chettipalayam police registered a case and further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-killed-in-accident/article38347758.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two file papers||Two persons filed nominations on Saturday to contest in the urban local body polls. A note from the district administration said the two nominations were for contesting in town panchayat wards.The first day – Friday – saw no nomination. February 4 is the last date for filing nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-file-papers/article38347757.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Brief reports||Lawrencedale Agro Processing, an agri start-up, has urged the Union Government to announce measures in the Union Budget that will ensure the agriculture sector is commercially viable to all stakeholders, boost adoption of easy-to-use technology, and promote agri business start-up ecosystem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brief-reports/article38347746.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||30 flying squads formed in Dindigul district||With the model code of conduct in force ahead of announcement on elections to urban local bodies, 30 flying squads comprising officials from revenue and police departments have been formed in Dindigul district. Apart from Dindigul Corporation, the district has three municipalities - Kodaikanal, Palani and Oddanchathiram, and 23 town panchayats. Led by a tahsildar, each of the 30 teams will have three Sub Inspectors, three policemen, two drivers and two videographers. They would be on surveillance round the clock until the model code of conduct is withdrawn. In all, the flying squads will have 490 officials. The district has also identified 27 poll officers and 60 assistant poll officers. As per the guidelines of the State Election Commission, officers in the rank of Deputy and Assistant Directors would be posted as regional observers with overall supervision. The district would elect 486 candidates directly and 54 others through indirect elections. The nominations had commenced on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-flying-squads-formed/article64991007.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:44 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tableau displaying freedom fighters stationed at Erode Collectorate||Large number of people visited the Collectorate to view the Republic Day tableau featuring the sacrifice of freedom fighters here on Saturday. The tableau was received at the district entry point at Bhavani Cauvery River bridge on Friday by Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy, District Collector H. Krishnanunni, MP and MLA. Later, it was kept on display at the Collectorate for public viewing. The tableau portrays Thanthai Periyar, Tiruppur Kumaran holding the national flag, Pollan, who was the commander of Theeran Chinnamalai’s army, and other freedom fighters from the State. Officials said the public can view the tableau from 9.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. on January 30 and 31 after which the tableau will proceed to other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tableau-displaying-freedom-fighters-stationed-at-erode-collectorate/article64991028.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:44 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cong. plea to restore passenger train services||Stating that the delay in resumption of passenger trains that were halted due to COVID-19 lockdown is affecting workers, patients and the common public, the Congress Minority Wing has urged the Southern Railways to operate passenger trains at the earliest. In a letter to the General Manager of Southern Railway, K.N. Basha, vice-president of Erode District Congress Minority Wing and former member of Zonal Railway User’s Consultative Committee, said suburban and metro train services were being operated in Chennai to facilitate movement of passengers. While passenger trains to Karur and Tiruchi were also operated, passenger train services between Coimbatore and Salem, Coimbatore and Nagercoil, Tiruchi and Palakkad passenger trains were yet to be operated. Convenient These trains pass through Erode Railway Junction making it convenient for passengers in the district and nearby districts to commute easily to various destinations. The letter said bus fare between Erode and Coimbatore was Rs. 83 while it was Rs. 25 in trains. Hence, workers and other people who commuted regularly depend on train services, the letter said and urged the railways to resume operation of passenger trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-plea-to-restore-passenger-train-services/article38347832.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:44 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable price drops at Erode Uzhavar Sandhai as arrival increases||Due to sharp increase in the arrival of vegetables to the Uzhavar Sandhai at Sampath Nagar in the city, prices have dropped significantly here on Saturday when compared to past weeks. As many as 134 shops function at the shandy from 4.30 a.m. to 11 a.m. every day and farmers across the district bring their produce and sell it directly to the consumers. Rain in November and December affected the cultivated crops that led to drop in arrival of vegetables to the shandy. Since harvesting of vegetables has begun in the past three weeks, farmers started bringing their produce, leading to drop in the prices of vegetables. While most of the vegetables arrive from the Perundurai block, bananas arrive from Kodumudi and Bhavani blocks, while other vegetables arrive from Chennimalai and Erode blocks. “The price of brinjal touched Rs. 100 a kg last month and now it’s Rs. 45 a kg”, said a farmer from Perundurai. While tomato is sold at Rs. 15 a kg, ladies finger is sold at Rs. 15 a kg and small onion around Rs. 40 a kg. “The prices had dropped by atleast 40% in the past three weeks”, said another farmer from Kodumudi. Drumstick was sold at Rs. 300 a kg last month and due to increase in arrival, prices dropped to Rs. 150 a kg. Due to the intense cold and spread of COVID-19, many farmers aged over 60 keep them away from the market and sell their produce locally. Though TNSTC buses are operated regularly to the market to transport vegetables, many farmers fear of the spread of virus and stay indoors. Hence, two-wheelers are the only mode of transport by farmers, according to an official at the shandy. Since paddy harvesting has commenced and new crops are expected to be cultivated in the coming weeks, the price of vegetables will remain low till April, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-price-drops-at-erode-uzhavar-sandhai-as-arrival-increases/article64991027.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:44 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in elephant attack||A 70-year-old man was killed in an elephant attack at Anjetti near Thenkanikottai here during the late hours of Friday. According to the police, Kaniappan had taken his goats to Chinnavanathi parai near Anjetti here for grazing. While grazing goats, a wild tusker reportedly chased the shepherds there. While many managed to run away, Kaniappan was trampled by the tusker. Relatives and forest personnel went in search of Kaniappan and found him dead near the grazing patches on Saturday. Forest personnel and police recovered the body and sent it to Thenkanikottai government hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-in-elephant-attack/article38347831.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||More buildings inaugurated on High Court Bench premises||A total of 84 additional law chambers, residential apartments for High Court Judges and a bridge connecting the law chambers with the administrative block were inaugurated by the Madras High Court Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari on the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court premises on Saturday. The Acting Chief Justice also laid the foundation stone for an additional law officers block on the High Court Bench premises. Speaking at the function, he said that in addition to the existing infrastructure, there was a need for a conference hall on the High Court Bench premises. With regard to the mode of hearing cases, he said that presently cases were being heard in virtual mode in view of COVID-19. However, demands were being made for opening the courts for physical hearing, especially the subordinate courts. Whenever the situation permitted, the courts would open, he said. “First, through hybrid mode with virtual and physical hearing and then physical hearing if the situation permits in the subordinate courts. Let us wait for some time. There should not be any panic because we have to take into account the health of the people,” he said. He added that harmony between the Bar and the Bench was required for the smooth functioning of courts. Administrative Judge of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana said that the additional advocate chambers and a connecting corridor were a long pending demand of advocates. “Also, taking into account that there was no space for individual bungalows for judges, residential apartments were built on the premises.” Justice B. Pugalendhi said that the Madras High Court had disposed of the second highest number of cases during the COVID-19 period after the Allahabad High Court. At least 2.8 lakh cases were disposed of by Madras High Court and 40 % were in Madurai Bench, he said. Justice M. Sundar said that the Bar and the Bench were the two sides of the same coin. Justice Anita Sumanth proposed a vote of thanks. Additional Advocate General Veera Kathiravan said the demands of advocates were fulfilled with the construction of the additional advocate chambers and the connecting bridge. Superintending Engineer, Buildings, Public Works Department, Madurai Circle, K.P. Sathyamurthy said the 84 additional advocates chambers were built at a cost of Rs. 7.73 crore, the connecting bridge at a cost of Rs. 1.19 crore and the residential apartments for the Judges at Rs. 13.56 crore. The total estimate of the additional law officers block was Rs. 4.27 crore, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-buildings-inaugurated-on-high-court-bench-premises/article64990863.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Frame charges against those who usurped temple property, HC directs trial court||The court cannot be a mute spectator when public property is converted into private property by creating false documents of title and usurped by individuals, observed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. The court made the observation while directing a trial court to frame charges against people who transferred a village temple property at a much lesser value. The court directed the trial court to resume trial and complete the same as expeditiously as possible. The court was hearing the petition filed by the Deputy Superintendent of Police Melur Sub - Division. An FIR was registered against nine people for conspiring to grab a village temple land in Melur taluk. They transferred the village property for a sale of consideration of Rs. 1.57 lakh. The market value of the property was more than Rs. 1.5 crore. The police booked a case and final report was also submitted in the case. The accused filed a petition before the trial court to discharge them on the grounds that there were no materials to proceed against them for the alleged offences. The State had objected to the discharge petition. However, Judicial Magistrate Melur allowed the petition and discharged the accused, holding that the dispute was civil in nature. This was challenged before Additional Sessions Judge I, Madurai. The order of the Judicial Magistrate was confirmed. Justice G. Jayachandran observed that here was a case where the managers of the village property, fraudulently, dishonestly without any lawful authority had transferred the property. For the said illegal act, the parties met and conspired, the judge said. The court below had considered the facts on a wrong premise that it is civil in nature and no criminal offence committed, in spite of the fact that the village property was sold dishonestly by persons who were only the managers of the property and not the owners, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/frame-charges-against-those-who-usurped-temple-property-hc-directs-trial-court/article38347985.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Auctioning of police vehicles on February 3||Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion VI will auction condemned police vehicles at the Battalion VI premises at 10 a.m. on February 3. In a statement, Commandant Deshmukh Shekhar Sanjay said that those interested to take part in the auction can inspect the vehicles on display from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. on February 3.Interested persons should register themselves by paying Rs. 1,000. The successful bidders should pay the bidding amount along with GST immediately, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auctioning-of-police-vehicles-on-february-3/article38347979.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Thewaterlevelin Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 135.25 feet (maximum permissiblelevelis 142 ft.) with an inflow of 330 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, thewaterlevelstood at 69.36 feet (71 ft.) with an inflow of 354 cusecs and a discharge of 269 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,177 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article64990999.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fisherman murdered||The Kanniyakumari police are on the lookout for a fisherman who allegedly murdered his friend on Friday. Police said fisherman P. Gavaskar, 38, of Kanniyakumari and his friends Johns Raja, 36, of nearby Tsunami Colony and Rabans of Marakkudi Street in Kanniyakumari were consuming liquor in a lodge at Kanniyakumari on Friday night. When an altercation broke out between Gavaskar and Johns Raja, the latter allegedly sliced the former’s throat with a knife and escaped. Gavaskar was rushed to the hospital but was declared brought dead. The Kanniyakumari police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fisherman-murdered/article38347815.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:44 IST,TAMIL NADU||Randomisation of election officials held in Namakkal||Namakkal Collector and District Election Officer Shreya P. Singh conducted the first digital randomisation of polling officers at the Collectorate here on Saturday. The ordinary elections to urban local bodies would be conducted to 153 wards in five municipalities and 294 wards in 19 town panchayats in the district. According to officials, 3,328 polling personnel including reserve will be deployed in the district. As many as 689 polling booths will be set up across the urban local bodies here. Orders were issued to the polling personnel and they would undergo first round of training on Monday. The district administration has also deployed 51 flying squads in three shifts to prevent election code violations. A complaint center has been set up at the Collectorate and the public could contact the center in toll-free number 18005994286. Salem In Salem, Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj interacted with Assistant Returning Officers and other polling officials in the Corporation limits. He advised the officials on election conduct procedures, procedures to be followed while receiving nominations, measures on handling postal ballots and maintaining strong rooms. The officials were advised to follow COVID-19 safety guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/randomisation-of-election-officials-held-in-namakkal/article64991031.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:44 IST,TAMIL NADU||12 tamers suffer minor injuries in Pottireddipatti jallikattu||Twelve tamers suffered minor injuries in the Pottireddipatti jallikattu that was flagged off by Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan and Rajya Sabha MP K.R.N. Rajesh Kumar here on Saturday. The Minister administered an oath to the tamers before the start of jallikattu. Over 300 tamers and 400 bulls from Namakkal and neighbouring districts took part in the event. The crowd was restricted in accordance with COVID-19 safety protocols. District Collector Shreya P. Singh inspected the conduct of jallikattu. Medical teams were deployed at the venue to examine and treat tamers. The tamers were checked for their physical fitness and those in inebriated condition were not allowed to take part. The tamers were asked to produce COVID-19 vaccination certificate and RT-PCR negative report taken within 24 hours of the event. Ambulances were also parked at the place to provide emergency medical services. An Animal Husbandry team was present at the venue to check the bulls. Winners took home prizes such as cycles, silver utensils, furniture, silver jewellery and cash purses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-tamers-suffer-minor-injuries-in-pottireddipatti-jallikattu/article64991034.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:17 IST,TAMIL NADU||Complex surgery done at Natham Govt. Hospital||Doctors at the Government Hospital here have performed a surgery on a 31-year-old man with multiple fractures, thanks to better infrastructure and availability of specialists and other manpower. Usually, these cases are referred either to Dindigul GH or Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. Raja from Tirumayam taluk in Pudukottai district met with an accident while riding a two-wheeler a fortnight ago. He was admitted to Natham GH and was treated under Chief Minister’s Innuyir Kappom scheme. A team of doctors, led by surgeon Vasudevan, performed the surgery on January 21. The patient showed signs of recovery and would be able to resume his normal activities soon, said chief civil surgeon Jeeva Jothi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surgery-done-at-natham-gh/article64991000.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases fall below 900 in Union Territory||The Union Territory recorded two COVID-19 deaths and 855 new cases at a test positivity rate (TPR) of about 24% on Saturday. With Puducherry and Karaikal recording one death each, the cumulative toll rose to 1,923. The toll by region was Puducherry (1,500), Karaikal (258), Yanam (111) and Mahe (54). Puducherry accounted for 570 new cases, which were detected from 3,465 tests, followed by Karaikal (172), Yanam (102) and Mahe (11). With 2,604 patients recovering from COVID-19, the active cases stood at 12,542, including 182 patients in hospitals and 12,360 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 24.68%, the case fatality rate 1.20% and the recovery rate 90.95%. The Union Territory has till date recorded an aggregate of 1,59,824 cases and 1,45,359 recoveries.Of an estimated 21.53 lakh tests conducted so far, over 18.06 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,638 people took the jab against COVID-19 on Saturday. The Union Territory has so far administered a total of 15,31,595 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-fall-below-900-in-ut/article64990827.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||MLAs provided gadgets, office accessories||The 33 legislators of the Puducherry Assembly have been allocated high-end mobile phones, computers and office accessories as part of a Rs. 2.5 crore upgradation package implemented once every five years. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy launched the distribution of the accoutrements to members at his chamber, in the presence of Speaker R. Selvam, Ministers and MLAs. The items, which included iMac desktop, MacBook laptops, photocopiers, printers, office furniture and a sofa set for visitors, were purchased by the Legislative Assembly Secretariat for the 30 elected and three nominated members of the House, including the Speaker and the Chief Minister. Public Works Minister K. Lakshminarayanan said there was nothing new about the allotment, which is undertaken quinquennially by the Legislative Assembly Secretariat. “This scheme is being implemented once every five years by the Assembly Secretariat since 2006 as part of the basic office-related grant for all MLAs. Moreover, it has been adopted on the standard procedure of the Parliamentary scheme for its members,” said Mr. Lakshminarayanan. For a quinquennial office upgradation scheme for legislators, the per capita expenditure worked out to only about Rs. 7 lakh per member, it was pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mlas-provided-high-end-gadgets-office-accessories/article64990823.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||Give priority to fisherfolk in Katchatheevu festival: MP||Since the Sri Lanka government proposes to permit only 500 people into Katchatheevu for the annual St. Antony’s festival, citing COVID-19 pandemic, the Union government must give priority to fisherfolk from Tamil Nadu, said Ramanathapuram MP K. Navaskani. In a press release, he said that from time immemorial, fishermen, particularly those from Ramanathapuram district, participated in large numbers in the two-day festival held in March every year. However, it is learnt that the Sri Lankan authorities would permit only 500 people to take part in the festival, and moreover the participants should have taken the booster dose of COVID-19 vaccine. There was no mention about requests from fishermen associations here. The union government must intervene and ensure that a sizable number of people from Ramanathapuram were permitted to attend the festival, he said. ‘Bond-builder’ Meanwhile, a fishermen association leader, Jesu Raja, said that hundreds of fishermen with their families used to attend the church festival in the isle and spend time with families coming from Sri Lanka. The festival helped in strengthening the bond between fisherfolk from the two countries. It is customary for people from coastal Ramanathapuram to attend the festival. So the Indian authorities should respect the popular public sentiments and ensure that a sizable number of fishermen families are permitted to take part in the festival, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-priority-to-fisherfolk-in-katchatheevu-festival/article64990859.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:28 IST,TAMIL NADU||Inspector gets medal||Inspector of Police K. Mariappan, Special Branch - CID of Police, Ramanathapuram district has been selected for ‘Asadaran Aasuchana Kusalata Padak - 2021 medal. According to a press release, he has been selected by the Home Ministry in recognition of his service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-gets-medal/article38347822.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:44 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seven nominations filed in Salem||Seven nominations were filed on the second day of receiving nominations for the urban local bodies elections in Salem and one in Krishnagiri district on Saturday. In Salem, three nominations were received for Ward 1 in the Corporation, three nominations were received in Attayampatti panchayat to Wards 4, 6 and 10. One nomination was received for Ward 2 in Veerakalpudhur. Election control room set up An election control room has been set up at the Salem Collectorate and toll-free numbers have been set up for the public to report violations or complaints regarding the elections to urban local bodies. In a release, Collector S. Karmegham said the control room would function round the clock and the public could contact the control room in phone numbers 18004256077, 0427-2414200. To prevent violation of Model Code of Conduct, 63 flying squad teams have been deployed in three shifts. In Salem district, elections are being conducted to one Corporation, six municipalities and 31 town panchayats. As many as 1,519 polling booths will be set up in 699 wards across the local bodies. In Namakkal, one nomination was received for contesting from Ward 8 in Alampalayam panchayat. In Krishnagiri, one candidate filed papers to contest from Ward 45 in Hosur Corporation. In Dharmapuri, one nomination was received in Harur Town Panchayat. Erode Three nominations were filed by candidates in Erode district on Saturday. While two nominations were filed for municipal councillors, one nomination was filed for contesting for the post of town panchayat ward member. Since, no nominations were filed on Friday, only three nominations were filed so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-nominations-filed-in-salem/article38347836.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||Former Chief Secretary, DGP to appear before Justice Aruna Jegadeesan panel||Former Chief Secretary Girija Vaidyanathan will be summoned to appear before Justice Aruna Jegadeesan Commission probing police firing in the anti-Sterlite protest during its 36th sitting to commence on February 14. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday after the end of the Commission’s 35th sitting, its advocate Arul Vadivel Sekar said senior police officers including then Superintendent of Police Mahendran, who was heading the police force in the district when the firing took place, former DIG Kapil Kumar Saratkar and former IG, South Zone Shailesh Kumar Yadav appeared before the Commission to record their statements. Though former Chief Secretary Girija Vaidyanathan had been summoned to appear before the Commission during its 35th sitting, she could not do so due to unavoidable circumstances. Hence, she had informed the Commission that she would appear during its 36th sitting.Accepting it, the Commission would summon her again asking Ms. Girija to appear before it during the 36th sitting to be held between February 14 and 18. “Apart from the then Chief Secretary, the then Director General of Police T.K. Rajendran and the then Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Vijayakumar will also be summoned to appear before the Commission during the 36th sitting, which may be the last sitting before submitting its report,” said Mr. Arul Vadivel Sekar. When asked if then Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami would be summoned, he said there was no need for the Commission as of now to summon him as he was the Chief Minister when the police firing took place. After the end of the 36th sitting, the statements of the witnesses and the exhibits will be compiled. So far, 1,042 of the 1,421 witnesses summoned have recorded their statements and 1,516 exhibits marked.  The then DGP T. K. Rajendran will be summoned during the 36th sitting, which may be the last sitting Arul Vadivel Sekar Advocate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-chief-secretary-dgp-to-appear-before-justice-aruna-jegadeesan-panel/article64990860.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two migrant labourers test positive for elephantiasis||Two migrant workers from north India have tested positive for elephantiasis. As more than 80 migrant workers from northern States, all working with various private companies here, live at L. R. Nagar under the South Zone of Thoothukudi Corporation, the urban local body had organised a medical camp recently for them. The medical teams screened the workers for COVID-19, diabetes, hypertension and lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis). As two samples tested positive for lymphatic filariasis, they were isolated and taken for further treatment. Moreover, tablets were distributed to other workers who were staying with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-test-positive-for-elephantiasis/article38347816.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:26 IST,TAMIL NADU||Recognition for artistes and social worker||It has been raining accolades in the region this week, as clarinet exponent A. K. C. Natarajan and water and sanitation expert S. Damodaran, both based in Tiruchi, and R. Muthukannamal, the last living Devadasi and ‘sadir’ dancer from Viralimalai in Pudukottai district, have been named as recipients of the Padma Shri awards this year. Mr. Natarajan, 92, and Ms. Muthukannamal, 85, have been honoured with Padma Shri for art, while Mr. Damodaran, 59, has received it for social service.  Talking to The Hindu at his home in Salai Road, Mr. Natarajan said, “I am grateful for this acknowledgement, because so many veteran musicians have missed getting it in their lifetime. I was pleasantly surprised when I was informed about the award on Tuesday evening,” he said.  Mr. Natarajan, who also sports the title ‘Clarinet Everest’ bestowed by his mentor nagaswaram maestro T.N. Rajarathinam Pillai, continues to perform with an ebonite instrument that is thought to be at least a century old. He has modified the ‘A Clarinet’ by reducing the original 14 finger holes to seven, closing the rest with wax. An anasu (a metallic horn in the lower portion) from the nagaswaram, was added to improve its looks by lengthening the instrument’s body. The clarinetist debuted at the age of 15 and started his career as a staff artiste in All India Radio Kozhikode and Delhi. After returning to Tamil Nadu in 1952, he became a popular instrumentalist in Chennai’s leading ‘sabhas’ and a regular at the Music Academy’s December season for 20 years. Like many artistes, his calendar is empty since March 2020’s lockdown. “It is tragic to see so many talented musicians and performers become destitute during the pandemic. I hope the authorities will help these people who have devoted their lives to keeping the artistic heritage alive,” he said. Legacy of dance Ms. Muthukannamal, 85, is a descendant of seven generations of ‘sadir’ dancers and believes that awards such as this will keep their legacy alive for future generations.  Her arangetram (debut) at the age of seven was attended by courtiers and emininet persons in Pudukottai. Her guru - her father Ramachandra Nattuvannar - had taught her and her sister the art form when they were three. She dedicated her life to Viralimalai Subramaniya Swamy Temple and lived the life of a Devadasi where she would dance four times a day during the daily pujas. She would also welcome the processions during the annual temple festival.  “I lived life on my own terms,” she said. She had to wake up at 3 a.m. for practice, and her father was a very strict teacher. Though the Devadasi system was abolished through the Madras Devadasi (Prevention of Dedication) Act in 1947, she continued to perform at temple festivals until 15 years ago. She now teaches at workshops and travels to dance institutes across the State. There is no written evidence of the songs sung in ‘sadir.’ “It is all memorised. So the only way I could pass it on is to keep singing for my children and grandchildren,” she said. While the Devadasi system did not permit marriage, Ms. Muthukannamal chose a partner who approached her after being smitten by her dancing skill. After her partner’s demise, she lives with her son, two daughters and her grandchildren in Viralimalai. Social service As the first graduate in his family, from a very early age, Mr. Damodaran was determined to serve society in a meaningful way. “When we started Gramalaya in 1987, our work was related to economic improvement. But when we visited remote rural areas, we found people did not have drinking water and toilet facilities, which affected their entire life. So we shifted our focus to water and sanitation, and that has helped us travel so far,” he said. Today, as an approved key resource centre of the Ministry of Jalshakti, Gramalaya is involved in community-led sanitation programmes aimed at eradicating open defecation and replacing it with safe personal hygiene protocols and eco-friendly toilets. For the past six years, Gramalaya has been working in menstrual hygiene management among adolescent girls by promoting reusable cloth sanitary napkins. It is also looking at reducing malnutrition among young children. Making conservancy workers aware of the dignity of their labour is also on the agenda. “Our Harpic World Toilet Colleges in Tiruchi, Kochi and Kurnool (in collaboration with Reckitt and Jagran Pahel) help to build capacity and train workers in safe sanitation methods. We want to give them some pride in their work. Automating parts of their job helps us to avoid manual scavenging,” Mr. Damodaran said.  It is tragic to see so many talented musicians becoming destitute during pandemic. The authorities must help these people who have devoted their lives to keep the artistic heritage alive A. K. C. Natarajan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recognition-for-artistes-and-social-worker/article64991040.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Get double-dose vaccination’||Health workers in Tiruchi district have so far inoculated 89.5% of the eligible population over the age of 18 and 86.5% students over 15 years old with the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine. Collector S. Sivarasu has urged the unvaccinated people, a majority of whom hail from the rural blocks of Tiruchi, to get the jab to protect themselves from the viral infection. A year after the vaccination drive to inoculate the public began, nearly 10% of the population is yet to take the jab. According to data provided by the health department, of a total of 21,86,100 people above the age of 18 eligible to take the vaccination, 19,56,240 have taken at least one dose. Within Tiruchi Corporation limits, 6,40,326 of a total 7,14,997 people have taken at least one dose, while 5,01,948 have taken the second dose too, making for 70.2% of the total eligible population. In the rural blocks, only 8,37,821 people of a total 14,71,102 - making up 57% of the population have taken the second dose. In Musiri block, 93.7% of the eligible population has taken at least one dose, while 55% has taken both doses. Similar trends are prevalent across all 14 blocks. Health officials have urged the public to take both doses, as with he recent trends, vaccinated people contracting COVID-19 do not seem to need hospitalisation. Those who are hospitalised rarely need oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/get-double-dose-vaccination/article38348081.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 2,300 new cases, 4 deaths in central region||The central districts on Saturday reported 2,381 fresh COVID-19 cases, registering a significant decline compared to the previous days. Four deaths were reported in the region. Three of the deceased hailed from Tiruchi and one from Nagapattinam district, according to data from the State Health Department. Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts also recorded a slight dip in number of fresh cases in line with the district average. A total of 625 patients tested positive in Thanjavur, while Tiruchi reported 574 cases. In Tiruvarur district, 277 persons tested positive and 217 in Karur. In Pudukottai, 200 fresh cases were reported and in Nagapattinam 196. Ariyalur district registered 125 fresh cases and Mayiladuthurai 108. Perambalur district reported 59 fresh COVID-19 cases retaining its position as the district with the lowest number of fresh cases in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-2300-new-cases-4-deaths-in-central-region/article64990870.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||We are being compelled to buy nano urea, say farmers||Farmers, who are still facing acute urea shortage during this ‘pisanam’ paddy season despite the availability of adequate water in dams and irrigation tanks, are now being compelled by companies to buy nano urea along with regular urea. The farmers complain that the urea, which should be sold at Rs. 266 per bag, is being sold along with nano urea, which is escalating their cost of agricultural operations. “Since the supply cannot meet the demand in the market, the farmers are forced to buy nano urea along with the urea available with the sellers,” says S. T. Shaik Maideen, a farmer from Vadakarai.  State Marketing Manager of IFFCO (Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative), a supplier of urea, C. Jayaraj told The Hindu that the farmers should gradually switch over to applying nano urea as the traditional granular urea would be replaced in near future due to increased production cost.  He argues that a bag of 50 kg urea is sold at Rs. 266 while the production cost of 50 kg urea stands at Rs. 3,750. “Since the government has to bear the subsidy of Rs. 3,484 per bag, the farmers will have to switch over to nano urea which is sold at Rs. 240 per 500 ml. We can understand that there is a hesitation among agriculturists about using nano urea, which will go ultimately as they start using it in the fields,” Mr. Jayaraj hopes. He says that the application of urea, though it increases chlorophyll in the leaves within three days, pollutes soil, affects earthworms and also causes pest attack. However, application of nano urea, whichis sprinkled on leaves, leads to absorption within three hours and it is utilized during photosynthesis based on the plant’s need besides avoiding pest attack. “So, nano urea has many advantages and hence we’re selling it along with regular urea which is not available in adequate quantity. The farmers can mitigate this short supply of urea with nano urea,” he says. However, the farmers argue that spraying of 10 tanks of nano urea per acre would cost them Rs. 600 and the total cost of application of nano urea per acre would be Rs. 2,520 (nano urea price plus spraying cost) as it should be applied thrice before harvest. “If the companies marketing nano urea want to popularise it among the farmers, it should be done properly through the government which can give subsidy to nano urea instead of giving it to urea. If the nano urea is pushed along with urea and if farmers are compelled to buy both the products, it will cause additional expenditure. The farmers will raise the issue of forcible selling of unnecessary products with the Collector concerned,” says farmer P. Perumbadaiyar of CPI. Agriculture Department officials also admit that the urea was being sold along with nano urea to bridge the gap between supply and demand. In the midst of this commotion, the district received 2,600 tonnes of urea on Saturday evening, which would be shared among private sellers and the Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies of Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Tenkasi districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-are-being-compelled-to-buy-nano-urea-say-farmers/article64990858.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||Training for polling personnel held||Training for polling officers was held in Tirunelveli Corporation on Saturday. Addressing the polling officers, Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran said 4,16,389 voters would cast their votes in 490 booths to be created within the city. Each Regional Officer would monitor 15 to 20 booths till the end of polling. The polling officers were asked to strictly follow the norms formulated by the Election Commission.The polling officers were trained in preparing the electronic voting machines, operating it, rectifying minor malfunctions and sealing it after the end of the polling. In turn, the polling officers will train the polling personnel to be involved in the polling on February 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-polling-personnel-held/article64990857.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:40 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 120.55 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 320.37 cusecs and 1,104.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 113.45 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 34 cusecs and 430 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article38348086.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||174 policemen test positive in Tiruvannamalai||Bandobast duty in Tiruvannamalai has resulted in as many as 174 police personnel, including Superintendent of Police A. Pavan Kumar Reddy, testing positive for COVID-19 since January 1. Police personnel were stationed at Veeralur, a tiny village on the foothills of Jawadhu Hills, near Tiruvannamalai town, after caste Hindus and the Arundhathiyars in the village clashed on January 11. The police managed to restore normalcy on January 16 with several rounds of meetings held with the representatives of the community.  “A sizeable number of the district police force have been infected,” R. Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruvannamalai, told The Hindu . Health officials said the total number of infected police personnel between January 1 and January 12 year was only 22. The sudden spike in the number of cases, health officials said, might be due to bandobast duties. A total of 830 police personnel from Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Vellore were deployed in Veeralur village. With the announcement of elections for urban local bodies, the district needs around 5,000 police personnel for election duties. At present, the total strength of the force is 2,020. Vellore SP S. Rajesh Kannan, who recovered from COVID-19 recently, is in-charge of the Tiruvannamalai police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/174-policemen-test-positive-in-tiruvannamalai/article64990824.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:34 IST,TAMIL NADU||Museum to feature Vedaranyam’s historic significance||The visit of a team from Central University of Tamil Nadu, Tiruvarur, to the Salt Satyagraha Memorial at Vedaranyam on the eve of Republic Day and taking home salt crystals as souvenir come as a precursor to establishing a museum on its campus featuring the significance of the town in India's freedom struggle. After commissioning a 100-watt solar street lamp at the entrance of the memorial, Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan extended an assurance to look after its maintenance permanently. The documented content of the visit of freedom figthers Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and C. Rajagopalachari, who led the Salt Satyagraha March, will be provided to CUTN by Kasthurba Gandhi Kanya Gurukulam that maintains the memorial. “We have documented evidence of the visit of Sardar Vallabhai Patel during 1929, indicating that the leader had visited Vedaranyam from Gandhi Ashram in Tiruchengodu. The lock-up in the Salt Department building where the magistrates from Mannaragudi Court came over to hold its sitting has also been documented,” Managing Trustee of the Gurukulam Appakutti Vedaratnam, grandson of freedom fighter Sardar Vedaratnam Pillai, said.  Mr. Appakutti Vedaratnam handed over to Mr. Krishnan a book published in Belgium by its nationals after their padayatra from Tiruchi to Vedaranyam. The book with chapters in English and Flemish, including one titled 'In Search of Gandhi's Daughters' authored by Mr. Appakutti Vedaratnam was meant for CUTN's library.  The Vice-Chancellor, who led a group of 50 staff and students, was also shown the lock-up in the building of the Salt Department. "The visit was a golden moment; we have a responsibiity to project the importance of Vedaranyam to the nation," Mr. Krishnan said. CUTN will do its part to mobilise support for the Gurukulam for strengthening road connectivity to the memorial, he said. According to Mr. Appakutti Vedaratnam, the district administration had taken cognisance of the road condition a few months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/museum-to-feature-historic-significance-of-vedaranyam/article38347805.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district reports 115 fresh cases||The total COVID-19 cases in Vellore reached 56,527, with 115 reported on January 28. With 53,922 recoveries, the active cases stands at 1,443. The death toll is 1,162. In Ranipet, 388 cases were reported, and the total stood at 51,773. In Tirupattur, 230 cases were reported on Friday, and the total stood at 34,479. In Tiruvannamalai, the number of new cases was 475, taking the total to 64,471. Out of this, 59,726 have recovered, and the active cases stood at 4,065.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-115-fresh-cases/article38348087.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||Condemned police vehicles to be auctioned||The Villupuram district police will auction 44 condemned vehicles at the Armed Forces Parade Ground on February 2. Villupuram SP N. Shreenatha said those interested in taking part in the auction can inspect the vehicles from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. from January 31 to February 1, on production of a copy of their Aadhaar card and Rs. 1,000 for two-wheelers and Rs. 2,000 for four-wheelers. The successful bidders need to pay the bidding amount along with 12% GST (two-wheelers) and 18% GST (four-wheelers) immediately on February 2. The police will auction 33 two-wheelers and 11 four-wheelers. For details, contact 04146 242521.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/condemned-police-vehicles-to-be-auctioned/article38348049.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:45 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two ganja smugglers arrested||The Villupuram district police on Saturday arrested two persons for allegedly smuggling ganja from Odisha. The duo have been identified as P. Biswal Rana, 27 and B. Sidheshwar Boi, 25. Police said a team was conducting vehicle checks near the Villupuram bus stand when they noticed two persons acting in a suspicious manner. Though the duo tried to flee, the police nabbed them and found 6 kg of ganja in their possession. Further inquiries are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-ganja-smugglers-arrested/article38348053.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:41 IST,TAMIL NADU||Report card for a smart city||The sequence of events that followed heavy rain in Chennai cast a shadow over the Smart Cities Mission, especially the intense flooding of T. Nagar, the showcase of the project. The Chief Minister committed himself to a probe against the contractors who executed the work. There are multiple Smart City initiatives in various parts of the city, each at various stages of implementation. The avowed aim is to provide improved services to its citizens, but do they really do that? Here is a look at the projects in the city and their scores on the count of improving services, infrastructure and functionality. After almost six years, Chennai has completed 37 of the 49 projects selected on March 28, 2016, in the first round of the Smart Cities Mission. Ten of the projects are set to be completed in a few months. Officials say that of the Rs. 990 crore released, the government agencies have completed projects costing Rs. 633 crore. Some projects, particularly the Smart Classrooms with co-funding by Chennai Smart City Limited and City Investments to Innovate, Integrate and Sustain (CITIIS) Challenge fund from the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, have started transforming public education infrastructure in the city, officials say. Work on physical infrastructure is set to be completed in 28 schools. Once the schools reopen after the COVID-19 pandemic, various aspects of Smart Classroom physical and digital infrastructure are expected to be taken up in phases for 236 schools. The Integrated Command and Control Centre in the Ripon Building has started operations. However, utilising the Rs. 149-crore facility to monitor solid waste management, road safety infrastructure, pothole surveillance, streetlight management and flood mitigation remains a challenge. The line agencies are yet to facilitate better civic services for residents from the vendor and operator of the Command Control Centre, especially in times of disasters like floods. One of the Smart City projects that drew flak was clearing of the Mambalam canal that was under way when the monsoon arrived. After the recent floods in T. Nagar, alternative proposals are being studied to improve the canal. A decision will be taken after the design of the project is studied, according to officials. The ambitious project to develop multi-level parking has been completed in areas like T. Nagar. But occupancy is low as on-street parking is available at an affordable, or even zero, charge. After the T. Nagar Pedestrian Plaza was completed, the Greater Chennai Corporation has proposed to develop Monegar Choultry Road and Khader Nawaz Khan Road. However, the proposal to develop Metrowater infrastructure on Monegar Choultry Road has held up the project in north Chennai. Losses incurred by the operator of the bicycle sharing system, with a ridership of 3,000 trips a day, has affected the expansion of the project to more locations. The Greater Chennai Corporation is exploring various options to improve connectivity and increase ridership. Projects such as the Villivakkam eco-park and a skywalk in T. Nagar are expected to be launched in three months. For a city that was looking to augment its water sources and reinvent its infrastructure for sustainable and climate-resilient water management, Smart City projects have helped it take a step forward. However, there is much more to be done. Two ambitious projects with smart solutions have been completed. In its attempt to monitor the water supply and consumption, Metrowater has installed digital meters, with automatic water reading, that would transmit data to a central system through radio frequency. As a pilot project, 12,708 commercial and water-intensive consumers who use more than 500 kilolitres a month have been targeted under the project. While the usage-based tariff will cover revenue loss, it will also encourage a judicious use of water. Earlier, meter-reading was done manually and through hand-held devices. Lack of manpower was another challenge, Metrowater officials point out. After the digital meters were installed, Metrowater is earning an additional revenue of Rs. 14 crore a year. Though preliminary measures were taken for the T.Nagar area-based development project aimed at 24x7 water supply, Metrowater has expanded the scope of the project to core areas, including Teynampet and Kodambakkam, instead of confining it to a few wards. The water agency plans to implement an uninterrupted drink-from-tap supply in the core areas and extend the metering system to domestic consumers. This has been proposed as a part of the project to build the fourth desalination plant at Perur on the East Coast Road. To monitor mobile water supply and prevent water wastage at distribution stations, filling-post control units and a smart card-based monitoring system have been introduced at 266 filling points at 46 filling stations. Lorry operators will have to use smart cards to draw only the required quantum of water. Though the project has been completed, the system is yet to be implemented in full. In an effort to reduce the stress on freshwater sources, tertiary treatment plants using ultrafiltration, with a capacity to treat 10 million litres a day, are being built at Nesapakkam and Perungudi. The project is aimed at an indirect use of reclaimed water and augmenting water sources. The recycled waste water will be used to recharge two lakes and the water drawn again from these waterbodies will be blended with the existing supply network. Officials note that nearly 84% of the work taken up under the Smart Cities Mission has been completed so far and the process design of the plants has been approved by IIT-Madras. There has been a delay in completion of the work, with the pandemic and the rain being major challenges. The plants are likely to be operational by March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-card-for-a-smart-city/article64990854.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:13 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 3,309 new cases||A total of 3,309 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Coimbatore district on Saturday, which was lower than Friday’s 3,448 cases. The Health Department reported five new deaths as the toll increased to 2,563. As many as 3,684 persons recovered on Friday and the district had 27,086 active cases. As per Friday’s data, the total positivity rate of Coimbatore district was 26.4%. Caseload of Tiruppur district continued to decline on Saturday as 1,649 new cases were reported, which was lower in comparison to Friday’s 1,779 cases. One new death was reported and the toll increased to 1,038. A total of 11,380 were active cases and 1,014 patients recovered from COVID-19 on Friday. The district’s positivity rate was 29.1% as per Friday’s data. The Nilgiris district reported 236 new cases. The death toll of the district remained as 223 as the Health Department did not report any new deaths. The district had 2,333 active cases and 215 patients recovered on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-3309-new-cases/article64991057.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||99 nominations received for civic polls||The TNSEC also announced that if those holding posts in rural local bodies filed their nominations to contest in urban local bodies, provisions were available in the relevant Act to take action towards their disqualification from their old posts, irrespective of whether they secure a win in the urban local body polls. An official release said the undertaking provided by such candidates about their place of residence in their affidavits accompanying their nomination papers would be considered under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994, and if it is established that the candidate doesn't reside in that place, they would be summarily disqualified from their old posts. As Inspectors of Village Panchayats, Collectors would initiate necessary action in this regard, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/99-nominations-received-for-civic-polls/article64990843.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:43 IST,TAMIL NADU||This is Tamil Nadu, not Nagaland, DMK organ tells Governor||“He is not a politician who experienced the climate of politics before becoming a Governor. He was a police officer who was appointed Governor after his retirement. “The police department may require methods of threat and intimidation, and they may yield results there. But they will be of no use in politics, and the Governor should understand that,” the column added.  The Murasoli piece said the argument of the Governor that NEET had increased the number of government school students entering medical colleges was unjustifiable when the entire State was opposing it and the Assembly had adopted a resolution against it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/this-is-tamil-nadu-not-nagaland-dmk-organ-tells-governor/article38347725.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:44 IST,TAMIL NADU||Five deaths, 1,264 new cases in Salem||Salem district reported five COVID-19 deaths and 1,264 fresh cases on Saturday. According to the Health Department officials, 753 cases were indigenous and 336 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 601 new cases, all indigenous, on Saturday. While Krishnagiri reported two deaths and 665 fresh cases, Dharmapuri saw 305 new cases. Erode district reported 1,198 fresh cases, taking the tally to 1,24,885. While 986 persons were discharged, 8,659 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 725.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-deaths-1264-new-cases-in-salem/article38347835.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||Now, it is post-COVID hypoglycaemia||While it is known that COVID-19 can worsen existing diabetes and also trigger new onset of the lifestyle disease in recovered patients, doctors are now seeing post-COVID hypoglycaemia (blood sugar level less than 70 mg/dL) among patients. Doctors say many patients are reporting low sugar levels 10 to 15 days after recovering. Haleema Yezdani, a diabetologist who has been teletriaging and teletreating COVID-19 patients through Project StepOne, said she has been seeing many patients with complaints of weakness a fortnight after recovery. “On checking their random blood sugar level is around 70 mg/dL. This is mainly because of loss of appetite and change in eating habits during and after COVID. In this third wave, severe throat pain is a common symptom and people are unable to eat,” she said. “We had so far seen many non-diabetic patients reporting symptoms of diabetes post COVID and diabetic patients with sudden spikes in their blood sugar levels. But post-COVID hypoglycemia is something new. People should consume healthy food at regular intervals post-COVID,” she said. Abhijit Bhograj, Consultant Endocrinologist at Manipal Hospital (Hebbal), is seeing patients with post-COVID hypoglycemia among both diabetics and non-diabetics. He attributed it to changes in eating patterns. “People are either eating less or not eating on time when on diabetes medication or eating only carbs without any fibre/ protein component during and post infection,” he said. “Some antibiotics can also cause low sugar when combined with older generation diabetes medication,” he added. A. Sharda, consultant endocrinologist at Manipal Hospital (Millers Road), said she has seen post-COVID hypoglycemia in patients, especially if they are on insulin therapy. “We have also seen non-diabetic patients presenting with hypoglycemia two weeks after COVID. Some people have also reported hypoglycemia for ten days post COVID vaccination which was resolved with dietary supplements,” she said. Other complications Brunda M.S., Consultant, Internal Medicine, at Aster CMI Hospital, said some patients who recovered from acute COVID infection are also reporting hair fall and headaches. “COVID can affect various organs of the body and once recovered from the infection the body uses all the energy and nutrition to replenish the damage done,” she said. N.K. Venkataramana, Founder Chairman and Director Neurosciences at Brains Hospital, said neurological complications are the second common post-COVID. “This is because the SARS-CoV-2 virus has the predilection to affect the lungs and the brain due to the presence of S2 receptors in both these areas. As a result the virus can affect the brain and the nervous tissues and cause a variety of complications,” he said. “Nearly 30% of patients develop vague symptoms like heaviness of head, inability to concentrate, lack of focus, disturbed sleep and lack of drive, all put together a syndrome called brain fog. These patients require proper evaluation and symptomatic treatment, lifestyle modification which includes healthy diet, adequate sleep, moderate exercise and avoidance of alcohol and smoking and titration of pre-existing medications,” the doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-doctors-see-post-covid-hypoglycaemia-among-patients/article64990941.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:15 IST,KARNATAKA||Final electoral roll 2022: Women outnumber men in 15 divisions||Women voters have outnumbered men voters in at least 15 electoral divisions out of the 33 in the State, according to the revised final electoral roll 2022 published on January 13. There has been a constant improvement in the gender ratio that has gone up from 958 (per 1,000 male) in the 2013 Assembly elections to 984 this year. It was 960 in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, 963 in 2015 final rolls, and 972 in the 2018 Assembly elections, 976 in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, 981 in the 2020 summary revision, and 984 in the final electoral roll this year. 5.25 crore voters As per the revised final electoral rolls, the total number of voters have increased by 3.27 lakh since 2021. Now, Karnataka has 5.25 crore voters, including 2.60 crore women and 4,715 in the others category. According to information provided by the office of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), female registered voters are remarkably higher than male voters in 15 divisions including Belagavi, Vijayapura, Bagalkote, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Udupi, Uttar Kannada, Shivamogga, Mysuru, and Dakshina Kannada.  A senior official in the office of the CEO told The Hindu that the revision of the electoral roll 2022 began in August 2021 and the final roll was published on January 13. This time, the elector-population ratio of the State (as per the final roll 2022) is 70.76, which means for every 100 voters there are 70.76 voters, the official said.  “During this time’s special summary revision, the total number of voters in some districts including Udupi, Davangere, Tumakuru, Hassan, and Mandya has actually reduced. This is because the voters’ list has been aggressively cleaned up and a lot of duplicates (around 40,000) and dead voters’ (around 28,000) names have been removed. Despite COVID and restrictions, house-to-house surveys were conducted to clean up the list,” said the official. Fighting influences K.S. Vimala of Janawadi Mahila Sangathane said although the rise in enrolment of women voters is a good sign, the challenge is to ensure that they vote. “Participation of women in the polling exercise and voting responsibly and sensibly without being influenced by family members, employers or political leaders is vital,” she said. Attributing the higher enrolment of women voters to migration, she said, “Now during the pandemic, the men in the families move out in search of jobs leaving their wives and children behind. Realising that women are a formidable force in the electoral process, political parties go out of the way to enrol women voters.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/final-electoral-roll-2022-women-outnumber-men-in-15-divisions/article64990932.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Video of assault on woman sparks outrage||A traffic policeman was caught on camera assaulting and abusing a physically challenged woman on the busy J.C. Road after a stone that she was throwing at a towing vehicle hit him instead. The clip shows passers-by trying to intervene even as the policeman continued kicking her. He was later identified as Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) R. Narayana attached to the Halasuru Gate traffic police. Social media The incident occurred three days ago, and the video is being widely circulated on social media. Many people called for action against the ASI for his excessive use of force and foul language. The woman, Manjula, 37, works as a parking lot attendant at one of the service roads off J.C. Road, and lives nearby in a makeshift shelter. She was later bundled into a patrolling vehicle and taken to the jurisdictional S.J. Park Police where she was booked for assaulting a policeman on duty and remanded into judicial custody. The incident occurred when the ASI was doing rounds in a towing vehicle to check for parking violations. While the vehicle was moving on the service road, Manjula hurled stones at the vehicle in a fit of rage, and one of them hit Narayana. In the clip, he is seen getting out of the vehicle and dragging Manjula by her hair. He pushed her to the ground and started assaulting her both physically and verbally. He continued to kick and beat her until a Hoysala reached the spot. ‘Narrow escape’ In his complaint to the S.J. Park police, Narayana claimed he had a narrow escape and that his eye could have been damaged by the stone. Investigations so far have revealed that Manjula lived in a makeshift house on the service road. She eked out a living monitoring the parked vehicles, and would often pick fights with the towing team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/video-of-assault-on-woman-sparks-outrage/article38347662.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||HC protects job of KSRTC driver convicted in minor accident case||Showing leniency to a 40-year-old driver of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), the High Court of Karnataka has not only limited his conviction in a minor road accident case to fine but also made it clear that the conviction will not affect his career with the organisation. Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar passed the order on a criminal revision petition filed by Devendrappa H., a native Shivamogga district. A magistrate court at Belthangady in Dakshina Kannada district in 2019 convicted him under Sections 279 (Rash driving on a public way) and 337 (Causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of IPC for causing the road accident in the narrow stretch of Charmadi Ghat in August 2014. The bus which the petitioner was driving was involved in a collision with a private bus. The magistrate court sentenced him to imprisonment for two months, besides imposing a fine of Rs. 1,500. As the district sessions court in 2021 upheld the magistrate court’s judgment, the petitioner moved the High Court seeking leniency. Noticing from the evidence that the two buses had collided at curve in the ghat section, the High Court modified the conviction order by limiting the sentence to Rs. 1,500 fine while also making it clear that conviction should not be treated as a remark for his employment with KSRTC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-protects-job-of-ksrtc-driver-convicted-in-minor-accident-case/article38347858.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Cong. will have region-specific strategies for 2023 elections’||With just over a year left for the Assembly elections in Karnataka, Congress has appointed former Water Resources Minister and Lingayat leader from Vijayapura district M.B. Patil as chairman of the campaign committee. His appointment is seen as a balancing act to address regional and caste calculations, and comes at a time when Congress seems to be in an upbeat mood following election victories. Excerpts from an interview. Ahead of elections, what plans do you have on the ground? Though I have my own plan, I will come up with a master plan based on the guidance of all leaders in the party. Opinion of youngsters will be sought. My focus will be to get the party back to power as a team. It is not only to come back to power, but also to give good governance and undertake development work. We will showcase the work of Congress Governments of the past that needs to be communicated to people, and bad governance of the BJP Government.  Can you tell us about the campaign strategy? There will be region-specific strategies for which I will have to hold consultations. We will come up with a road map after discussing with others on an action plan.  Will you be focusing on north Karnataka region? As campaign committee head, I cannot be focusing on north Karnataka alone. There will be focus for every region, including south Karnataka, coastal and central Karnataka regions. There will be no bias.  Are Lingayats in north Karnataka looking at Congress as an alternative after BJP forced B.S. Yediyurappa to step down? Everybody is fed up with BJP. Mr. Yediyurappa is the senior leader from the community. He could not complete his term last time, and this time too. There is a feeling of hurt in the community. Veerashaiva-Lingayat community wants to back Congress in a big way. There are a lot of leaders from the community in the Congress, and we will work together. The community also wants to vote for Congress after the Yediyurappa episode.  Will your past association in the Lingayat movement come to haunt you again? No, there was only an ideological difference over the name, but the effort was to unite the whole community. It, however, came close to 2018 elections. I have already clarified six months ago that I am not into it now. We will work for the betterment of the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-will-have-region-specific-strategies-for-2023-elections/article64990936.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Sporting spirit up despite rise in COVID-19 cases in SAI||Despite the surge in COVID-19 cases at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) southern centre here, authorities remain quietly confident that the situation will not spiral out of control. The situation this year is nothing compared to the devastating second wave last summer. According to sources, with no competitions immediately lined up, athletes aren’t unduly worried. “All indoor activities have been cancelled and those inside the facility have been instructed to be more responsible. All national campers and people in the Centre of Excellence have been barred from going out since January 3,” said the source. The formation of COVID-19 clusters inside the SAI centre is in line with cases emerging at multiple sporting sites across the country, all of which operate under varying degrees of restrictions and safety measures. There have been cases in football’s Indian Super League bubble in Goa and at the two back-to-back badminton tournaments in Delhi and Lucknow, the India Open and the Syed Modi International respectively. Earlier this month, the Ranji Trophy preparations of various cricket teams, including Karnataka, were hit because of positive cases. With the pandemic taking hold in much of the country, the tournament itself is set to be cancelled. Those in the know attribute the increase in cases inside SAI to the series of inter-university sporting events that were conducted in December. A few government departments also held meets, which meant there was a constant flow of people in and out of the campus. In recent days, however, protocols have been significantly tightened. There is continuous testing of athletes and staff in weekly and fortnightly cycles, with those returning a positive test entering a 7-day isolation period. “Temperature and pulse oxygen levels are recorded thrice a day and if they are consistent, a test is taken on the sixth or seventh day.”  A coach The Hindu spoke to expressed confidence in the panel that was formed by Regional Director Ritu A. Pathik in early January to closely monitor the implementation of SOPs. “There has not been any case which has required hospitalisation until now. The medical staff with doctors Monika Ghuge and Rashid are in good spirits and the athletes are confident. For emergencies, oxygen cylinders have been made ready,” said the source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sporting-spirit-up-despite-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-sai/article38347654.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Film industry demands lifting 50% occupancy rule for cinemas||The decision of theState Government on not allowing theatres, cinema and multiplexes to function with full capacity has not gone down well with the film industry stakeholders. They say continuing the 50% occupancy rule will deter the producers from releasing new films. Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce has decided to meet the Chief Minister and demand 100% occupancy in cinemas on the lines of what is now allowed for hotels, bars and restaurants. K.V. Chandrashekar, president of Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association, said, “After the outbreak of the pandemic, in the last two years, theatres were completely closed for 14 months due to lockdowns. In the rest of the period, barring for four to five months, theatres were allowed to run with 50% capacity. We have paid all the taxes since the outbreak of the pandemic. The State Government had assured that they would give rebate but local bodies like BBMP are not ready to consider that. Now, they are saying that 50% occupancy will be continued.” He feared that if producers decide to postpone release, they would have no option but to close theatres. ‘Positive sentiment’ However, Rajender Singh Jyala, Chief Programming Officer, INOX Leisure Limited, welcomed the decision of the State Government to lift the night curfew from Monday. “This move will definitely spread a positive sentiment amongst the patrons. Furthermore, as cinema exhibitors, while we are still operating at 50% capacity, the lifting of curfew will also allow us to add more shows and therefore more flexibility and convenience for the audience. We are very optimistic that next month onwards, content producers would also plan their major releases, which should strengthen the film content pipeline in the months to come.” Meanwhile, hoteliers’ association has welcomed the decision to allow full occupancy. Bruhat Bangalore Hotels’ Association president P.C. Rao in a video message thanked the Government for complying with their demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-industry-demands-lifting-50-occupancy-rule-for-cinemas/article64991068.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:15 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Shivakumar hatched plan to deny ticket to Akhanda’||Loyalists of former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah are said to have expressed displeasure on the functioning of KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and alleged that Mr. Shivakumar and his loyalists “hatched a conspiracy” to deny ticket to two-time MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy from Pulikeshinagar constituency in the city. In a video widely shared on social media, former MLA Ashok Pattan is seen telling Mr. Siddaramaiah that loyalists of the KPCC president had “hatched a conspiracy” to deny ticket to Mr. Murthy in the 2023 Assembly elections. Mr. Siddaramaiah is heard saying him, “Let them do… He is a sitting member. Ticket will be denied to him only if there are indications of his defeat. Ultimately what is the outcome?” Before holding a press conference on Saturday, Mr. Pattan is said to have told Mr .Siddaramaiah that former Bengaluru Mayor R. Sampath Raj of the party and Mr. Shivakumar have been making efforts to deny ticket to Mr. Murthy. Speaking to a TV channel, Mr. Murthy said Mr. Shivakumar encouraged groupism in the constituency and hatching a plan to deny him ticket in the 2023 elections. Mr. Murthy’s house was set on fire by some miscreants in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivakumar-hatched-plan-to-deny-ticket-to-akhanda/article38347677.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||Murugan to probe prison irregularities||The State Government on Saturday appointed S. Murugan, Additional Director-General of Police (Communication, Logistics and Modernisation) to probe the irregularities in Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara. Earlier this week, video clips of a rowdysheeter enjoying privileges in his cell and distributing money to jail staff were circulated on social media. Another clip showed canteen staff selling provisions to the inmates. Though prison authorities claimed the clips were old, some of them dating back to 2019, and that prison staff had been suspended, the incident caused much embarrassment to the Government. The Chief Minister ordered a probe. Following this, a senior officer of the rank of DIG, was appointed to conduct a probe. He will now assist Mr. Murugan. The DGP (Prisons) will be updated on the progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/murugan-to-probe-prison-irregularities/article38347859.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||Little change among young voters in State||According to the special summary revision, a total of 4.01 lakh young voters aged below 20 years have enrolled. This includes 1.04 lakh first time voters aged 18. Sources said there is not much change in the enrolment of young voters and in fact the number of first time voters has come down. “This is due to course correction in the enrolment process. People who turn 18 are now allowed to enrol four times a year as per new rules,” a senior official said. Asserting that IT had been used extensively in the summary revision, the official said 76% of the total 6,12,403 forms received for enrolment were online. “We have recorded a 34% increase in online forms as compared to 2020-2021,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-much-change-in-young-voter-enrolment/article38347671.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||CM’s fiat to officials on ‘Grama One’ extension||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has instructed officials to take all measures to extendhis ambitious programme ‘Grama One’ all over the State before February-end. The programme was launched on January 26. The CM has written to officials of e-governance, RDPR, and Revenue departments and Deputy Commissioners of all districts. He instructed the speedy disposal of petitionsreceived at ‘Grama One’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cms-fiat-to-officials-on-grama-one-extension/article38347672.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Drugs worth Rs. 3 crore seized||The Govindapura police on Saturday arrested two foreign nationals for allegedly peddling black MDMA in crystal and liquid form. The police seized drugs worth Rs. 3 crore from them. A team arrested Sixtus Uchec (30) and Chukwudbem Henry (34) while waiting to deliver the drugs to contacts. “They hail from Nigeria, and ran an eatery in Hennur which they used as a cover to pedal drugs and operate a prostitution racket,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drugs-worth-rs-3-crore-seized/article38347661.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Fabric of society has further fragmented’||In the over four years since editor-activist Gauri Lankesh was assassinated on September 5, 2017, the fabric of society has further fragmented with increasing calls for violence and intolerance, said activists, authors and academicians. In a webinar, ‘Hate as a State Project’, to mark the 60th birth anniversary of Ms. Lankesh, guests spoke at length on the current state of society. What started as intolerance of minorities and dissenters, has now grown into hate and open calls for violence and genocide. Those who use violence to exhort and mobilise people, will eventually face a day when language fails to do the trick and actual violence may be inevitable, said academic A. Narayana, at the webinar. Teesta Setalvad, chairperson, Gauri Memorial Trust, said Ms. Lankesh’s journalism exposed how hate had turned into a State project and she was herself a target of hate as both political and state project. She was allegedly killed by those inspired by teachings of a fanatic hindu organisation as she was considered “anti-Hindu”, police investigation claims. According to Mr. Narayana, a regime that comes to power on the plank of political mobilisation, will be forced to implement hate as its policy. But he said we need to pause for a moment before assuming hate is a state project, he added. “I am personally disappointed at how the legislature and political opposition has responded to an array of hate crimes from Sulli deals to the Haridwar Dharma Sansad,” he said, adding the role of the bureaucracy needs a closer study. “I don’t think all is not lost in the judiciary. But there are a few who are resisting this project, their reaction may be selective or delayed,” he said. Ms. Setalvad spoke at length on how the media had become a tool for spreading hate. “Followers of the current regime are armed with hate towards minorities, Dalits and women,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fabric-of-society-has-further-fragmented/article64991061.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Four arrested for robbing people by pretending to sell them property||The Amruthahalli police on Saturday arrested four persons who allegedly robbed people while pretending to sell them property. The accused -- M Nataraju (50) Rakesh (29), Balaji (41) and G Venkatesh (50) -- moved around the city with fake press cards or documents claiming they were human rights activists and convinced people that they could get them sites at low rates, the police said. One of the victims was a businesswoman from Andhra Pradesh. “They promised to get her a site for Rs. 10 lakh in cash last year, and convinced her to meet them with the money. She agreed and on October 25, 2021, travelled to Bengaluru with her driver carrying the cash.The gang took her to an isolated location on the pretext of showing her the site, threatened her at knife-point and escaped with the Rs. 10 lakh,” said the police. Based on her complaint, the police tracked down the gang and recovered gold valuables as well as Rs. 5.8 lakh cash, a car, scooter and the knife they had used. “So far, they have cheated around 10 persons but no complaints have been filed,” said Guruprasad G., Inspector Amruthahalli station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-arrested-for-robbing-people-by-pretending-to-sell-them-property/article38347660.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Corruption is the major achievement of BJP Govt.’||A day after Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai completed six months in office, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said ‘failure and corruption’ were the major achievements of the BJP Government. The Congress leader alleged that the BJP Government is corrupt and had recorded failure on all fronts. The previous Government headed by B.S. Yediyurappa was also corrupt and the same system had continued under the leadership of Mr. Bommai. He cited the kickback charges levelled by the contractors’ association as a case in point. Addressing a media conference in Bengaluru on Saturday, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the Bommai government is nothing but an extension of the one run by former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The Congress would expose corrupt scandals of the BJP Government during the legislature session, which would start on February 14. Mr. Siddaramaiah said the BJP had promised to incur expenditure of Rs. 1.5 lakh crore on irrigation if it was voted to power. Instead of spending Rs. 30,000 crore a year, the government has spent only Rs. 6,300 crore. The State Government’s achievement book is filled with promises such as schemes to upgrade 25 district hospitals, facelift for 750 schools, construction of five lakh houses. But it had nothing to show as its achievements, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corruption-is-the-major-achievement-of-bjp-govt/article38347670.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||Curfew at best can delay spread of Omicron: Study||How effective was this round of weekend and weeknight curfews in slowing down the spread of COVID-19 during the third wave? Will further restrictions reduce hospitalisations and help ease the burden on Bengaluru’s healthcare infrastructure? Simulation models suggest that Omicron eventually spreads and will affect nearly as much of the population as it would have without curfew. These were some of the findings submitted by researchers from the Indian Statistical Institute, Bangalore Centre, and Indian Institute of Science, who collaborated with Biocomplexity Institute, University of Virginia. They found that the pattern of weeknight and weekend curfew, followed by relaxations during the weekday, seems, at best, to slow and delay the spread. Their projections found that if Karnataka’s case trajectory follows the trend of the South African Omicron wave, and hospitalisation is similar to that observed in well-vaccinated countries (2% of confirmed cases), then the healthcare requirement is likely within the capacity of Bengaluru Urban when the caseload peaks — with or without the mobility restrictions. “On the other hand, if Karnataka’s case trajectory follows both the South African Omicron wave trend and the hospitalisation requirement observed there (6.9%), then the healthcare capacity may be exceeded at peak, with or without the mobility restrictions,” said the authors in a paper, that has yet to be peer reviewed. It was published in medRxiv, which distributes unpublished pre-prints. When they ran their models, they found that the reduction in the number of cases due to the mobility restrictions were substantial at the end of January. In the projections where mobility restrictions are in force till March-end, the reduction in peak cases is 9,399 at 30% susceptibility to COVID and 18,326 at 60% susceptibility. “However, the smaller reductions at the end of February 2022 and at the end of March 2022 indicate that the infections eventually rise and come close to the level of when there are no mobility restrictions,” they noted. With no mobility restrictions, the cumulative cases (30% susceptibility) in January 31 is 8.06 lakh, but with 80% mobility, it is noticeably low at 6.84 lakh. The difference is 1.22 lakh. But as the months progress, the difference reduces, and by March 31, it is barely 10,113. A similar trend is seen in projections at 60% susceptibility. To look at whether hospital resources would be stretched, they considered peak cases for various scenarios. For this, the authors took bed availability on January 19 as per Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike records: 7,917 hospital beds and 450 ICU beds with ventilators. If susceptibility is at 30%, and the rate of hospitalisation is 2% as seen in the U.K., the required number of hospital beds when the caseload peaks is 7,328 without mobility restrictions. However, at 60% susceptibility, when hospitalisation remain 2%, the city’s hospital bed capacity is exceeded at peak even with the mobility restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curfew-at-best-can-delay-spread-of-omicron-study/article64991069.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:46 IST,KARNATAKA||Relocation of residents: Efforts on to get funds, says Shettar||The former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar has said that efforts are on to get funds from the Union Government and land from State Government for relocation of people residing in houses located within 100 m of historical monuments in Hubballi. He was speaking to presspersons after inspecting the ongoing works on rejuvenation of Chandramouleshwar temple at Unakal and Banashankari temple at Amaragol in Hubballi on Saturday. The temples date back to the 11th century. Mr. Shettar said these temples were in a state of neglect owing to lack of maintenance. “Both these temples are now being developed under the supervision of experts from the Archaeology Department. As visitors to these temples are gradually increasing, basic amenities are being provided,” he said. The former Chief Minister said houses that were built over a period of time around these historical monuments were posing a problem for proper development and maintenance of them. To address the issue a proposal to relocate the residents was being chalked out and it required assistance from both the Union and State Governments. Once requisite sanctions were received, the relocation would be taken up, he said. Authorities ofthe municipal corporation, and Revenue andArchaeology departments had been asked to conduct a detailed survey of monuments and the properties surrounding them. All steps would be taken to provide basic amenities to those visiting these historical sites, he said. To beginwith, compound walls were being constructed and gardens being raised. Security cover would also be provided, he said. Plans were also being chalked out to attract tourists to these historical sites, he said. MLA Aravind Bellad, municipal Commissioner B. Gopalkrishna, HDMC councillor Rajanna Koravi, tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal, and Reshma Sawanth and B. Pramod from the Archaeology Department were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relocation-of-residents-efforts-on-to-get-funds-says-shettar/article64990970.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Bids invited for leasing railway land in Hubballi||The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has invited bids for leasing out a railway property in Hubballi for mixed-use development (residential and commercial). According to a release issued by Vice-Chairman of the RLDA Ved Parkash Dudeja, a land parcel measuring 52,630 sq. m located at MTS Colony on Karwar Road in Hubbali would be leased for 99 years. In the press release issued on Saturday, he said the permissible FSI for the site for residential purposes is 2.75 and for commercial purposes is 3.0. The pre-bid meeting for the leasing of this land parcel would be held on January 31, while the last date for submission of e-bids is March 15. The total reserve price for this land parcel is Rs. 83 crore, he has said in the release. Located 2 km away from the landmark Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi, the site to be given on leasefalls in the central business district, he has said. “The RLDA is a statutory authority under the Ministry of Railways for the development of railway land. It has four key mandates as a part of its development plan, namely leasing commercial sites, colony redevelopment, station redevelopment, and multi-functional complexes”, Mr. Dudeja has said in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bids-invited-for-leasing-railway-land-in-hubballi/article38347845.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||Know nothing on Savadi’s plan to join Cong.: Satish||KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi on Saturday said he knew nothing about the former Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi joining the Congress. Addressing presspersons in Belagavi on Saturday, he said he knew nothing about Mr. Savadi’s plan to join the Congress. “It might be a development in Bengaluru. I don’t know,” he said. He said that being a Congressman it was not right on his part to comment on the BJP’s internal bickering. On whether the bickering within the BJP would benefit the Congress, he said still there was a year left for the Assembly elections. Reacting to Mr. Satish Jarkiholi’s statement about Gokak not having proper roads, the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said he would resign on the spot and retire from politics if one proved that there were no proper roads inhis constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/know-nothing-on-savadis-plan-to-join-cong-satish/article38347857.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Nargund murder: fair probe, relief sought||Terming the Nargund murderas a consequence ofsystematic forms of automised and targeted violence against Muslims fuelled by hate speeches, a fact-finding team of Bahutva Karnataka, whichvisited the town, has demanded fair investigation, strong police action and requisite compensation to the victims. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Friday, members of the team Shabeer Ahmed, Siddharth Joshi, Mohammed Irshad, Akash Bhattacharya andRajendran Narayanan said that during their visit, inquiry and interaction with various people, it was found that young Muslim boys belonging to economically backward sections were targeted by the members of Sangh Parivar with specific intent to create fear among the minority community for the last several months. “And the silence of the governing dispensation emboldened the rowdy elements of the Sangh Parivar, finally leading to the murder of Sameer Shahpur, while Shamseer Khan suffered grievous injuries,” they said. Elaborating on the sequence of events that led to the murder of one youth, while an attempt was made on the life of another, Mr. Ahmed said that in the last two years there have been a steady rise in instances of hate speeches and harassment of Muslims. “In the last week of November last year, Azim, a college student, was beaten up by what he said members of Bajrang Dal. A few days after that incident, a 17-year-student of Siddeshwar Government College Zayed was taken out of his classroom by a mob comprising members of the ABVP and beaten up. When he rushed to the principal’s chamber to protect himself, the mob assaulted him there also. Zayed’s uncle, who came to the college, was manhandled and was told that Zayed had violent tendencies,” he said. Mr. Joshi said that Arbaaz, a class IX student, was beaten up on the government school premises by members of the ABVP, who, according to him, did not even spare teachers who came to the rescue of the boy.Following a complaint, a man affiliated to the ABVP was arrested, he added. The team members said that on January 6, three men belonging to the RSS harassed a Muslim man at Lodhi Galli and on January 14, they again tried to create unrest and came with a mob carrying lethal weapons leading to tension in the locality. While cases were filed against members of both the communities, only Muslim youths were arrested. Bahutva Karnataka will urge the State Government to immediately initiate strong action against hate speeches, arrest all the offenders, provide protection to the victim families and also compensation,Mr. Bhattacharya and Mr. Narayanan demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nargund-murder-fair-probe-relief-sought/article38347854.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Dabbawala’ launched in Hubballi||‘Dabbawala’, which has started its operations in Mumbai, Delhi, and other cities, has now entered Hubballi and will be initially delivering food, grocery items, and medicines. On Friday,the formal launch of ‘Dabbawala’ was held in the presence of Rajashekhar Shivacharya Swami of Kashi Shakha Mutt in Hubballi and Gavi Siddhalinga Swami of Konnur. Director of KSSIDC S.C. Patil, personality development trainer Gururaj Patil, Ajay Joshi, and others were present. Proprietor of ‘Dabbawala’ in Hubballi Chandrashekhar Hiremath said initially they would be operating in a radius of 8 km. Dr. Gururaj Patil said that one could download ‘Dabbawala’ mobile application, register, and avail of services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dabbawala-launched-in-hubballi/article38347847.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Workshop on competitive exams||Karnataka State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University, Gadag, has organised a two-day free workshop on IAS, KAS, PSI, PDO, FDA, SDA, GROUP-C, IBPS, BANK PO, JRF, NET, KSET, and other competitive exams and has requested interested candidates to register for the workshop before February 2. Registration can be done by either filling Google form https://forms.gle/ MQn67775t3tfzzpv8 or by contactingPraveen Ankalkoti (8095451616) or Aravind Adargunchi (9731696528).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workshop-on-competitive-exams/article38347846.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Dalit outfits plan protest rally to seek action against Raichur judge||Dalit and progressive organisations have planned a massive rally in Kalaburagi on January 31 to condemn the removal of a portrait of B.R. Ambedkar from the dais during the 73rd Republic Day celebrations in the premises of the district court on Raichur, and demand legal action against Principal District and Sessions Judge Mallikarjun Gouda, who had allegedly got the portrait removed before unfurling the national flag. At a media conference in Kalaburagi on Saturday, Vittal Doddamani, a senior Dalit leader, said that the protest march would commence from Nagareshwar School in Gunj and culminate at the district administrative complex. He said that removal of Mr. Gouda from service and stringent legal action against him would be the major demands. “Removing Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s portrait before hosting the national flag is an insult not just to the architect of the Indian Constitution but to the entire nation. The Principal District and Sessions Judge, who got the portrait removed before he hoisted the national flag, is responsible for this grave misconduct. He should immediately be removed from service and legal action be imitated against him... On the same day, the Kalaburagi district administration celebrated Republic Day without placing the portraits of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhiji. District In-charge Minister Murugesh Nirani, who hoisted the national flag, was evasive when asked about it. He should immediately be dropped from the Council of Ministers,” Mr. Doddamani said. Malleshi Sajjan, a senior lawyer, appealed to the Chief Justice of Karnataka to give permission for prosecuting the Raichur judge who, he said, had tarnished judicial sanctity. “The High Court’s prior permission is required to prosecute a judicial officer, and the process for obtaining it is on. The Raichur judge had not just failed to discharge his duties as a responsible judicial officer but tarnished the image and sanctity of the judiciary by insulting the architect of the Indian Constitution. The people of the country may lose faith in the judiciary if no action is taken against erring judicial officers,” Mr. Sajjan said. Arjun Bhadre, a Dalit leader, said that removal of Dr. Ambedkar’s portrait during Republic Day celebrations was part of a well-thought-out design by right-wing forces to make Dr. B.R. Ambedkar and his thoughts irrelevant. “Right-wing forces led by RSS [Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh] are gaining an upper hand, and controlling politics in India. The BJP governments in the State and Centre are following diktat from the RSS headquarters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dalit-outfits-plan-protest-rally-to-seek-action-against-raichur-judge/article64990964.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Set up industries or return land to farmers at Kuditini: Hussein||Rajya Sabha member Syed Nasir Hussein has demanded that the Government either establish the proposed industries at Kuditini in Ballari district or return the land acquired from farmers for the purpose to allow the land-losers to take up agricultural activities on the land. At a press conference at his office in Ballari on Saturday, the Congress leader alleged that the Government had acquired large tracts of agricultural land from farmers at Kuditini and handed over them to big corporate companies such as Arcelor Mittal which had not established any industrial units and given assured jobs to the land-losers. “My demand to either establish proposed industries on the land acquired or return the land to farmers should not be misunderstood. The Congress has always stood in support of the industrial development of the State and the country. My demand is plain and straightforward. Corporate companies should immediately establish their industrial units on the land they had obtained from the Government or the Government should take back the land from the companies and return them to the original owners so that they can, at least, start agricultural activities,” Mr. Hussein said, warning of a protest if the Government would not consider his demand. Highway work Training his guns at the ruling party legislators and parliamentarians over the development of Ballari and Vijayanagara districts, Mr. Hussein said the work on National Highway 63 continued to be paralysed with a lack of funds as the lawmakers from the ruling party showed little interest in the project. “The work on National Highway 63 is being dragged for the last several years simply because the required funds are not released. When members of the Ballari Chamber of Commerce and Industry came to Delhi with the issue, I had taken them to the Minister and the officers and sought necessary action. But, nothing much happened after that. We have discharged our duties as the members of the Opposition but parliamentarians of the ruling BJP have failed to exert pressure on the Government and get the required funds released for the project,” Mr. Hussein said demanding the BJP parliamentarians to act upon the issue before the presentation of the Union Budget. When asked about the pending elections to the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor of Ballari City Municipal Corporation, Mr. Hussein alleged that the ruling BJP was trying to capture power in the civic body through illegal means as it did not have majority. “The elections are being postponed in the name of COVID-19. It is a strange thing that the pandemic is not an obstacle for conducting the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and other States. It is very clear that the BJP, which doesn’t have enough members to capture power in the civic body, has postponed the mayoral elections on the pretext of COVID-19 just to buy time to arrange the required number of members to capture power in the civic body. I have talked to the Regional Commissioner of Kalaburagi Division and appealed to him to hold the elections before or after the Parliament sessions scheduled for February 1-11,” Mr. Hussein said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/set-up-industries-or-return-land-to-farmers-at-kuditini-hussein/article64990965.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Man falls into open well, dies||A 30-year-old farmer died after falling into an open well at his field at Tellur village in Afzalpur taluk of Kalaburagi district on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Mallikarjun Madival. He was also a teacher. According to the sources, Mallikarjun accidentally slipped while climbing down the well to draw water required for mixing with pesticides for sprinkling on the standing crop. The Ganagapur police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-falls-into-open-well-dies/article38347853.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:47 IST,KARNATAKA||Five COVID-19 deaths in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi district reported five COVID-19 deaths on Saturday, followed by the twin districts of Ballari and Vijayanagara — four deaths, and Raichur — two deaths. As per the information provided by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Ballari-Vijayanagara reported 602 new cases of COVID-19 and 902 recoveries, taking the number of active cases in the district to 5,702. Kalaburagi reported 577 new cases and 1,136 recoveries, taking the number of active cases to 5,558.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-covid-19-deaths-in-kalaburagi/article38347848.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:24 IST,KARNATAKA||MP releases IOC’s composite LPG cylinders in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel released the new ‘Indane composite LPG cylinders’ of the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi markets, in Mangaluru on Saturday. These cylinders, available in 5 kg and 10 kg variants, are lighter than conventional cylinders and help customers to know the level of gas in advance. These cylinders are lightweight because they are made up of polymer composite. They will only have half the weight of a standard metallic cylinder currently being distributed. Their transportation is easy when compared with traditional cylinders, a release from the office of the MP said. The safety features guarantee that if a fire breaks out, the cylinder would not explode. Consumers can also measure how much gas is left in the cylinder. The composite cylinders come with a translucent body that enables customers to accurately check the LPG liquid level against the light. These cylinders do not corrode or rust unlike their metal equivalents and therefore there are fewer chances of they leaving stains and marks, it said. The composite cylinder has a more visually appealing and fresh design. The cylinders are now available at all the Indane distributors in Daskhin Kannada and Udupi districts. The 10 kg variant is marketed only under the domestic non-subsidized category whereas the 5 kg variant is available under the domestic non-subsidized category and as free trade LPG (FTL) through various point of sale. Security deposit The security deposit for the domestic non-subsidised category is Rs. 3,350 for the 10 kg variant and Rs. 2,150 for the 5 kg variant. Indane customers can replace their existing steel cylinder with the state-of-the-art composite cylinder by paying the difference in security deposit, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mp-releases-iocs-composite-lpg-cylinders-in-dk-udupi/article64990993.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:24 IST,KARNATAKA||Ullal taluk office will formally function from March: Khader||The newly formed Ullal Taluk Office will formally start functioning at Natekal from March, Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader said here on Saturday. Mr. Khader told reporters that in 2018 then Chief Minister H.D. Kumarswamy announced the formation of Ullal taluk by carving out 14 villages from Mangaluru taluk and 13 villages from Bantwal taluk. An elaborate procedure was involved in getting financial approval and also the allocation of staff. A few days ago, Bhoomi Online, which is related to land records, was updated to bring the 27 villages in Ullal taluk. Among the areas of Mangaluru taluk that are now part of Ullal taluk are Ullal, Someshwar, Permannur, Talapady, Kotekar, Munnur, Amblamogaru, Pavoor, Manjanady, and Kenya. The areas of Bantwal taluk included in Ullal taluk are Naringana, Kairangala, Ira, Sajipanadu, and Pajeer. The MLA said he would propose the inclusion of Meramajal, Pudu, and Thumbe in Ullal taluk after completion of the work of constructing a bridge between Sajipa and Thumbe. Health centre building Mr. Khader said a request had been made for the allocation of the old building of the primary health centre at Natekal for the office of the new taluk. The Health Department, which initially refused, recently granted the building to the Revenue Department. The same building would be used as taluk office. The Mangaluru MLA said wiring and other works related to basic infrastructure would start from Monday. “We hope to formally start functioning as the new taluk from March,” he said. New tahsildar and other staff members are being posted,” he added. MoU Mr. Khader said the State Government on Thursday approved the memorandum of understanding between the district administration and Yenepoya Hospital for allowing the latter to provide secondary healthcare services from the upgraded Community Health Centre. The Yeneopya Hospital would depute its doctors to provide free services. Those requiring specialised treatment would be sent to Government Wenlock and other hospitals, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ullal-taluk-office-will-formally-function-from-march-khader/article64990989.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:24 IST,KARNATAKA||MRPL posts Rs. 969 crore net profit in third quarter||Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) posted a net profit of Rs. 969 crore during the third quarter of 2021-22 against a loss of Rs. 76 crore in the corresponding period in 2020-21. The gross revenue from operations stood at Rs. 25,238 crore during the Q3 of 2021-22 against Rs. 14,136 crore in the third quarter of 2020-21. Multiple initiatives have been taken to improve revenue from marketing margins in domestic, exports and B2B arrangements. The gross refining margin (GRM) of the company stood at $9.29 a barrel during Q3 of 2021-22 as against $3.26 a barrel in the corresponding period of the previous year. GRM is the difference between the price of crude oil and the end products. The throughput of the refinery was 4.37 million tonnes (mt) during the reporting quarter as against 3.08 mt in the corresponding period in 2020-21. The company achieved crude throughput of 116.44% in capacity utilisation. Highest production of polypropylene and petrol was achieved in October and December of Q3 of 2021-22. Highest dispatch of LPG was also achieved during the quarter. MRPL commissioned a desalination plant during December 2021. This plant will mitigate one of the major risks faced by the company with respect to water availability. Apart from this, new HSD (high-speed diesel) tanks, along with the new HSD coastal line to jetty, were commissioned during the quarter. The company commissioned FCC gasoline treatment unit during the quarter as part of the BS VI project, and stabilised and operated beyond 100% of the design capacity producing additional about 25 TMT (thousand metric tonnes) per month of motor spirit (petrol). The company informed the stock exchange that demand for petroleum products was lower during the first half of 2021-22 due to Covid-19-related lockdowns, resulting in lower crude throughput. However, demand for petroleum products has improved during the third quarter of 2021-22 as compared to previous quarter of the current fiscal, resulting in higher throughput. The management has assessed the potential impact of Covid-19 based on the current circumstances and expects no significant impact on the continuity of operations of the business on long-term basis, on useful life of assets, and on long-term financial position.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mrpl-posts-rs-969-crore-net-profit-in-third-quarter/article38348004.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:24 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Udupi Regional Transport Office facing staff crunch’||The Regional Transport Office (RTO) in Udupi is facing an acute shortage of staff with 22 of the 36 sanctioned posts lying vacant, according to the Udupi Regional Transport Officer J.P. Gangadhar. At a meet-the-press programme at Udupi Press Club on Saturday, he said that notwithstanding the shortage of staff, the RTO collected revenue of Rs. 93.55 crore from April to December in 2021 as against the revenue target of Rs. 120 crore for 2021–22. It had met 91.95% of the revenue target fixed for 2020–21 by collecting Rs. 128.77 crore, he said. All the four Group D posts were lying vacant in the office, he said. The RTO said that an Assistant RTO’s post and two posts of senior motor vehicle inspector were lying vacant. Of the five posts of motor vehicle inspector, four were filled. The post of finance superintendent was also lying vacant. Of the six posts of first division assistant, only two were filled. Of the eight posts of second division assistants, only two had been filled, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-regional-transport-office-facing-staff-crunch/article64990986.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:24 IST,KARNATAKA||‘C.M. Ibrahim will remain in Congress’||Senior politician C.M. Ibrahim will remain in the Congress and there is no question of him leaving the party, said Mangaluru MLA and former Minister U.T. Khader here on Saturday. He told reporters that Mr. Ibrahim appears to be in a huff with the party as some of his aspirations had not been fulfilled. “It is with pain he has mentioned about leaving the Congress. I am certain he will not leave the party.” Mr. Ibrahim is a senior leader and is in touch with people in party high command. He would be pacified and retained in the party. Mr. Khader said Mr. Ibrahim would certainly not join the Janata Dal (Secular), which had treated him badly. On Mr. Ibrahim’s statement that he had been neglected in the Congress, Mr. Khader said the Congress had given Mr. Ibrahim all the honour that he deserved. He was slated to be given more important responsibilities in the party, Mr. Khader added. ‘We are united’ The Congress was united and there were no groups in the State unit. “We are certain of winning majority of seats in the Assembly elections and form a government in Karnataka,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-ibrahim-will-remain-in-congress/article38348002.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:24 IST,KARNATAKA||Ten deaths, 1,206 new cases in two districts||Dakshina Kannada reported five COVID-19 deaths and 627 new cases, including 40 from two clusters, on Saturday. With 795 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 4,792. Test positivity rate (TPR) was put at 7.7%. With 13,620 people getting vaccinated, the total number in Dakshina Kannada has reached 31.92 lakh of which 17.32 lakh have taken the first dose and 14.29 the second. As many as 30,529 people have taken the precautionary dose so far. In Udupi district, five COVID-19 patients died and 579 new cases were reported. Of these, 346 patients are symptomatic while 233 patients are asymptomatic. With 1,036 patients discharged, the active cases stood at 5,642. The TPR was 18.29%. As many as 10.1 lakh people have taken the first dose, 8.54 lakh their second, and 24,018 people have taken precautionary dose so far in Udupi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ten-deaths-1206-new-cases-in-two-districts/article38347999.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:24 IST,KARNATAKA||129 gm of gold seized at airport||The Customs sleuths on Saturday seized 129.5 grams of 24 carat gold from a passenger at the Mangaluru International Airport. According to a tweet by Mangaluru Customs, the gold was in the form of a small ring-shaped circular split washer type objects coated with silver material. These objects were concealed in steel type push-buttons stitched to kidswear. Value The seized gold was worth Rs. 6.42 lakh, the tweet mentioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/129-gm-of-gold-seized-at-airport/article38347648.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:24 IST,KARNATAKA||PG student suspended||A postgraduate medical student was placed under suspension for allegedly playing a video game while on duty in the Government Wenlock Hospital a few days ago. The student is among several from a private college providing clinical services at the hospital. On January 23 night, the student was found playing a video game while on duty in the casualty block of the hospital. The video of his conduct went viral on social media. In a statement, Hospital Superintendent and District Surgeon Sadashiva Shanbhog said an inquiry was conducted and the college management placed the student under suspension. The student has also been warned, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pg-student-suspended/article38347998.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:24 IST,KARNATAKA||Minister lauds work of association||Appreciating the efforts of Dakshina Kannada Pre University Principals Association (DKPUPA) in providing quality education to students, Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh on Thursday said that the association is a model that has remained committed to the cause of pre university students. Speaking at the launch of the association’s 2022 diary in Bengaluru, he said some of the district principals associations in the State have restricted themselves only to releasing diaries and their concerns have been about salaries of principals. The Dakshina Kannada association stands out for its initiative to associate with the State Government in providing quality education to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-lauds-work-of-association/article38348003.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:24 IST,KARNATAKA||Man dies at Someshwar||A 29-year-old man from Ranipura at Munnuru village in Mangaluru taluk died while trying to save his friend who had jumped into the sea at Someshwar on Friday evening. The Ullal police gave the name of the deceased Lloyd D’Souza. The police said D’Souza had come to the Someshwar beach along with his friends Ashwitha and Daklin Vegas. Following discussion among the three, Ashwitha reportedly jumped into the sea. D’Souza too jumped to rescue Ashwitha. The local fishermen and lifeguards rushed to rescue the two. The two were taken to a nearby private hospital where D’Souza was declared brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-dies-at-someshwar/article38347991.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:24 IST,KARNATAKA||29mn_Briefly||There will be no power supply in New Field Street, Car Street, Mahammayi Temple Road, Puttu Prabhu Lane, and Gayathri Temple Road in the city on January 31 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is for maintenance works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/29mnbriefly/article64990995.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||Hurdles in work on greenfield highway to Madikeri reviewed||A review meeting to identify major hurdles in expediting the greenfield highway to Madikeri branching off from Paschimavahini near Srirangapatna, was held here on Saturday The greenfield project, which is parallel to the existing highway from Mysuru to Kushalnagar, is being implemented by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) at a cost of nearly Rs. 3,823 crore and has a new alignment bypassing major towns. The review meeting was attended by Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, Chamundeshwari MLA G.T. Deve Gowda and others and Mr. Simha said that the lessons learnt in the ongoing works of Bengaluru-Mysuru Expressway have come in handy to avoid certain pitfalls. He said even if the tenders for the project are awarded, the works cannot commence until 80 per cent of the land acquisition process is complete. Though the acquisition process was underway and compensation was also being disbursed, there were certain permits and clearances required from different agencies besides shifting of civic amenities that lie in the alignment of the proposed highway. The issue of paying compensation to land awarded as grants to Scheduled Tribes, also needs to be settled. The meeting was attended by Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Goutham and revenue officials from Mysuru, Hunsur and Periyapatana taluks, Deputy Directors of Land Records etc. Mr. Goutham instructed the officials to obtain the clearance from CESC, Irrigation Department, Forest Department, KPTCL etc., and comply with the requirements for the highway construction within a month. The telephone and power poles have to be shifted while suitable compensation has to be fixed for land acquired from farmers. High tension wire which criss-cross the highway alignment have to be shifted for which both CESC and KPTCL has to be brought into the loop, said Mr. Simha. ‘’The clearances from various departments have to be obtained within a month and such review meetings will take place periodically to assess the progress’’, he added. The project has been divided into three packages and under the first package, the road starts at Madikeri from General Thimmaiah Circle and ends at the beginning of the Kushalnagar bypass after Anekadu forest. The total length of this package is 22.70 km. The second package commences from Guddeshosur after Anekadu forest and ends at the junction of State Highway 86 Ramanathapura-Terkanambhi Road. The total length of the second package is 45.4 km. The third package starts at Ramanathapura-Terakanambi Road Junction and ends near Paschimavahini and the total length of the package is 46.935 km. It bypasses Hunsur, Bilikere, Elavala and Mysuru before ending at Paschimavahini. The project envisages the new highway to be linked with the ongoing Bengaluru-Mysuru Expressway near Srirangapatna and will provide a four-lane connectivity to Madikeri. Cities and towns including Mysuru, Hunsur, Periyapatna, Kushalnagar and Suntikoppa will be bypassed and will reduce the traveling time from Bengaluru to Madikeri besides providing for greater safety as the tolled road will be four-laned with paved shoulder and divider, according to NHAI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hurdles-in-work-on-greenfield-highway-to-madikeri-reviewed/article64990947.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||Tourism stakeholders welcome easing of COVID-19 curbs||Stakeholders in the tourism and hospitality sector in Mysuru have welcomed the government’s decision to lift night curfew besides easing certain COVID-19 related restrictions that were in place. The hospitality sector whose fortunes are linked to the revival of tourism was peeved when the government lifted the weekend curfew but insisted on a 50 per cent occupancy rule for hotels, bars and pubs. But Saturday’s decision revoking the rule, has evoked positive response and the stakeholders aver it will help revive tourism and address livelihood issue. Tourism is one of the major economic drivers of Mysuru generating nearly 50,000 to 60,000 direct and indirect jobs and the sector has spanned 415 hotels apart from bars and restaurants. The COVID-19 restrictions affected the sector the most and though there were signs of revival since October 2021, the onset of the third wave and the introduction of the weekend curfew neutralised the gains. That the slowdown in the tourism and travel was real was also evident in the decline in the footfall in Mysuru palace and other places of interest while the inbound and outbound passenger traffic by rail and air also declined. So much so that in the second week of January, out of nearly 10,300 rooms available for tourists, hardly around 200 were occupied and the occupancy rates were the lowest ever, according to the stakeholders. Karnataka Tourism Society which represents the stakeholders in the travel, tourism and hospitality sector at the State level, had also pleaded with the government to lift the curbs to enable the economy to gain traction. The industry, they said, had shrunk and the job loss was pegged at 5 lakh and the revenue loss to the industry over 18 months was pegged at Rs. 75,000 crore, according to the Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourism-stakeholders-welcome-easing-of-covid-19-curbs/article64990943.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||Piped gas project: war of words continues||The war of words between elected representatives of the BJP in Mysuru over the piped gas project continued to rage on Saturday with Pratap Simha, MP, hitting out at party MLAs representing Krishnaraja and Chamaraja constituencies in Mysuru S. A. Ramdas and L. Nagendra. After clarifying that the dug-up roads will be repaired by the company that had been entrusted with the project to lay the gas pipeline, Mr. Simha questioned the two MLAs over their silence when the roads had been dug up earlier by JUSCO, a private company that implemented a water management project, or by private telecom service providers. While Mr. Ramdas had served earlier also as MLA, Mr. Nagendra had served as a corporator of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), the MP pointed out. Mr. Simha also mocked at Mr. Nagendra’s claim that roads had been laid in his constituency at a cost of Rs. 300 crore and wondered whether he had managed to get such a huge amount of money sanctioned for his constituency. The roads laid in his constituency were of such poor quality that they would wear off in less than a year’s time. While questioning Mr. Nagendra if he had brought at least Rs. 30 crore for his constituency, Mr. Simha asked the Chamaraja MLA to use his good offices to bring funds for the development of K.R. Hospital which was infested with mosquitoes and affected by dog menace. The MP claimed credit for the repair of the water storage tank in Chamaraja constituency, besides bringing the Passport Seva Kendra (PSK) that has avoided the need for people in Mysuru to go to the PSK in Bengaluru for renewing their passports and other related work. Mr. Simha said the flights to Goa, which had facilitated a few MLAs from the city to take their followers on a trip, had been brought by him. Mr. Simha also claimed credit for asphalting the Outer Ring Road, besides the ongoing widening of Mysuru-Bengaluru highway. In contrast, Mr. Simha said Mr. Nagendra’s predecessor and former MLA Vasu, who brought Jayadeva Hospital, district hospital and other facilities to Chamaraja, had been modest despite his achievements. The MP also turned his guns on Krishnaraja MLA S.A. Ramdas and said that it was because of his (Mr. Simha’s) efforts that the residents of the constituency were relieved of the foul and nauseating odour emanating from the piles of garbage at the waste treatment plant at Vidyaranyapuram. He said he was instrumental in taking up a project to clear the more than 3 lakh tonnes of legacy waste piled up across several acres of land at the treatment plant for the last several years. While regretting the opposition to the piped gas project from MLAs of Krishnaraja and Chamaraja constituencies, Mr. Simha said there was no such objection from either Narasimharaja MLA Tanveer Sait belonging to the Congress party or Chamundeshwari MLA G.T. Deve Gowda, who is technically a JD(S) MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/piped-gas-project-war-of-words-continues/article38348019.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Roads will be repaired by private company’||Mysuru MP Pratap Simha on Saturday said that the company entrusted with the task of laying the pipeline for supplying cooking gas directly to homes will repair the roads in the city that will be dug up. Addressing a press conference after party MLAs from Mysuru – S.A. Ramdas representing Krishnaraja constituency and L. Nagendra representing Chamaraja – expressed concern over the damage to the roads, he said the State Government has already issued orders on the fees and specifications for repair of roads that will be dug up. The road cutting charges vary based on the roads – cement road, asphalted road, mud road, major district roads etc. The State Government’s order issued in 2020 has fixed Rs. 1,857 for repair of every metre of road where open trenches had been dug up and Rs. 700 for every metre of horizontal directional drilling, besides Rs. 100 per metre as supervision charges in City Corporation limits. The private company will not only fill up the trenches the same evening, but will ensure that the roads are fully repaired as per the local body’s technical specifications within one week of digging, Mr. Simha said. The task will not be entrusted to any contractor, but executed by the private company to ensure safety of the gas pipeline. In Mysuru, a total of 539 km of roads, particularly in Chamaraja segment, is expected to be dug up in the first phase of the project. The areas include Gokulam, Brindavan Extension, Metagalli, Vijayangar, Yadavgiri, Jayalakshmipuram, Paduvarahalli, Gangothri Extension, K.G. Koppal, Janata Nagar, T.K. Layout, Kuvempungar, Lakshmikanthnagar, Machegowdanakoppal, Mahadeshwaranagar, Hebbal, and Kumbarakoppal. Mr. Simha said the project enjoys several advantages over the present system of supplying LPG in cylinders that include safety and cost factors.While piped gas, which comes directly to the houses, is Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) that is lighter than LPG that is supplied in cylinders. In the event of a leakage, the LPG tends to explode. But, LNG, which is lighter than air, escapes into the atmosphere without causing any explosion, he claimed. Mr. Simha said the piped gas comes at a cost that is almost 40 to 45 per cent less than LPG. While one 14.2 kg cylinder costs Rs. 904, an equal quantity of LNG when supplied to houses comes at Rs. 500 to 550. Another advantage of piped LNG supplied to houses is that the consumers need not book their cylinders and wait. The present LPG cylinders, after reaching the agency, are put in autorickshaw or other vehicles to be delivered to the houses of the consumers. “The delivery man often demands Rs. 30 to Rs. 40 as delivery charge. Also, in houses where both the husband and wife works, one of them need to compulsorily stay home on the day of the delivery to receive the cylinder. But, with piped gas one can avoid all these hassles”, Mr. Simha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/roads-will-be-repaired-by-private-company/article38348016.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||GTD, Manje Gowda lock horns||JD(S) MLA G.T. Deve Gowda was engaged in a tiff with newly elected party MLC C.N. Manje Gowda. It happened when Mr. Manje Gowda turned up for the foundation stone saying ceremony for the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadaj Yojane at Goruru village in Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency in Mysuru on Friday, which was attended by Mr. Deve Gowda and Pratap Simha, MP. After Mr. Deve Gowda, who has distanced himself from the JD(S), reportedly took objection to Mr. Manje Gowda’s presence at the function, the latter hit out at the former for questioning his participation in a “government function”. Mr. Manje Gowda said he was invited by officials. “Mr. Deve Gowda asked me why I had to come…”, and that “I was poking my nose”. According to Mr. Manje Gowda, Mr. Deve Gowda also referred to former Minister and JD(S) leader S.R. Mahesh as his “maharaja”. Mr. Manje Gowda, who took objection to Mr. Deve Gowda’s words, sought to remind the latter that the programme was a “government function” and he was ‘insulting’ the protocol by asking him not to attend it. Mr. Deve Gowda said he was not aware about the protocol. “All the MLAs perform such foundation stone laying ceremonies. Why should the MLC attend such functions?” Though Mr. Deve Gowda sought to clarify that he was not frustrated over Mr. Manje Gowda’s victory, he said the JD(S) MLC had won by a very small margin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gtd-manje-gowda-lock-horns/article38348012.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||Farmers, tribals submit wish list||Stakeholders from Karnataka, including farmers and tribals, have submitted a wish list to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai seeking funds under specific heads for their collective welfare in the ensuing State Budget. The Federation of State Farmers’ Associations want crop insurance to be extended to all agricultural produce instead of restricting it to a few crops as at present. It also wanted a statutory guarantee for minimum support price for agricultural crops besides a change in the law governing agricultural loans. Kurubur Shanthakumar, president of the Federation, said loan disbursal should be more liberal in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the amount sanctioned should be based on the landholding of individual farmers. Mr. Shanthakumar urged the government to withdraw GST on all agriculture-related equipment, machinery, seeds, pesticide, insecticide, and fertiliser. The fair and remunerative price for sugarcane should be reflective of the cost of cultivation, he said and urged the Government to ensure that farmers receive their share of the revenue accruing from sugarcane by-products. The Adivasis in Mysuru region had convened their own ‘parliament’ at Hunsur recently where they passed a resolution seeking Rs. 512 crore in the forthcoming State Budget for rehabilitation of tribal communities. A memorandum containing the wish list submitted to the government drew attention to the High Court order on rehabilitation of 3,418 tribal families. The tribals want the State to announce a package under which each family would be allotted 5 acres of land besides Rs. 15 lakh cash compensation. The government was urged to earmark 17,090 acres of land for rehabilitation and Adivasis want 32 taluks in 9 districts in the Western Ghats region to be declared as a notified tribal area.This, the tribals said, would be a step forward towards self-governance. They also want approach roads to 219 tribal haadis, or hamlets, and pointed out that, out of them, 200 hamlets are out of forest land and hence eligible to be declared as revenue villages. In addition, they want the government to provide amenities and construct 4,000 new houses as the existing houses are in a dilapidated condition. The other demands included establishment of a tribal university to study, document and foster the tribal community and their way of life and culture, shoring up the quality of education imparted in tribal residential schools besides enhancement of pension, and encouragement to indigenous and tribal medicinal systems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-tribals-submit-wish-list/article38347659.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||Portrait issue: MP seeks probe by HC||Taking objection to the reported removal of Dr. B.R. Ambekdar’s portrait from the dais during the Republic Day function at Raichur, former Minister and BJP MP V. Srinivas Prasad said the Karnataka High Court should conduct an inquiry into the matter and take appropriate steps. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Mr. Prasad said the act of the Principal District and Sessions Judge of Raichur to remove a portrait that was already there was “unpardonable”. He said the State Government should ask the district administration of Raichur to submit a report on the matter and forward it to the High Court and facilitate a probe. Working president of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee R. Dhruvanarayan has also sought a comprehensive probe into the reported removal of the portrait from the dais.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/portrait-issue-mp-seeks-probe-by-hc/article38348015.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||No night curfew from tomorrow||Darshan and other services at religious places would be allowed with an entry limit of 50 people. Pools, gyms Similarly, swimming pools and gyms would be allowed to operate with 50% capacity. Sports complexes and stadiums too can hold events with 50% capacity. After the meeting, Minister for Revenue R. Ashok told presspersons that hospitalisation and deaths were low compared to the second wave. Positivity rate The meeting also took stock of the prevailing positivity rates in neighbouring States of Kerala, Maharashtra, and Goa and decided to strictly impose restrictions to control the spread of the pandemic. All passengers and students arriving to the State would have to produce COVID-19 negative reports, he said. The meeting also decided to reserve 10% of beds in private hospitals for treatment of those infected by COVID-19. In schools Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh said if positive cases were reported in a class, only that class would remain closed and not the entire school. Students of that class would undergo a test for COVID-19, he said. All schools have been instructed to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. The Deputy Commissioner of the district has been empowered to take decisions on closure of schools for three to five days depending on the number of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-night-curfew-from-tomorrow/article38347655.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:14 IST,KARNATAKA||No night curfew from tomorrow||The meeting also took stock of the prevailing positivity rates in Kerala, Maharashtra, and Goa and decided to strictly impose restrictions to control the spread of the pandemic. All passengers and students arriving to the State would have to produce COVID-19 negative reports, he said. Reserving beds The meeting also decided to reserve 10% of beds in private hospitals for treatment of those infected by COVID-19. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh said if positive cases were reported in a class, only that class would remain closed and not the entire school. Students of that class would undergo a test for COVID-19. All schools have been instructed to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. The Deputy Commissioner of the district has been empowered to take decisions on closure of schools for three to five days depending on the number of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-night-curfew-from-tomorrow/article38347856.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:58 IST,KARNATAKA||State reports 70 COVID deaths in one day||Bengaluru Urban district accounted for 16,586 cases, followed by Mysuru with 2,431 cases. Tumakuru, Dharwad and Haasan reported over a thousand cases each. The positivity rate for the day was 19.37% while the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) jumped to 0.20%. There are currently 2,52,132 active cases in the State, while the number of discharges is 69,902. The total number of discharges to date is 34,65,995. A total of 1,72,062 tests, including 1,29,779 RT-PCR tests were conducted, taking the total samples tested to 6.15 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-70-covid-deaths-in-one-day/article64991065.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:15 IST,KARNATAKA||Bonhomie||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bonhomie/article64990931.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:24 IST,KARNATAKA||29mn_Engagements||Mangaluru Atmashakthi Multipurpose Cooperative Society Ltd.: Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar  inaugurates new building of the society, Padil, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/29mnengagements/article38347996.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:13 IST,KERALA||Alappuzha bypass to get cams||The 6.8-km Alappuzha bypass road has turned out to be accident-prone. The stretch has witnessed several accidents since its opening a year ago, leaving many injured and at least half a dozen dead. According to officials, a good number of crashes were caused by speeding. In view of the increasing number of accidents, a meeting of the District Development Committee, chaired by District Collector A. Alexander, on Saturday decided to hasten the process of installing surveillance cameras on the road. Officials said the cameras would help identify errant drivers. Directve to NHAI The issue was raised at the meeting by H. Salam, MLA, and it was decided to check the possibility of obtaining the necessary amount for installing cameras from the MP and the MLA funds. The Collector recently visited the accident-prone spots of Eravukadu, Kommady Junction, Kalarcode Junction, among other places, along the bypass road. He later directed the National Highways Authorities of India (NHAI) to immediately take steps to prevent accidents and make the road safer. Mr. Alexander asked the authorities concerned to set up speed breakers at Malikamukku and Eravukadu. Bus stops at Kommady and Kalarcode will be shifted to safer locations. A service road near Kommady Junction will be made operational for vehicles to enter the bypass road. Besides, road safety signboards will be installed at various spots. "We hope speed breakers, shifting of bus stops and the installation of surveillance cameras will help bring down accidents. Speed breakers and shifting of bus stops will be done on a priority basis," said an official. The traffic police have deployed a 24x7 special patrolling squad in a bid to reduce accidents along the stretch. The two-lane bypass, passing through the western side of NH-66, links Kommady in the north to Kalarcode in the south.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-bypass-to-get-cams/article64991012.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:13 IST,KERALA||Restrictions tightened||Alappuzha district logged 2,213 new COVID-19 cases and 10 deaths on Saturday. The fresh cases include 2,106 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission. Fifteen health-care staff tested positive for the disease, while the source of infection of 92 patients remains unknown. Meanwhile, 1,785 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in Alappuzha stands at 14,503. Restrictions imposed to tackle the spread of the disease were tightened further on Saturday. Alappuzha has been included in the Category B as more than 10% of patients admitted to hospitals in the district are undergoing treatment for COVID-19. District Collector A. Alexander has issued an order banning social, cultural, political, community and religious programmes. All religious meetings should be conducted online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restrictions-tightened/article64991011.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:25 IST,KERALA||Not joining any other party: Rajendran||Former Devikulam MLA S. Rajendran, who was suspended from the Communist Party of Indian (Marxist) [CPI(M)], has said he will not join any other party and instead will stop his political activities. “I cannot work with the ideology of any other party,’‘ he said on Saturday, adding that the action taken against him was on expected lines. It was some local leaders in Munnar who had worked and campaigned against him, he said. Mr. Rajendran was suspended from the primary membership of the CPI(M) for one year. An inquiry commission set up by the party had found that Mr. Rajendran did not actively participate in the election campaign of party candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/not-joining-any-other-party-rajendran/article38347941.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:55 IST,KERALA||A dress bank that reaches out to the needy||As many as 1,300 women volunteers of the Ashakiranam Dress Bank, an initiative launched by the Wayanad Social Service Society (WSSS), a non-governmental organisation in the district, have set a model in providing solace to hundreds of persons, especially tribespeople, by disbursing clothes free of cost to the needy for the past two years. “This endeavour provides dresses primarily to poor cancer patients and needy community people. These dresses are collected from different houses. The clothes are serviceable but not useable for them and are kept in a room on the WSSS campus at Mananthavady. All the volunteers make the act a routine in a monthly schedule,” says Father Paul Koottala, executive director, WSSS. The idea occurred to some of the volunteers during their activities in a tribal hamlet when they realised that many members of the hamlet lacked proper clothing, especially women and children, he said. There is a log book kept at the dress bank to record the all the activities of the facility. “We have collected thousands of usable dresses and distributed them to the needy. Every month, volunteers bring clothes from their operational areas and expand these services to more poor people” says Father Jinoj Palathadathil, one of the directors of the WSSS. Shoba Edayoorkunnu, a volunteer said, “I feel very happy for getting an opportunity to help those in need. This is, in a way, making changes in me and motivating me to involve more in this act”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-dress-bank-that-reaches-out-to-the-needy/article64991021.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:54 IST,KERALA||More seats sought for Plus One humanities||A meeting of the District Development Committee (DDC), chaired by District Collector A.Geetha, urged the government on Saturday to allot more seats for Plus One humanities stream to ensure higher education for tribal students in the district. The seats for science and commerce streams were vacant in many higher secondary schools in the district, but mostly, tribal students preferred humanities stream, the meet said. As many as 454 tribal students in the district were yet to get a chance for higher studies owing to the dearth of seats in the humanities stream. Allotting more seats for the humanities stream was the only pragmatic solution to the issue, the meet said. It decided to adopt steps to launch at least one hotel under the Hunger-free-Kerala Subhiksha Hotel project in each taluk in the district. Ms.Geetha directed officials of various departments to expedite steps to complete the execution of projects and spend allotted funds ahead of the completion of the financial year. O.R. Kelu, MLA; District Panchayat President Shamsad Marakkar; Additional District Magistrate N.I. Shaju; Wayanad Sub Collector R.Sreelakshmi, and senior officials of various departments atteded the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-seats-sought-for-plus-one-humanities/article38347904.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||PCB takes steps to recover compensation||The worsening solid waste management scenario at the dumping yard of the Kochi Corporation at Brahmapuram has prompted the State Pollution Control Board (PCB) to clear legal hurdles to recovering an environment compensation of Rs. 14.92 crore from the civic body. The board has initiated steps to vacate the stay issued by the Kerala High Court against collecting the fine. The PCB had ordered the civic body to pay compensation for the latter’s failure to comply with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. Incidentally, the State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on Solid Waste Management appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had pulled up the corporation for the deplorable condition of the yard which is filled heaps of waste. “Necessary directions have been issued to vacate the stay against the collection of environment compensation. Manpower shortage faced by the board had delayed such steps,” said PCB Chairman A.B. Pradeep Kumar. The compensation has been assessed for a period of 771 days from November 22, 2018 to December 31, 2020. The board found that the corporation was generating 315.96 tonnes of waste a day, while the waste being disposed of as per rules was just 31.6 tonnes. The gap in waste management capacity is 284.3 tonnes a day. The PCB had drawn flak from the Southern Bench of the NGT in September 2020 for its failure to take coercive action under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 against those responsible for waste dumping at Brahmapuram. Besides the waste generated within the corporation limits, Aluva, Angamaly, Thrikkakara, Kalamassery and Thripunitura municipalities transport unsegregated biodegradable waste to the dumping yard. These local bodies were also served notices for violating rules. But the board is yet to initiate follow-up action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-takes-steps-to-recover-compensation/article64991016.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||Gaming space inaugurated at metro’s MG Road station||A gaming space that was set up at Kochi Metro’s MG Road station was inaugurated on Saturday by child actor Vriddhi Vishal. The space would have car and joker games, apart from toy-picking game. The fee ranges from Rs. 10 to Rs. 50. In addition, the life of Mahatma Gandhi has been recreated through paintings and photos at the station. The paintings include that of his life as a student, later in London, rare photos of Gandhi with other prominent freedom fighters and Salt Satyagraha. In addition, the vast commercial space at the station has been christened Bapu Complex in his honour. The paintings were done by artists of Dhruva Arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gaming-space-inaugurated-at-metros-mg-road-station/article64991020.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:29 IST,KERALA||Library that goes the extra mile for society||The Mulanthuruthy Public Library has won the EMS Prize for the most outstanding public library in the State, the highest honour for a public library which is 50 years old or more. That the prize has been won by the library in its 90th year doubles the joy of the achievement, said Saji Mulanthuruthy, president of the library. The Mulanthuruthy library outshone its counterparts across the State by walking the extra mile. It has not only catered for the avid reader but also carries out a slew of activities that are strictly not within its mandate. For instance, the library has been at the forefront of the fight against the use of plastic and has empowered women to stitch cloth bags and distribute them through Vanitha Vedhi, an outlet run by the library. The library has more than 3,500 members, said Mr. Saji. The book collection has gone up to around 25,000 and is a fitting winner of this year’s prize. “The library’s functioning is impressive. The staff are dedicated and disciplined in all their activities,” said Dr. P.K. Gopan, convener of the committee that judged libraries for the EMS Prize. The books in the library will be barcoded soon, and their distribution is fully computerised, the library president said. The library also binds all new books before they go into circulation, he added. The performance of the library has seen local bodies like Mulanthuruthy grama panchayat and Ernakulam district panchayat support it. Mr. Saji said over Rs. 20 lakh had been received by the library over the past five years. The money has gone into improving infrastructure. The library raised Rs. 2.5 lakh on its own for computerisation. Paddy cultivation The library also cultivates substantial area of the paddy collective near Mulanthuruthy. The rice from the harvest is sold under the brand name ‘Chengolappadam Kuthari’. Under the aegis of the library, several groups have been producing six types of eco-friendly soaps. These products and rice are sold through the Vanitha Vedhi market. Section on Mahatma The library has over 300 books on its section on Mahatma Gandhi. Besides, it has a medical reference section as well as a career guidance section. The library’s prestige is evident from the number of stalwarts who visited it over the years. A cultural art gallery on its walls include the portraits of the likes of Joseph Mundassery, K.P. Udayabhanu, Premji, N.P. Rajashekhar, Ponkunnam Varkety, P.J. Antony, C.P. Sreedharan, Sukumar Azhikode, and M.N. Vijayan. The last celebrity visitor from the literary world was poet Sugatha Kumari, Mr. Saji said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-public-library-that-goes-the-extra-mile-for-society/article64990882.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||MCH to get Rs. 23.75-crore emergency, critical care block||A sum of Rs. 23.75 crore has been allocated for an emergency and critical care block at the Government Medical College Hospital in Ernakulam, according to Health Minister Veena George. A press release issued by the Minister’s office said that the block would have emergency care, critical care and casualty services with advanced equipment. The casualty wing will have triage, ultrasound and CT scan. The floors above would have small wards, specialised ICU rooms and operation theatres for trauma care. There would be laboratory facility too. The block would come up on the 48 cents of land of the medical college campus, the release said. Meanwhile, the Ernakulam unit of the Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association has urged the government to start postgraduate courses in all departments at the medical college. The association representatives said in a communication that the medical college had only 11 postgraduate seats in paediatric, general medicine, psychiatry, microbiology, and pathology departments. Research It was necessary to have postgraduate courses in all departments to ensure treatment to patients round-the-clock and to boost research in various areas, it said. Despite giving several representations earlier, the Health Department had not yet considered the proposal to have postgraduate courses in all departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mch-to-get-rs-2375-crore-emergency-critical-care-block/article38347925.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:29 IST,KERALA||CPI(M) files complaint against Twenty20’s Street Light Challenge||The CPI(M) has come down on the Street Light Challenge thrown down by Twenty20 Kizhakkambalam in the five panchayats of Vengola, Kizhakkambalam, Aikaranad, Mazhuvannur, and Kunnathunad. The local unit of the party has formally filed a complaint against the latest Twenty20 venture before the Kizhakkambalam police and the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). It described the Street Light Challenge, in which people are asked to sponsor a street light each by contributing Rs. 2,500, as illegal. The party said it was a case of Twenty20 chief coordinator and Kitex Garments managing director Sabu M. Jacob trying to defraud people. However, a spokesperson for Kitex Group denied the charges, saying that the Street Light Challenge was transparent, and that the money was being deposited in an account that was audited. The Challenge asked contributors to remit the money to the Twenty20 Kizhakkambalam Association account. Mr. Jacob said in his appeal that the street lights being installed were of high quality with a three-year warranty. The lights come on and go off with the help of auto sensors. He alleged that the previous panchayat councils had neglected the need for street lights and had installed poor quality lights. Kunnathunad legislator P.V. Sreenijin said accepting contributions from the public required permission from the government, and the Twenty20 group had not obtained it. Therefore, he said, the Street Light Challenge was illegal. Kitex Garments was in the news last week after the company received two notices from the Irrigation Department regarding drawing of water from the Periyar Valley Canal and laying of pipes carrying waste across the canal. The department had ordered the company to either furnish permission obtained for diversion of water from the canal or stop drawing water from it.  The Street Light Challenge, in which people are asked to sponsor a street light each by contributing Rs. 2,500, is illegal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-files-complaint-against-twenty20s-street-light-challenge/article38347921.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||FLTCs unlikely to be set up in Ernakulam||The setting up of COVID First-line Treatment Centres (FLTCs) seems unlikely in Ernakulam in view of the current strategy being adopted by the Health department to focus mainly on offering tele-consultation in most cases and admitting in treatment facilities only those with serious co-morbidities. The demand for FLTCs, which were available in the peak of the second wave, has not come yet even from local bodies witnessing a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases. Even the Domiciliary Care Centre (DCC), which was opened following the third wave at Mattancherry, has not yet seen an admission. There has been no enquiry yet for admission at the DCC as the majority of the cases were showing mild symptoms that could be managed through home isolation. At the peak of the second wave, the rest of the family members were shifted to FLTCs after the confirmation of the first case. However, the third wave was seeing a different picture in which the rest of the family members are getting infected without much delay and they preferring home isolation, according to the authorities. With the government recommending tele-consultation and home isolation in a majority of cases, the authorities have stepped up facilities at primary health centres to provide telemedicine facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fltcs-unlikely-to-be-set-up-in-ernakulam/article38347931.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:29 IST,KERALA||Maritime board in place: chairman||The present Kerala Maritime Board, constituted in 2018, is still in place but “we are open to any government decision,” V.J. Mathew, chairman, has said. He was referring to reports that the tenure of the present board had ended, as the government had, in a recent order, reduced the term of the board from five years to three. He said as per rules prevailing prior to the latest order, the term of the present board should end in July 2023. There has been no order from the government so far to wind up the board. However, the board will follow any instruction from the government, he said. Mr. Mathew said the coastal maritime sector had great potential, and the board was already operating in profit now. To unleash the potential, the board should have autonomy. He claimed that budgetary allocation for the board since 2018 had not been released, hampering its financial autonomy. Stakeholders in the coastal segment have welcomed the decision to reduce the term of the Maritime Board. Munshid Ali of the Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industry said the maritime fraternity looked forward to having experts in the field to lead the board and as board members. Stakeholders feel charges in minor ports are much higher than those prevalent at the Kochi and Tuticorin ports. He said crane charges should be brought down and a Standard Operation Procedure, including 24x7 working hours, should be introduced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maritime-board-still-in-place-says-chairman/article38347926.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||Mosquito menace: Cong. warns of protest||The Kochi Corporation is adopting unscientific methods to deal with mosquito menace, District Congress Committee president Mohammed Shiyas has alleged. He said the mixing of larvicide was faulty, and as a result, the drive was ineffective. While this was pointed out by councillors, the corporation chose to look away. The party, he said, would launch an agitation if the civic body failed to effectively deal with mosquito menace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mosquito-menace-cong-warns-of-protest/article38347927.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:59 IST,KERALA||NCP to step up protest against Lakshadweep Administrator||The NCP will step up agitation against the “anti-people policies” of Lakshadweep Adminstrator Praful Khoda Patel. Mohammed Faisal, MP, said here on Saturday that the agitation had been planned as per a call given by the national leadership of the party. “We will approach the High Court, if the Administrator continued to clamp down on people’s protests,” he added. The course of agitation will be decided at the party meet to be held on February 26 and 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ncp-to-step-up-protest-against-lakshadweep-administrator/article38347928.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:25 IST,KERALA||Case against TV journalist||The Kochi City cyber police have filed a case against M.V. Nikesh Kumar, head of the Malayalam Reporter TV, for revealing trial details of the case on the abduction and sexual assault of an actor. The First Information Report said Mr. Kumar organised a discussion on the case using the social media platform YouTube on December 27, 2021 and widely circulated it with the intention to reveal the details of the trial case. The case against Mr. Kumar has been registered under Indian Penal Code Section 228a(3) on a complaint by K. P. Baby, who is the investigating officer in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-tv-journalist/article38347939.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:29 IST,KERALA||Police register case against Cusat professor||The Kalamassery police have registered a case against a senior faculty member of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) for allegedly stalking and mentally harassing a female student by taking her photographs with the help of her room-mate. The case has been registered against Roy V. Paul, Associate Professor, Kunjali Marakkar School of Marine Engineering. The police have also registered a case against the room-mate. She had allegedly shared the snaps with her friend. A report of the internal committee of Cusat recommended action against Mr. Paul, as he was not vigilant and sensible in addressing issues related to students. However, it pointed out that due consideration may be given in respect of his good intentions. The committee said the faculty member came to know about an instance of students having liquor in hostels, but failed to communicate it to the authorities. Vice Chancellor K.N. Madhusoodanan said the varsity had censured Mr. Paul and shifted him to the School of Engineering, his parent department. “We have not yet received any police report on the incident,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-cusat-teacher/article38347922.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||Rs. 30 cr. more for running Janakeeya hotels: Minister||An additional Rs. 30 crore has been sanctioned for operating Janakeeya hotels to ensure no one goes hungry during the pandemic, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said here on Saturday. He was presiding over an online meeting of local body heads, people's representatives and revenue officials to assess the COVID-19 situation in Kollam district and facilitate the distribution of title deeds in the Kottarakkara constituency. "Steps should be taken to complete the proceedings for disbursal of title deeds within a month. Considering the COVID-19 situation, panchayats should operate community kitchens and similar facilities. A total of Rs. 1,058 crore was provided as maintenance grant to local bodies and Rs. 30 crore has been sanctioned for the operation of Janakeeya hotels. The current hunger-free situation should be maintained," said the Minister. Lack of documents Mr. Balagopal said steps are being taken to make title deeds available to all those eligible. "Some persons are unable to receive title deed due to the lack of documents and this needs to be addressed. Similar cases in the colonies should also be settled and local body authorities must take the initiative to complete the list of beneficiaries," he said. The Minister also instructed the officials concerned to expedite correction of errors in the applications. “Joint inspection by the panchayat and revenue authorities can be carried out if required and the process should be completed within a month,” he said. Kottarakkara municipality chairperson A. Shaju said that more facilities were being set up for the care of COVID-19 patients. Local body representatives said rapid response teams (RRTs) would be reorganised while communicating their limitations in arranging inpatient facility. Mr. Balagopal clarified that extra measures would be taken to improve treatment facilities and a new ICU would be started at the Government Medical College, Kollam. "More manpower will be provided through the National Health Mission (NHM). Vigil groups should actively participate in contaminant measures and make strong interventions," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-30-cr-more-for-running-janakeeya-hotels-minister/article38347967.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:13 IST,KERALA||Aid for kin of COVID-19 victims soon||Kollam District Collector Afsana Parveen on Saturday said financial assistance for dependents of COVID-19 victims will be made available at the earliest. Since so many people are yet to apply, data collection will be conducted through e-health to ensure accuracy. House visits will be made with the help of the respective ward members, ASHA workers and volunteers to sensitise the dependents and collect applications. “It is important to ensure that all eligible persons have submitted the application. The services of Revenue department officials will also be sought for this,” she said. Ms. Parveen has instructed the deputy director of panchayat and the regional joint director of the Urban Affairs department to obtain certificates from the local body secretaries stating that the houses of all those eligible for financial assistance have been visited. While a total of 5,090 COVID-19 deaths have been reported from Kollam district, the number of applications submitted for financial aid so far is only 3,780.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-for-kin-of-covid-19-victims-soon/article38347974.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:25 IST,KERALA||Common surveillance system for 16 dams||As many as 16 dams under the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) will soon come under a common surveillance network, which will be operated from a control and command centre in Kottayam. Officials of the KSEB Dam Safety Wing said the project, being implemented under the Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (DRIP) at a cost of Rs. 15.46 crore, was slated to be operational from February 1. Security cover “The decision to provide an advanced monitoring and surveillance system is part of enhancing the security cover to these key water installations, which are located in the interiors where not many people are allowed,” said a top official. As per the plan, every dam will have around eight to 12 cameras based on their respective area, which will be primarily located above the wall, sideways, at the site office and at power-generation units. The data obtained through the cameras will be sent to the central command centre to be established at the Dam Safety Organisation at Pallom in Kottayam. “The installation of cameras in the vulnerable areas of four dams under the Sabarigiri and Kakkad power projects has already been completed. Of this, the Kakki dam has 11 cameras while the remaining three dams of Moozhiyar, Anathodu and Pampa reservoirs have 12 each,” the official added. The footages to be captured by these cameras will be also monitored round the clock at the local command centre to be established at the security outposts manned by the Kerala Police. Data backup The project was awarded to a Thiruvananthapuram-based agency last year. It has already completed about 50%. The 4k projection rear cameras have a warranty up to five years. The control centre will have a data backup capacity of 40 days. Sources said the installation of cameras comes in the backdrop of a warning by the IB to the KSEB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/common-surveillance-system-for-16-dams/article64990896.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:13 IST,KERALA||VACB arrests MGU staff on bribery charges||Officials of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) on Saturday arrested an employee of the Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU), Kottayam, on bribery charges. The accused was identified as C.J. Elsy (48), a native of Arpookara near here. Officials said the accused had accepted Rs. 15,000 as bribe from a student who had completed MBA from a college affiliated to the university in order to issue a provisional certificate along with the mark list. Though the accused had demanded Rs. 50,000, she later agreed on Rs. 30,000. However, the accused insisted on paying the first installment of Rs. 15,000 by Saturday. Acting on a complaint lodged by the student, the VACB laid a trap and caught the accused red-handed from the varsity on Saturday afternoon while receiving the bribe. Preliminary investigations suggested that the accused had also received Rs. 1.25 lakh from the complainant earlier in different installments. According to officials, the complainant, a native of Pathanamthitta, had completed her MBA in 2016 but passed the subjects through supplementary examinations held in subsequent years. Though she had originally passed her final examination written in September last year, the accused declared the result as failed and sought the bribe. The accused will be produced in the Thiruvananthapuram Vigilance Court on Sunday. The Mahatma Gandhi University Employees Association has sought a detailed investigation into the incident and stern action against corrupt officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacb-arrests-mgu-staff-on-bribery-charges/article38347977.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:54 IST,KERALA||Corpn. warns of action against malls charging parking fees||The second online meeting of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation Council held on Saturday was rather uneventful and matter of fact. The parking fees levied at various malls in the city from customers was once again the hot topic of discussion after NCP councillor N.C. Moyin Kutty brought in the issue through a submission. He said that a customer was asked to pay a fine of Rs. 300 at a mall in the city after he lost the parking card issued to him. Mr. Moyinkutty said that the malls were levying huge parking fees even though it was illegal. However, Corporation Secretary K.U. Bini explained that the mall authorities had levied the fine from the customer as the card contained a micro chip, and hence, was costly. However, they were not levying parking fees. The corporation will take strict action if any mall was found to be levying parking fees, the Secretary said. The condition of the Children’s Home in the city was discussed following a submission brought in by BJP councillor Navya Haridas after the recent event in which a few girls from the facility were absconding and were found from Bengaluru and Malappuram. The degenerative infrastructure and staff shortage at the Children’s Home was brought to notice following this incident. Ms. Haridas pointed to the need for the corporation to intervene in the matter of the Children’s Home. Mayor Beena Philip replied that the issue may be considered. Congress councillor K.C. Shobhitha presented a submission on the repeated breaking of the Kerala Water Authority pipelines and the non-cooperation from the KWA authorities even when the issue was brought to their notice. The Mayor said that a meeting of the KWA officials would be convened soon to discuss the issue. A special meeting of the Corporation Council will be held at 2 p.m. on January 31 to discuss the draft list based on the severe poverty survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-warns-of-action-against-malls-charging-parking-fees/article64991023.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:29 IST,KERALA||New controller of exams for CU||D.P. Godwin Samraj, former Principal, Malabar Christian College, Kozhikode, has been appointed as the new Controller of Examinations, University of Calicut. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Syndicate held on Saturday. The tenure of C.C. Babu, the incumbent, will end on January 31. The meeting also decided to appoint John Kurian as the new finance officer. The meeting authorised Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj to take an appropriate decision on holding students’ union polls in affiliated colleges by February-end or March first week, considering the COVID-19 situation. The university had in 2019 curtailed the voting rights of university union councillors (UUC) from self-financing colleges. The Kerala High Court struck down the decision after the UUCs filed a petition against it. The Syndicate decided to continue the system that was in vogue before 2019. Fifth semester undergraduate examinations would be held as per schedule and technical help would be provided to colleges to download question papers online. The colleges would be given Rs. 4 per question paper towards the cost of downloading and taking printouts. Sexual harassment issue The Syndicate approved the findings of an internal inquiry committee that found Harris Kodampuzha, a teacher with the English Department, guilty of committing sexual harassment. Mr. Harris was suspended from service in 2021 July. Complaint rejected A subcommittee of the Syndicate rejected the complaint by P.C. Ancy Bay, who accused M. Sreekala, Assistant Professor, Department of Russian and Comparative Literature, of plagiarising her research thesis. The Syndicate approved the conclusions of the committee. The university would request the UGC to give it more time for registration for undergraduate and postgraduate courses under the School of Distance Education. This is in the wake of complaints that the admission proceedings were wrapped up in a hurry, leading to many students losing their chance to apply for the courses. New teachers would be appointed in Calicut University Teachers’ Education Centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/godwin-samraj-to-be-new-controller-of-examinations/article64990877.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:29 IST,KERALA||Calicut University urged to postpone UG examinations||A Senate member of the University of Calicut has urged Higher Education Minister R. Bindu to postpone the undergraduate (UG) exams scheduled to begin from Monday in the wake of the COVID-19 situation. In a letter to the Minister, Lakshmi R. Chandran, Senate member, claimed that many colleges had become clusters of infection. Infected students were forced to appear for the exams because the university had decided against holding special exams for them. Many hostels were shut. Girl students were finding it difficult to get accommodation. Other varsities She said that the University of Kerala and the Mahatma Gandhi University had postponed their exams after the Kerala High Court directed them to do so. Ms. Chandran said that Thrissur, Kozhikode, Palakkad, and Malappuram districts were seeing a spike in cases, which were expected to increase in the next two weeks and then drop. She urged the Minister to persuade the university to postpone the exams till the situation improves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-urged-to-postpone-ug-exams/article38347914.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:29 IST,KERALA||‘Media publishing one-sided reports’||The Syndicate of the University of Calicut has claimed that a section of the media is publishing one-sided news reports on the decision to grant professorship to retired college teachers. The Syndicate members on Saturday alleged that the effort was also to defame Higher Education Minister R. Bindu. They said that the decision to grant professorship was based on University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations of 2018 and the academic credentials of teachers. PhD, research work, presentation of academic papers, and participation in seminars are being considered and those who score at least 110 marks would be promoted. Those qualified and were in service on July 18, 2018, should get the promotion. They said that the UGC regulation had been implemented in other universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/media-publishing-one-sided-reports/article38347908.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:25 IST,KERALA||In a path-breaking move, century-old graves being shifted for NH work||Malappuram district is one of the finest experimental grounds in the State. It has piloted several successful schemes, including Akshaya. And now, the ongoing National Highway 66 expansion too is witnessing a religious and emotional experience that should serve a model for future development of the State. For the first time in the State’s history, hundreds of graves are being shifted for NH 66 expansion at Vettichira, between Valanchery and Kottakkal. The Vettichira Juma Masjid mahal committee has taken the historic decision to shift a large part of its graveyard for the road expansion. More than 700 graves, many of them nearly two centuries old, are being shifted religiously and painstakingly. “It is a matter of extreme religious sentiment and anguishing pain. But we are doing it for the sake of the land we live in and the system that governs it,” said A. Bava Haji, president of the mahal committee. ‘Hardest decision’ Among the graves being shifted is that of Cherussola Kunhahamed Musliar, a well-respected Islamic scholar who was vice president of the Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama, the largest body of Islamic scholars in the State, when he died in 2000. The mahal committee decided to demolish the graves on both sides of the existing highway after discussions that lasted for months on end. Heartburning was aplenty at first as each of the 1,100-odd households in the mahal had an emotional link with the graveyard. “This is one of the hardest decisions we took in our lifetime,” said mahal committee secretary K.K.S. Thangal. About 250 graves were demolished and shifted so far. “We are doing it with great care and sanctity,” said Kunhapu, Ali and Anees, the key gravediggers. They would break open each grave after removing the meezan (tombstone) first in the presence of a member of the family of the dead. The remains collected from the grave would be wrapped in a new piece of shroud and buried in a newly dug grave. “We give utmost respect to the dead, and we do the reburial by following the Islamic tradition,” said Mr. Thangal. The gravediggers said they had had “indescribable experiences” while opening the graves. But they refused to disclose their experience. “We are not supposed to disclose it,” said Mr. Kunhapu. Common reburial Many of the graves being shifted could not be identified. “We are planning a common reburial for all unidentified graves,” said Mr. Thangal. But the reburial is burdensome for the mahal committee both emotionally and financially. It costs more than Rs. 4,000 to shift a grave. The committee has sought the help of the Waqaf Board. “We have asked the government for help. And we are sitting with our fingers crossed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-a-path-breaking-move-century-old-graves-being-shifted-for-nh-work/article64990890.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:29 IST,KERALA||Tribal child dies of COVID-19||A two-year-old tribal child from the Abbannur hamlet in Attappady died of COVID-19 on Saturday. Swadish, son of Shaiju and Saraswati, was taken to the Government Tribal Specialty Hospital, Kottathara, with fever on Thursday. The family alleged that the hospital had sent him back home after giving medicines for fever without conducting any test for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-child-dies-of-covid-19/article38348047.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:29 IST,KERALA||Spectre of fire haunts Sabarimala forests||After a series of devastating floods and landslides during the last monsoon, the vast swaths of forests up the mountains of Pathanamthitta now face the spectre of wind-driven flames. According to officials, the extremely hot, dry season that has set in over the region has brought the spectre of wildfires much earlier with the vegetation in several areas desiccating into perfect tinder, giving forest officials and those living on forest fringes sleepless nights. Cases come in Adding to their concerns, instances of wildfires have begun pouring in from different locations including Konni, Chittar, Seethathodu and Perumbetty. Taking note of the situation, authorities have come up with a fire management plan for the two forest divisions of Ranni and Konni, which stipulates measures from controlled burning to deployment of special squads and clearing of fire lines. Further, fire-control units have been stationed across the forest stations under the two divisions. Govt. approval “The plan, prepared after a three-month survey and data analysis process, received the approval of the State government in September last year and is being implemented with the help of the local populace,” says Jayakumar Sarma, Divisional Forest Officer, Ranni. As part of the plan, a fire-gang brigade comprising about 500 members drawn from local residents, including tribes, has been deployed across the 900 sq km wide area under the Ranni division. These fire gangs plan their moves based on the directions of the forest division office, which is being alerted on fire occurrences by the Forest Survey of India through satellite mapping. Control rooms too have been opened, both at the divisional and local levels Locations identified Locations that are highly prone to wild fires have been identified, where controlled burning is being executed under official supervision. While the work to clear the fire line has been expedited, the project is yet to gather momentum in the plantation areas that abut the forests. Awareness programmes The department, meanwhile, also seeks to coordinate with the Fire and Rescue Services in bringing the conflagrations under control and is also organising awareness programmes along the forest fringes. “The blazes this season have been limited to certain locations, causing a limited loss of vegetation. But with the green bushes turning bone dry in more areas, the situation is only likely to worsen, especially in areas with relatively high-levels of habitation,” says an official.  Authorities have come up with a fire management plan for the two forest divisions of Ranni and Konni,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spectre-of-fire-haunts-sabarimala-forests/article38347933.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:13 IST,KERALA||Don’t turn back COVID patients, private hospitals told||Health Minister Veena George here on Saturday warned private hospitals in Pathanamthitta district against turning back COVID-19 patients and referring them to government hospitals without offering treatment. Addressing a meeting of the District Development Committee chaired by District Collector Divya S. Iyer, the Minister said it was highly improper for private hospitals to deny treatment to patients who tested positive for COVID-19. Oxygen plants On the occasion, the Minister announced the allocation of new oxygen plants to the Thiruvalla taluk hospital and Kozhencherry district hospital as part of a State plan. The Minister directed the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) to find a solution to the drinking water shortage in Pathanamthitta town and Aranmula Edasserimala. She called for steps to complete the construction of rural roads under the Rebuild Kerala project and directed all local bodies to complete the examination of the applications received under the Life Mission scheme in the district by January 31. Deputy Speaker Chittayam Gopakumar, who represents the Adoor Assembly constituency, accused private hospitals of not offering adequate treatment to children who tested positive for COVID-19. Further, he called for steps to address the drinking water shortage experienced across the region and directed the Executive Engineer of the KWA to report to the Collector the delays involved in replacing the pipeline network. A joint inspection should be carried out in connection with the completion of the survey work of Pandalam Valiya Thod and Adoor Valiya Thod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dont-turn-back-covid-patients-private-hospitals-told/article38347976.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Kudumbashree holds polls till ADS level||Elections to 27,198 Kudumbashree neighbourhood groups (NHGs) and 1,542 area development societies (ADS) have been completed in the capital district. The elections, held to select new office-bearers at all levels of the three-tier Kudumbashree structure for a three-year term, were delayed by a year in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. While the elections till the ADS level have been completed, the community development society (CDS) polls that were scheduled for January 25 have been postponed till the district moves out of the ‘C’ category COVID-19 prevalence classification. As many as 28,086 NHGs were eligible to participate in the NHG polls. Presided over by a chairperson selected by the members, the polls are held to elect a five-member governing body, which includes a president, secretary, livelihood sub-committee convener, social development sub-committee convener, and infrastructure development sub-committee convener, in each NHG. As many as 4.5 lakh women cast their votes in the NHG polls held from January 7 to 13 in the district. The ADS general body, which includes all elected members of each neighbourhood group in a ward, elects an 11-member governing body, including a chairperson, vice-chairperson, and secretary, in the ADS polls. The ADS polls were held from January 16 to 21. The total number of ADSs in the district is 1,546. In Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has won a majority in all but five wards as per the latest figures. Nalanchira, Poundukadavu, and Perunthanni went the UDF way, while BJP won Vellar, and an independent emerged the winner in Cheruvakkal. The ADS elections have given the LDF an advantage in the CDS where one member is elected from each ADS by the respective governing body. The elected CDS members, in turn, elect a CDS chairperson and vice-chairperson. The CDS general body comprises all 11 governing body members of each ADS in the local body. Young women in the fray Kudumbashree officials say a number of educated young women came forward to join the poll fray and will be in the running for CDS chairperson or vice chairperson posts with an eye on contesting in the next local body polls in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-holds-polls-till-ads-level/article64990910.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:25 IST,KERALA||Case graph continues to plateau||Kerala logged 50,812 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday when 1,10,970 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The case graph, as the data over the past week show, is definitely beginning to stagnate and plateau, indicating that while disease transmission will continue unabated, the graph is not expected to surge dramatically. The State’s active case pool now has 3,36,202 patients, of whom 3.4% are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals such as first-line/second-line treatment centres. The number of recoveries reported on Saturday – these include patients discharged from hospitals, field hospitals and those who completed home isolation – was the highest so far at 47,649 The Health department’s data say that during January 22-28 the average active cases were 2, 85,856, out of which an average of 0.9 % were admitted in oxygen beds and 0.4% in ICUs. New cases increased by 57 % (1,19,062 cases), while active cases increased by 91% during this period in comparison with the previous week. Hospitalisations increased by 102% and ICU occupancy by 55%. Oxygen bed requirement rose by 1,594 during this period. ICU occupancy On Saturday, 1,386 people were newly admitted to hospitals. ICU occupancy shows a definite rise again on Saturday and 46 people were newly admitted for ICU care. The current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals now stands at 1,343, while ventilator occupancy dipped from 339 to 315. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 53,191, with the State adding 405 deaths to the official list on Saturday. These include 8 deaths which occurred in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-graph-continues-to-plateau/article64990894.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Measures sought to prevent water shortage||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil on Saturday directed the district administration to take necessary steps to prevent drinking water shortage during the 2022 summer which is just a month away. The Minister, addressing an online meeting of the District Development Committee, urged the administration to speed up public work projects in the Nedumangad Assembly constituency and the construction of the Vazhayila-Nedumangad road. At the meeting, Kadakampally Surendran, MLA, urged the district administration to prevent delays in acquiring land for the proposed mini-civil station at Sreekaryam. Mr. Surendran asked the district medical officer to improve amenities at the Mannanthala sub-centre of the Pangappara Integrated Family Health Centre. Net connectivity G. Stephen, MLA, demanded an urgent solution to the internet connectivity issues faced by students in the tribal area in Aruvikkara. He also wanted Revenue and Survey officials to clear the hurdles in completing the Nedumangad-Aryanad and Vithura-Bonacaud roads. The services of doctors should be made available at the community health centre at Venpakal, K. Ansalan, MLA, said. The meeting also discussed land acquisition for the LIFE Mission housing projects in Azhoor panchayat, progress of bridges under construction in Attingal and the dumping of trash in the Karamana river at Vellaikadavu. MLAs V.K. Prasanth, V. Sasi, O. S. Ambika, V. Joy, and I. B. Satheesh, attended the meeting chaired by ADM E. Muhammad Safeer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/measures-sought-to-prevent-water-shortage/article38348079.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Milma launches project to boost milk procurement||Milma is looking to boost milk collection in the southern districts by giving a leg-up to affiliated dairy cooperative societies whose procurement volumes are relatively low. Daily milk procurement in the southern region comprising four districts has increased by 75,000 litres over the past year, but there still persists a demand-supply gap of about one lakh litres which Milma's Thiruvananthapuram Regional Co-operative Milk Producers’ Union (TRCMPU) hopes to bridge over the next two years. The TRCMPU, which covers Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, and Alappuzha districts, has earmarked Rs. 2 crore in its annual Budget passed on Thursday for Unarvu, a project designed to assist affiliated cooperatives whose daily milk procurement is less than 200 litres. Aid for cooperatives Through Unarvu, the TRCMPU will provide inputs to cooperatives to streamline their operations as many of the societies lack adequate facilities. Assistance will be provided for procuring testing equipment, cattle, establishing offices and also in the form of training modules for their office-bearers. From Malabar region As many as 413 of the total 978 cooperative societies stand to benefit from the project, according to TRCMPU officials. TRCMPU managing director D.S. Konda said sustained programmes can help bridge the the demand-supply gap in the region over the next two years. The demand-supply shortfall in the region is presently met from the surplus in the Malabar region. The daily milk demand in the region is around 5.3 to 5.5 lakh litres, while the daily procurement currently stands at 4.25 lakh litres. ''Milk procurement by TRCMPU has risen by 75,000 litres per day over the past year, which is encouraging. Procurement now stands at around 4.25 lakh litres per day compared to 3.5 lakh litres last year,'' TRCMPU administrative committee convener N. Bhasurangan said. Why procurement is up TRCMPU officials attributed the impressive increase in milk procurement over the past year to the fact that many Keralites, especially NRIs who returned home, turned to dairy farming during the COVID-19 pandemic. TRCMPU had recently announced an incentive of Rs. 2 on every litre of milk procured from dairy farmers in four southern districts. Out of this amount, Rs. 1.50 goes to the farmers and 50 paise to the cooperatives.  Daily milk procurement in capital, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, and Alappuzha has increased by 75,000 litres over the past year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-to-up-milk-collection/article38347965.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Retired college teachers air woes||Several retired college teachers have accused the State government of denying them their wage arrears and pension benefits for over three years. The University Grants Commission (UGC)-scale pensioners have cried foul over a Finance department order that deems as ‘notional’ such dues. The move has affected over 600 former teachers of various universities and government and aided colleges who had retired between January 2016 and July 2019. The ‘unjust stance’ relates to the seventh UGC pay revision that came into effect on January 1, 2016. It was not until July 2019, when the wages and allowances of State government employees were revised, that the government had decided to implement the UGC pay revision too with retrospective effect. It had by then received half of the additional burden from the Centre required to remunerate the teachers. Merger of arrears, PF In its order, the government had decided to implement the revised pay from April 2020, while merging the salary arrears of university and college teachers with the provident fund (PF). This move adversely affected scores of teachers who had retired earlier since their PF accounts were already wound up. In addition, the ceiling of pension had been raised from Rs. 60,000 to Rs. 83,400 with the implementation of the salary and pension revision by the State government on July 7, 2019. The pension hike was made applicable for UGC-scale teachers with effect from January 2016. However, another order issued by the Finance department in February 2021 dashed the pensioners’ hopes. It was decided that the arrears of the pension revision for the period from January 1, 2016 to June 30, 2019 shall be notional. Sreevalsan Namboothiri, an associate professor of Statistics, who retired from Christian College, Kattakada, said the ‘strange order’ discriminated against those who had retired during the period. Reason cited by govt. Prof. Namboothiri, who was denied 27 months’ salary hike by way of PF closure, pointed out the order also torpedoed their chances of availing commuted pension to the tune of Rs. 25 lakh. Such benefits are, however, being enjoyed by those who retired after June 2019. The government has cited financial hardship accentuated by the pandemic as the reason behind its reluctance in disbursing the eligible dues.  Finance dept. order terms ‘notional’ wage arrears and pension benefits for over three years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/retired-teachers-decry-govt-stance/article38347966.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:29 IST,KERALA||Many benefited from Tribal Plus project, says Govindan||More workers from the Scheduled Tribe community were provided jobs in the State under the Tribal Plus project through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), said Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan on Saturday. In addition to the work days provided through the Union government’s funding, an additional 3.58 lakh workdays were provided to 15,287 families in the State through the project. Speaking at the 32nd State Council meeting of the MGNREGS project, he directed the officials to ensure 200 workdays for the maximum number of families this year. Revised labour budget He said that the MGNREGS mission as well as the Scheduled Tribes Development department should ensure that there is no backlog of wages for Scheduled Tribe workers. The State government had allocated Rs. 10 crore as the first installment of the Tribal Plus project, while the second instalment of Rs. 9.97 crore has already been approved. Considering the distress in the economy and job losses due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation, there is scope to create more workdays this year compared to the 10.23 crore workdays created last year. The State government will soon submit a revised labour budget to the Union government as the State has already completed 95% of the 8.36 crore workdays allocated to it this year, said Mr. Govindan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/several-benefitted-from-tribal-project-govindan/article38347973.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Mental health projects for tribal areas||The district panchayat is planning to take up projects focussing on mental health in the tribal regions of the district, which has been witnessing increasing number of suicides in recent months. The decision was taken after a visit by district panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar, vice president A. Shailaja Beegum and steering committee members to Vithura and Nandiyode panchayats which have witnessed five suicides of young girls in the past three months. The team visited the houses of all the five victims and spoke to the family members. Long-term relief “We have decided to have more projects to address mental health issues in the tribal areas in next year’s plan. We already have several initiatives, including study centres and counselling mechanisms, in these regions. But more needs to be done. Those facing various issues should be able to approach counselling centres and get support that should help them in the longer term, rather than immediate relief. We spoke to the family members of all of these victims and they raised various allegations including the influence of the drug mafia. All these will have to be tackled,” said Mr. Suresh Kumar. Drug network Most of the cases of suicides have been of young girls, including minors, with decent academic records. Some of them have been found to be victims of sexual abuse by non-tribal youths. Arrests have been made on charges of abetment of suicide in some cases. Some of the non-tribal youth, who are accused in these cases, are also alleged to be part of networks distributing narcotic substances in these regions. The district panchayat is chalking out measures, including sensitisation programmes, to ensure that the tribal youth do not fall prey to such networks. Identifying those facing issues and providing them counselling at an early stage has been a challenge for those who work on the ground here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mental-health-projects-for-tribal-areas/article38348080.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||6,647 new cases in district||The active COVID-19 case pool continued its downward trend in the capital district as the existing number of cases fell to 46,202 on Saturday, thanks to a high rate of recovery. As many as 6,647 new cases were recorded, even as 8,235 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. A majority of the new cases (6,314) were attributed to local transmission of the infection, while the source of infection in 287 others was unknown. Thirty-one health care workers were among those who were diagnosed with the infection. With 31 recent deaths being attributed to COVID-19, the death toll due to the disease in Thiruvananathapuram district jumped to 6,882 on the day. A majority of the deceased were aged above 65 years, according to official statistics. A total of 373 people were admitted to hospitals owing to COVID-19-related problems on the day. Now, 2,103 persons are being treated in hospitals for the infection. As many as 82,123 others were currently in quarantine at home or in various institutions. Solatium application Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) Vineeth T.K., who is chief executive officer of the District Disaster Management Authority, has said all Akshaya Kendras in the district will function on Sunday to facilitate the timely processing of applications for solatia for the next-of-kin of those who died of COVID-19. Applicants who carry the required documents required to apply for the COVID-19 ex-gratia assistance will be permitted to travel in spite of the curbs that will be in force on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6647-new-cases-in-district/article38348077.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Rs. 30 cr. as emergency aid for Janakeeya hotels||The government has sanctioned Rs. 30 crore in emergency financial assistance for Janakeeya hotels. The assistance will provide relief to the people who are struggling in the ongoing third wave of COVID-19. The Janakeeya hotels were launched as part of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s policy that no one should go hungry owing to lack of money. It was in the 2020-21 Budget that the government announced the launch of 1,000 Janakeeya hotels under the Kudumbashree mission. At present, 1,174 Janakeeya hotels are functioning, and 1.9 lakh meals are supplied a day. Prior to the third wave of the pandemic, nearly two-lakh people a day had food from the Janakeeya hotels. Meals that cost Rs. .20 are given for free to those who do not have money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-30-crore-emergency-aid-for-janakeeya-hotels/article38347907.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Temporary bridge ready at Vallakkadavu||A temporary bridge has come up at Vallakkadavu to prevent traffic disruptions till a new bridge comes up in the area. The bridge was built on the directions of Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) chairperson Antony Dominic, a statement on Saturday said. The Vallakkadavu bridge is important to reach coastal areas such as Valiathura, Beemapally, Shanghumughom, and the Airport. It has been in a dilapidated state for long. The commission ordered the construction of a new bridge on a complaint by human rights activist Ragam Rahim. The temporary bridge that has come up ahead of the new one can be used for transportation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/temporary-bridge-ready-at-vallakkadavu/article38348074.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Youth arrested on charge of stalking girl||The Nemom police on Saturday arrested a 29-year-old man on charges of stalking and threatening a girl. The accused has been identified as Sujith S. Nair hailing from Muttathara. According to the police, the accused used to stalk the girl, a Nemom native, and also threatened her through phone. After the girl filed a complaint against him, he had gone into hiding. A case under the Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act is pending against him in the Pettah police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-arrested-on-charge-of-stalking-girl/article38348070.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Set up ICC in film sector: women’s panel||The Culture department should set up an internal complaints committee (ICC) in the film sector as per the Vishaka guidelines on sexual harassment at workplace, the Kerala Women’s Commission has said. The commission has handed over a letter to the Culture Secretary in this regard. This follows a meeting that representatives of the Women in Cinema Collective (WCC) had with commission chairperson P. Satheedevi and member M.S. Thara recently on the problems faced by women in the film industry. On Hema panel The commission has also requested that it be apprised of the steps taken by the department to implement the recommendations of a three-member committee, led by retired Kerala High Court judge K. Hema, to look into the matters highlighted by the WCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-internal-complaints-committee-in-film-sector/article38347962.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||SHRC sitting cancelled||Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) chairperson Antony Dominic has cancelled a sitting to be held at the commission office here from February 2 to 4 in the wake of the COVID-19 situation. The new date will be intimated later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-sitting-cancelled/article38348073.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Burglary bid: three held||The Nagaroor police arrested three habitual offenders after foiling an alleged burglary bid late Friday. The police identified the accused as Biju alias Kadakampally Biju, 39, of Keezhattingal; Mahesh, 32; and Rajeev, 41, of Alamcode. They were nabbed from near the Mullassery junction after being found under suspicious circumstances near shops in the area around 10.30 p.m. on Friday. According to Nagaroor station house officer Shiju S.S., the gang members had been involved in numerous cases relating to theft, extortion, burglary, and atrocities against women and children in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts. Biju has nearly 20 cases pending against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/burglary-bid-three-held/article38348075.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:25 IST,KERALA||KTU postpones examinations||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has decided to reschedule the examinations to be held on January 31, February 2 and 7. The decision was taken by the Syndicate examination subcommittee on Saturday following objections raised by students, student organisations and principals against the conduct of the examinations amid the COVID-19 scenario. According to the modified schedule, the seventh-semester BTech examinations will commence on February 9. Students are permitted to opt for appearing for the examinations from colleges close to their houses. The subcommittee also decided to extend study hours and utilise holidays including Saturdays to compensate for the missed academic days. The academic calendar will be modified accordingly, a press note said. The detailed timetable will soon be published on the university website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-postpones-examinations/article38347940.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:25 IST,KERALA||360 get jobs in Education department||As many as 360 aspirants have secured appointment in the General Education department through the Kerala Public Service Commission. Advice memos have been given to 69 people in Thiruvananthapuram, 25 in Kollam, 53 in Alappuzha, 62 in Kottayam, 41 in Idukki, 20 in Ernakulam, five in Palakkad, seven in Malappuram, 18 in Wayanad, 59 in Kannur and one in Kasaragod. , Besides these, 1,506 appointments had been made to LPSA/UPSA posts, 139 to LPSA language category, 352 in UPSA language section, and 11 as special teachers. In the high school assistant category, 1,019 appointments had been made, 757 in HS junior category and 11 in the senior category. In aided schools, 4,711 teacher appointments were sanctioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/360-get-jobs-in-education-department/article38347936.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Elected to KU Senate||Latha M.S., Principal of S.N. College, Chathannur, has been elected to the Principals’ constituency of the Kerala University Senate. Soju S. of S.N. College, Varkala, and Pramod N. of N.S.S. College, Nilamel were elected to the teachers’ constituencies. All Kerala Private College Teachers Association (AKPCTA) hailed the election of their members to the Senate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elected-to-ku-senate/article38347963.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Attack on couple: four arrested||The Nedumangad police arrested four people on Saturday for allegedly attacking a couple a day ago. Those arrested were identified as Shafeeq, 30, of Karakulam and his brother Shameer, 32, Lalu, 49, and Madhu, 50, of Nedumangad. They were caught in connection with the alleged assault on the couple who were travelling on a motorcycle around 7.30 p.m. on Friday. The incident occurred after the motorcycle and the autorickshaw in which the perpetrators were travelling had collided near Valicode junction near Nedumangad. While both parties were involved in a heated argument, the issue was brought to a close with the intervention of traffic policemen and some passersby. However, the gang waylaid the couple close by and assaulted them. They were overpowered by the police. They have been remanded in judicial custody. The police have launched a manhunt to nab the fifth member of the gang who was also present during the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-on-couple-four-arrested/article38348078.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Local bodies prepare projects for Central grant||All the district, block and grama panchayats in the State have completed the preparation of projects for the Central Finance Commission grant for the year 2022-23, said Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan on Saturday. He said the projects had been uploaded in the e-gramswaraj portal as per the the scheduled timeline, making Kerala the only State where all local bodies have done so. Despite the COVID-19 situation, grama sabhas and development seminars were convened as per schedule and all other procedures followed for the project preparation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-prepare-projects-for-central-grant/article38347964.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||CPI(M) double-faced on graft: BJP||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan has said the CPI(M) has revealed a Janus-faced approach to corruption. It has attempted to promulgate an amendment Ordinance to defang the Kerala Lok Ayukta Act, 1999, to save Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan from possible prosecution in a slew of corruption charges. At the same time, it batted for a strong Lok Pal and Lok Ayukta at the national level, he said here on Saturday. Mr. Muraleedharan said the fear that the Centre would influence Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to effect decisions favourable for the NDA government was misplaced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-double-faced-on-graft-bjp/article38347932.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:29 IST,KERALA||PG medical rank list published||The Commissioner for Entrance Examinations published the rank list and category list for admissions to PG medical course on Saturday. The lists have been published on the website www.cee.kerala.gov.in, according to a press note. The rank list for service quota candidates will be published later. The facility for option registration has been extended to January 30 at 5 p.m. for all applicants. Further details can be obtained by contacting helpline number: 0471-2525300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pg-medical-rank-list-published/article38347906.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:24 IST,KERALA||Two arrested with ganja||The Maranalloor police have arrested two people with alleged possession of 1.1 kg of ganja on Saturday. The police identified the accused as Ajith Lal, alias Joyros, and Vipin Kumar, alias Vijeesh, of Maranalloor. They were apprehended after the police found the contraband from Vipin’s house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-with-ganja/article38348076.ece
30 January 2022||Thrissur,KERALA||Two temple affairs ‘promoting casteism’ draw flak||A tender notice issued by the Guruvayur temple administration that invited Brahmin cooks for preparing food in connection with the festival at the Sreekrishna temple has been cancelled following the intervention of Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan. The temple administration issued the tender notice for various activities in connection with the Guruvayur festival to be celebrated between February 14 and 23. The notice, insisting that cooks and their helpers should be Brahmins, invited criticism from various quarters for what they termed as its castiest content. The Minister, after a meeting of the temple administration committee, announced the decision to cancel the tender notice. The Minister, in a Facebook post, noted that since the festival is being held as per government guidelines in the wake of the COVID-19 situation, the preparation and distribution of food would not be taking place. So the temple committee decided not to invite cooks. Ritual criticised Meanwhile, an announcement of Kalkazhukichoottu of Brahmins at the Sivakrishnapuram temple, Edavilangu, near Kodungalloor, under the Cochin Devaswom Board, has invited wide criticism. The ritual that involves washing of feet and feeding of Brahmins was planned as part of programmes ahead of the Naveekarana kalasham of the temple scheduled between February 2 and 5. According to the notice of the temple programme, the ritual is meant to get rid of sins which might have been committed with or without one’s knowledge. While performing the ritual, Brahmins will be considered as Mahavishnu. Various socio-cultural and political organisations came out in protest against the ritual. Later, the Cochin Devaswom Board cancelled the ritual in the wake of the COVID situation. Devaswom’s stance “The Cochin Devaswom Board said any such programme will not be allowed in temples in the wake of the COVID situation,“ said E.T. Tyson, MLA, who wrote a letter to the Devaswom and the Devaswom Minister requesting to look into the ritual and the complaints against it. Despite the Devaswom board’s announcement to cancel the ritual, Navothana Kootayma, an umbrella body of organisations that oppose the ritual, will take out a march to the temple on February 5 demanding the removal of the temple Tantri. “The cancellation of the programme was in the wake of COVID spurt. The temple has not made any such announcement about cancellation of the ritual,” Ajithan N.B. of the Navothana Kootayma said. “The Kalkazhukichoottu is meant to promote caste discrimination in society. It is against the constitutional values of the country. It will destroy social stability and the progress the State had earned following the struggles of hundreds of years. People who want to reinstate the caste system and dominance of upper castes are behind the undemocratic ritual,” said the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-temple-affairs-promoting-casteism-draw-flak/article38347944.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:29 IST,KERALA||Winged nomads are here||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/winged-nomads-are-here/article64990884.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:29 IST,KERALA||Approach road work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/approach-road-work/article64990883.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:09 IST,KERALA||For better connectivity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-better-connectivity/article64991014.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:55 IST,KERALA||Eye-catcher||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eye-catcher/article64991022.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor sales increase in Anantapur, Kurnool||Liquor sales in Anantapur and Kurnool districts saw a significant rise in the current fiscal compared to 2020-21, thanks to the lowering of prices by 15% to 20% from December 19 and extending the sale timing at the counters by an hour since last month. The third-highest jump (41.66%) in sale value in the State this year has been witnessed in Kurnool Depot from Rs. 346.92 crore till 2021 January-end to Rs. 441.96 crore E till Saturday. For the entire financial year, it was Rs. 491.45 crore. Nandyal Depot recorded only a 21.94% increase in the sale value from Rs. 369.67 crore to Rs. 450.76 Crore. The sales in 2019 were Rs. 661.5 crore, but sales in the current fiscal are yet to reach that level. Anantapur district witnessed a 29.47% increase in sale value for 2021-22 from Rs. 792.74 core (2020-21 till Jan-end) to Rs. 1,026.24 crore till Saturday. Anantapur Nodal Prohibition and Excise Superintendent Rangoon Srinivasan Kumareswaran said the increase in consumption was mainly due to reduced prices since last month and the reduction was close to 50% also on a couple of brands. Smuggling from Karnataka “We were able to arrest smuggling of Karnataka liquor effectively with the help of Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) sleuths led by Additional SP J. Rammohan Rao,” he added. The only attraction even today is the 90ml tetra pack of Karnataka, which is popular among people in rural areas. The SEB and the Excise Department are making efforts to completely stop the smuggling of these packs and also effectively curb local brewing in some remote pockets, said Mr. Rammohan Rao. The sales in Anantapur recorded Rs. 1,262.54 crore in 2018, Rs. 1,174.4 crore in 2019; Rs. 999.2 crore in 2020; and it has already reached Rs. 1,026 crore by January-end. Increased availability of different brands of liquor at some ‘Liquor Malls’ newly started, also has pushed up the sale in urban pockets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-sales-increase-in-anantapur-kurnool/article38347412.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Belagavi delegation meets Karnataka CM||A delegation of BJP leaders from Belagavi spent an hour with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in Bengaluru on Friday, again bringing to the fore simmering discontent in the party unit in the border district. Leaders of the delegation – Umesh Katti, Forest Minister, and Laxman Savadi, BJP State unit vice-president – maintained that they were meeting the Chief Minister on his birthday, and sought larger allocation for the district in the Budget. But the grapevine in political circles is that the real purpose was complaining against the Jarkiholi brothers. Party sources say that the first complaint was about the humiliating defeat of BJP nominee Mahantesh Kavatagimath in the Council polls. Mr. Katti and Mr. Savadi told the Chief Minister that Ramesh and Balachandra Jarkiholi, who “foisted” their brother Lakhan as an Independent candidate, were directly responsible for the BJP’s loss. The real reason that Mr. Katti led the delegation, party insiders in Belagavi say, is the fear that he would be dropped in the next Cabinet expansion. The Minister thinks that the party high command would favour the appointment of Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi, or Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi or their follower Mahesh Kumthalli, as a Minister, in the vacancy created by Mr. Katti’s ouster. Lingayat factor The Lingayat factor also played out in the discussion, it is learnt. The leaders complained that Jarkiholis were trying to “take over” district politics and that Lingayats were losing out on important political postings in Belagavi. They also argued that the Jarkiholis had succeeded in getting a disproportionately large number of their followers appointed to boards and corporations. The Jarkiholi brothers had worked against followers of Mr. Savadi in local body polls in Athani, they alleged. Mr. Bommai is learnt to have assured the delegates that he would talk to the Jarkiholis and try to resolve the matter. He has also instructed the leaders not to give any statement in public against each other, say sources. Mr. Katti maintained that the meeting was not against anyone. “It was to introspect about the MLC polls and fixing responsibilities about the loss,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/belagavi-delegation-meets-karnataka-cm/article64990731.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka govt. relaxes COVID-19 curbs||With a decline in the number of COVID-19 cases, the State Government has decided to lift night curfew from January 31 and also allow hotels, pubs, bars, restaurants and malls to open with full capacity. It also decided to resume offline classes for students in Bengaluru Urban district by allowing managements to open schools and colleges from Monday. The Government had closed schools and colleges following the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the last three weeks. Public transport, including metro rail in Bengaluru and other public transport systems such as KSRTCand BMTC buses, would operate with full seating capacity. The 50% limit on attendance in government offices has also been removed and offices would function with 100% staff from Monday. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai chaired an hour-long high-level meeting with health experts, Ministers and senior officials and decided to lift the night curfew based on suggestions given by experts. In a relief to businesses, the Government allowed all hotels, pubs, bars, restaurants and malls to operate with full capacity. They were earlier allowed to function with 50% capacity. Limit for functions However, the Government has continued the 50% capacity limit for cinemas, multiplexes and auditoriums. Similarly, gatherings at marriages have been limited to 300 people in open spaces and 200 people in closed premises. The ban on social, religious and political rallies, dharnas, conventions and protests continues. Darshan and other services at religious places would be allowed with an entry limit of 50 people. Similarly, swimming pools and gyms would be allowed to operate with 50% capacity. Sports complexes and stadiums too can hold events with 50% capacity. After the meeting, Minister for Revenue R. Ashok told presspersons that hospitalisation and deaths were low compared to the second wave. The meeting also took stock of the prevailing positivity rates in neighbouring States of Kerala, Maharashtra, and Goa and decided to strictly impose restrictions to control the spread of the pandemic. All passengers and students arriving to the State would have to produce COVID-19 negative reports, he said. Reserving beds The meeting also decided to reserve 10% of beds in private hospitals for treatment of those infected by COVID-19. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh said if positive cases were reported in a class, only that class would remain closed and not the entire school. Students of that class would undergo a test for COVID-19, he said. All schools have been instructed to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. The Deputy Commissioner of the district has been empowered to take decisions on closure of schools for three to five days depending on the number of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-govt-relaxes-covid-19-curbs/article64990727.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Submission of rape victim will not make the act consensual: HC||The fact that a rape victim did not physically and violently resist the accused will not make the act consensual. If the sexual intercourse was against the will of the prosecutrix and against her consent, it will amount to the offence of rape, the Madras High Court has held. Justice D. Bharatha Chakravarthy wrote: “Submission would not amount to consent.” He confirmed the minimum sentence of seven years of rigorous imprisonment imposed by a Tiruvannamalai court on Gopi, alias Saravanan, for having raped a 17-year-old girl in 2002. The victim is no more.  Assailing the conviction, the convict’s counsel argued that the girl had actually consented for sex but did a volte face after her brother saw them in a compromising posture. However, the judge said though the argument appeared to be convincing at the first blush, the evidence was otherwise.  He pointed out that the girl was grazing her cows when the convict dragged her to a nearby teak farm. “Yes, she walked along but one has to step into the shoes of the victim and see the entire episode from her perspective. She was 17 and all alone,” the judge said. He went on to state that the victim wanted to and was trying to shout and resist when the accused forced himself upon her but he and his acts prevailed. A proper reading of Section 375 of the IPC would clearly convey that if the act was against the will of the prosecutrix, it would amount to rape. Further, Section 90 of the IPC makes it clear that a consent should not have been given out of fear or misconception and as per Section 114-A of the Evidence Act, there would be a presumption of absence of consent with respect to the offence of rape if the victim deposes that she did not consent. To rebut this presumption, the accused must let in positive evidence and mere absence of a valiant and violent effort on the part of the victim would certainly not amount to consent, the judge concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/submission-of-rape-victim-will-not-make-the-act-consensual-hc/article38347353.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police intensify raids on illicit liquor dens in Chittoor||The Chittoor and Puttur sub-divisions police have intensified raids on the illicit liquor brewing dens at many villages abutting the hillocks and forests in Gudipala, SR Puram, and Vedurukuppam mandals. A majority of the places are located close to the Tamil Nadu border towards Vellore, Pallipattu, and Ponpadi. According to information, during the last one month, frequent incidents of old offenders brewing illicit liquor in large quantities with the help of the gullible villagers have come to surface in these mandals. The Vedurukuppam police, under the Karveti Nagaram circle, had seized about 5,000 litres of jaggery wash in a week, besides destroying the utensils used for the contraband activity. Meanwhile, the Special Enforcement Bureau personnel, in coordination with the police, have formed special teams to tackle the menace of the manufacture of the country liquor along the Chittoor-T.N. border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-intensify-raids-on-illicit-liquor-dens-in-chittoor/article38347415.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 workers killed, one injured in accident||Two construction workers were killed on the spot, and another worker was critically injured when the car in which they were travelling collided with a lorry at Sorakayapeta village of Kalikiri mandal on the Piler-Rayachoti highway, 65 km from here, on Saturday. According to the Kalikiri police, three workers, including a woman, natives of Erraguttapalle village of T. Sundupalle mandal of Kadapa district, were on their way to Punganur in a car arranged by their contractor. When the car reached a hairpin bend close to a village tank, a lorry proceeding towards Rayachoti collided with it. Lakshmamma, 35, and Venkatesh, 40, were killed on the spot, while Surendra was rushed to the Government Area Hospital at Piler. As his condition was critical, he was referred to SVRR Hospital at Tirupati. The police registered a case and took the lorry driver into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-workers-killed-one-injured-in-accident/article38347404.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:52 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protests in Madanapalle, Rajampeta for district headquarter status||Protests erupted in Chittoor district as the activists of Madanapalle Jilla Sadhana Samiti on Saturday staged rastharokos at the arterial junctions towards Tirupati, Bengaluru and Anantapur opposing declaration of Rayachoti as the headquarters for Annamayya district in the gazette notification. The activists, led by the forum president P.T.M. Siva Prasad and conveners Srichandu and Muttarasi Harikrishna, went round the town raising slogans in support of their demand to declare Madanapalle as the district headquarters. The police had a tough time controlling the congregations on the highways. The organisers said that the protest, in favour of Madanapalle as the district headquarters, had entered the 600th day on Saturday. A plan of action was chalked out to organise dharnas in front of the Madanapalle municipal office on Monday to press their demand to make a resolution to adopt Madanapalle as the district headquarters and send the same to the State government for approval. ‘Stir will continue’ Meanwhile, public groups on Saturday staged protests at several arterial junctions in Rajampeta mandal headquarters in Kadapa district. The protesters said that though the parliamentary constituency is named after Rajampeta, the newly-proposed Annamayya district had Rayachoti as the district headquarters. They said that their agitation would continue till Rajampeta is made the district headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protests-in-madanapalle-rajampeta-for-district-headquarter-status/article38348026.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:50 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nishant Kumar conducts surprise inspections||Just a day after taking charge as Commissioner of Guntur Municipal Corporation, Nishant Kumar has sent a clear signal to the staff that he meant business. The Commissioner, along with his camp clerk, began visiting wards at 5 a.m., on a motorcycle. Mr. Kumar began by visiting sanitary muster point at Nagarampalem, and then vehicle shed and inspected the main drain-Peekala Vagu. He visited few ward secretariats interacting with environmental secretaries. “We will be introducing the Facial Recognition System soon in order the streamline the attendance of sanitary staff. The sanitary staff should start the work by 5 a.m. everyday and ensure that the city is kept clean. We will be introducing Pin Point programme to identity vulnerable areas in the city,’’ said Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nishant-kumar-conducts-surprise-inspections/article64990814.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana to reopen schools from Feb. 1||The Telangana government has decided to reopen the schools from February 1, Minister for Education P. Sabitha Indra Reddy said. The Minister said the decision was taken keeping in mind the future of the students and said measures would be taken to ensure that virus doesn’t spread. The educational institutions should strictly enforce the COVID norms while the responsibility also lies on parents and teachers to see the children were safe, she added. The government’s decision comes in the wake of several other States like Tamil Nadu also deciding to open educational institutions and Delhi government arguing strongly in favour of reopening. The Health department too has suggested that even though the number of COVID cases was rising and it was prevalent across the State the recovery rate too was on the rise as people had mild infections only.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-to-reopen-schools-from-feb-1/article38347343.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arli(T) in TS shivers at 4.9 degrees C||Cold wave conditions continued to sweep across Telangana with Arli (T) village in Adilabad district recording 4.9 degree Celsius on Friday night. With the India Meteorological Department forecasting minimum temperatures falling below normal by 2.4 degree C in isolated pockets over Telangana, several parts recorded dip in night temperatures. The Telangana State Planning Board said during the last 24 hours, minimum temperatures were recorded less than 10°C at a few places in Adilabad, Kumaram Bheem, Mancherial, Nizamabad, Nirmal, Jagtial, Jayashankar, Kamareddy, Siddipet, Medak, Sangareddy and Rangareddy districts and the cold spell is expected to continue for next 2 days and temperatures are set to rise by 2-4°C thereafter. Apart from Arli (T), old Adilabad district shivered with Sirpur (U) recording 5.8, Ginnedhari (6), Meerkhanpet in Rangareddy district (6.2 degree C), Nyalkal in Sangareddy district (6.2), Janinadh and Pippaldhari both in Adilabad district, (6.3), Pembi in Nirmal district (6.6) and Kawal Tiger Reserve (6.9 degree C). In GHMC area during the past 24 hours lowest minimum temperature of 9.3 degree C was recorded at Rajendranagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arli-t-shivers-at-490-c/article64990732.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fill Group C, D posts in Railways at zonal level, says Vinod Kumar||Vice-Chairman of the Telangana State Planning Board B. Vinod Kumar requested Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to scrap the concept of National Level Eligibility Test for the recruitment of Group C and D category posts in Railways and take up recruitment zone-wise with agencies like RRB providing 95% reservation to local candidates. In a letter addressed to the Railway Minister, Mr. Vinod Kumar said on Saturday that the destructing visuals aired on the digital media on protests against the recruitment of posts were causing extreme heartburn and these incidents could have been avoided had the previous Railways Minister Piyush Goyal considered suggestions made by him regarding changes in the railway recruitment process in the country. As a Member of Parliament representing Karimnagar parliamentary constituency during 2014-19, he said that he and other colleague Members of Parliament from Telangana had met Mr. Goyal and cautioned him about the repercussions of the national eligibility test for Group C and D posts in Railways. However, Mr. Goyal did not heed to our requests and the ongoing incidents are the effect of the lopsided policy, he said. Further, Mr. Vinod Kumar wrote that they had resisted the idea of a NLET for the recruitment of Group C and D category posts before Mr. Goyal and had opined that recruitment for such posts should be done by zonal recruitment agencies like RRBs with 95% reservation to local candidates. Jobs for locals He stated that they had also suggested that all posts must be calculated at zonal/divisional level and employment opportunities should be provided to only locals. Besides, conducting centralised exams for local candidates is irrational and is detrimental to the rights of the backward sections of Telangana. Northern States such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh used to get the lion’s share of Group C and D jobs in Railways all through. Posts like gangmen, linemen and other Class IV jobs were being given those from northern States although they do not know local languages, denying the opportunities to local people, he alleged He requested the Railway Minister to redesign the examination process for Group C and D posts to benefit the local unemployed youth. Further, he also sought change in the medium of examinations to local/regional language for the posts and conduct separate exam at regional level.  Change the medium of examinations to local/regional language for the posts and conduct separate exam at regional level. B. Vinod Kumar, Vice-Chairman of the Telangana State Planning Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fill-group-c-d-posts-in-railways-at-zonal-level-says-vinod-kumar/article64990722.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers stage dharna before Collectorate||Demanding that the Telangana government cancel the mass transfers of teachers to new districts based on seniority and not their nativity, a large number of teachers along with their children, staged a dharna before the Collectorate at Sangareddy on Saturday as part of the State-wide call by teachers’ unions. They displayed placards putting forth their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-stage-dharna-before-collectorate/article64990724.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter-State ganja gang held, ganja worth Rs. 2 crore seized||The East Godavari police and Central Reserve Protection Force on Saturday busted an inter-State gang and seized 1,000 kg of ganja worth Rs. 2 crore in the naxal-hit Mothugudem area in Chintoor Agency of Andhra Pradesh. Four persons were arrested while they were transporting the ganja to Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The gang managed to receive ganja from Odisha’s Malkangiri. It had reportedly engaged locals to bring ganja from Odisha to Andhra Pradesh on foot by crossing river Sileru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inter-state-ganja-gang-held-ganja-worth-rs-2-crore-seized/article38347325.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala HC asks Dileep to hand over phones||Three mobile phones of actor Dileep, two of his brother P. Sivakumar, alias Anup, and one owned by the actor’s brother-in-law T.N. Suraj must be handed over in a sealed cover to the Registrar General of the High Court on January 31 morning, the Kerala High Court said on Saturday in an interim order. The order was passed during a special hearing on the Crime Branch probe that is under way against them on the alleged conspiracy to harm the police officers investigating the actor assault case, wherein actor Dileep had challenged the probe team’s demand to produce the mobile phones he had used at the time of the alleged conspiracy. Dileep and the others had earlier sought anticipatory bail in the case. The prosecution has all the right to seek custody of the cellphones of Dileep and the others and inspect them with the help of a notified agency, says the interim order passed by Justice Gopinath P. Expressing distrust in the probe team, Dileep had sought examination of his phones by an agency outside Kerala. Claims contradicted Contrary to claims of the probe team that he had used a fourth mobile phone, the actor contended that he used only three phones. The prosecution expressed confidence that the probe team would procure call details of the fourth phone using its IMEI number. The prosecution alleged that Dileep changed his mobile phone soon after film director Balachandrakumar’s statement that the actor and the others had conspired to do away with the police officers probing the actor assault case in which Dileep had been arrayed as an accused. Claiming that his phones contained personal information, Dileep had said that the police cannot demand an accused to produce any evidence against him. The act of the police amounted to a violation of his fundamental rights and was an infringement on his right to privacy, his counsel contended. The prosecution had countered this saying the phones contained clues about the alleged crime. T. A. Shaji, Director General of Prosecution, had on Friday submitted that the accused were not cooperating with the investigation. The refusal to hand over the phones amounted to violation of the court directives. The act of the accused submitting the phones for forensic examination was something unheard of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-hc-asks-dileep-to-hand-over-phones/article64990725.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala to revamp tourist destinations||The Kerala Tourism Department will revamp a string of major destinations, including Bekkal, Thekkady, and Munnar, as part of its efforts to stimulate and strengthen the sector. While comprehensive development plans will be prepared for some, innovative and eco-friendly additions will be introduced at others. “At present, we are conducting destination reviews and interactions attended by Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas, higher officials, and industry stakeholders. Based on the issues and suggestions, a work plan will be prepared for all key destinations,” says an official. Kovalam, Varkala, and Fort Kochi are among the other destinations that will be reviewed and revamped as part of the ongoing process. “Since promoting domestic tourism is a priority, there is also a plan to bring tour operators from other States to see the revamped facilities,” he adds. Apart from focussing on traditional destinations, the department is also chalking out a plan to attract culture and heritage lovers from all parts. Besides sightseeing, packages that celebrate Kerala culture and history will be introduced to enhance the overall tourist experience. “The proposed Malabar literary circuit, with its unexplored potential, is an example and we expect a steady inflow of tourists to such destinations,” he says. Local destinations Many panchayats have already identified local destinations as per a directive of the department and they too will be considered while developing new tourist spots. While specific plans will be formulated for each destination, steps have been taken to expedite ongoing works and explore the possibilities to ensure maximum comfort for visitors. “A volley of problems that include inadequate parking facility, poor infrastructure and issues related to the waste management system came up during the reviews. Though we have limitations in forest areas such as Thekkady, we are looking at innovative solutions. The department will coordinate with local self-government institutions while addressing such issues,” he adds. Another plan of the department is to conduct regular training programmes for guides, taxi drivers, and others to make the destinations 100% tourist-friendly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-to-revamp-tourist-destinations/article64990728.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 held for assault on minor girls in Kerala||The Chevayur police on Saturday arrested two youths on the charges of sexually assaulting two of the six minor girls who recently went missing from the Government Children’s Home and later tracked from Bengaluru and Nilambur. The suspects, Febin Rafi, 26, of Kodungalloor and Tom Thomas, 26, of Kollam, were booked under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. According to police sources, the youths allegedly tried to assault the girls when they reached Bengaluru by train. The incident came to light when the police quizzed the six girls after they were brought back to the city. The girls in their statement claimed that they were attacked when they tried to seek the youths’ help to arrange an accommodation in Bengaluru. Some of the girls claimed that they were forced to consume alcohol. Based on the victims’ revelations, the youths were also charged under various other sections of the Juvenile Justice Act. To verify the girls’ claims, the police have launched a separate investigation by accessing the call detail records of the arrested. The main purpose of the probe is to check whether the arrested and the girls had maintained any close relationship to plan the escape. The investigation will also check whether they had got any external support to quickly reach Bengaluru. It was on January 26 that the six girls escaped from the Government Children’s Home to meet their secret friends in Bengaluru. According to the police sources, the girls managed to come out of the government facility when the authorities were busy with the Republic Day celebrations. Following an intensive search, all of them were tracked in just two days and brought back to the city on Friday. Bid to escape foiled Meanwhile, the Chevayur police on Saturday foiled the attempt of one arrested youth to escape from their custody. Febin reportedly made the try while he was taken to court after a medical check-up in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-held-for-assault-on-minor-girls-in-kerala/article64990723.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:52 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ready for talks only on fair terms, say employees||A.P. Employees’ Joint Action Committee chairman Bandi Srinivasa Rao on Saturday said they would be ready for talks with the State government only on equal terms, and not on the agenda fixed by the officials on pay revision for employees. Taking part in a protest organised by the members of the PRC Sadana Samiti here, he said: “The terms fixed by officials is not agreeable to us. Firstly, the PRC G.O.s issued should be kept in abeyance and old pay scales should be implemented for the current month.” The employees were vexed following several rounds of unfruitful talks held so far and the State government's failure to implement the PRC recommendations, said Mr. Rao, president of the Andhra Pradesh Non-Gazetted Officers Association. The State government should first make public the PRC recommendations. Under any circumstances, the fitment should be less than 27 per cent, he made it clear. The government had unilaterally come out with PRC G.O.s without addressing the concerns of the employees on various issues including house rent allowance, he complained, as the employees observed a relay fast for the third day in succession. Cutting HRA to just 8% to the staff in Velagapudi was unreasonable, he felt, adding that the staff in the district headquarters deserved 20 per cent HRA. They would continue their stir till their just demands were met by the State government, which was denying them a decent pay hike on the pretext of cash crunch, he said, adding that there was a growing unrest among the employees over the prolonged delay in the government announcing a pay hike in tune with the aspirations of the employees. ‘Vijayawada Chalo’ stir In Ongole, a large number of women employees observed relay fast during the protest presided over by PRC Sadana Samiti leader K. Sarath Babu, who exhorted them to gear up for ''Vijayawada Chalo'' stir on February 3. Members of the Road Transport Corporation employees Association led by its president Y.V. Rao participated in the protest to press their demands including regularisation of the services of employees taken on contract basis and scrapping of the contributory pension scheme(CPS) as promised by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his long march before coming to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ready-for-talks-only-on-fair-terms-say-employees/article38348027.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Robotic-assisted surgery will cure arthritis’||Nagging knee pain for arthritis patients will be a thing of the past, thanks to the robot-assisted total knee replacement surgery(rTKR). The new procedure will be helpful to those who continue to suffer from severe knee pain even after undergoing the conventional total knee replacement surgery, according to noted orthopedic surgeon Madan Mohan Reddy from Apollo hospitals. ‘Higher success rate’ Addressing the media here on Saturday, Dr. Madan Mohan Reddy said: ‘‘The success rate in conventional knee replacement surgery is about 90% to 95% but with robotic-assisted surgeries, the accuracy is cent per cent. Patients recover faster and relief is long-lasting.” A team of doctors were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/robotic-assisted-surgery-will-cure-for-arthritis/article64990741.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conman held for online fraud||The Prakasam district police on Saturday arrested a 36-year-old cyber fraudster who allegedly cheated a girl of Rs. 17.49 lakh after getting acquainted with her through a matrimonial website. Superintendent of Police Malika Garg said the accused, Bala Vamsi Krishna from Kakinada, had reportedly introduced himself to a 25-year-old girl and her family members at Maddipadu in Prakasam district that he was a software engineer with a New York-based company and presently working from home following COVID curbs after his transfer to Hyderabad. The SP said that after promising to marry the woman on January 17, he made her apply for loan through several online loan apps making her believe that he had to return to the U.S. early as per job condition and needed a good credit score by promptly repaying two equated monthly installments for getting visa. On a complaint from the girl, who reportedly grew suspicious following the way he raised loans through several online apps in no time, the SP constituted a special team. The team under the supervision of Ongole DSP U. Nagaraju achieved a breakthrough after a thorough study of the fund flow from various online apps first to the woman’s bank account and then to the account of the accused and recovered Rs. 8 lakh in cash and a mobile phone from him.  On interrogation, police found that the accused who had worked in a leading bank's customer care centre after completing B. Pharm in 2008, had allegedly cheated eight gullible women in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana by promising to marry them and make them raise huge sums as loan through the same modus operandi .  Addicted to gambling and other vices, the cyber conman with whom his wife in Bengaluru had parted ways, had also committed ''ATM frauds'' in the past, the SP said. He was reportedly involved in as many as 24 cheating cases. The SP appealed to girls and their parents to be wary of proposals received from strangers through matrimonial websites and not to raise money for conmen posing themselves as groom to be persons. The Maddipadu police have booked a case against him under various IPC sections and Information Technology Act. The SP patted the Ongole Rural police and IT Core team for cracking the case swiftly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conman-held-for-online-fraud/article64990841.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special Yagams to mark Mahasivaratri: Minister||“Mahasoura Yagam’ and ‘Maharudra Yagam’ will be held for 12 days from February 19 as part of Mahasivaratri fete at the Santhapeta Sai Baba temple here, State Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy said on Saturday. Releasing the poster for the festival along with noted Vedic priest Matampalli Dakshinamurthy, he said efforts were being made to bring elephants from Kerala for the religious fete||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-yagams-to-mark-mahasivaratri-minister/article38347416.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arasavalli temple gears up for Ratha Saptami||The historic Sun God temple of Lord Sri Suryanarayana Swamy located at Arasavalli of Srikakulam district is gearing up for the annual celestial fete of Ratha Saptami to be celebrated on February 8. Over two lakh devotees are expected to participate in the festival which is also called as Surya Jayanti. Addressing the media along with chief priest Ippili Sankara Sarma, temple Executive Officer V. Hari Suryaprakash said that all the arrangements were being made on a war-footing. He urged the people to follow COVID-19 protocol to prevent the spread of virus. temple trustees Mandavilli Ravi, Yamijala Gayatri, Kinjarapu Usharani, G. Rajarajeswari, Paidi Bhavani and Mandala Manmadha Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arasavalli-temple-gears-up-for-ratha-saptami/article38347407.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man kills wife, sister||A man, who was allegedly addicted to alcohol, reportedly killed his wife and sister in Muddadapeta village of Etcherla mandal, Srikakulam district on Saturday. After developing grudge on family members who objected to his drinking habit, Resu Appanna (38) allegedly killed his wife Appamma (35) and sister Rajulu (40) with a sickle. According to police, Appanna also injured his father Asirodu and Rajulu’s daughter when they came to the rescue of Appamma and Rajulu. Later, he reportedly tried in vain to commit suicide with the sickle. With multiple injuries, he was also admitted to RIMS hospital Srikakulam along with two injured persons. The Etcherla police visited the spot and sent bodies to the hospital for postmortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-kills-wife-sister/article38347413.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor seeks report from Calicut varsity||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has sought explanation from the Vice Chancellor of Calicut University (CU) on the reported move to grant professorship to retired teachers allegedly in violation of University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations. The Vice Chancellor has to furnish his explanation within seven days. According to sources, the move comes in the wake of a complaint by the Save University Campaign Committee (SUCC), which accused the university of adopting such steps to promote Higher Education Minister R. Bindu as professor with retrospective effect. She had taken voluntary retirement from service at Sree Kerala Varma College in Thrissur in March 2021 to contest the last Assembly elections. The SUCC alleged that the university’s move was intended to help Dr. Bindu counter a writ petition filed in the Kerala High Court that challenged her election allegedly by using the title of professor to ‘influence voters’. Meanwhile, the Syndicate of the University of Calicut on Saturday decided to stick to its decision to grant professorship to retired teachers. The Syndicate resolved to explain its position to the Governor.  ( With input from Kozhikode bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-seeks-report-from-calicut-varsity/article64990729.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||More offline sarva darshan tokens likely||TTD seems inclined to provide more number of sarva darshan tokens in the offline mode if its decision to confine the issuance of online tokens only till February 15 is any indication. The TTD, which had issued 3.36 lakh Special Entry Darshan tickets on Friday for the month of February at 12,000 tickets a day, however, released a meager 1.50 lakh online sarva darshan tokens till February 15 on Saturday at 10,000 tokens a day with the hope of making them available offline to the devotees thereafter, should there really be a decline in the Omicron cases. The issuance of offline tokens had been stopped since September 25, 2021, with the increase in the COVID-19 cases. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba reddy had, on several occasions, said that though the darshan tokens were being made available online, it failed to meet the expectations of the devotees hailing from the rural and other remote areas. While so, the speculation that there will be a dip in the Omicron cases by February 15 has led to a kind of optimism among the top echelons of the TTD, who say that a decision on the release of tokens for the remaining days in the month will be taken later, subject to the decline in cases and relaxations of restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-offline-sarva-darshan-tokens-likely/article64990805.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:52 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Purandara Dasa Mahotsavams’ from tomorrow||Arrangements are in place for the conduct of the three-day annual ‘Purandara Dasa Aradhana Mahotsavams’ from January 31 to February 2. The celebrations will be observed under the aegis of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) Dasa Sahitya project simultaneously at both Tirumala and Tirupati. While special programmes like Dhyanam, Nagara Sankeertanam, bhajan and religious discourses will be observed at TTD Asthana mandapam at Tirumala on the inaugural day, Hari Dasa Ranjini and religious discourses by eminent personalities will be organised at TTD Annamacharya Kalamandir in Tirupati. The TTD will organise the second-day celebrations at Vaibhavotsava mandapam situated opposite to the main temple as against the normal practice of observing them at Narayanagiri gardens in view of COVID restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/purandara-dasa-mahotsavams-from-tomorrow/article38348028.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:44 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘commits suicide’||A tiff with husband allegedly forced a woman to commit suicide by jumping into a village tank at Mangalam locality on the outskirts of the city here on Friday night. According to the Alipiri police, Dhanalakshmi, 35, a resident of GN Mada Street had left home on Friday night, after reportedly quarreling with her husband. The family members launched a search for her till midnight and thought of resuming it in the morning with friends and relatives. The woman’s body was found floating on the tank on the outskirts on Saturday afternoon. The victim’s husband, Srinivasa Rao, identified the body, which was shifted to SVRR Hospital for autopsy. A case has been registered. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-commits-suicide/article38347417.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many farmers left out of PM Kisan benefits in State, reveals survey||About 15.2 lakh farmers in the State are deprived of the payment instalments under the Centrally-sponsored ‘PM Kisan Samman Nidhi’ that provides input subsidy to them. As part of the scheme, the farmers will receive a sum of Rs. 6,000 per agricultural year in three instalments of Rs. 2,000 each and the transfer of the 10th instalment is under way since January 1 and will be completed by the end of February. Registered farmers According to a survey conducted by LibTech, represented by a team of engineers, social workers, and social scientists who work towards improving public service delivery in the country, there are total 59, 06,097 farmers registered under the PM Kisan, who are entitled to receive an estimated Rs. 96,03.3 crore. While payments of around Rs. 82,03.7 crore have been received by the farmers, an estimated Rs. 13,43.5 crore is yet to be received by 15.2 lakh farmers who have missed either part or full instalments. The reasons cited for their exclusion is mainly rejections by the respective bank or Aadhaar verification issue. Money transfer is done either through account payments or Aadhaar payments. In some cases, the amount transferred to the farmers’ bank account doesn’t get credited due to technical issues, or under ‘account-based payment system’ the bank account details of the farmers are wrongly entered in MIS, or the farmer’s bank account is un-operational for a long time, resulting in blockade or freezing of the account. In the Aadhaar payment system, the rejections happen due to mapping related issues by the National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI). “In the PM Kisan database, there is no clearly mentioned reason why the payments are put on hold, a reason why farmers are not able to resolve the problem and receive their payments,” says Ajay Palle Swaero of LibTech India. A close examination of 33,562 cases of farmers who face ‘bank rejection’ and ‘Aadhaar not verified cases’ in July 2021 revealed that only 12.5% of cases have been resolved in the last six months. “Some of these cases await resolution for more than 1,060 days,” says Chakradhar Buddha of the organisation. Officials of the Agriculture Department need to act on this. The block officials should update the farmers’ bank account details in PM Kisan login, depending on the specific rejection reason for account payment cases and facilitate NPCI mapping for DPT with the banks in the Aadhaar payment cases. ‘Guidelines needed’ “The Agriculture Department should frame guidelines and share them with the frontline officials to ensure that the beneficiaries receive what it due to them,” says Naveen Gajjalagari, another researcher involved in compilation of the data. The department should publish the reasons why the payments are put on hold and specify the process of resolution, and also organise special camps to enroll farmers who are not registered under PM Kisan so far, they suggest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-farmers-left-out-of-pm-kisan-benefits-in-state-reveals-survey/article64990810.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No school will be shut under mapping exercise’||Education Minister A. Suresh on Saturday said that students, their parents, and all other stakeholders should understand that the ongoing exercise of mapping the government schools would only change the location of the schools for the students. “It will not lead to closure of any school,” he reiterated. Speaking at the valedictory of the Orientation for MLAs, MLCs and others on the mapping of schools, the Minister said that “no school will disappear.” “The existing schools will only change their form into Foundation Schools, Foundation Plus, High Schools, and High Schools Plus,” he added. Mr. Suresh said the three-day meeting, meant to spread awareness on the school restructuring programme, was attended by people’s elected representatives and officials of various districts. Besides, the officials would visit the districts and organise similar sessions, he added. The students and their parents had started showing interest in the government schools, thanks to the series of reforms introduced by the government, the Minister said, informing that during the mapping exercise, the schools that needed additional classrooms and other infrastructure would be identified and developed under the Nadu-Nedu programme. The Minister said the government was not ready to compromise on the education of children as their future depended on it. Despite the COVID-19 challenge, the schools continued to function. The neighbouring States that had closed their educational institutions had started reopening them now, he pointed out. “We are worried about the children’s health as well as their future,” he said. ‘Rethink on Urdu schools’ Deputy Chief Minister Amzad Basha said the suggestions of the elected representatives should be taken into consideration while mapping the Urdu schools, which were only few in number. The government could also rethink on mapping the Urdu schools, he said. Special Chief Secretary (School Education) B. Rajasekhar, Commissioner Suresh Kumar, Samagra Shiksha State Project Director Vetri Selvi, Adviser (Infrastructure) Murali, SCERT Director Pratap Reddy, Joint Director M. Ramalingam, and Municipal Commissioners were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-school-will-be-shut-under-mapping-exercise/article64990808.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:50 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI plans massive protest in support of flood victims||The Communist Party of India (CPI) is gearing up to stage a massive protest against what it called ‘government apathy” towards people of the Rayalaseema region and Nellore district which continue to reel under the impact of the recent floods in the State. Public meeting The party named it ‘Secretariat to Secretariat” protest, beginning from the village secretariat, where dharnas would be staged in the first phase. From there, the protesters would reach the Collectorates to hold demonstrations and protest rallies and finally, the protests would culminate into a massive public meeting in Anantapur on February 20. ‘Chalo Secretariat’ In an online meeting with the party leaders from the Rayalaseema districts of Kadapa, Kurnool, Anantapur and Chittoor besides Nellore district, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said after the proposed meeting in Anantapur, there would be a ‘Chalo Secretariat’ protest for which all the Left parties and the Opposition parties would be invited. The meeting also discussed the losses incurred by people of these districts due to heavy rains and “failure of the Centre and the State governments to come to their rescue and the proposed course of action to express their strong reservations against the government apathy”. Wait for succour Mr. Ramakrishna said even after four months of the ‘calamity’ the victims continued to wait for succour from the government. The torrential rains caused heavy damage to the agricultural crops and farmers incurred losses to the tune of Rs. 1,000 crore. The Central team members who visited the districts had witnessed the extent of damage caused by the floods and yet the Centre did not respond to the needs of the people here,” he said. The Chief Minister who had written to the Centre seeking immediate financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 crore, did not do much except implementing some temporary relief measures for the victims, he alleged. CPI State Secretariat member P. Haranadha Reddy presided over the meeting while the party’s assistant secretary JVS Murthy, State secretariat members Ravula Venkayya, Jelli Wilson and G. Obulesu and the party leaders from various districts were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-plans-massive-protest-in-support-of-flood-victims/article38348092.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Functional experts to improve State finances||The State government has decided to recruit ‘functional experts’ “on lateral entry on contract basis” as Joint Secretaries in the Finance Department. The experts will be recruited in the the level of Senior Level Consultant for a tenure of three years, which is extendable by another two years. The government is, apparently, following the method adopted by the Union government in this regard. One year ago, the Central government had launched its ambitious lateral entry scheme, and advertised 30 posts at the level of Joint Secretary (JS) and Director for lateral recruitment. Now, the State Government is inviting applications for five Joint Secretary (Functional Experts) posts in the Finance Department. They will be offered a consolidated pay of Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 2.50 lakh per month commensurate with qualification, experience, and nature of work experience. They will be designated as Joint Secretary (Functional Expert). Purpose and functions Special Chief Secretary (Finance) S.S. Rawat said it was to augment the Finance Department’s capabilities in specialised areas such as project appraisal, monitoring and evaluation, budgeting, procurement, and human resources management. “The Joint Secretaries are expected to bring in professional expertise and experience in these areas. Internal expertise for these specialised areas is scarce, and their relevance in ensuring value for money from public spending is very high,” he said. They would have to assist the Finance Department in analysing various departmental proposals with regard to changes in organisational structures, creation of posts, and other related issues, he added. The Joint Secretaries would also have to formulate proposals for establishment / modification and capacity-building of government organisations, business process re-engineering of government activities, proposals for adoption of best practices, and new technologies in government processes. They would have to undertake necessary analysis of the fiscal policy of the Government of India, monetary policy of the RBI, and assess their impact on the fiscal and growth parameters of the State. Further, they would have to identify avenues for availing of finance from national and international development institutions. They were expected to suggest measures to improve mobilisation of finances for infrastructure projects and anchor their implementation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/functional-experts-to-improve-state-finances/article38348031.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dialogue only way forward, says Minister||Education Minister A. Suresh on Saturday said that “dialogue is the solution to all problems.” In a statement, Mr. Suresh found fault with the government employees’ stand on the pay revision row, and said it was not right on their part to refuse to come to the table and discuss the issue. “They should realise that the government and the employees are not two separate entities,” he said, disapproving of the employees’ acts such as burning the copies of the G.O.s on the PRC and raising slogans against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Calling it an “undemocratic” act, the Minister said the employees should remember that the government alone could resolve the problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dialogue-only-way-forward-says-minister/article38347882.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl ‘commits suicide’||A 14-year-old girl allegedly committed suicide on Saturday by jumping from the fourth floor of an apartment at Kummaripalem unable to bear the harassment by an eve-teaser. The ninth standard student reportedly left a suicide note in which she mentioned the name of the stalker. Persons having suicidal tendencies may dial ‘100’ for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-commits-suicide/article38348093.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veerraju apologises for objectionable comments||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has said he is taking back his objectionable comments on certain law and order issues hampering the development of Kadapa district, and has tendered an apology to the people for hurting their sentiments. In a press release on Saturday, Mr .Veerraju said that the Rayalaseema region was dear to his heart and that he had been vocal about the need for providing assured irrigation facilities and completing various projects in the parched region. However, Mr. Veerraju claimed to have made the comments out of frustration over the “injustice” meted to the Rayalaseema region by successive governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veerraju-apologises-for-objectionable-comments/article38348041.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees one death, 1,024 new COVID cases in 24 hours||The district has been seeing good drop in COVID-19 cases over the last three days, but the positivity rate is still hovering between 30% and 32% . The district recorded one death and 1,024 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning, and as per the senior doctors in VIMS and KGH, there is a drop in cases over the last few days. On Friday, the district recorded 1,211 cases. Immediately after Sankranti festival, there was a sudden rise in cases and there were days when daily cases were crossing the 2,200-mark. s“Compared to that, 1,000 to 1,200 cases per day is a good drop, as the number of tests is almost same comparatively. On Thursday, we had done close to 4,000 tests and on Friday it was little over 3,000, which indicates that the positivity rate is around 30% to 32%,” said a senior doctor from KGH. It may be remembered that immediately after Sankranti, the positivity rate had shot up to 48%, which is said to be more even when compared to the second wave. But many doctors are of the opinion that the testing is not being done as desired, as many are preferring not to undergo the test. They are handling the situation by taking some prescribed medicines at home, as the severity is suppressed in this wave, said former principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. Going by the daily update in the State bulletin, the trend in Visakhapatnam appears to be tapering down. From being in the top about a week ago, it has slipped down to the fourth position, with Guntur, YSR Kadapa and Kurnool, taking the lead, in the last two days. This third wave has been a bit peculiar, as the cases appears to be fluctuating district-wise on a daily basis. In the first few days, it was Visakhapatnam and Chittoor in the lead, and then it was Anantapur. Now it is Kadapa, Kurnool and Guntur. It appears that the cases seem to increase whereever there is public gathering on some occasion, said the doctors in the KGH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-district-sees-one-death-1024-new-covid-cases/article64990746.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will GVMC boundaries change after formation of new districts ?||Recently, the State government has proposed the formation of 13 new districts in the State to the existing 13. Visakhapatnam district has been divided into three – Anakapalle comprising Anakapalle, Chodavaram, Payarkraopeta, Narsipatnam, Yelamanchili, Madugula and Pendurthi Constituencies, Visakhapatnam comprising East, West, North, South, Bheemunipatnam and Gajuwaka Constituencies and Alluri Sitaramaraju (ASR) district comprising Araku, Paderu and Rampachodavaram. Eversince the announcement was made, there has been a dilemma among the GVMC Corporators from Anakapalle Zone (Wards 80 to 84) and Pendurthi Zone (Wards 89 to 98) on what could possibly happen once the formation of new districts becomes a reality. The corporators are in talks with senior YSR Congress Party leaders over the possible changes in the GVMC once the Visakhapatnam district is divided into three districts. In this regard, Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao during a recent press conference hinted the media that the government may follow the model of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Telangana, which is now spread in across four districts – Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Medchal and Sangaredd – after formation of new districts. Telugu Desam Party (TDP) floor leader and Corporator from Ward 96, Peela Srinivasa Rao, was also optimistic that the government may take a decision on the lines of GHMC only, as all the wards were already merged into Greater Visakha by promising development by organising public hearings. However, he condemned the proposal to include Pendurthi in Anakapalle district. Not just the TDP, even leaders from YSR Congress Party have been appealing to the State Government to include Pendurthi in the Visakhapatnam district. GVMC Commissioner G. Lakshmisha said that it is completely a policy decision which is to be taken and announced by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-gvmc-boundaries-change-after-formation-of-new-districts/article64990733.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mercury dips in Agency yet again||The Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district are witnessing a sudden dip in temperatures for the past two days. Tribal people from Araku, Paderu, Hukumpeta, G.K Veedhi, Chintapalle and a few other mandals are experiencing severe cold weather conditions with temperatures hovering between 4 and 10 degrees Celsius. According to officials from Regional Agricultural Research Station at Chintapalle, the minimum temperature recorded on January 29 early hours was about 5.5 degrees Celsius. On January 28 early hours, the minimum temperature was 14.6 degrees Celsius. This shows that there is a sudden drop in temperatures. This is the second least temperature recorded so far at Chintapalle, in this winter season and the least in this year so far. On December 24, 2021, Chintapalle recorded a minimum of 5 degrees Celsius. Though there are no parameters to record temperatures officially in Lambasingi, officials say that the least temperatures could range between three to four degrees Celsius on Friday night. Similarly, the minimum temperatures at Araku, G.K Veedhi, Hukumpeta, Pedabayulu, was hovering around 5 to 10 degrees Celsius in the early hours of the Saturday, according to the AP CM Dashboard. Even at 9 a.m. on Saturday, Hukumpeta, Araku Valley, Chintapalle, Pedabayulu, G.K Veedhi recorded 10 to 13 degrees Celsius. Thick fog Thick fog engulfed the surrounding areas making it tough for the motorists to ply on the roads. Temperatures are starting to decline right from 5 p.m. On Saturday, at 7 p.m., the temperatures recorded at Chintapalle was 13.9 degrees Celsius and Araku was 14.04 degrees Celsius. Similarly, G. Madugula, G.K Veedhi were also hovering below 15 degree Celsius. Winds from North According to Sai Praneeth, who is popularly known as AP Weatherman, the sudden drop in temperatures in the Agency as well as parts of Andhra was due to the free flow of cold winds coming from the North. The recent spell of rain before and after Sankranti in Visakhapatnam district had also strengthened the easterlies. Mr. Praneeth said that the situation was likely to continue for two to three more days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mercury-dips-in-agency-yet-again/article64990809.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girijan sangham’s plea||Andhra Pradesh Girijan Sangham (APGS) State General Secretary, P Appalanarasayya urged the State government to create another girijan district with Rampachodavaram as headquarters. Addressing a press conference at Paderu, Mr Appalanarasayya thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for creating manyam districts. With Paderu as headquarters, Alluri Sitaramaraju district is proposed to be formed with Rampachodavaram, Chinturu, and a few other areas. But people from Rampachodavaram and Chinturu have to travel more distance to reach Paderu in case of any grievance. He said that formation of new district with Rampachodavaram as headquarters will benefit tribals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girijan-sanghams-plea/article38347411.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:55 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Corporators in Anakapalle zone complain about acute staff shortage||Apart from the major civic issues like bad roads and improper drains, Corporators from Anakapalle Zone sought the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner, G. Lakshmisha and Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari, to focus on constructing community institutions like Kalyana Mandapams, open gyms and open parks in Anakapalle town. The corporators listed out civic issues being faced by the public in their Wards from 80 to 84, during the ‘Coffee with Corporators’ programme which was held at Anakapalle on Saturday. This is the second meeting being organised as part of the programme which was initiated by the GVMC to have a close interaction with the corporators and learn about their local issues. The last meeting was held with the elected representatives from Zones I and II, during the first week of the month. Mr. Lakshmisha said that the five corporators from Anakapalle have brought the issue of scarcity of municipal staff in the region. The staff are inadequate in several wings of the corporation. The problem would be communicated with the higher-ups immediately, he said. Drinking water scarcity He said that the issue of drinking water scarcity on the outskirt areas was also brought to the notice of the GVMC during the meeting. The corporators also complained about the menace of pigs and dogs at many colonies, he added. “As part of Ward Development Plan, roads and drains will be laid or repaired in many colonies. Already the works are in tender stage. The other issues which were brought to our notice will be listed out and will be scrutinised as per priority,” he said. Later, the GVMC Commissioner took part in a Swachh Survekshan awareness programme at Anakapalle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/corporators-in-anakapalle-zone-complain-about-acute-staff-shortage/article38348059.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Surveillance of household contacts will help in early detection of leprosy cases’||The goal is to reduce the annual number of new leprosy cases, leprosy in children and disability. And in tune with the goal, the theme for this year’s Anti-Leprosy Day, which is observed on January 30 every year on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi is – United for Dignity. On the occasion, the Indian Association of Dermatologists, Venerologists and Leprologists (IADVL) is organising quiz and essay-writing competition for post graduate students, across the State, said K. Venkata Chalam, president of Indian Association of Dermatologists, Venerologists and Leprologists (IADVL), on Saturday. As of March 2020, the prevalence rate in India stands at 0.57 per 10,000 population compared to the global figure of 0.2 per 10,000. Trained staff conducting surveillance of household contacts will help in the early detection of new cases of Leprosy especially index cases who are test positive for skin smear. Instead of viewing the disease as a ‘Curse of God’, patients who have experienced leprosy should be supported by others for their mental well-being, so that they can lead a dignified life, free from disease-related stigma and discrimination, he said. ‘Mildly infectious’ Mycobacterium leprae which is the cause can lead to symptoms after an incubation period ranging from 1 to 20 years. It is mildly infectious and spreads through nasal droplets or prolonged close physical contact. Many do not develop leprosy even if exposed. Leprosy primarily affects the peripheral nerves, skin, nasal mucosa, and rarely eyes and bones. Treatment can range from six months to one year depending upon the severity of the disease. If not treated early it can result in gradual permanent damage in the form of deformities. Children can also get affected by leprosy, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surveillance-of-household-contacts-will-help-in-early-detection-of-leprosy-cases/article38348062.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel plant employees defer strike||The proposed strike on January 31 by employees of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) has been deferred as the VSP Chairman and Managing Director had assured that he would take up the matter of wage revision of non-executives in the Emergency Board Meeting of RINL to be held on February 3. Regional Labour Commissioner, Visakhapatnam, S.K. Mohanty held a meeting with representatives of the trade unions and management. Wage revision In the conciliatory meeting, the RINL management agreed to take up the matter of wage revision and the trade unions agreed to defer the strike but stated that if the management fails to implement the wage revision, they may have to go on strike on any future date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-plant-employees-defer-strike/article38348097.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former AU Hindi Professor passes away||Retired Hindi Professor from Andhra University and renowned scholar S.A.S.N. Varma passed away while undergoing treatment in a hospital over a health issue on Saturday. He is survived by his wife and only son. His final rites took place in his native place Vizianagaram. Students and faculty of AU Hindi Department were deeply saddened by the demise of Prof. Varma. The department officials recalled that throughout his career, Prof. Varma gave his best to the student fraternity. He was the recipient of prestigious Ganga Sharan Singh Puraskar by the President. He authored 20 original Hindi books and 10 translations. Mourning the death, AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy said that it was a big loss not only to the university but also to the academic community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-au-hindi-professor-passes-away/article38348100.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Merge S. Kota with Visakhapatnam district’||Sringavarapukota MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao on Saturday urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to include S.Kota in Visakhapatnam district as it was wish of people of the entire constituency. Welcoming the decentralisation move and creation of new districts, he led a massive rally in S.Kota of Vizianagaram disitrct. The constituency is currently under the jurisdiction of Visakhapatnam Parliamentary constituency. YSRCP MLC Indukuri Raghuraju and others participated in the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/merge-s-kota-with-visakhapatnam-district/article38347414.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land acquisition for airport approach road apace||With reported regular follow up from the Chief Minister’s office, the Vizianagaram district administration is in a hurry to complete land acquisition for the construction of approach road from National Highway to proposed international airport site of Bhogapuram of Vizianagaram district.  District Collector A. Suryakumari and Vizianagaram Revenue Divisional Officer Bh. Bhavani Sankar, who visited Bhogapuram recently, understood that at least 80 acres of land was required for the construction of approach road. “We offered between Rs. 37 lakh and Rs. 40 lakh per acre. The farmers who were satisfied with the amount may hand over the land very soon to us,” said Mr. Bhavani Sankar while speaking to The Hindu .  According to him, a major chunk of land for the construction of the airport was also acquired although there were legal tangles at a certain places. “Out of 2,750 acres, 37 acres are yet to be acquired. Some of the property owners approached court over compensation and other issues. We are talking to property owners to overcome legal tangles. We are sure to complete the process very soon,” he added. R&R colonies According to him , the government is constructing R&R colonies at Gudepuvalasa and Polepalli for the people who surrendered their lands to the government for the construction of airport. The locals reportedly approached the officials for speedy completion of the colony with all the required civic infrastructure. The government will provide houses for the villagers of Kancherupalem, Kavulavada, Gudepuvalasa, A. Ravivalasa, Savaravilli, and Ravada. Although the land acquisition is being done for 2,750 acres, the government will retain 500 acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-acquisition-for-airport-approach-road-apace/article38348038.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:57 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Serving the needy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/serving-the-needy/article64990721.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:50 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/religious-fervour/article64990816.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:51 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Added attraction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/added-attraction/article64990813.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:56 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Making a point||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/making-a-point/article64990742.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:20 IST,TELANGANA||‘Hold ‘Billion march’ in New Delhi’||Minister for Finance, Health and Family Welfare T Harish Rao on Saturday asked BJP State president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar to come out with a white paper on number of job recruitment notifications issued and vacancies filled up under the BJP regime at the Centre in the last more than seven years. Speaking to mediapersons after inspecting the works on the building under construction for the new medical college and nursing college at old Paloncha near Kothagudem, the Minister dared Mr Sanjay to hold “Billion march” in New Delhi over the issues facing unemployed youth in the country. Mr Rao said the TRS government filled a total of 1,32,899 vacancies through TSPSC and other job notifications in police, Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL), Gurukulams, Electricity, Medical and Health departments. Giving details of the jobs filled department-wise by the State government since the formation of Telangana State, he said efforts were on to fill another 50,000 to 60,000 jobs soon. The new zonal system had been brought to ensure 95% of jobs to locals and the GO 317 was issued to facilitate this. The State government was planning to identify new vacancies and issue notifications accordingly once the process was completed, he said. He said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in the State were carrying out misinformation campaign by misinterpreting facts about GO 317, which was released in accordance with Presidential Orders. “Criticising it amounted to opposing the very spirit of the Presidential Orders,” he said. Quoting the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) survey report, he said the unemployment rate in the country stood at a high of 7.91% and that of Telangana at a low of 2.2%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hold-billion-march-in-new-delhi/article64990920.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:19 IST,TELANGANA||Long wait for home collection of samples||An increasing number of people falling sick with symptoms of COVID-19 has led to a huge demand for RT-PCR tests. Collection of samples from home is taking longer. So is processing them, and sending results to those tested. A similar situation with regard to private lab services was witnessed during the earlier waves. People who opt for home collection of samples are unable get a slot on the same day. Private health facilities are making reports available only after 24 to 48 hours. Besides, they are collecting samples only till afternoon or early evening, and not later. With this, people with COVID symptoms relying on private labs for home sample collection are forced to wait for a day or two to know their infection status. For getting tested at a lab, it costs Rs. 500. However, if the sample is to be collected at one’s home, it costs Rs. 750. A few labs are charging around Rs. 500-700 more to provide results on the same day. The primary reasons for one opting for home collection of samples include not having the energy to visit the lab and wishing to avoid the possibility of infection at the diagnostic centres where a large number of people come to get tested. Doctors, on multiple occasions, have said that people who have symptoms of COVID have to isolate themselves and take other precautions to avoid spreading the virus to their immediate family members and others in the community. Assistant Professor of General Medicine at Osmania General Hospital, Pratibha Lakshmi has suggested that symptomatic persons should consult a doctor who can advise whether or not a COVID test is required and if medication must be started. One of the common queries that doctors are receiving is how long a COVID-positive person must wait to get tested again so that they can end isolation and step out of home. The rush for retesting is also adding to the flow of samples to labs.  Symptomatic persons should consult a doctor who can advise whether or not a COVID test is required and if medication must be started. Pratibha Lakshmi, Asst. professor, General Medicine, OGH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/long-wait-for-home-collection-of-samples/article64990926.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:20 IST,TELANGANA||TRS, BJP ruling by fear: Revanth||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy made a fervent appeal to the teachers, employees, farmers and jobless youth not to resort to suicide but fight against the TRS and BJP governments for their rights, and assured that the Congress would be with them. Mr. Revanth Reddy was addressing a press conference in Mahabubabad after meeting the families of a government teacher, a jobless youth and a Dalit and Girijan farmers who lost their lives due to heart attack or suicide allegedly due to the wrong policies of the TRS government. The TPCC chief first visited the family members of Jaitram Naik, a government school teacher who died due to a heart attack following his transfer to another district as per GO 317. Jaitram was posted in his native Chinnamupparam village of Nellikudur Mandal in Mahabubabad district. He was depressed after he was transferred to the Mulugu district due to GO 317. He said that the authorities did not stop his transfer even on medical grounds as he had suffered a paralytic attack. Revanth Reddy said he wanted to visit the family immediately but was detained by the police in Hyderabad. He blamed both TRS and BJP Govts for the controversial GO 317 which claimed many lives of teachers and employees in the last one month. He also spoke to the District Collector requesting him to do justice with the Jaitram’s family. Mr. Reddy said several employees and teachers died of heart attack and many, including a woman teacher, committed suicide due to GO 317 but KCR was not even responding to the request by teachers’ unions to hold talks and resolve the issue. Revanth Reddy said BJP and TRS were equally responsible for issuing controversial GO 317 as the new zonal system was approved by the BJP government at the Centre and KCR government later issued the GO. He said that Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy and Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay could get GO 317 cancelled by representing to the President of India as the order was passed as per the Presidential Order. Mr. Revanth Reddy said a jobless youth Mutyala Sagar of Bayyaram committed suicide by jumping in front of a train near Khammam Railway station as he was depressed over remaining unemployed for the past three years. KCR was blamed by him for cheating jobless youth. Now the government instead of helping his family was threatening the family members with false cases. He reminded that KCR came to power in the 2014 elections on the promise of providing one job for each family in Telangana. The TPCC president, Mr Revanth Reddy ,said no section of the society, including youth, farmers, women, employees, teachers, farmers and labourers, were happy with the performance of Telangana Rashtra Samithi and BJP Govts who are ruling by fear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-bjp-ruling-by-fear-revanth/article64990918.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:19 IST,TELANGANA||FGG urges Governor to order ACB probe into land scam||The Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to order an Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) inquiry into the land scam that took place at Kollur village of Ramachandrapuram mandal of Sangareddy district. In a letter addressed to the Governor on Saturday, FGG secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy alleged that no-objection certificates were issued for government lands based on fake patta certificates. “On December 5, 2014, the State government constituted a task force and appointed S.K. Sinha as chairman to verify the appropriates of allotment of lands made in the combined State of Andhra Pradesh, as the Government of Telangana felt that in a number of cases lands allotted by the government have not been proper and not been put to the intended purpose. Further irregularities were committed in issue of no-objection certificates to government lands on fake patta certificates. In a number of cases Mr. Sinha has made detailed reports about government lands irregularly allotted and NOCs issued. Unfortunately, the Revenue Department is acting like godfather to the involved officials and protecting the land owners who got patta certificates through fake records,” said Mr. Padmanaha Reddy in his letter.  Stating that revenue officials of erstwhile Medak district in collusion with few real estate business people have hatched a criminal conspiracy and handed over about 200 acres government land in Survey numbers 191 and 29 7 in Kollur and made pattas to seven companies on fake patta certificates and the said land was mutated to them in revenue records, Mr. Reddy said adding that Mr. Sinha has conducted a detailed inquiry and fixed responsibility on seven revenue officials and also recommended resuming the lands in the report submitted to government in 2016.  “The State government should have suspended the tainted officials and further action should have been initiated. Somehow, no such action was taken. Instead, it was proposed to initiate departmental action, and requested the District Collector to send draft article of charges against the seven officials indicted by Mr. Sinha. Collectors of Medak and Sangareddy submitted a draft article of charges in the year 2016. Surprisingly no action was taken on the report for five years and no action initiated to resume the lands from the companies,” said the general secretary of FGG in the letter adding that out of the seven officials, four have retired four years ago while two officers have been promoted as deputy collectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/order-acb-probe-into-land-scam/article38347877.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:19 IST,TELANGANA||Funds sanctioned for bridges on Musi, Esa||The government has issued orders sanctioning funds for the much publicised bridges across the Musi and Esa rivers in the city. Issued by the Municipal Administration & Urban Development Department, the orders have allocated funds to the tune of Rs. 545 crore for construction of a total of 14 bridges across the rivers and a link road. The bridges are intended for improved connectivity in the city, which has grown exponentially with associated traffic issues. It has been decided to construct the bridges, based on a detailed traffic study, the orders said. Apart from the iconic pedestrian bridge planned at Afzalgunj, the other structures include high-level bridges coming up at various locations including missing link corridor 99, Ibrahimbagh causeway, Moosarambagh, between Sun City and Chintalmet, between inner ring road and Kismathpur, Chaderghat, Budvel, between Manchirevula and Narsingi, and between Pratapsingaram and Gowrelly. New bridges are being planned between Uppal layout and South bank of Musi, at Attapur, between Hydershahkote and Ramdevguda, Budvel, apart from a new link road to Manchirevula bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/funds-sanctioned-for-bridges-on-musi-esa/article38347879.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:20 IST,TELANGANA||‘Attack on BJP done under the direction of CM’||BJP State president and Lok Sabha member Bandi Sanjay Kumar has alleged that attacks on party workers and leaders have been taking place under the directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and they are ready to face them at any cost. Speaking to reporters after participating in several development programmes in Choppadandi along with former MLA B Shobha on Saturday, Mr. Sanjay alleged that false cases were being registered against party workers and sending them to jails. “Attacks took place against me in the past at Nalgonda while recently there was an attack on party Lok Sabha member D. Aravind in the presence of police. This is nothing but diverting public attention from the burning issues in the State. Yesterday there was an attack on one Nageswara Rao at Khammam. Local circle inspector used abusive language. Some police are supporting the ruling party and it was not acceptable,” said Mr. Sanjay Kumar. Referring to the statement made by the government that there will be no paddy procurement centres during summer, the Bharatiya Janata Party president wondered where the farmers have to sell the paddy produced during the season. Stating that the government was ready to by raw rice, he asked why the State Government had given undertaking to the Centre that it would not supply par-boiled rice. He also said that the party would bring pressure on the State Government to open paddy procurement centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/attack-on-bjp-under-direction-of-cm/article38347897.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:52 IST,TELANGANA||HMDA continues demolition spree||The HMDA and District Task Force teams have taken action against seven structures being raised without permissions on Saturday within the HMDA limits. They include four structures in Narsingi municipality, and three in Shamshabad municipality. A commercial shed built on one acre of land in Vattnagulapally was seized, while two more sheds were pulled down. One more commercial shed in Kokapet constructed illegally, was also seized. Columns and slabs raised without permissions for villas on five-acre plot in Shamshabad were demolished, as also were two more illegal structures, a note from HMDA informed. Action has been taken against a total of 114 illegal structures till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hmda-continues-demolition-spree/article38347880.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:19 IST,TELANGANA||Mental health, cookbook tales in focus at lit fest||The 12th edition of the Hyderabad Literary Festival completed a circle on day two, when it started with two young professionals talking about their career shift, to end with focus lights on a world-renowned economist taking a break to write a cookbook. The day began with Sidhartha Mallya, the actor-son of fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya, and actor Samir Soni revealing to moderator Anu Acharya in a session on mental health titled ‘Minding the mind’, the period of churning in their life that brought about major life-changing decisions for them. Mr. Mallya shunned the opportunity offered by inheritance in India and chased his passion, while Soni got disenchanted with life as an investment banker. Both penned their thoughts on mental well-being in their respective works, ‘If I’m honest’ and ‘My experiment with silence’. Mr. Soni says one has to de-condition oneself to realise what one really is. Success is somehow equated with happiness although both have nothing to do with each other, he said. Mallya concurred and added that we are forced as children to choose what we wanted to do and hold on to it for life though deriving least joy from it. The day progressed to an enlightening conversation, albeit mostly in Hindi, with the Punjabi author Des Raj Kali on his treatise ‘Shanti Parav’, a Dalit deconstruct of the peace claims in the source text with the same name from the epic Mahabharata. It was followed by another talk titled ‘Heroes and Villains’, moderated by Uma Magal, who chit-chatted with two cinema experts, Balaji Vittal and Kaveree Bamzai, in the backdrop of their respective works ‘Pure Evil: The bad men of Bollywood’ and ‘The Three Khans: And the emergence of New India’. The discussion delved deeper into topics such as migration to Bollywood in the hope of making a name, and evolution of the villain characters in Indian films. Post noon, the first session was dedicated to women doctors, the panelists being Kavitha Rao who, through her book ‘Lady Doctors’, shone light on the obscure stories of the first crop of female doctors in the country, and Kavery Nambisan, a surgeon cum novelist who has been fortunate enough to be able to pen her own memoirs of being in medical profession. The final session saw Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Banerjee, together with his illustrator Cheyenne Olivier, providing a refreshing diversion from his subject of expertise into the lanes of culinary world, by way of his book ‘Cooking to save your life’. Idea for the book struck him when collecting recipes for his brother-in-law for a Christmas present, and he is unfazed by how the world would perceive this capricious shift. In his own words, the precept of ‘getting the most out of existing resources’ links both economy and cookery! The panels were interspersed with a radio play, poetry recital session, and a cultural programme, to be topped with an interactive play in the end ‘The art of facing fear: World United’ by Rodolfo Garcia Vasquez.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mental-health-cookbook-tales-take-centre-stage/article38347870.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:20 IST,TELANGANA||TRS parliamentary party meet today||The parliamentary party meeting of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) will be held at Pragathi Bhavan, the camp-office-cum-residence of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who is also the president of TRS, here on Sunday to discuss the party’s strategy for the Budget session of Parliament starting on Monday. Party MPs would be given reports with details on the issues pending with the Centre, release of funds due from the Centre and allocation of funds and schemes to the State in the coming Budget so that they could take them up in both Houses of Parliament. Party’s strategy for the coming session assumes significance in the backdrop of increasing confrontation between TRS and BJP in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-pp-meet-today/article38347894.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:19 IST,TELANGANA||CM pays tributes to Mahatma Gandhi||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said the path shown by the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi is ideal even today. In a message issued on the eve of Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary on Sunday, Mr. Rao said on Saturday that by demonstrating peace and patience one can achieve anything in a democratic way. Paying rich tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, the Chief Minister said Mahatma Gandhi achieved freedom for the country through the weapons of truth and non-violence and went on to add that it was with that inspiration he led the struggle for statehood to Telangana. Telangana is following Mahatma Gandhi’s teachings of peace, brotherhood and secularism and marching towards progress, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-pays-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi/article64990925.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:52 IST,TELANGANA||Works launched||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban development K.T.Rama Rao has launched works pertaining to drinking water supply as part of the ORR Phase-II programme of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board in Maheshwaram constituency. Foundation was laid for works worth Rs. 200 crore in areas such as Thukkuguda, Jalpally, Meerpet, and Badangpet, aside from other developmental works costing Rs. 171 crore more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/works-launched/article38347881.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:19 IST,TELANGANA||Man brutally done to death||In a ghastly incident, a man was murdered and his head was separated from the body. The incident came to light on Saturday. According to sources, one Kadavath Raju Naik, 32, went missing and a case was filed on January 24 at BDL Banur police station. On Saturday, his head was found on the outskirts of Kunnur village in Raikod mandal limits while body was found under Manjeera bridge at Raghavapur in Nyalakal mandal. He was native of Vellimela tanda and it was stated that land dispute led to the murder. The body was shifted to Zaheerabad government hospital for postmortem. It was stated that seven persons were taken into custody by police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-brutally-done-to-death/article38348069.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:20 IST,TELANGANA||BJP to launch ‘Micro Donations’ from today||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to collect small amount of money on the name of ‘Micro Donations’ from people across the nation. The programme will be formally inaugurated by Bharatiya Janata Party state unit president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday and cut-off date for the collecting donations is February 11. Only small amounts - Rs. 5 to Rs. 50, Rs. 100 and Rs. 500 - are accepted as donations. An individual should donate only once. The donations can be made on ‘NAMO App’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-to-launch-micro-donations-from-today/article64990921.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:20 IST,TELANGANA||Teachers stage dharna||Members owing allegiance to the Upadyaya Sanghala Porata Committee (UPSC) and the Joint Action Committee of the Teachers’ Organisations (JACTO) staged a dharna in front of the Collectorate in Khammam on Saturday demanding amendments to the GO 317 and transfers based on nativity. Addressing the demonstration, the leaders representing various teachers’ unions demanded that the State government allow transfers on spouse grounds, mutual transfers and give priority to widows, single women and physically challenged categories in transfers. The leaders also sought immediate resolution of the appeals made by the aggrieved teachers over recently effected transfers pending with the State government. A host of senior leaders of the TSUTF, STF, TPTF and several other unions led the demonstration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teachers-stage-dharna/article64990916.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:20 IST,TELANGANA||Medaram arrangements reviewed||Elaborate arrangements are being made to organise the four-day Sammakka Saralamma jatara from February 16 to 19 at Medaram in Mulugu district as per the age-old tribal customs and traditions with healthcare services and COVID prevention measures figuring high on the priority list of arrangements in the wake of the Omicron threat. The biennial mega tribal fair is expected to draw nearly one crore devotees both tribals and non-tribals from far and wide during the four-day jatara. With just little over a fortnight left for the jatara to begin, the top brass of the State administration including Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and DGP M Mahender Reddy along with Ministers Indrakaran Reddy, Satyavathi Rathod and E Dayakar Rao reviewed the arrangements for the jatara at Medaram on Saturday. The Ministers accompanied by the top officials flew down to Medaram in a chopper and made an on-the-spot assessment of the progress of jatara works. They inaugurated a command control centre at the venue of the jatara before conducting a review meeting. Speaking after the meeting, the Ministers said the biennial Sammakka Saralamma jatara received special significance after the formation of Telangana state. The State government had spent Rs. 332 crore for the four previous Sammakka Saralamma jataras held in Medaram since 2014. The ensuing jatara will be conducted as per the tribal traditions under the aegis of the tribal priests in adherence to COVID safety guidelines, they said adding that 90% of jatara works have been completed. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is expected to visit the jatara on February 18. Of the total Rs. 72 crore earmarked for the upcoming jatara, Rs. 1 crore was already allocated for medical and health department. A 50-bed hospital christened as Sammakka Saralamma Vaidyashala will be set up at the jatara site in addition to 10-bed facilities at Tadvai, Parkala and Eturunagaram health centres. As many as 42 medical camps will be conducted on different routes leading to Medaram during the four-day jatara. A total of 15 ambulances and 15 bike ambulances will be pressed into service to attend to medical emergencies, if any. An isolation shed will be set up at Medaram in view of the COVID threat. Five huge sheds have been constructed on a permanent basis to accommodate the devotees. As many as 6400 toilets have been set up at different locations in Medaram. A spacious bus stand has been built on 50 acres and arrangements have been made to operate 3845 TS Road Transport Corporation buses to Medaram from various destinations in the State. Mini-buses will be operated between Narlapur and Jampannavagu free of cost for the benefit of devotees. On the security arrangements, the police officials said the entire jatara site has been divided into eight zones and 34 sectors. Around 10,300 police personnel will be deployed for jatara bandobust and police camps will be set up for every two km from Pasra to Medaram. A total of 30 parking lots have been earmarked on around 1100 acres at Medaram and CCTV cameras will be installed at strategic locations at the jatara site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medaram-arrangements-reviewed/article64990919.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:20 IST,TELANGANA||At a price||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/at-a-price/article64990915.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:22 IST,||Gujarat ATS to probe youth’s murder||The Gujarat government on Saturday roped in the State’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) to probe the murder of Kishan Boliya by two youth who have since been arrested. Boliya was out on bail after being booked for an offensive social media post against a minority group. “The case of violent incident of Dhandhuka has been handed over to ATS. Gujarat police is committed to providing justice to the victim’s family,” tweeted Minister of State for Home Harsh Sanghavi. Earlier on Friday, the junior Home Minister and a cabinet Minister Kiritsinh Rana visited the victim’s family and assured them that all the culprits involved in the murder would be caught. The Police have so far arrested three persons — prime accused Shabbir, who fired at Boliya, while riding pillion on a motorbike, Imtiyaz Pathan, who was driving the bike and a cleric Maulana Mohammad Javrawala, who allegedly provided a pistol to Shabbir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gujarat-ats-to-probe-youths-murder/article38347803.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:42 IST,||Gujarat village mourns family of four who died on Canada-U.S. border||Shops remained shut and streets were deserted in Dingucha village of Gujarat’s Gandhinagar district on Saturday as villagers paid homage to the four members of a family, who died of the extreme cold near the Canada-U.S. border recently. Villagers shared the grief of the local Patel family who lost their four members, including two children, by suspending work and downing the shutters of the shops in the market, said an office-bearer of the village, which is located around 40 kms from Ahmedabad. The village, from where a significant number of people have migrated abroad, mainly to the U.S., Canada and Australia over the past many decades, wore a deserted look on Saturday, locals said. A majority of the local residents belong to the Patidar community. Initially, the village was not ready to believe that the four persons, including a baby, who died on the Canada-U.S. border, belonged to the family of Baldevbhai Patel, they said. However, they later came to terms with the fact that the deceased were his son Jagdish Patel (39), daughter-in-law Vaishali (37), granddaughter Vihangi (11), and grandson Dharmik (3), after Canadian authorities confirmed their identities. Following the confirmation of their identity, relatives and some local women had gathered at the Patel family’s ancestral house at Dingucha on Friday to mourn the deaths. As per the Canadian authorities, the Patel family had arrived in Toronto on January 12, 2022. From there, they made their way to Manitoba and eventually to Emerson around January 18, a day before they tragically died near the border due to exposure to extreme weather conditions. The relatives had on Friday said that the bodies of the deceased would not be brought back to India. “The entire family is in deep shock…As of now, we all have decided not to bring the bodies here for cremation. Last rites will be conducted in Canada itself,” Jaswant Patel, a cousin of late Jagdish Patel, had said. Earlier, the Gujarat police had also received reports about the disappearance of two more families from the State, comprising two couples and two children. They had gone untraceable after reaching Turkey on a visitor visa earlier this month. But after an investigation, the police had confirmed that the two couples were safe and staying at a hotel in Turkey. Probe launched Meanwhile, the State Crime Investigation Department has launched a separate probe into the possibility of illegal immigration racket being run by agents. Earlier this week, the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit of the State CID-Crime was given the task to unearth the network of agents active in Gujarat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gujarat-village-mourns-family-who-died-on-canada-us-border/article64990974.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:42 IST,||Hooda seeks reply on demands of farmers, contractual workers||Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday demanded a reply from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janata Party government on the demands of the contractual employees of the universities and Health department, besides the farmers of the State. Mr. Hooda said the government is constantly interfering in the recruitment of employees in universities in the State. “Temporary employees who have been serving in universities for the last seven to eight years are being terminated. The contractual employees working in the Health department are facing similar problem,” he said. “The government is continuously ignoring many legitimate demands of the employees. Instead of giving permanent jobs to the employees who have been serving in different departments for many years, they are being dismissed. This is the reason why the working class is upset with the policies of the current government,” he said. “During the Corona period, when the government should have supported temporary employees, they were retrenched. The laid-off employees are finding it difficult to support their families, who have reached the brink of starvation. The financial condition of the serving employees also remains pathetic due to non-payment of proper wages and timely salaries. The sword of retrenchment always hangs on their employment as they don’t have any job security,” he said. Mr. Hooda demanded that the government consider all the demands of the contractual employees positively and accept them. “If the present government does not do this, these demands will be considered, and relief would be given to employees when our government is formed,” he said. ‘Exploiting farmers’  “Also, the government is continuously exploiting the farmers. Crops have suffered extensive damages, due to the rain in the last few days. The government did not give compensation to the farmers, despite repeated demands. The government has not even got girdawari (revenue survey) done as yet, while the neighbouring State of Delhi has given compensation to the farmers at the rate of Rs. 20,000 per acre. The farmers of Haryana haven’t yet got compensation for the last season,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hooda-seeks-reply-on-demands-of-farmers-contractual-workers/article64990971.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:42 IST,||9 arrested in Jharkhand for cybercrimes||Nine alleged cyber criminals have been arrested in Jharkhand’s Deoghar district, the police said on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off, the police nabbed the accused from Nagadari village in Kairon police station area on Friday, Deputy Superintendent of Police (Cyber) Sumit Prasad said in a statement. A total of 21 mobile phones, 52 SIM cards and three motorcycles were seized from their possession, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/9-arrested-in-jharkhand-for-cybercrimes/article38348022.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:42 IST,||Governor of Rajasthan tests positive||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra tested positive for COVID-19 here on Saturday. Sources in the Raj Bhavan said Mr. Mishra was asymptomatic and had isolated himself. Mr. Mishra, 80, along with his wife Satyawati Mishra, had received the booster dose of COVID vaccine on January 10. The Governor said he was healthy and had no symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/governor-of-rajasthan-tests-positive/article38348023.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:22 IST,||Contained in containers||The sleepy road behind Andhra Pradesh Bhavan in central Delhi is a picture of two contrasting worlds. The elegant colonial bungalows and sober government offices in the area are at odds with a makeshift village of shipping containers. More than 500 migrant workers live in at least 50 of these containers placed along the road, most of them stacked one above the other in three layers, making the top level over 30-ft high. Each of these containers houses 12 to 14 people, who are engaged in construction work of government offices – being built by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) through a private company – in the vicinity.  Speaking to The Hindu , the workers living there complained of extreme heat and cold conditions, lack of clean toilets and washing areas, besides water dripping from the roof and cramped spaces inside the containers.  They said they preferred living in traditional lodging, even if it were a little away from their workplace, because the containers were “unliveable”. However, many among them also pointed out that they had lived in worse conditions while working at other construction sites. Complaints galore  “ Garmi mein andar aisa lagta hai jaise aag nikal rahi ho (It feels as if it’s burning inside the containers during summer months),” said 20-year-old Shahbaz, a migrant worker from Araria in Bihar.  Inside most containers, there are just two small fans attached to the ceiling. “The fans don’t help much. The workers often sleep late in summer, waiting for the containers to cool down a little,” said Mr. Shahbaz. Winter months are no better for them. At night, dew drops keep dripping from the roof, dampening their blankets and beds. The containers have metal bunk beds on both sides, separated by a narrow walkway. Many containers also have a kitchen arrangement on the bunk bed closest to the door. While the doors of the containers can be closed, the windows, which have been cut out of the metal walls, cannot be closed and the inhabitants use a curtain or cardboard to cover the opening. It hardly gives them any protection from the cold wintry nights in the Capital. “Life inside this box is like living in a train. The only difference is that this bogie is stationary,” laughed Mohammad Shahnavaz, 31, sitting on his bunk bed. He said he was living and working under such difficult conditions in Delhi only to provide for his four children and wife who are based in Araria, Bihar. Citing other problems, he said it was difficult to wash and dry clothes. There were 20-odd temporary toilets mounted on trolleys but at any given time, more than half of them were clogged and unusable, he said. These workers have been provided the accommodation in the shipping containers by a contractor through the private company building the offices. According to the Delhi government rules, any contractor providing accommodation has to arrange for amenities, including clean toilets and washing areas. The rule book says every latrine or urinal should be maintained in a sanitary condition at all times. In case more than 250 workers live in a place, there should be a provision for a canteen. The rule demands a dining hall with furniture, sufficient to accommodate the workers. Separate places have to be earmarked for canteen, kitchen, storeroom, pantry and washing utensils. A Central government legislation talks of “separate cooking place, bathing, washing and lavatory facilities”. But many of these rules seem to be lacking in these habitations. The ladders connecting the ground, first and second levels of the containers are made of irons rods and each rung is made of two parallel rods with a gap between them. This again is in violation of rules that state that ladder rungs have to be made of straight-grained wood free from defects. Mr. Shahnavaz, who earlier worked in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh, said in his 15 years of experience, Delhi is the only city where he has been provided accommodation in a container. Two years ago, when he worked at a construction site next to the Delhi High Court, the living conditions were better in regular rooms, he added.  ‘ Unliveable, inhuman’ S. Irudaya Rajan, chair of The KNOMAD (The Global Knowledge Partnership on Migration and Development), a World Bank working group on internal migration and urbanisation, said he had seen similar housing arrangements for workers in West Asia and China. “The condition inside the containers here is not liveable; it is inhuman," he said. “If a private company is doing this, I can understand, but the government (CPWD) cannot do this to its workers,” he said, adding that the living conditions of migrants are usually “pathetic” in many places across the country. “They can’t complain to anyone. Unless we recognise migrant workers as the backbone of our economic growth and include them as beneficiaries in the plans of State governments and smart cities, they will remain an invisible sector and their problems will remain unsolved,” Mr. Rajan said.When contacted, Devendra Sachan, Director (media), CPWD, did not offer a comment. A few workers are planning to leave the work and return home due to the poor conditions. “In my eight years of experience, this is the worst place I have stayed in. Had I known about these conditions, I wouldn't have come here. I am going back next month,” said Yunis Alam, 25, from Uttar Pradesh, who started living in the containers a week ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/contained-in-containers/article64991043.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:21 IST,||Beating Retreat: drones, new tunes enthral viewers||The annual Beating the Retreat ceremony witnessed a series of firsts at Vijay Chowk on Saturday. The event celebrated 75 years of India’s Independence through a series of projection mapping over the walls of the North and South Blocks, while 1,000 drones flew over the historic venue, dotting the sky with multiple colours. With buglers heralding the arrival of President and Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces Ram Nath Kovind at the venue, the ceremony kicked off with unfurling of the Tricolour and the massed bands playing the ‘Veer Sainik’ tune. A total of 44 buglers, 16 trumpeters and 75 drummers enthralled the audience at the ceremony. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Chief of Army Staff General M.M. Naravane, Air Force Chief Air Marshal V.R. Chaudhari and Navy Chief Admiral R. Hari Kumar were among the dignitaries present at the ceremony. Commander Vijay Charles D’Cruz was the principal conductor at this year’s ceremony during which the atmosphere was filled with foot-tapping tunes performed by the Pipes and Drums band, followed by bands of the Indian Army, Navy, Air Force and Central Armed Police Forces. Row over dropped hymn  New tunes were also added to this year’s BRT ceremony, including ‘ Kerala’ , ‘ Hind ki Sena ’ and ‘ Ae Mere Watan Ke Logon ’. Written by Kavi Pradeep, ‘ Ae Mere Watan Ke Logon ’ was added as a replacement to the popular 19th century hymn ‘Abide With Me’ — not played for the first time in over seven decades, a move which was widely criticised by Opposition leaders.  Illuminating the sky with colours and music in synchrony, the drone show, conceptualised under the ‘Make in India’ initiative, left the audience in awe. It was organised by a startup — Botlab Dynamics — and supported by IIT-Delhi’s Department of Science and Technology. A century-old military tradition, the Beating the Retreat ceremony dates back to when troops would disengage from the battle at sunset when buglers sounded the retreat. Saturday’s ceremony marked the end of India’s 73rd Republic Day celebrations that started on January 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/beating-retreat-drones-new-tunes-enthral-viewers/article64991046.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:22 IST,||Reopen gyms, spas, demand owners||Hundreds of gym owners staged a protest outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Saturday. They were raising slogans against the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) decision to keep fitness centres shut despite a decline in COVID-19 cases in the city. The protesters started their march from Chandgi Ram Akhara to Mr. Kejriwal’s residence but were stopped by the police after a few minutes. “We took out the march to make the government and the Lieutenant-Governor realise the plight of gym owners and others engaged in this business,” said Delhi Gym Association (DGA) president Chirag Sethi. “The fitness industry has already suffered a lot due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the last two years. Not allowing our establishments to reopen will prove to be a death warrant for our businesses,” he said. The DGA had on Friday announced that gym owners and members would stage a protest near the L-G’s residence but they were not granted permission. The downward trend of COVID-19 cases continued in the city on Saturday with test positivity rate falling to 7.41% from 8.60% a day earlier, according to a Delhi government bulletin. The positivity rate had peaked on January 14 at 30.64%. 4,483 fresh cases The number of new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours increased to 4,483 from 4,044 on Friday due to an increase in the number of tests. The number of tests increased to 60,532 from 47,042, a day earlier. Twenty-eight new deaths were reported, taking the toll to 25,797, as per the bulletin. Of the total 15,428 hospital beds for COVID-19, 88.5% were vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/reopen-gyms-spas-demand-owners/article64991045.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:21 IST,||SIT formed to probe Shahdara assault case||The Delhi police on Saturday set up a Special Investigation Team to probe the Shahdara sexual assault and public shaming case reported on January 26. Also, a 14-year-old boy and an adult were apprehended in addition to the 11 persons caught earlier. “An autorickshaw used in the abduction of the victim has also been recovered,” DCP R. Sathiyasundaram said. The police said a 10-member team under an ACP-rank officer has been formed for speedy investigation. On Wednesday, a 20-year-old married woman was sexually assaulted, tonsured, publicly shamed and paraded with a blackened face and a garland of shoes around her neck in Shahdara. Videos of the incident went viral.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sit-formed-to-probe-shahdara-assault-case/article38347792.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:22 IST,||SDMC decision is contempt of Assembly: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday said the South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s decision to not reply to questions sent by the Delhi Assembly’s privilege committee is a “contempt” of the House. “The BJP-ruled municipal corporation has brought forth a tyrannical proposal stating that it will not answer queries sent by the Delhi Vidhan Sabha,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. He said an AAP MLA had asked in the Assembly whether the BJP pays the civic bodies for all the advertisements it has put up in the city but the Commissioner of the corporation replied saying he has no information on it. Defending the municipal body, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the SDMC’s decision is logically correct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-decision-is-contempt-of-assembly-aap/article38347797.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 04:22 IST,||Three imposters held for conning people||Three persons have been arrested for cheating people on the pretext of solving their problems by posing as followers of a ‘spiritual guru’. DCP (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said they have been identified as Love Kumar, 50, Ashu Arora, 24, and Rajni Arora, 62. Kumar is a resident of Delhi and the others are from Ludhiana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-imposters-held-for-conning-people/article38347802.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:47 IST,||Biden to send troops to Europe amid Ukraine diplomacy push||U.S. President Joe Biden is maintaining pressure on Russian leader Vladimir Putin over Ukraine after announcing a small troop deployment to eastern Europe even as top Pentagon officials backed a renewed push for diplomacy. As Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky urged Western leaders to avoid stirring “panic” over the massive Russian troop buildup on his country’s borders, Mr. Putin and French President Emmanuel Macron agreed on the need for de-escalation. Not ready to concede Neither Mr. Putin nor his European and American counterparts had until now appeared ready to give ground in the weeks-long crisis, the worst in decades between Russia and the West. But according to a Macron aide, Mr. Putin told the French leader in a call lasting more than an hour that he had “no offensive plans.” In Washington, Mr. Biden nevertheless said on Friday he would soon send a small number of U.S. troops to bolster the NATO presence in eastern Europe as tensions remain heightened. The United States already has tens of thousands of troops stationed across mostly Western Europe. At the Pentagon, top officials urged a focus on diplomacy while saying that Russia now had enough troops and equipment in place to threaten the whole of Ukraine. Any such conflict, warned the top U.S. general, Joint Chiefs Chairman Mark Milley, would be “horrific” for both sides. “If that was unleashed on Ukraine, it would be significant, very significant, and it would result in a significant amount of casualties,” Mr. Milley said. ‘Still time for diplomacy’ But speaking alongside Mr. Milley, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said there “is still time and space for diplomacy. “Mr Putin can do the right thing as well,” Mr. Austin said. “There is no reason that this situation has to devolve into conflict.” During his talks with Mr. Macron, Mr. Putin “expressed no offensive plans and said he wanted to continue the talks with France and our allies,” the aide to the French president said. Their conversation “enabled us to agree on the need for a de-escalation,” the aide told journalists. Mr. Putin “said very clearly that he did not want confrontation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-send-troops-to-europe-amid-ukraine-diplomacy-push/article38347243.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:47 IST,||Varsity covers up Tiananmen tribute||Hong Kong’s oldest university covered up one of the last public tributes to the deadly 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown on Saturday, as Beijing continues to muzzle dissent in the financial hub. Hong Kong was the only place in China where mass remembrance of Tiananmen was tolerated, but authorities have driven such activities underground after imposing a sweeping national security law on the city. The University of Hong Kong (HKU) last month removed a famous statue commemorating pro-democracy protesters killed by Chinese troops around Tiananmen Square. At least two other local universities removed artworks in public areas marking the crackdown that same week.  An AFP reporter saw construction workers covering the calligraphy, which read: “The heroic spirit of martyrs slaughtered in cold blood will live forever, the fire of democracy that overcomes evil will never be put out”.  Created by HKU students shortly after the crackdown, it had adorned the campus for more than three decades according to local media. A spokesperson told reporters that the university “regularly conducts maintenance works at various locations and facilities, with the above site being one such project”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/varsity-covers-up-tiananmen-tribute/article38347244.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:48 IST,||Two years on, Indian students awaiting their return to China still in limbo||Two years on after thousands of Indian medical students saw their education in China abruptly put on hold amid the COVID-19 outbreak, students are still in the dark about when they can return and are growing increasingly desperate about their future.  Students from half a dozen medical colleges in China, who have remained in India over the past two years, told The Hindu in interviews that they have been given no information about when they can return and that their online classes have left them unprepared as some face imminent graduation having missed out on practical training that is a crucial component of medical education.   “Some of us are going to graduate with degrees that are only on paper, while we have wasted our family’s savings,” said one student enrolled in a college in Tianjin. The students The Hindu spoke to were all enrolled in the 45 universities authorised by China to offer MBBS degrees to foreign students taught in English. There are around 23,000 Indian medical students enrolled in Chinese programmes. The students interviewed are not being named as they were concerned about jeopardising their return to their universities.  In late January 2020, colleges across China closed amid the COVID-19 outbreak. Many students were in India during their winter holidays, and have remained in the country since. Others returned home as the outbreak spread, particularly those studying in Wuhan and in Hubei province, which is an important centre of medical teaching in China. India’s first confirmed COVID-19 case, on January 30, 2020, was a medical student from Kerala who returned from Wuhan. Online classes Over the past two years, students have had online classes which are used to teach theory, but clinical subjects remain untaught. Even a virtual theoretical education hasn’t been without hiccups. After the border crisis with China and the subsequent banning of 200 Chinese apps, students have to use sometimes unreliable virtual private network software to access apps where lectures are streamed. Most have to settle for subsequently downloading videos of lectures, which has meant little opportunity to interact with teachers. “We are slipping into depression,” said one student from Karnataka. “And I’m hearing this from all of my classmates. We face constant questioning from our family, who have helped us pay for this education, about how we are going to become doctors. It is a sense of humiliation for some of us, and we are just confining ourselves to our homes and have stopped socialising.” The biggest concern, students said, involved clinical subjects and learning surgery. The universities in China said they would restructure the curriculum to make up for the absence of practical learning when they return. But students who are graduating in the next two years are running out of time. “We have not even seen a cadaver,” said one student. “And the university’s plan, when we return to China, is for us to practice with a cadaver in the morning and then learn live surgeries in the evening. How is this even possible?” The question of returning to China itself remains uncertain two years into the pandemic. The universities say they have been given no timetable from the Chinese authorities on when they can issue letters needed for visa applications. Indian students have heard that some South Korean and Malaysian postgraduates have been given visas, but none so far from India. “The universities say it is not in their hands and the government has to give permission,” said one student. The students chose China to pursue their medical degrees after they were unable to either secure a highly competitive government seat in India or afford the exorbitant costs of a private education. Preferred destination China has gradually replaced Russia and Eastern Europe as a preferred destination, students said, because of a combination of factors: the costs, which vary across Chinese universities; the rapid improvement there in the quality of facilities; and the fact that a one-year internship, offered with the five-year degrees, is recognised in India. Students said those from China also generally fared better than many other foreign countries in clearing the challenging foreign medical graduate exam that foreign graduates are required to take, which in recent years has had a 15% pass rate. After two years of a challenging virtual education, the odds of passing that exam have only grown taller, while students still remain in the dark about when they may be able to return to their colleges and make up for the lost time. Asked about the plight of Indian students, the Chinese Foreign Ministry in November said the government “always attaches high importance to the issue of foreign students coming to China for their studies”. “On the basis of ensuring safety amid COVID-19, we will consider in a coordinated manner arrangement for allowing foreign students to return to China for their studies,” spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. That stand hasn’t changed, while China’s doors to the world still remain closed. For the students, a painful wait continues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/two-years-on-indian-students-awaiting-their-return-to-china-still-in-limbo/article64990817.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:47 IST,||Rejected by New Zealand, reporter seeks Taliban help||A pregnant New Zealand journalist says she turned to the Taliban for help and is now stranded in Afghanistan after her home country has prevented her from returning due to a bottleneck of people in its coronavirus quarantine system.  In a column published in The New Zealand Herald on Saturday, Charlotte Bellis said it was “brutally ironic” that she’d once questioned the Taliban about their treatment of women and she was now asking the same questions of her own government.  “When the Taliban offers you — a pregnant, unmarried woman — safe haven, you know your situation is messed up,” Ms. Bellis wrote in her column. New Zealand has managed to keep the spread of the virus to a minimum during the pandemic. But the nation’s requirement that even returning citizens spend 10 days isolating in quarantine hotels run by the military has led to a backlog of thousands of people wanting to return home vying for spots. She said she sent 59 documents to New Zealand authorities in Afghanistan but they rejected her application for an emergency return. Ms. Bellis said that pregnancy can be a death sentence in Afghanistan because of the poor state of maternity care and lack of surgical capabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rejected-by-new-zealand-reporter-seeks-taliban-help/article38347249.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:47 IST,||TV in Turkey ordered to ‘protect family values’||Turkey’s President has ordered that steps be taken against media like TV programmes that are deemed contrary to Turkey’s “fundamental values.” Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in a circular posted Saturday on the Official Gazette, said the decision aims to eliminate the harmful effects of television programmes with foreign content. Children and youth will be protected from “messages conveyed through certain symbols,” the decision stated, without elaborating. Ilhan Tasci, a member of the media watchdog from the main Opposition party, called the move “the censorship circular” and said it violates the constitution that promises to protect press freedom. Reporters Without Borders ranks Turkey at 153 out of 180 countries in its World Press Freedom Index of 2021. At least 34 media employees are currently behind bars.  The circular follows the launch of Fox TV 's Turkish adaptation of the international show “ The Masked Singer ,” where celebrities perform in costume to hide their identities. The show has been criticised online for alleged Satanic and pagan content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tv-in-turkey-ordered-to-protect-family-values/article38347618.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:47 IST,||Snow ‘bomb’ unleashes blizzard on eastern U.S.||Blinding snow whipped up by near-hurricane force winds pummeled the eastern United States on Saturday, as one of the strongest winter storms in years triggered severe weather alerts, transport chaos and power outages across a region of some 70 million people. With multiple blizzard warnings in effect, cities like New York and Boston bore the brunt of the storm, which the National Weather Service (NWS) confirmed on Saturday morning had intensified into a “bomb cyclone” — characterised by the explosive power of rapid drops in atmospheric pressure. Coastal areas were expected to receive more than 30 centimeters of snow by the end of the day, and as much as three feet in parts of Massachusetts, where nearly 1,17,000 homes were already reported without power. In Long Island, officials said a woman had been found dead in her car by a snowplow operator. 25 centimeters of snow had already accumulated on the island north of Manhattan, and regional train lines were partially shut down to clear ice off the tracks. More than 3,500 flights were canceled for Saturday traveling within, into or out of the United States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/snow-bomb-unleashes-blizzard-on-eastern-us/article38347617.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:44 IST,||Qatar looks to cash in on Europe gas fears over Kiev||Europe’s fears of losing Russian gas supplies in the Ukraine crisis will loom large when Qatar’s Emir meets the U.S. President on Monday but the powerful Gulf ruler has no “magic wand”, analysts say. Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani will ensure some kind of assistance, however, as he seeks a bigger share of the European market for Qatar’s burgeoning offshore gas production and to score valuable points over its neighbours in becoming the key U.S. ally in the Gulf. The sheikh, whose tiny country has increased its diplomatic initiatives to match its status as an energy colossus, has the Ukraine crisis, efforts to engage the hardline Taliban administration in Afghanistan and backroom talks on reviving a nuclear accord with Iran on the agenda for his White House meeting with U.S. President Joe Biden. Gas supplies are one of the key areas that Europe fears could be cut if Russia decides to take military action in Ukraine. “Talks are going on” over diverting some liquefied natural gas from Asian markets to Europe if President Putin cuts supplies to western Europe, a Qatari official said ahead of the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/qatar-looks-to-cash-in-on-europe-gas-fears-over-kiev/article38347245.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:44 IST,||Alleged Maduro co-conspirator says CIA knew about coup plans||A retired Venezuelan army general says CIA officials were aware of his efforts to oust Nicolás Maduro — a role he says should immediately debunk criminal charges that he worked alongside the socialist leader to flood the U.S. with cocaine. The stunning accusation came in a court filing late on Friday by attorneys for Cliver Alcalá.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/alleged-maduro-co-conspirator-says-cia-knew-about-coup-plans/article64990836.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:52 IST,||More than 7,000 staff at Tata’s Air India provided EPF cover||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation on Saturday said it had brought Air India staff under its umbrella, giving social security coverage to 7,453 employees. The airline was taken over by Tata Sons on Thursday, completing the government’s disinvestment of the carrier. The EPFO said Air India Ltd. had applied to be covered under the Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provision Act, 1952. The application had been accepted on January 13 with effect from December 1, 2021. “The social security benefits will be provided to around 7,453 employees for whom contributions have been filed by Air India with EPFO for December 2021,” the EPFO said. These employees would now receive an additional 2% employer’s contribution at 12% of their wages. Earlier, they were covered under the PF Act, 1925, giving them 10% contribution by the employer in addition to the employee’s 10%. “EPF Scheme 1952, EPS 1995 and EDLI 1976 will now be applicable to the employees. A guaranteed minimum pension of Rs. 1,000 will be available to employees and pensions to family and dependents in case of death of employee. Insurance benefit “An assured insurance benefit in case of death of member will be available in the range of minimum Rs. 2.5 lakh and maximum Rs. 7 lakh. No premium is charged to the EPFO covered employees for this benefit,” the EPFO said. “The employees used to participate in self-contributory annuity-based pension scheme... there was no minimum pension guarantee and no extra benefit in case of death of a member,” the EPFO added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/more-than-7000-staff-at-tatas-air-india-provided-epf-cover/article64990795.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:52 IST,||Chemplast Sanmar Q3 profit surges sevenfold to Rs. 142.8 crore||Chemplast Sanmar Ltd., a maker of specialty chemicals, reported third-quarter standalone net profit jumped almost sevenfold to Rs. 142.8 crore, helped by higher operating profits and lower interest and finance costs. Revenue from operations grew 27% in the three months ended December to Rs. 515 crore on higher realisations for key products such as specialty paste PVC resin, suspension PVC, chloromethanes and caustic soda. “We have posted solid operating performance for the third quarter, despite the tough market situation prevailing due to COVID,” said chairman Vijay Sankar. “We are one of the few private sector companies from Tamil Nadu to have posted a [consolidated] net profit of over Rs. 400 crore in the nine-month period,” he added. “We have repaid all the debts, thanks to strong cash accruals and we have gone in for loan refinance for our subsidiaries. We are in a strong position and would like to grow further,” Mr. Sankar said. Noting that tight supply of both paste PVC and suspension PVC at the global level, coupled with India’s high import dependence, augured well for domestic manufacturers like Chemplast, MD Ramkumar Shankar said: “With our dominant position in the Indian market and expansion plans to cater to the growing demand, we believe that we are well placed to benefit from uptick in PVC market”. “Custom manufacturing business is expected to benefit significantly due to China-plus-one strategy of global innovators,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chemplast-sanmar-q3-profit-surges-sevenfold-to-rs-1428-crore/article64990797.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||‘Allow duty-free cotton import with quantitative restrictions’||The textile and clothing industry, which is facing high raw material costs, has sought duty-free import of cotton with quantitative restrictions. Textile machinery manufacturers are delivering almost two lakh spindles a month, said T. Rajkumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry. This means that substantial addition of production capacity has been taking place. Thus, cotton consumption by textile mills during the current cotton season, which ends on September 30, is likely to be higher at close to 340 lakh bales while cotton production is estimated to be almost 350 lakh bales, compared with 360 lakh bales in the previous season. Every year, 40-45 lakh bales turn out to be of poor quality, which is unusable. This year, the yield is said to be lower, apart from quality issues. Cotton prices have reached Rs. 80,000 a candy, rising from Rs. 43,300 in January 2021 and Rs. 57,000 a candy on October 1, 2021. There is hardly any cotton arriving at the markets, according to Ravi Sam, chairman, Southern India Mills’ Association. “The best of mills have just one-and-a-half months’ cotton stock,” he added. The Centre must permit 30 lakh bales of duty-free import of cotton for April-September, and that too only by end-users of cotton, Mr. Rajkumar and Mr. Sam urged. Mills have to start booking cotton now to ensure shipments in April-May. “If this is not done, textile industry will [face] a disaster in March-April,” Mr. Sam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/allow-duty-free-cotton-import-with-quantitative-restrictions/article64990787.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:52 IST,||Tally urges software codification to make India ‘products hotspot’||India has the potential, talent and the will to become the next software products hotspot in the world, provided the government is ready to offer required regulatory support, said Tejas Goenka, Managing Director, Tally Solutions, a business management software provider. The primary requirement is to recognise ‘software products’ as a separate category both under the HSN code (Harmonized System of Nomenclature, a 6-digit uniform code used for the classification of goods globally) and the SAC code (Service Accounting Code, a unique code provided for recognition, measurement and taxation of services), he said. “Such classification will help provide clarity and appropriate incentivisation for the industry,” Mr. Goenka pointed out in an interview. Currently, off-the-shelf software is being classified as goods and other kinds of software are classified as services, creating ambiguity about software products that are delivered virtually, Mr. Goenka observed. He also pointed out that income tax rules do not distinguish products from services and so TDS at 10% is applicable on the sale of software versus TDS of 0.1% applicable on goods. “Sales and distribution of software products under the current classifications are difficult and financially unviable. Therefore, a correction is imperative to spur growth for the domestic sale of software products, especially for smaller businesses,” Mr. Goenka urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tally-urges-software-codification-to-make-india-products-hotspot/article64990796.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:52 IST,||‘Pandemic accelerated e-signature adoption’||The recent surge in pandemic-induced remote working and social distancing has accelerated the adoption of electronic signatures across a diverse set of industries, use cases and geographies, said Srini Dokka, VP – Global Business Development at MSB Docs, a provider of e-signature technologies and smart document solutions. Organisations entirely running on paper-based processes, and which had never planned for digitisation, had to take a quick plunge into the digital world during the pandemic to fill the gap in their digital business capabilities and enable business continuity. “This resulted in an acceleration in the adoption of e-signature technologies by organisations that have been reticent to embrace this technology and who used it only for external customer or partner use cases such as contracts and client agreements,” Mr. Dokka said. “These could be documents for individual customers, vendors or partners, but in all of these cases, the contract needs to be signed by someone external to the organisation, putting a greater burden on identity assessment to protect against fraud,” he added.  A greater burden is on identity assessment to prevent fraud||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pandemic-accelerated-e-signature-adoption/article38347424.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:52 IST,||IndusInd Bank Q3 net, NPA ratio rise||IndusInd Bank on Saturday reported a 50% jump in its consolidated net profit at Rs. 1,241.55 crore in the quarter ended December 2021. The bank had posted a net profit of Rs. 830.41 crore in the same period a year earlier. Total income during the October-December period of 2021-22 rose to Rs. 9,614.34 crore as against Rs. 8,887.28 crore, IndusInd Bank said in a filing. However, the lender witnessed deterioration in its asset quality as the gross non-performing assets (NPAs) rose to 2.48% of the gross advances as of December 31, 2021, from 1.74% by December 2020. Net NPAs stood at 0.71% as against 0.22% by December 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indusind-bank-q3-net-npa-ratio-rise/article38347425.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:51 IST,||Barty breaks a 44-year hoodoo, is crowned queen at Melbourne Park||An imperious Ashleigh Barty became the first Australian to win her home Grand Slam in 44 years on Saturday, halting the charge of fearless American Danielle Collins in straight sets. The World No. 1 was 1-5 down in the second set but came storming back to win on a tie-break and sweep past the 27th seed 6-3, 7-6(2) to be crowned Australian Open champion at the Rod Laver Arena. Later, Australian bad boys Nick Kyrgios and Thanasi Kokkinakis won the men’s doubles title beating compatriots Matthew Ebden and Max Purcell. Team ‘Special K’ won 7-5, 6-4 in one hour 35 minutes. Special spectator It was a third Slam title for the 25-year-old Barty after her breakthrough French Open success in 2019 and Wimbledon last year, joining Serena Williams as the only active players to win Majors on all three surfaces. She achieved the feat with Christine O’Neill, the last Australian man or woman to win in Melbourne, watching in the stadium. O’Neill won the title in 1978. Both players comfortably held their early service games, offering few chances. But Collins was employing her powerful groundstrokes and they were causing trouble. With the crowd roaring her on, Barty raced home 6-3 in 32 minutes. Collins came storming back, breaking Barty for 2-0 in the second set. Collins fended off two break-points to hold serve and while Barty won her next service game to love the American was pumped up and broke again for 5-1 as the top seed sent down two double-faults. Barty was in deep trouble but incredibly found a way back, breaking for 2-5 with some crisp winners then breaking again for 4-5 as Collins floundered serving for the set. She forced a tie-break and was always in charge to collect her fourth victory in five encounters with Collins and make history for Australia. Dynamic duo The Aussie doubles winners, especially Kyrgios, had come in for plenty of criticism for their antics during their run to the final. They had been involved in altercations with opponents, had whipped boorish home fans into a frenzy, argued with umpires, smashed racquets and made obscene gestures. But the dynamic duo, who have been friends since they were nine years old, were too strong in a clash of unseeded pairs.  This is a dream come true for me, and I am so proud to be an Aussie Barty||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barty-breaks-a-44-year-hoodoo-is-crowned-queen-at-melbourne-park/article64990804.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:52 IST,||Vidit holds Carlsen||Vidit Gujrathi proved equal to World No. 1 Magnus Carlsen in 51 moves to share the fifth spot after 11 rounds of the Masters section in the Tata Steel chess tournament at Wijk aan Zee, near Amsterdam, on Friday. At one stage, Vidit (six points) looked in serious trouble but Carlsen missed the precise continuation on the 36th move. The queens returned to the board before the players agreed to a draw. Carlsen maintained his half-point lead at 7.5 points. R. Praggnanandhaa (3.5) lost to Fabiano Caruana in 46 moves to occupy the last spot in the 14-player field. In the Challengers section, Arjun Erigaisi (9) moved within a draw of winning the title.  11th round results:   Masters (Indians unless stated): Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 7.5) drew with Vidit Gujrathi (6); R. Praggnanandhaa (3.5) lost to Fabiano Caruana (USA, 6); Richard Rapport (Hun, 7) received a walkover from Daniil Dubov (Rus, 3.5); Jorden van Foreest (Ned, 5.5) bt Anish Giri (Ned, 6.5); Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze, 6.5) drew with Sergey Karjakin (Rus, 6); Nils Grandelius (Swe, 3.5) drew with Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 6); Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 5) drew with Sam Shankland (USA, 4.5).   Challengers (involving Indians): Erwin L’Ami (Ned, 5.5) drew with Arjun Erigaisi (9); Polina Shuvalova (Rus, 4) drew with S.S. Ganguly (5.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-holds-carlsen/article64990801.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:52 IST,||Super sub Kiyan Nassiri powers Mohun Bagan past East Bengal||Kiyan Nassiri turned an unlikely hero for ATK Mohun Bagan as he performed a hat-trick, after coming in as a late substitute, and helped his team beat traditional rival SC East Bengal 3-1 in an ISL-8 fixture at Fatorda on Saturday. Sideol strikes SC EB went into the lead early in the second half through a goal from Darren Sidoel. Kiyan arrived just after the hour mark and turned the game around for ATK MB. The 21-year-old forward found the equaliser three minutes after his arrival and struck twice in injury time in the second half. SC EB, which started with two specialist strikers in Croatian Antonio Perosevic and the newly arrived Brazilian Marcelo Rebeiro, did well on the counter-attacks. The ploy seemed to work well as SC EB earned the first good opportunity of the match in the 25th minute but Marcelo wasted the opportunity with a wayward attempt. ATK MB returned strongly after the break but saw a Liston Colaco attempt come off the cross-piece. It was SC EB which found the lead off a corner as Sidoel converted in the 56th minute. Stepping in ATK MB coach Juan Ferrando introduced Kiyan in the 61st minute after his regular attackers — David Williams, Hugo Boumous and Liston Colaco – repeatedly failed to find the target. Kiyan, who is the son of the former East Bengal star Jamshid Nassiri, announced his arrival with the equaliser in the 64th minute. After Williams blew a penalty in the 66th minute, it was Kiyan who found the lead for ATK MB in the second minute of added time. He added another two minutes later to make it an extraordinary night for himself and ATK MB. The result helped ATK MB climb into the top four with 19 points from 11 matches while SC EB slid to the bottom of the table with nine points from 14 games.  The result:   ATK Mohun Bagan 3 (Kiyan Nassiri 64, 90+2, 90+4) bt SC East Bengal 1 (Darren Sidoel 54).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-sub-kiyan-nassiri-powers-atk-mb-past-sc-eb/article64990799.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:26 IST,||BFC takes on Kerala Blasters||Kerala Blasters returns to Indian Super League (ISL) action after 18 days, going up against Bengaluru FC (BFC) at Tilak Maidan Stadium (Vasco) on Sunday. COVID setback Blasters last played on January 12, before the next two games were postponed due to COVID-19 cases in squads. Blasters (20 points) are on a 10-game unbeaten run. A win here will take them near the top of the points table. BFC is in form as well, sitting on a seven-match unbeaten run. In the previous match, BFC rode on a brace from Udanta Singh to blank Chennaiyin FC 3-0. Momentum “BFC is a great team which has the momentum. They have a great coach. They have a team that deserves to be in the top four, and I believe they will at the end of the league,” Blasters head coach Ivan Vukomanovic said. BFC will be buoyed by the return of midfielder Danish Farooq, who served his one-match suspension against Chennaiyin FC after picking up a fourth yellow card of the season. “We have a few players who are out of quarantine now — Gurpreet (Sandhu) and Sarthak (Golui) among them — who will be able to join us for training. Leon (Augustine) and (Yrondu) King remain unavailable because of their long-term injuries, while Ajay (Chhetri) will need time to get back to full fitness,” BFC head coach Marco Pezzaiuoli said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-takes-on-blasters/article38347636.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||Starc, Gardner win top CA awards||Senior pacer Mitchell Starc claimed his maiden Allan Border medal while Ashleigh Gardner became the first indigenous person to win the Belinda Clark award, the top two honours at the Cricket Australia (CA) Awards here on Saturday. Starc was honoured for his strong performance in all three formats of the game. He is only the fifth bowler in 22 years to win the award. Gardener also bagged the recognition for the first time. She is the first indigenous player to clinch the top gong in Australian women’s cricket.  Major award winners: Belinda Clark Award: Ashleigh Gardner; Allan Border Medal: Mitchell Starc; Men’s Test player: Travis Head; Women’s ODI player: Alyssa Healy; Men’s ODI player: Mitchell Starc.   Women’s T20 player: Beth Mooney; Men’s T20 player: Mitchell Marsh; Bradman Young Cricketer: Tim Ward; Hall of Fame inductees: Justin Langer & Raelee Thompson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ca-honour-for-starc-gardner/article64990790.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:52 IST,||Ravi, Angkrish star as India enters semifinals||India defeated defending champion Bangladesh by five wickets in the quarterfinals of the ICC U-19 World Cup here on Saturday. Chasing 112 for victory, India lost opener Harnoor Singh for a duck. But the in-form Angkrish Raghuvanshi’s fighting knock (44, 65b, 7x4) helped India reach the target in 30.5 overs and enter the semifinals. Earlier, left-arm seamer Ravi Kumar, named the Man-of-the-Match, bowled a sensational opening spell as India restricted Bangladesh to 111 in 37.1 overs. Ravi finished with excellent figures of 7-1-14-3 on a tricky pitch. Ravi’s inswinger beat Mahfijul Islam (2) all ends up in the second over. Iftakher Hossain (1) was then done in by the slowness of the track. No. 3 Prantik Nawrose (7) offered a catch to slip as Bangladesh was reduced to 14 for three in the eighth over. The team was 56 for seven at one stage before S.M. Mehrob (30) and Ashiqur Zaman (16) added 50 for the eighth wicket to take the team past the 100-run mark. Left-arm spinner Vicky Ostwal (9-1-25-2) was the other Indian bowler to impress. India meets Australia in the semifinal on February 2. The Aussies defeated Pakistan by 119 runs on Friday.  The scores (quarterfinals):   Bangladesh 111 in 37.1 overs (S.M. Mehrob 30, Ravi Kumar 3/14) lost to India 117/5 in 30.5 overs (Angkrish Raghuvanshi 44, Shaik Rasheed 26, Ripon Mondol 4/31).   Australia 276/7 in 50 overs (Campbell Kellaway 47, Teague Wylie 71, Corey Miller 64, Cooper Connolly 33, William Salzmann 25; Qasim Akram 3/40) bt Pakistan 157 in 35.1 overs (Abdul Faseeh 28, Irfan Khan 27, Mehran Mumtaz 29; Salzmann 3/37).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ravi-on-fire-bangladesh-shot-out-for-111/article64990800.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:52 IST,||‘A pity India and Pakistan do not meet often’||Sparks fly invariably when India meets Pakistan across 22 yards. But it is only in the ICC events the two teams come face to face nowadays.  That is a pity, according to Aamer Sohail, the former Pakistan captain who himself has featured in some of the memorable contests between the two teams. “The ICC keeps on emphasising that politics should not be involved as far as cricket is concerned and I agree with that,” he told The Hindu . “A contest between India and Pakistan always brings that anticipation all around the world. Cricket fans are deprived of that.”  The Pakistan fans were, of course, delighted that their team finally registered a victory against India, at the recent T20 World Cup. “It took a long time coming, didn’t it?” said Sohail, who is here as a television commentator for Legends League Cricket. “The people back home in Pakistan were very happy.” He, however, feels there is room for improvement as far as the current Pakistan side is concerned. “Shaheen Afridi is the only consistent fast bowler,” he said. “And we don't reverse swing the ball the way we used to. We tend to struggle in the middle overs.” Sohail thinks India's future is bright despite Virat Kohli quitting captaincy. “Rohit Sharma is a good choice as a captain,” he said. “His batting doesn't seem to get affected by captaincy. Of course, his experience as Mumbai Indians skipper at the IPL would help.” He said Indian cricket benefited a great deal from the IPL. “It helps the new players get prepared and makes them comfortable with the camera,” he said. Sohail said India’s young batters should be conscious of the great legacy of their country. “They shouldn’t forget that India has always produced the world’s best batters,” he said. “The ability to hit sixes can be handy in T20 but the longer format is more important. You need technique for that.” About the Legends League, he said it was a success. “It has been a revelation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-pity-india-and-pakistan-do-not-meet-often/article64990798.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||Racing legend Byramji passes away||Legendary racehorse trainer Rashid Rustomji Byramji (88 years) passed away on Saturday morning at Bengaluru. He received his trainer’s license at the age of 21 from RWITC in May 1955 and retired at the end of the Bangalore Winter season in March 2017. Rashid Byramji was rightly considered the greatest Classic trainer this country has ever seen. He saddled a record 3,170 winners, including 230 Classics, across the country. Byramji is the only professional to have achieved the rare feat of winning 10 Indian Derbies and 12 Indian Turf Invitation Cups. He also holds the rare record of scoring hat-tricks twice in the Indian Derby and thrice in the Indian Turf Invitation Cup. Elusive Pimpernel was Byramji’s favourite horse, as he himself has said on several occasions. Elusive Pimpernel raced and won at six different centres, winning 22 of his 23 starts.  10 Indian Derby winners saddled by R.R. Byramji:   Prince Khartoum (1972), Topmost (1974), Commanche (1976), Squanderer (1977), Manitou (1978) , Mohawk (1980), Cordon Bleu (1988), Astronomic (1993), Littleover (1994) and Elusive Pimpernel (1995).   12 Indian Turf Invitation Cup winners: Prince Khartoum (Chennai, 1972), Topmost (Mumbai, 1974), Comanche (Chennai, 1976), Squanderer (Bengaluru, 1977), Manitou (Hyderabad, 1978), Everynsky (Kolkata, 1980), Track Lightning (Chennai, 1981).   Almanac (Bengaluru, 1982), Delage (Chennai, 1991), Bugs Bunny (Bengaluru, 1992), Adler (Hyderabad, 1993) and Elusive Pimpernel (Kolkata, 1995).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/racing-legend-byramji-passes-away/article64990789.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:26 IST,||Augustus Caesar clinches Hyderabad Race Club Trophy||Mr. S.M. Ruia’s Augustus Caesar (Neeraj Rawal up) claimed the Hyderabad Race Club Trophy, the chief event of Saturday’s (Jan. 29) races here. The winner is trained by Altamash A. Ahmed. The Managing Committee of RWITC paid homage by observing two minutes silence in the paddock to the legendary trainer Rashid R. Byramji who passed away this morning at Bengaluru. 1. R.R. KOMANDUR PLATE (DIV. I) (1,400m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 46 : RAFFAELLO (Kirtish) 1, Monarchy (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Lex Luthor (Parmar) 3 and Remy Red (Kaviraj) 4. 3-1/2, 3 and 1-1/4. 1m 22. 07s. Rs. 51 (w), 21, 16 and 77 (p). SHP: 35, FP; 149, Q: 97, Tanala: 2,555. Favourite: Monarchy. Owners: Mr. Mukul Sonawala, Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP & Mr. Girish S. Mehta. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  Note: In this race Fidato (C.S. Jodha up) stopped galloping near 200m and did not finish the race. 2. A. GEDDIS PLATE (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: RASPUTIN (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Empower (T.S. Jodha) 2, Arabian Phoenix (Kaviraj) 3 and Ladida (Bhawani) 4. 1-3/4, 2 and Nose 1m 36. 67s. Rs. 15 (w), 11, 10 and 15 (p). SHP: 32, FP: 49, Q: 20, Tanala: 141 and 96. Favourite: Rasputin. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Homi Mehta, M/s. Jehangir Mehta, Milan Luthria & Mrs. Liane Luthria. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  3. LT. COL. GOVIND SINGH (VRC) TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: DESERT FIRE (T.S. Jodha) 1, Columbian (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Nothing To Worry (Zervan) 3 and Majestic Warrior (Aniket) 4. 1-3/4, Nose and 2-1/4. 1m 10. 48s. Rs. 98 (w), 36 and 10 (p). SHP: 56, FP: 408, Q: 104, Tanala: 634 and 679. Favourite: Columbian. Owner: Mr. Rakesh R. Bhojgadhiya. Trainer: Narendra Lagad.  4. ISN’T SHE SPECIAL PLATE (DIV. I) (1,400m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: SHE IS ON FIRE (S. Zervan) 1, Flash Force (S. Amit) 2, Seminole (A. Imran Khan) 3 and Hilad (Shahrukh) 4. 2, 3 and 1/2. 1m 24. 72s. Rs. 49 (w), 16, 16 and 25 (p). SHP: 65, FP: 194, Q: 80, Tanala: 307 and 146. Favourite: Flash Force. Owners: M/s. Parag C. Mengale, Purtu Singh & Dwijraj Singh Jodha. Trainer: Nirad Karanjawala.  5. HYDERABAD RACE CLUB TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: AUGUSTUS CAESAR (Neeraj) 1, Gazino (Zervan) 2, Joaquin (Kaviraj) 3 and Silver Flames (T.S. Jodha) 4. 1-1/4, Lnk and 2. 1m 9. 99s. Rs. 65 (w), 17 and 38 (p). SHP: 34, FP: 538, Q: 194, Tanala: 970 and 297. Favourite: Iron Age. Owner: Mr. S.M. Ruia. Trainer: Altamash A. Ahmed.  6. R.R. KOMANDUR PLATE (DIV. II) (1,400m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 46: MAJORELLA BLUE (Zervan) 1, Rue St Honore’ (Neeraj) 2, Sunlord (Kirtish) 3 and Zacapa (Aniket) 4. 1-1/4, 3-1/4 and 4. 1m 23. 47s. Rs. 201 (w), 17, 14 and 10 (p). SHP: 39, FP: 642, Q: 626, Tanala: 2,843 and 609. Favourite: Sunlord. Owners: M/s. Vivek Lalwani & Shubhag Singh. Trainer: Subhag Singh.  7. MACHUPICCHU PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: AHEAD OF MY TIME (Parmar) 1, Jerusalem (Yash Narredu) 2, Stunning Visual (Zervan) 3 and Hagibis (S. Amit) 4. Not run: Swift. 10-3/4, 2-1/4 and 14-1/2. 1m 10. 80s. Rs. 16 (w), 15 and 10 (p). SHP: 31, FP: 82, Q: 56, Tanala: 112 and 58. Favourite: Ahead Of My Time. Owners: Mr. Cyrus S. Poonawalla, Mr. Adar C. Poonawalla & Mrs. Natasha A. Poonawalla rep. Villoo Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  8. MAGIC TOUCH PLATE (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: BIRKIN BLOWER (Aniket) 1, Untitled (Kaviraj) 2, Slam Dunk (Shelar) 3 and Champers On Ice (P. Vinod) 4. 3/4, 6-3/4 and Lnk. 57. 89s. Rs. 16 (w), 10, 17 and 72 (p). SHP: 59, FP: 73, Q: 61, Tanala: 561 and 341. Favourite: Birkin Blower. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co Pvt Ltd & Mr. & Mrs. D.P. Adenwalla. Trainer: Vishal Gaikwad.  9. ISN’T SHE SPECIAL PLATE (DIV. II) (1,400m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: HONOURABLE EYES (Raghuveer) 1, Sussing (Hanumant) 2, Cadescent Star (Zeeshan) 3 and Speculator (Zervan) 4. Lnk, 1 and Snk. 1m 25. 12s. Rs. 199 (w), 36, 21 and 14 (p). SHP: 79, FP: 1,818, Q: 898, Tanala: 2,160. Favourite: Candescent Star. Owner: Mr. Narayan Sainathan. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  Jackpot (i): 70%: (c/o), 30%: Rs. 8,180 (3 tkts.); (ii): 70%: 1,39, 689 (1 tkt), 30%: 2,993 (20 tkts.). Treble: (i): 6,541 (1 tkt), (ii): 2,115 (3 tkts.), (iii) 927: (15 tkts.). Super Jackpot: 70%: 14,593 (c/o); 30%: 3,127 (2 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/augustus-caesar-clinches-hyderabad-race-club-trophy/article38348010.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||Teresita fancied for feature event||Hyderabad: Trainer S.S. Attaollahi’s filly Teresita, who won the Bangalore Oaks in her last start, maintains her winning form and should win the Golconda Derby Stakes (Gr. 1), the classic attraction of Sunday’s (Jan. 30) races here.  ROCK HEAVEN PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II) — 12.15 p.m.: 1. City Of Gravitas (7) Antony Raj 56, 2. Raisina Hill (6) Mukesh Kumar 56, 3. Star Medal (5) Nakhat Singh 56, 4. The Sensation (4) Gaurav Singh 56, 5. Wind Sprite (8) Kuldeep Singh 56, 6. The Image (2) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 7. Toque Blanche (3) Kiran Naidu 54.5 and 8. Voice Of A Dream (1) C.S. Jodha 54.5.  1. THE IMAGE, 2. STAR MEDAL, 3. RAISINA HILL SURYAPET PLATE (DIV. I) (1,400m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III) — 12.50: 1. N R I Blue (6) Rohit Kumar 62, 2. Solar Eclipse (9) Akshay Kumar 62, 3. Open Affair (2) Md. Ismail 60.5, 4. Sea Of Class (4) Mukesh Kumar 60.5, 5. Asturias (11) Santosh Raj 60, 6. Inception (5) Gaurav Singh 58, 7. That’s My Way (1) Dashrath 58, 8. Hip Hop (3) Abhay Singh 57.5, 9. Rhine (8) B.R. Kumar 57.5, 10. Racing Rani (7) Afroz Khan 55 and 11. New Hustle (10) B. Nikhil 52.5.  1. SOLAR ECLIPSE, 2. THAT’S MY WAY, 3. N R I BLUE YADADRI PLATE (DIV. I) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 1.25: 1. Campania (5) C.S. Jodha 60, 2. Morior Invictus (1) Suraj Narredu 57.5, 3. Kimberley (3) Santosh Raj 56, 4. Dream Station (6) Akshay Kumar 55, 5. Southern Act (12) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 6. Royal Girl (9) Abhay Singh 54, 7. Lighting Power (10) Gaurav Singh 53.5, 8. Miss Little Angel (7) Antony Raj 53.5, 9. Winning Streak (2) Afroz Khan 52.5, 10. Team Player (4) Nakhat Singh 52, 11. Silver Bells (11) P. Trevor 51.5 and 12. Isra (8) Dashrath 51.  1. MORIOR INVICTUS, 2. DREAM STATION, 3. SILVER BELLS KHAMMAM PLATE (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 2.00: 1. Blue Origin (5) Suraj Narredu 60, 2. Knotty Dancer (2) S. John 59.5, 3. Akido (4) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 4. Unsung Hero (7) Rafique Sk. 56.5, 5. City Of Blessing (1) Antony Raj 54, 6. Able Love (6) O.R. William 52.5, 7. Siyavash (8) Gaurav Singh 52.5, 8. N R I Sport (3) B.R. Kumar 52, 9. Jean Lafette (10) S.S. Tanwar 51.5 and 10. Keystone (9) Akshay Kumar 51.5.  1. BLUE ORIGIN, 2. KNOTTY DANCER, 3. KEYSTONE SIR BRUCE PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 2.40: 1. Take A Gamble (8) Kuldeep Singh 60, 2. Unmatched (3) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 3. Hot Seat (7) Suraj Narredu 57.5, 4. Blue Label (13) R.S. Jodha 56, 5. Cabello (2) Kiran Naidu 56, 6. Archangels (14) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 7. Siri (1) P. Sai Kumar 55.5, 8. Narakamicie (6) P. Trevor 55, 9. Star Cruise (12) B.R. Kumar 55, 10. Smolensk (9) Santosh Raj 52.5, 11. Aibak (5) Dashrath 52, 12. Ashwa Sultan (10) S.S. Tanwar 52, 13. Sputnic (4) G. Naresh 52 and 14. Story Teller (11) P. Gaddam 52.  1. UNMATCHED, 2. HOT SEAT, 3. NARAKAMICIE KAMAREDDY PLATE (1,200m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II) — 3.15: 1. Lagos (10) Suraj Narredu 60, 2. Agni (3) Deepak Singh 59, 3. Market King (7) P. Trevor 59, 4. Xfinity (8) Mukesh Kumar 59, 5. Headway (11) S.J. Sunil 57.5, 6. Saffron Art (6) Santosh Raj 57.5, 7. Skipton (2) S.S. Tanwar 57.5, 8. Watch My Stride (9) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 9. Incredulous (4) A.A. Vikrant 56, 10. Staridar (1) Abhay Singh 56 and 11. Stunning Force (5) O.R. William 55.  1. MARKET KING, 2. LAGOS, 3. XFINITY YADADRI PLATE (DIV. II) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3.50: 1. Bloom Buddy (7) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Wallop And Gallop (3) Deepak Singh 59, 3. Philanthropist (1) R. Ajinkya 58.5, 4. Despang (9) Surya Prakash 56.5, 5. Greek’s ace (6) Santosh Raj 56, 6. Call Of The Blue (12) Kuldeep Singh 55, 7. Grand Duke (5) R.S. Jodha 55, 8. Majestic Show (8) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 9. Battle Ready (10) B.R. Kumar 54, 10. Sorry Darling (11) Ajeeth Kumar 54, 11. Pedro Planet (4) Afroz Khan 53.5 and 12. Dream Jewel (2) Rupal Singh 53.  1. PHILANTHROPIST, 2. DESPANG, 3. GRAND DUKE .  GOLCONDA DERBY STAKES (Gr.1) (2,400m) (Terms), 4-y-o only — 4.25: 1. Ashwa Raudee (6) Suraj Narredu 57, 2. Buckley (10) A. Sandesh 57, 3. Count Of Savoy (1) R. Ajinkya 57, 4. Fire Power (9) Akshay Kumar 57, 5. Karanveer (7) O.R. William 57, 6. Painted Apache (4) C.S. Jodha 57, 7. Stockbridge (2) S. John 57, 8. Faith Of Success (8) Neeraj 55.5, 9. Icicle (5) A.A. Vikrant 55.5 and 10. Teresita (3) P. Trevor 55.5.  1. TERESITA, 2. FAITH OF SUCCESS, 3. ASHWA RAUDEE SURYAPET PLATE (DIV. II) (1,400m), rated up to 25 — 5.00: 1. Precious Gift (9) Kiran Naidu 62, 2. Stride Forever (8) Deepak Singh 62, 3. Rivadavia (10) Gaurav Singh 60.5, 4. Spectacular Cruise (7) S. John 60.5, 5. N R I City (3) Santosh Raj 60, 6. Amalfitana (6) Mukesh Kumar 58.5, 7. New Role (2) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 8. N R I Gift (1) Antony Raj 56.5, 9. Good Tidings (4) Akshay Kumar 55.5, 10. It’s My Life (5) P. Gaddam 55 and 11. Royal Avenger (11) Afroz Khan 50.  1. GOOD TIDINGS, 2. SPECTACULAR CRUISE, 3. RIVADAVIA  Day’s best: MARKET KING Jackpot (i): 1, 2, 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9. Mini jackpot (i): 2, 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 6, 7, 8 & 9. Treble : (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 4, 5 & 6. (iii) 7, 8 & 9. Tanala : All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/teresita-fancied-for-feature-event/article38347427.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||Smit stuns Ashmita||Pulling off stunning upsets, Smit Toshniwal and Unnati Hooda set up the women’s title-clash in the $75,000 Odisha Open badminton tournament at Cuttack on Saturday. Smit knocked out Ashmita Chaliha, seeded five, 21-19, 10-21, 21-17 after Unnati surprised Malvika Bansod 24-22, 24-22. For the men’s title, Priyanshu Rajawat will play Kiran George. Trailing 14-19, Smit reeled off seven straight points to close out the opening game. Ashmita responded by breaking away from 9-8 and winning the final six points of the second game. In the decider, Smit came back from 0-5 and 15-17 to win the last six points and reached the final.Earlier, from 7-15, Malvika made it 17-16 and even went on to hold a game-point at 22-21. But Unnati stayed calm to convert her third game-point. In the second, Malvika rallied from 5-14 to lead 20-18. Unnati made it 20-all and saved a third game-point. She finally converted her second match-point for a memorable triumph. Priyanshu dismissed Kaushal Dharmamer in straight games. Kiran proved strong after dropping the first game to Ansal Yadav.  The results (semifinals):   Men: Priyanshu Rajawat bt Kaushal Dharmamer 21-17, 21-14; Kiran George bt Ansal Yadav 19-21, 21-12, 21-14.   Women: Smit Toshniwal bt Ashmita Chaliha 21-19, 10-21, 21-17; Unnati Hooda bt Malvika Bansod 24-22, 24-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/smit-stuns-ashmita-unnati-advances/article64990792.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:26 IST,||UWW makes rule changes with immediate effect||In order to make bouts more attractive, the United World Wrestling (UWW) Bureau has made some rule changes with immediate effect. The UWW has decided to reward the more active wrestler. “With the updated rules, the active wrestler will receive points for any attacking moves and one point if his/her opponent fails to score during the 30-second activity period,” UWW said in a statement. Earlier, the active wrestler used to get points either for his moves or for the opponent’s inactivity during such a period. The new rules have become stricter towards the wrestlers fleeing the mat or the hold (of an opponent). Such wrestlers will now be penalised with a caution and a point even before being served with a verbal warning. The penalty point will be awarded over and above the points scored through moves. The UWW Bureau has also modified a rule relating to winning ‘by fall.’ “If a wrestler is in a danger position and simulates an injury (by screaming) while his/her opponent is looking for the fall, the referee will no longer stop the bout. In this case, the referee will ask for the fall and the mat chairman will confirm it,” said the statement. There is a change related to the challenge to a decision awarding certain points. “Coaches can now request for a challenge after the points are published on the scoreboard or five seconds after the wrestlers come to neutral position.” The UWW has decided to distribute the qualification round draws equally to provide better balance to the upper and lower parts of the main draws. The UWW removed the verbal warning for passivity for under-15, under-17 (cadet) and veterans as periods are shorter (two minutes) than that (three minutes) in under-20 (junior), under-23 and seniors competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uww-makes-rule-changes/article38347783.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:53 IST,||Trump Star wins||Trainer D. Netto’s Trump Star ridden by A.A. Vikrant won the B. Vijay Reddy Memorial Cup (Div. I), the main event of Saturday’s races here. The winner is owned by Mr. G. Raghunandan Chary, Mr. P. Ranga Raju, Mr. Prabhakar Chowdary Tripuraneni & Mr. Eswarachandra Rajagopal Tripuraneni. BALLERINA STAR PLATE (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): EXCLUSIVE SPARK (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Malibu (Mukesh Kumar) 2, Silver Lining (Md. Ismail) 3 and Alpine Girl (Kiran Naidu) 4. 1-1/4, Sh and 2. 1m 7. 33s. Rs. 75 (w), 12, 15 and 32 (p). SHP: 23, THP: 47, SHW: 34 and 10, FP: 492, Q: 168, Tanala: 2,702. Favourite: Stag’s Leap.  Owners: Mr. K. Srikanth Reddy & Mr. G. Narasa Reddy. Trainer: Robin Reddy Kondakalla. ANMOL RATAN PLATE (1,400m) (Terms), 3-y-o only (Cat. II): CANDY GIRL (Nakhat Singh) 1, La Mirage (B.R. Kumar) 2, Princess Daka (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Neglect Me Not (Ashad Asbar) 4. Sh, 1-1/4 and 2-3/4. 1m 26. 65s. Rs. 34 (w), 12, 13 and 13 (p). SHP: 50, THP: 65, SHW: 19 and 52, FP: 855, Q: 263, Tanala: 2,505. Favourite: Princess Daka.  Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: K. Satheesh. WARANGAL CUP (DIV. I) (1,100m) Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): SALLY (Suraj Narredu) 1, Georgia Peach (Akshay Kumar) 2, Ok Boss (Surya Prakash) 3 and Princess Shania (B.R. Kumar) 4. 2-3/4, 1-1/4 and 3/4. 1m 5. 83s. Rs. 19 (w), 11, 17 and 19 (p). SHP: 69, THP: 56, SHW: 10 and 32, FP: 117, Q: 83, Tanala: 399. Favourite: Sally.  Owner & Trainer: Mr. D. Netto. B. VIJAY REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (DIV. II) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): HOUSE OF DIAMONDS (Akshay Kumar) 1, Lockhart (B.R. Kumar) 2, Beauty Flame (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Tomorrows Dreams (Santosh Raj) 4. 1, 1/2 and 1/2. 1m 11. 61s. Rs. 22 (w), 17, 21 and 29 (p). SHP 83, THP: 85, SHW: 19 and 48, FP: 190, Q: 143, Tanala: 2,717. Favourite: House Of Diamonds.  Owners: Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni & Mr. Peddi Reddy Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  WARANGAL CUP (DIV. II) (1,100m) Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45: LAURUS (Akshay Kumar) 1, Flying Rudolf (P. Sai Kumar) 2, Aarya (R. Ajinkya) 3 and Sye Ra (Afroz Khan) 4. Hd, 1-1/2 and Nk. 1m 6. 30s. Rs. 24 (w), 14, 140 and 22 (p). SHP: 257, THP: 58, SHW: 17 and 97, FP: 1,410, Q: 988, Tanala: 13,316. Favourite: Laurus.  Owners: Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta & Mr. Rafaat Hussain. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira. B. VIJAY REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (DIV. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): TRUMP STAR (A.A. Vikrant) 1, Mark My Day (Nakhat Singh) 2, Four One Four (Santosh Raj) 3 and DRD (Mukesh Kumar) 4. 2, 3/4 and 1/2. 1m 11. 42s. Rs. 64 (w), 20, 16 and 17 (p). SHP: 44, THP: 59, SHW: 30 and 20, FP: 379, Q: 181, Tanala: 1,523. Favourite: Different.  Owners: Mr. G. Raghunandan Chary, Mr. P. Ranga Raju, Mr. Prabhakar Chowdary Tripuraneni & Mr. Eswarchandra Rajagopal Tripuraneni. Trainer: D. Netto. BUSINESS TYCOON PLATE (2,000m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): NEW HUSTLE (B. Nikhil) 1, Arrowtown (Deepak Singh) 2, Wot’s Up Jay (Koushik) 3 and Neffereti (Mukesh Kumar) 4. 1/2, Nk and 1-1/4. 2m 7. 86s. Rs. 56 (w), 18, 20 and 14 (p). SHP: 67, THP: 48, SHW: 33 and 18, FP: 823, Q: 589, Tanala: 3,386. Favourite: Neffereti.  Owner: Mr. L. Arun Kumar. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh. Jackpot 70%: Rs. 42,270 (5 tkts.), 30%: 452 (200 tkts.). Treble (i): 268 (100 tkts.), (ii): 4,039 (10 tkts.). Mini Jackpot (i): 2,785 (10 tkts.), (ii): 10,101 (4 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/trump-star-wins/article38347435.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:38 IST,||Sunny optimistic about Thunderbolts’ chances||Kolkata Thunderbolts head coach Sunny Joseph is optimistic about his side’s chances in the Prime Volleyball League (PVL) despite the obstacles posed by Covid-19 during the preparation phase. Sunny said Thunderbolts had the potential to finish well in the league. “The time for preparations was less. The pandemic was a big problem because of which we had to shift our camp from Kochi to Hyderabad. We lost so many practice sessions due to this. Still, we are prepared and I expect my team to be in the final,” Sunny said at a virtual press conference on Saturday. “First we have to beat Calicut Heroes (on February 7), then we will have different strategies for different teams.” Sunny backed his players to do well. “All 12 are key players. They are of equal standard and all of them are players of high caliber.” Ashwal Rai, who was named the captain of Thunderbolts, said: “It’s a proud moment for me. I will try to carry out my responsibility well. Sunny Sir has trained us well. Our team bonding is one of the strengths of the side.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sunny-optimistic-about-thunderbolts-chances/article38348021.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:38 IST,||Chahana and Kriish triumph||Chahana Budhbhatti defeated top seed Sonal Patil 6-3, 3-6, 6-4 to clinch the girls’ title in the ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament here on Saturday. Sonal, however, won the doubles crown with Nandini Dixit. In the boys’ section, seventh seed Kriish Tyagi won his maiden title. Kriish, who was inducted into the National Tennis Centre (NTC), earlier lost in the doubles final in partnership with Prajwal Tewari to top seeds Deep Munim and Denim Yadav.  The results (finals):   Boys: Kriish Tyagi bt Daksh Agarwal 6-1, 2-6, 6-4; Doubles: Deep Munim & Denim Yadav bt Prajwal Tewari & Kriish 2-6, 7-5, [10-4].   Girls: Chahana Budhbhatti bt Sonal Patil 6-3, 3-6, 6-4; Doubles: Nandini Dixit & Sonal Patil bt Aanya Choubey & Pehal Kharadkar 6-0, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chahana-and-kriish-triumph/article64990980.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:26 IST,||Sarjubala turns professional||Olympian boxer Sarjubala Devi has decided to enter the professional arena and has signed a deal with leading Indian boxing promoter Mujtaba Kamal and Grassroot Boxing Promotions and Management in Imphal. The 28-year-old Manipuri, a silver medallist at the 2014 AIBA World Boxing Championship in Korea and a former Youth World Boxing gold medallist, will be making her professional boxing debut on February 26 in Dubai. Sarjubala is also a four-time National champion. She was ranked World No. 2 in her weight category in 2014. She represented India in many international tournaments and has won medals in almost all competitions that she has participated in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sarjubala-turns-professional/article38347958.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:52 IST,||Vidit, Humpy to lead||With chess back in this year’s Hangzhou Asian Games, in China, India has begun its preparations by short-listing 20 probables — 10 men and 10 women — with an eye on winning maximum out of the 12 medals across four events. As per the players’ international ratings, the All India Chess Federation (AICF) has prepared the probables’ list headed by Vidit Gujrathi (men) and K. Humpy (women).  The probables:   Men: Vidit Gujarathi, P Harikrishna, Nihal Sarin, S. L. Narayanan, K. Sasikiran, B Adhiban, M. Karthikeyan, Arjun Erigaisi, Abhijeet Gupta and Surya Shekhar Ganguly.   Women: K Humpy, D Harika, R. Vaishali, Tania Sachdev, Bhakti Kulkarni, Vantika Agrawal, Mary Ann Gomes, Soumya Swaminathan, Eesha Karavade and Divya Deshm ukh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidit-and-humpy-to-lead/article64990802.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:51 IST,||Lakshya to lead depleted Indian squad||The non-availability of leading playerswill see India field depleted squads at the Asian team badminton championship at Shah Alam, Malaysia, from Feb. 15 to 20.  The squad: Men: Lakshya Sen, Mithun Manjunath, Kiran George, Raghu M; Doubles: P.S. Ravikrishna & S. Udayakumar, Hariharan Amsakarunan & Ruban Kumar, Dingku Konthoujam & Manjit Khwairakpam.   Women: Malvika Bansod, Aakarshi Kashyap, Ashmita Chaliha, Tara Shah; Doubles: Simran Singhi & Khushi Gupta, V. Nila & R. Arul Bala, Aarthi Sara Sunil & Riza Mahreen .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakshya-to-lead-depleted-indian-squad/article64990803.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:49 IST,||The ideal of non-violence||The idea of non-violence or ahimsa was central to Mahatma Gandhi’s beliefs. From the railway platform in Pietermaritzburg, to the indigo plantations of Champaran, the response to Chauri Chaura, and the salt march at Dandi, it underpinned his steadfast resistance to injustice and guided him on every step of his leadership of the freedom struggle.  If Gandhi’s ahimsa was central to his ethical vision, this vision was situated deep within his religious beliefs, and derived metaphysical force from them. “My politics are subservient to my religion,” he famously stated. At the end of his autobiography My Experiments with Truth , he reiterates his commitment to finding truth through ahimsa: “There is no other God than Truth. And if every page of these chapters does not proclaim to the reader that the only means for the realisation of Truth is Ahimsa, I shall deem all my labour in writing these chapters to have been in vain.”  Path to self-fulfilment  The autobiography ends in 1921. The instrument of ahimsa became the foundational principle of Gandhi’s project of resistance to British colonial rule in India. Even as he led the political movement, Gandhi was re-interpreting the Hindu religious texts to form his understanding of religion as a way to self-fulfilment. In Elusive Non-Violence: The Making and Unmaking of Gandhi’s Ahimsa , Jyotirmaya Sharma takes us through the evolution of Gandhi’s ahimsa through the prism of his religion.  Sharma begins by acknowledging the myths that have been built over the decades around the man; eventually, “Gandhi became his admirers.” Similarly, studying Gandhi’s ethical principles in isolation from his religious beliefs, observes Sharma, can give the impression of paradoxes or inconsistencies in his thought. However, in tracing the evolution of Gandhi’s ahimsa as a fundamentally religious ideal situated within his beliefs about Hinduism, Sharma discovers a profound consistency. He discusses Gandhi’s response and efforts to maintain peace after the murder of Swami Shraddhanand. “Gandhi’s primary concern from the moment he heard the news of the murder was to avert an endless chain of retaliatory killings.” If Gandhi’s politics were shaped by religious belief, his religion was expressed in his actions. As an interpreter and reformer of Hinduism for his times, his religion had less to do with theology and more to do with the heart. At the core of his religion was peace. Which made non-violence central, because the human heart itself was a battlefield: “There are times when Gandhi calls the human heart Kurukshetra, the eponymous battlefield, which is also the dharmakshetra, or the arena of righteousness. How can it be both? It becomes a dharmakshetra when God is invited to reside in it and given its charge. If sin is allowed to flourish in the heart, it becomes the theatre of Kuru.” Sharma describes Gandhi’s ahimsa in terms of a musical raga: “In the ascending sense of ahimsa, the stress falls on non-violent action and violent and non-violent actors. The descending range withdraws from the world of people, giving ahimsa an inward quality. In neither is the overall integrity of the idea lost. It lies in Gandhi’s fidelity to moksha, desireless action, the futility of the body and the centrality of death.” Gandhi constantly reflected upon his beliefs from time to time. His conceptualisation of ahimsa as a political instrument evolved over the years. Writing to C.F. Andrews in 1918, he had expressed his concerns about the tradition of non-violence in India: “All then that can be said... is that individuals have made serious attempts, with greater success than elsewhere, to popularise the doctrine (of non-violence). But there is no warrant for the belief that it has taken deep roots among the people.” How, then, did he bring his unequivocal conception of ahimsa to serve as the directional principle of political action to resist colonial power in a vast and deeply divided society? A part of the answer lies in the long and sustained debates that Gandhi had with others who interrogated his approach. His conceptualisation of ahimsa did not go without challenges. These included questions from Lala Lajpat Rai and B.R. Ambedkar. These debates, which often played out in correspondence — Gandhi was a meticulous letter-writer, always ready to continue engaging in both intellectual and everyday conversations — as well as in the pages of the publications of the freedom movement, are fascinating for what they reveal about the evolution of his political, ethical, and religious ideas as he launched his mass movement based on satyagraha and non-cooperation. Evil or good One of the sharpest challenges to Gandhi’s approach came from outside India, in an open letter from the Jewish philosopher Martin Buber in 1939. “I have been very slow in writing this letter to you, Mahatma,” writes Buber. “I cannot help withstanding evil when I see that it is about to destroy the good. I am forced to withstand evil in the world just as the evil within myself.” Buber tells Gandhi that religion brought into politics will vanish into the fire of political expediency. “Man, instead of treading in the path taken by that step of God through history, will run blindly over it.” In this 75th year of Indian independence, it is testimony to the power and reach of Gandhi’s ideas that we are still exploring and reinterpreting his ideals of truth and non-violence. The reviewer is in the IAS. Views are personal.  Elusive Non-Violence: The Making and Unmaking of Gandhi’s Religion of Ahimsa Context/ Westland||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-ideal-of-non-violence/article64991082.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:50 IST,||What makes the dragon tick||China today seems mysterious with its very own version of Communism, Capitalism and Democracy. But the mystery vanishes when we see it through a mythic lens and realise that China functions as it always has, magnificence from behind an expressionless face — the wall. Chinese culture does not claim universality. It is focused on China, isolated from the world by natural and artificial barriers. The former are the snow-capped mountains of the south that circle west and turn into the cold deserts of the north, which then lead into the eastern seas. The artificial barriers are the Great Wall of China built to keep out northern nomads, now transformed as the Great Firewall of China that keeps the world out. As if that was not isolation enough, China was once full of walled cities that thrived along the Yellow (Huang He) river and Yangtze river basins in the heart of China. Bordered by cold grasslands to the north and warm tropical forests to the south, this region had 4,000 walled cities 500 years ago. This, for the Middle Kingdom, was all things under heaven. Everything else was peripheral. Dynasties and kings The history of China has always been presented as a well-recorded, elegant sequence of dynasties of over 500 kings, from the mythical past to the present republic, a record maintained by the court. The script was sacred in China, over 3,000 years old. Through it the Emperor and shamans could communicate with the gods. Each royal dynasty sought to uphold the ‘Mandate of Heaven’ and replicate heaven on earth, organising an orderly society in harmony with nature. Otherwise, they risked the displeasure of heaven, revolution by the people, and replacement by more worthy rulers. Many Chinese believe that their superior cultural ways have inspired their neighbours to imitate them and even voluntarily give tribute to the Chinese Emperor. Of course, the neighbours themselves, be it the Japanese, Koreans, Tibetans, or the Vietnamese, don’t agree with this Chinese world-view. That being said, neighbouring cultures do share many features of Chinese culture such as top-down control, cultural inwardness bordering on xenophobia, and a great value placed on nature, filial piety, and ‘saving face’. But, despite its walls, we must never forget that China gave the world rice, silk, tea, paper, printing press and gunpowder. Foreign influence And, despite the Wall, China did succumb to foreign influence. The horse appeared in China around the same time as it did in ancient Egypt and India, 3,500 years ago, in the Shang era. Buddhism entered China 2,000 years ago, in the Han era. Both these became so integral to Chinese culture that no one in China sees the horse or Buddhism as foreign. Yet, at one time, Buddhism met with fierce resistance in royal courts, as it threatened the old ways. Eventually, it integrated itself into the Chinese system, its benevolent side aligning with Confucian thinking, and its occult and mystical side aligning with Taoist rituals. Today, Communist China feels threatened by the influence of Islam to its west and Christianity to its east, and maintains a firm grip on religious ideas. China also had foreign rulers. The Yuan dynasty that ruled China in the 13th century were Mongols from the north, while the Qing, who ruled China from the 17th century until the rise of the Chinese Republic in the 20th century, were Manchu from the northeast. Even though these foreigners adopted the trappings of Chinese culture and insisted they had the Mandate of Heaven to declare themselves Emperor, their presence was tolerated with great resentment. For many in China, only the Han are legitimate rulers. The Han dominated China from 2nd century BCE to 2nd century CE, roughly when the Roman Empire controlled the Mediterranean regions, and the Indo-Greeks, Kushans and Satavahanas controlled South Asia. Even today, Han culture is synonymous with what stands for classical Chinese. History of resistance Chinese history is a history of resistance to fragmentation. Periods without central control have been described by Chinese historians as dark chaotic times of fighting warlords. But these were also times that saw the emergence of great literature, including those that were later grouped as Confucian and Taoist. After centuries of instability and war, China was brutally united by Emperor Qin roughly 2,300 years ago. Qin burnt all books, for he saw ideas as a threat to unification, a belief that prevails even today. Shortly afterwards, China saw the Han period, when centralisation and standardisation became the dominant theme of governance. Confucianism became the favoured state religion, though the peasants preferred to continue with the Taoist faith. This early China did not include the Uighyur and Tibetan regions to the east, which became ‘integral’ to China only in Mongol times 700 years ago. Replete with stories China is full of temples to gods, heroes, and ancestors, but the major literature of the Chinese people are semi-historical novels that deal with strategy and tactics of legendary kings and courtiers. Gods and spirits and ancestors thrive in folktales and divinations, but generally leave the affairs of humans to humans. The concept of a single all-powerful god, located outside nature, does not play any role in the Chinese system. What exists is an all-powerful Emperor, on his Dragon Throne, in the Forbidden City. Within this secure, ‘square’ space, he replicates the rituals and the bureaucracy established by the Jade Emperor in ‘circular’ Heaven. Perfection here is copied, not invented. In China, to copy is not seen as stealing as in the West. It is seen as admiration of the best. What distinguishes China from the West is the centrality of nature, hence the idea of interconnectedness of all things. Individuals exist in a system, so there cannot be Western style individualism that is seen as isolationist. In the Confucian way, everyone is answerable to someone else: the subjects to the ruler, children to parents, women to men, juniors to seniors, students to teachers, living to the dead. These are again arranged hierarchically, as a cascade of authority, with the Emperor at the top. Obedience, ritually reinforced, ensures order. Failure to uphold the system brings shame to the family, and is frowned upon by the venerable ancestors, whose shrine is found in most traditional households. The Taoist way China is a dominant civilisational force because the Confucian way has an equally powerful counterbalance, the way of the Tao, which is more individualistic, rural, internal and mystical. In the Taoist way, disharmony between the yin and the yang creates disease and despair. So extremes are best avoided. Individualism expresses itself differently in China. In the West, individualism is getting the state to enable individual rights. In China, it is to be invisible to the state: not being predator to the prey or prey to the predator; like a ninja warrior who goes with the flow and so remains unseen. And that’s how most Chinese survive in a regime that demands complete submission to the hierarchy in exchange for order. For nothing matters more in the Chinese scheme of things than cultural order and natural harmony, perhaps not even truth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/what-makes-the-dragon-tick/article64991076.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:50 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 First published on January 30, 1873, Around the World in 80 Days is an epic novel by Jules Verne in which the hero, Phileas Fogg, uses many different modes of transport to achieve his goal. In the book, Fogg encounters a ‘new’ vehicle but drops the idea. Only in 1956, after a David Niven film changed the story, do we see Fogg using this transport. What mode of travel was this that came into existence a 100 years earlier, thanks to the Montgolfier brothers in France?  2 William Perry Fogg, an American adventurer who was the inspiration for Phileas Fogg, was one of the first people from the West to travel across the globe, which he chronicled in letters known as ‘Round the World.’ After travelling through Japan, China and Penang, he arrived in India. After spending some time in Bombay he became one of the first tourists to travel through a recently opened technological wonder that led him to the Great Pyramids. Through what he had travelled, which opened in 1969, thanks to French engineers? 3 The Jules Verne Trophy is awarded to the team that circumnavigates the globe fastest using a particular mode of transport, one that Fogg never uses in the book. First awarded in 1993 to Team Explorer, which took 79 days and six hours, currently IDEC Sport holds the record for circling the world in 40 days, 23 hours, 30 minutes and 30 seconds. By what mode of transport do these teams go around the world? 4 Fogg boarded a steamship in Hong Kong which in six days took him to Yokohama. This ship in real life was one of the first steamships to use a compound engine, which allowed it to be one of the fastest of its time. Originally it was supposed to be called the ‘Mysore’ but it got its name from a Dravidian word that means ‘black country’. This was a reference to the black soil prevalent in the southern Deccan region. What was the name of the ship, a term that you would now associate more with music? 5 The Overland Route, which was opened in 1869, was one of the technological breakthroughs that happened, which allowed Verne to plan his adventure. Stretching 3,075 km long, it was built by three private companies over public lands and mostly by Chinese immigrants who did all the manual labour. Known as the first transcontinental railroad, which country’s vast lands did this railroad cross? 6 In 1872 an English businessman organised the first around-the-world tourist trip, lasting seven months. The journey was described in a series of letters known as ‘Letter from the Sea and from Foreign Lands, Descriptive of a Tour Round the World’. Though these have a passing resemblance to Verne’s book, it is believed it was too late to influence Verne or could have been nothing more than an inspiration. Who was this businessman who started a travel agency in his name known for its tours and travels? 7 George Francis ____ was an American entrepreneur who organised the Union Pacific Railroad, a horse tramway company in England, and in 1870 made a trip around the world, which shared a lot of the details with the book. In his own words, ‘Verne stole my thunder. I’m Phileas Fogg’. His family name, refers to a form of transport that he (in real life) and Fogg in the book hired entirely. What name/ transport is this, which helped them reach their goals overland?  8 When Fogg reaches India he boards a train from Bombay to Calcutta, which was part of the new linking of the Indian railways across the sub-continent (1870). Unfortunately an article in the Daily Telegraph misleads him as he realises 80 km of track just before Allahabad hadn’t been built yet. Finally his trusty co-traveller Passepartout manages to source a particular animal which, though expensive, Fogg buys and rides to Allahabad. What animal do they ride memorably?  9 Mark Beaumont holds the Guinness world record in his chosen field having completed his trip around the world of 29,000 km on September 18, 2017, in less than 79 days. The trip started in Paris, crossing Russia, Mongolia, across Australia, North America and then Portugal. Using a Koga-Kimera loaded with about 30 kg of equipment he averaged 380 km a day. On what vehicle did he do this epic journey?  10 In the BBC series Around the World in 80 Days with Michael Palin , Monty Python member Palin and a five-person crew try to follow Fogg’s route as closely as possible. One of the most memorable episodes is #6, where he is on a container ship crossing the Pacific Ocean. During the trip, an unusual ceremony happens where the crew cover him with tomato paste, flour, eggs, curry powder etc. The reason for this ceremony is also the same reason why Fogg wins his bet eventually. What was the reason?  A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article64991075.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:49 IST,||A ringside view of the Bangladesh liberation war||With a ringside view of events in the run-up to Bangladesh’s liberation war as a cub reporter of the Calcutta newspaper, The Statesman , Manash Ghosh’s book Bangladesh War: Report from Ground Zero is a page-turner. It turned out to be a serendipitous assignment when Ghosh was sent to cover the Second Asian Highway Car Rally (November 15, 1970), to the India-East Pakistan border at Petrapole-Benapole, where he ran into people willing to disclose what was happening in then East Pakistan.  From them, he gleaned information on reasons that led to Field Marshal Ayub Khan’s downfall, caused mostly by a mass upheaval in East Pakistan, General Yahya Khan’s rise to power, and Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s six-point autonomy movement. They also foretold the tumult ahead. Ghosh’s article about the gathering storm in East Pakistan was titled ‘When Brother meets Brother’ and aroused a lot of interest. With Bengalis “yearning for a Bengali nation,” Pakistan began to prepare a military blueprint to “break the back of [the] Mujib-led secessionist movement.” Led by Lt Gen. Khadim Hussain Raza and Lt Gen. Tikka Khan, Pakistan launched Operation Searchlight in March 1971, a military action to curb the Bengali nationalist movement which left lakhs of people dead and resulted in nearly 10 million fleeing the country as refugees. It was a pity, the author notes, that initially neither the Indian nor the international media took reports of the killings or the exodus seriously, even as UNI journalists began filing reports of refugees fleeing East Pakistan, the blasting of the Bengali language martyr memorial Shahid Minar and other atrocities. Ghosh, first acting on his own and then teaming up with a senior colleague, went to the border to find out details, and got to knowGolak Bihari Majumdar(then DG BSF Eastern Command who played a key role in leading many of Sheikh Mujib government’s men to safety to Calcutta)and Petrapole Commandant K.B. Singh. Singhhad once asked Ghosh to accompany an Italian company official to Calcutta and put him up at a hotel. The Italian had somehow managed to escape the carnage in Dhaka to reach the border. The Italian’s story too would make the front page, and earn him a pat from his editor who asked Ghosh officially to report on East Pakistan. Diplomatic coup Ghosh narrates stories of tacit assistance to the struggle by India and the diplomatic coup when it was revealed to the world that a Bangladesh government-in-exile was working out of Calcutta. He writes that when Tajuddin Ahmed, appointed Prime Minister by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, (after unilateral declaration of Bangladesh’s Independence in March, 1971) met Prime MinisterIndira Gandhi, seeking military intervention by India, she informed him that India would help when the time was appropriate. Ghosh also explains how the Indian Armyraised and trained the Mukti Bahini, “a force composed wholly of Bengali youth, who had sought shelter in India.”  The External Affairs Ministry had opened its branch secretariat in Calcutta, headed by a seasoned Bengali diplomat, Ashoke Roy who became Ghosh’s news source. Ghosh came to know, for instance, how RAW’s (Research and Analysis Wing) vigil frustrated a counter plan to thwart Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Gen. Yahya had been able to identify those in the Awami League-led “provisional government” who could play the role of a Trojan horse in future and help him derail the “so-called liberation war.” Although Gen. Yahya’s moves did not succeed then, recalls Ghosh, “it marked the beginning of the process to take Bangladesh in the reverse direction. Four years later, it culminated in the assassination of Sheikh Mujib and almost his entire family.” Ghosh’s account of his adventurous trip across the Padma river in a small boat to cover a daring raid on the Sarda Police Academy by the muktijoddhas (Mukti Bahini) and other details make for remarkable reading.  The reviewer was with the Indian Navy during the Bangladesh liberation war.  Bangladesh War: Report from Ground Zero Niyogi Books||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-ringside-view-of-the-bangladesh-liberation-war/article64991083.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:48 IST,||A white brilliance||A university is a community of teachers, students, researchers and administrators together engaged in pursuing the goal of higher education: the creation and sharing of knowledge. But who is admitted into its fold? What does it take to learn in a world where social capital is protected by gatekeepers, and knowledge measured out in the form of credentials? “Education is big business in this country,” says a character in The Middle Finger . “A lecture here, a workshop there, it never ends. People bleeding profits out of people’s anxieties.”   Saikat Majumdar’s new novel, an exploration of the ethics of education, raises fundamental questions as it invokes the story of Eklavya from the Mahabharata . In the epic, Eklavya is the young tribal boy, a prince of the Nishada tribe, who offers his thumb as guru dakshina to his teacher, Dronacharya. In the version quoted in the epigraph to Majumdar’s novel, Arjuna urges Eklavya to give up his right thumb for his guru, but Drona blesses the Bhil boy to continue shooting arrows despite the thumb.  Strikes a chord  The other epigraph is from Plato’s Symposium . Socrates tells Agathon that it would be wonderful if knowledge could be attained simply by touching the wise: “If only wisdom were like water, which always flows from a full cup into an empty cup when we connect them with a piece of yarn — well, then, I would consider it the greatest prize to have the chance to lie down next to you.”  The protagonist is Megha, an Indian woman who has drifted out of the doctoral programme at Princeton, which, she felt, was absurd and suffocating. Like “Hogwarts for adults... where a white brilliance hung like a dull haze over the campus and after a while you longed to breathe.” She now teaches basic English writing to students at a U.S. State university. She also writes powerful poetry, which is performed in basement pubs, on YouTube and Instagram. “Poems happened. The bleak landscape outside her window, the old-fashioned steam heater in her studio apartment, the oddly high ceilings, the aching confinement. They pushed poetry out, fine and slimy.” She is awarded an arts fellowship, but remains uncertain about the future: “Nobody could make a life out of poetry.” One evening as she drifts, she meets a group of well-connected Indians on the way to an event at Wellesley — the kind of people who always know each other, are sure of themselves, and are comfortable on any continent. Their presence strikes a chord. At the urging of her professor, Megha returns to Delhi to help set up a new private university which caters to well-heeled Indian students. “This was a new kind of a college where students from all over India wandered in on their way to Oberlin, Yale or Williams... this new college, obscenely expensive for most Indians, was obscenely cheap for them, so what to do with the money?” Megha decides that she will play the game. The new university is located in an old city with ancient hierarchies. It sets out to do bold new things with its teaching programmes, because, as a character remarks, “Literature sits uneasy in India. English is taught the way the British wanted it taught in the 19th century.” But it is not that easy to shake free of old ways. “It was pretty amazing that this was a university where faculty members could call for coffee and a liveried pantry staff brought it to you on a tray. On the other hand, it was coffee made with instant coffee powder and tasted sad.” Sealed off worlds Megha happens to meet Poonam, a woman who helps her set up her house and arrange her bookshelves. They come from entirely different, almost hermetically sealed off worlds. “What would she and Poonam talk about?” wonders Megha. Poonam has the autodidact’s hunger for knowledge. She arranges and rearranges books on Megha’s bookshelves, touching the books as if to absorb their words and ideas: “She liked books in a way Megha did not quite understand.” Poonam, too, is a teacher: she runs a study group at her church for women from Jharkhand who work in houses in Delhi but don’t know how to read or write. She herself has never been to college: “I can’t talk about it. It still hurts.” She wants Megha to teach her: “I want to say my own things.” But Megha does not know how, and says so: “I’m not very good at teaching the language. Teaching literature at the university is very different, Poonam.” But then she notices Poonam leafing through the pages of an A.K. Ramanujan volume. “Why did Poonam want to read poetry? Was there poetry for her?” Is there poetry for those who have not been ‘taught’ to read it? Are there ways in which poetry can reach out and ‘touch’ a reader, as Socrates says to Agathon? This is the question at the heart of this novel. The answer, of course, is yes; because, as one of the characters realises, “There are different ways one can exist in the world.” The reviewer is in the IAS.  The Middle Finger Simon & Schuster India    Is there poetry for those who have not been ‘taught’ to read it? Are there ways in which poetry can reach out and ‘touch’ a reader, as Socrates says to Agathon?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-white-brilliance/article64991088.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:49 IST,||‘Ma carried her poetry notebook everywhere’||Academic and littérateur Nabaneeta Dev Sen was the life of Bengal’s literary circles till her death in 2019. The Padma Shri and Sahitya Akademi winner wrote poetry, novels, short stories, plays, literary criticism, travelogues, translations, and children’s books. But she identified herself as a poet, as her daughter Nandana Dev Sen, also a writer and poet, says in the introduction to a recently released poetry collection, Acrobat, which contains poems Nabaneeta wrote in English, a few she translated from Bengali, and some she translated with Nandana. The majority are, however, Nandana’s independent translations of poems Nabaneeta composed over six decades.  Nandanasays in the poignant introduction: “If my mother were introducing this book to you herself, as I had fervently hoped she would, I know she would have begun by telling you how deeply she believed in the vital necessity of poetry, and in every freedom it delivers: ‘I speak for poetry as being central to a woman’s freedom. Yes, I am partial, I cannot be and do not wish to be objective in this one respect...’” The poems are expressions of deeply felt emotions told in a language sharp, controlled and precise. Excerpts from an interview with Nandana Dev Sen: You must have seen Nabaneeta writing. What was her creative process like? Did she have a favourite space — a room or a desk or a nook — where she always wrote?  Ma carried her kobitar khata (poetry notebook) everywhere, so she was always prepared for poetry to come to her — and it often did in the oddest of hours and places. At home, she loved to write on her bed (which had belonged to my poet grandmother Radharani Debi), with all her papers spread out around her. In fact, Ma wrote many books poring over her notes, sprawled out on that bed. Her other favourite spot was the beautiful antique desk of my grandfather Narendra Dev (also a beloved writer). Ma was often up all night writing, and she had to write each and every day. She often said that a day without writing was for her “a sad day,” a barren day.  In the Introduction, you mention Nabaneeta saying that there aren’t enough English translations of Indian regional literatures. In the last few years, translation has seen a resurgence. Did she notice the change? What did she say? Yes, Ma was very glad to see that the urgency (and artistry) of translation was finally getting more attention in India, a trend that has in turn motivated talented translators to become much more proactive. Although she wrote beautifully in English, Ma insisted on writing in Bengali, and spent a lot of time translating other Indian writers (especially women poets) because she felt that Indian books in the mother tongue were at risk of becoming obsolete, and were insufficiently shared with international readers (or even with other Indians). She pointed out that the literature of our nation was almost exclusively represented in the world by the new Indian writing in English, which she admired as much as she loved our rich regional literatures. It’s certainly a cause for celebration that excellent translations are becoming more available now and that translators have much more support and recognition now than they had even a few years ago. But there is still a huge gap between what we need and what we have. Nabaneeta has seminal studies on the position of women in Indian literature. Much of your activism is centred on the girl child. Is it your way of carrying forward Nabaneeta’s legacy? I’m sure it is, even if I may not have consciously connected my activism to Ma’s pathbreaking work, but both my mother and my grandmother were formidable feminists. Much of Ma’s academic and creative work had a strong focus on social justice and women’s equality, as did the poetry of Radharani Debi (a child widow who remarried, most scandalously, and reinvented herself as a bestselling poet).  Throughout her career, Ma wrote stunningly powerful poems (and fiction) that spoke out against gender-based violence and injustice, many of which are included in Acrobat. I don’t doubt that the way I was raised by them both had a great deal to do with my interest in girl-child protection, especially the fight to stop child marriage and to end violence against women and girls, which, as we know, are huge and frightening crises in our country.  Read the full interview online.  Although she wrote beautifully in English, Ma insisted on writing in Bengali, and spent a lot of time translating other Indian writers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ma-carried-her-poetry-notebook-everywhere/article64991087.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:48 IST,||Goa: A Daughter’s Story by Maria Aurora Couto||There’s a Goa beyond picture postcard images of white beaches, lush fields and palm trees. It finds expression in the works of memoirist, teacher and writer Maria Aurora Couto, whom we lost recently. Steeped in history, her oeuvre includes in its sweep the fractious present and anxieties about the future of Goa. In her books, especially Goa: A Daughter’s Story and Filomena’s Journeys: A Portrait of a Marriage, a Family & a Culture , she chronicled the history of her community and the transformations within Goan — never Goanese — society after the arrival of the Portuguese in 1510.   From her father Dr. Francisco de Figueiredo, popularly known as Chico, who traded medicine for music and taught at the Portuguese Lyceum before the family moved to Dharwad in 1945, she inherited the Goan soul or alma — “which may literally mean soul but... is also meant to communicate passion.” In Filomena’s Journeys, her mother Filomena Borges comes across as both serene and strong. Couto taught English literature and travelled extensively, staying in Panjim for three years after Goa’s liberation, before finally settling down in her husband’s ancestral village, Aldona.  Composite identity  “Contradiction and paradox best describe the extraordinary experience of my life in Goa in those first years after Liberation,” she recalls in Goa: A Daughter’s Story . “I was Maria, wife of the first development commissioner of Goa, Alban Couto… And I was Aurora, Chico’s daughter. Aurora, the daughter coming home, wrestled with Maria, now wife of an officer in the new dispensation.”  But Goans, she writes, are very conscious of a “composite identity”, which is an Indian identity with deep European influences. Many are fluent in at least three languages — Konkani, English and Portuguese (though, after liberation, the use of the coloniser’s tongue was discouraged, unlike English in the mainland). Couto establishes the links which developed in response to conversion and colonisation in Goa. She explains how, in spite of being divided along religious lines by Portuguese colonial policies, Goan society retained communal harmony, thanks to a strong sense of community. Arrivals and departures There were waves of changes, brought on by centuries of Christianisation, invasions by Marathas, revolts of villagers, uprisings of Goan clerics and Hindu feudal lords against Portuguese policies. Responding to the challenge of living as a Christian in India and as a Catholic in Goa, Couto stresses on the “tradition of India, which allows for fantastic inclusiveness.” Goa is a state of mind, says Couto. “It is life lived without feeling circumscribed by geography or by time.” For the Goan, writes Couto, the spirit of the place is embodied in the village, its red earth and pouring rain, its rivers (Mandovi, Zuari and others), forests, birds, trees and stones. “It is personified in the deities in the prayer rooms and the altars at homes, in roadside shrines, and in the churches and temples.” Goa’s history is layered with arrivals and departures, victory and defeat, colonisers and settlers, and Couto narrates it through the prism of an insider-outsider (having lived away for years before heading home).  It is possible to hear young men singing the mando and dulpod (sung after the mando in quick rhythm, typically describing everyday Goan life, especially of Christians) in Konkani; and then listen to the soulful, anguished voice of the fado in Portuguese, a musical expression of man’s inner being — poetic, lyrical and tragic in its intensity. “The Goan loves a peaceful enjoyment of leisure. Work is important. So is leisure and a life whose every moment is to be savoured” — a susegad or laidback attitude to life. Through her writing, Couto communicates a feeling of socego (a sense of peace and tranquillity unique to the Goan) that lingers despite all the struggles of existence.   But Goa is no longer a tranquil garden. Couto was particularly worried about its fragile environment, which has not been shielded against invasive tourists, and the lack of a sense of history and heritage. Will Goans be able to protect their unique Goemkarponn ? It’s up to them, says Couto, to wake up to the realities and fight for the survival of what remains.  The writer looks back at one classic every month.  The Goan loves a peaceful enjoyment of leisure. Work is important. So is leisure||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/goa-a-daughters-story-by-maria-aurora-couto/article64991089.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:50 IST,||Knowledge is beautiful||An opening diamond lead would probably have defeated the contract, but West’s trump lead was reasonable. He was trying to protect partner’s heart holding from ruffs in the dummy. The opening club lead went to East’s king and South’s ace. The spade lead from South was won by West with the ace and he led another club, this time to declarer’s nine. South cashed the ace of hearts and ruffed a heart as West discarded a spade. South cashed the king of spades, shedding his diamond loser, and noted the jack from West. Judging correctly that a second spade would not cash, South ruffed a spade in hand and drew the last trump. This was the position: [Grid 2] East was known to have started with 4-6-1-2 distribution, so South cashed his ace of diamonds to remove East’s singleton, and exited with a low heart. East won, but he had to lead a heart or a spade. Either way, South had his game-going trick. Nicely played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/knowledge-is-beautiful/article64991074.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:48 IST,||Women and public spaces||Do women have complete access to public spaces in Indian cities? Whenever I wait for a friend in a public space, I tend to scroll through my phone for no reason or I pretend to be engaged in a call. A lot of us choose to wait in places such as bus stops or cafes to indicate to others that we are here for a reason,avoiding the judgmental gaze. So why are women bound by the need to present a purpose to be in public? It is because of the narrow assumption that women who loiter are “undesirable”. Why Loiter? Women & Risk on Mumbai Streets critically analyses women’s access to public spaces. Even 11 years after being published, the book stands relevant for analysing women’s safety and the idea of equality in public spaces. The findings in the books are drawn from a three-year research project, the gender and space project that focused on women and public space in Mumbai. Shilpa Phadke, Sameera Khan and Shilpa Rande, through the book, show how women are denied equal claim to public spaces in cities and look into the structural subordination of women in public spaces. The book is divided into four parts, covering every aspect of lack of inclusiveness of public spaces and the risks that comes with it. The book maps the class, caste, gender, religious and regional stratification affecting women’s public access. Although the book is based on Mumbai streets, the insights and findings of the authors become relatable to women living in other cities of our country.  No inclusivity Women face a wide range of problems in public spaces from lack of inclusive designs of public infrastructure to the age-old patriarchal mindset and ideas. With the rise in violence against women in public spaces, it is crucial for the planners to design inclusive public spaces, catering to the needs of everyone in society. Public space should be all inclusive. The book urges women to celebrate loitering and taking risks. It is important for women to claim their rightful access and have fun in public spaces. lakshmitharayil22@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/women-and-public-spaces/article64991092.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:48 IST,||A magic ‘ice-breaker’ stick||I feel sad and uneasy when I catch sight of my old walking stick in a corner in my bedroom. It wears a mournful look. It was my constant companion until four months ago when my daughter brought me a sophisticated three-wheeler walker with brakes, a thing of beauty, which I couldn’t resist. That stick was also a gift from my daughter seven years earlier when I, at 86, had become quite wobbly in the U.K. She had demonstrated to me its virtues: its height was adjustable; it was collapsible; and it would come in handy on flights for, unlike regular sticks, it could be stowed away under the seat. That stick had served me well, particularly after I had found a new use for it on my visit to India. During my month-long stay in my Thrissur apartment, an elderly couple from Mumbai chanced to visit me with their three-year-old granddaughter, Malati. The child was cross with her grandparents and sat all bunched up in a chair some 10 feet from me, sulking. I noticed her eyeing my stick. I casually picked it up and pretended to examine it closely while at the same time carrying on a conversation with her grandfather. I held the stick in my hands at its lowest joint and, feigning to use great force, “broke” it and folded the loose part to the parent body with great care. I saw from the corner of my eye that Malati’s jaw had dropped. Another break, and Malati was at my side. Without paying any attention to her I held up the four-part stick by its handle and let go of my grip on the loosened parts. The parts clicked into place and the stick resumed its normal state. “Can I try?” Malati piped up. ‘By all means, go ahead!’ The stick had magically broken the ice. That was nearly four years ago. I was back in India again a year later for medical treatment. I had thus had many more occasions to repeat my performance with the stick, which never failed me. Then came COVID-19 and a near total ban on visitors. And I was stuck in Thrissur. The stick keeps moping in its corner. I keep hoping for the day COVID will be a thing of the past, and my stick and I can resume breaking the ice with visiting kids. pmwarrier9@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-magic-ice-breaker-stick/article64991093.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:48 IST,||Best building||In rural Bangladesh’s frequently deluged Satkhira district is a little brick hospital called Friendship. The hospital has a canal meandering through it, channeling rainwater. This modest building has now trumped a gallery in Berlin and a cycle and footbridge in Denmark to win the prestigious Royal Institute of British Architects’ award. The hospital is designed by architect Kashef Chowdhury, who is known to have converted boats into floating hospitals to reach remote parts of the country. The project, which costs less than $2m, uses locally produced bricks, and resembles a village dotted with courtyards. The blocks are so cleverly positioned keeping in mind the wind direction that there is no need for air conditioning, except in the operating theatres and delivery rooms. “I think the kind of spaces you inhabit during treatment — with a view of water and trees, the sounds of birds, the feel of a breeze — goes a long way towards healing,” the architect toldThe Guardian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/best-building/article64991096.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:48 IST,||Feedback||In a near-lockdown mood, over a cup of coffee on Sunday, Rahul Karmakar’s cover story made for interesting reading. (‘Move over chai, coffee is here’; Jan. 23) Whether in Kohima or Shillong, with the support of authorities, and with the enthusiasm and entrepreneurship of young people like Lichan Humtsoe, coffee can carve a place for itself. Not as a threat to tea, but as a strong competitor. C.V. Jayamani nCoffee and tea are long-term plantation crops that have a long cooling period before they bloom and start yielding. During this period, farmers may not have sustained income. The coffee board must therefore support growers and encourage Nagaland and the other Northeastern States to opt for large-scale cultivation. R.V. Baskaran nIt was great to see Ete Cafe featured in a national daily. I have visited the cafe many times and can say without a doubt that their coffee is really good, besides it being a cool and cosy place to hang out. Tongti Jamir    Asserting that Silappadikaram (‘Destiny’s child’; Jan. 23) is comparable to Shakespeare’s plays is axiomatic because of its inimitable literary style of integrating poetry, music, and drama.   I appreciate the comparison of the two unimaginably wise writers. Making a production of Silappadikaram is showing the world  how rich our literary heritage is. P.J. Sam Alexander nIndira Parthasarathy’s contention that this epic-cum-play could belong to the Sangam  era may not be acceptable, as Tamil historians argue that Silappadikaram could be a much later addition to Tamil literature.  V.P. Dhananjayan  nI remember reading this story in a book called Hamare Rashtra Nirmata (Our Nation Builders) many years ago. It put Kannagi at the centre, underlining how far a woman can go for her husband. Only a few people in North India would have heard of such stories and dramas written in Tamil.  Shiv Magan Mishra  nThe article by veteran Tamil litterateur Indira Parthasarathy does justice by asking for Silappadikaram to be staged as a grand musical drama. Of the five great Tamil epics, it is the oldest and unique in that it is about an ordinary couple and written  as a dance-drama. Ranganathan Sivakumar    Anime adaptations try too hard at times. (‘Bad grammar’; Jan. 23) Filmmakers should take liberty with the material and make it real instead of trying to please fans with an exact but badly executed copy. Edge of Tommorow (2014) does this well, so well in fact that many forget its actual source in Japanese light novel All You Need is Kill (2004).  Atul Singh   Agony Akka’s sense of humour is outstanding. (‘Counting eggs’; Jan. 23) Her reply last week, calm and polite, made me laugh but also think. Thanks for the weekly fun. Karthik Narendran nIt was good to see an article about women in their early 30s, unmarried, career-focused, temporarily rejecting matchmaking, and all the free advice. The real issue is that society can’t stand women being independent and earning fat salaries. Shamini Shankar nI come from a family of strong, independent women. I thought AA’s response was brilliant. The sarcasm was brutal and scathing. More power to her pen. Pullat Ramachandran||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/feedback/article38347576.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:48 IST,||Where is Peng Shuai?||Screamed the T-shirts of some spectators at the Australian Open, where they were stopped by the police and asked to remove the “objectionable attire” or leave the venue. “We don’t allow clothing, banners or signs that are commercial or political,” said Tennis Australia (TA). Faced, however, with widespread protests over its “cowardly” action supposedly in response to pressure from Chinese sponsors, TA revoked the ban. Since Peng Shuai, former world No.1 doubles player, the first Chinese to achieve that ranking, alleged sexual harassment by Chinese politician Zhang Gaoli last year, and subsequently disappeared from public view, there have been concerns over her safety. The Women’s Tennis Association suspended matches in China. For the Winter Olympics this week, the International Olympic Committee said it had spoken to Peng and would meet the player in Beijing soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/where-is-peng-shuai/article64991095.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:48 IST,||Desert snow||The world’s largest hot desert, the Sahara in Africa, saw a rare phenomenon that has only taken place five times in the last 42 years — a frosting of ice on its dunes. In the Ain Sefra region in Algeria, 3,280 ft above sea level, summer temperatures shoot up to 38 degrees Celsius, but last week the temperature plummeted to -2 degrees Celsius, triggering the accumulation of ice. The last four times this event took place were in 1979, 2016, 2018 and 2021 (in pic). The increased frequency of the phenomenon could point to climate change, experts speculate. Karim Bouchetata, a local photographer, captured surreal pictures of frost-dusted dunes. In 2021, pictures emerged of sheep grazing on the icy dunes of Algerian Sahara, and of camels amid heavy snow. In 2016, a blizzard brought in more than three feet of snow to the region. The Sahara, which spans across more than 9 million sq. km., is the world’s third largest desert after the cold deserts of Antarctica and the Arctic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/desert-snow/article64991094.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:48 IST,||A Dust Storm in Delhi||Meena Arora Nayak Tranquebar Rs. 399 In this story of Sultan Razziat — the only woman emperor to rule from the throne of Delhi — Shehzadi Razziat is sharp of mind and steely in her resolve to prove herself worthy. But mid-13th century Delhi is not an easy place for a woman; moral strictures are harsh, and the road to the throne is treacherous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-dust-storm-in-delhi/article64991090.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:50 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3187||Across 1 Hope network’s designed to be aware of best practice (4,3,5) 10 No time for getting tied up in pastime (7) 11 Some bigwig ran a dancehall in Spanish city (7) 12 Rose, shunning society, travelled by canoe (5) 13 ‘Differently honestly’? (2,3,3) 15 Copy published after T.S. Eliot initially conceals act of plagiarism (10) 16 Farmyard youngster that’s just over a foot (4) 18 Characters in expensive picture, Ben-Hur perhaps (4) 20 Girl – not a medallist, we’re told – to make a sudden rush (5,5) 22 Popular actors take these weapons (8) 24 Schoolchild’s twisted effrontery, rebellious (5) 26 After disruption, setter’s most brusque (7) 27 Cassock’s slightly altered for cavalryman (7) 28 Entered, dimly tingling with purpose (12) Down 2 African nation, one with capital in Abuja? (7) 3 The Observer embracing Right, that is most odd (8) 4 Uttered casual greeting, being drunk (4) 5 Newspaper, Independent, covers no-good rubbish boxing movie (6,4) 6 Primarily: poet (...listed alongside Ted Hughes?) (5) 7 Perhaps pens epistle, angry initially in Welsh city (7) 8 Perhaps Rev. Spooner’s butterflies, skippers, etc? (3,2,3,5) 9 A key held aloft, cryptic Arthurian figure (4,2,3,4) 14 Time to study Scott, perhaps – lecturer’s wanting to hold back (5,5) 17 Slightly smelly Greek characters felt shame finally in unexpected ways (3-5) 19 Everyman blushes, admitting sanitation ultimately neglected (7) 21 Artist putting blame on shade of brown, that’s not unknown (7) 23 Chicken serving one rejected in French city (5) 25 Culinary ingredient regularly extracted from saccharin (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3187/article64991073.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:49 IST,||Boys Don’t Cry||Meghna Pant Penguin eBury Press Rs. 299 When Maneka Pataudi is arrested as the prime suspect for the murder of her ex-husband, she reveals a chilling tale of marital abuse and neglect. Is her confession the truth or a lie? Based mostly on true events, the novel takes us behind the closed doors of a modern Indian marriage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/boys-dont-cry/article64991084.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:49 IST,||Tulip of Istanbul||Iskender Pala, trs Ruth Whitehouse Niyogi Books Rs. 550 A young man finds his wife murdered on the wedding night and he is charged. The only clue is a tulip bulb he found in her palm. The story is rich in historical details, taking us to the splendours and vices of Istanbul at a time when the world was in awe of its military and artistic achievements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tulip-of-istanbul/article64991085.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:49 IST,||Offspring||Sandeep M. Bhatnagar Speaking Tiger Rs. 499 Ambala, 1918. Rohan Lal goes to Sydney, where he finds love and employment. After five years abroad, he longs to return, but with his beloved Jenny. Struggling to tie the two ends of his family, Rohan feels stuck in a paradoxical world of his own making. A testament to family ties and tradition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/offspring/article64991086.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:49 IST,||Kingdom of Characters||Jing Tsu Penguin Random House Rs. 787 (Kindle price) One of China’s most daunting challenges was linguistic: how to make it accessible to a globalised, digital world. Jing follows the bold innovators who adapted the Chinese script to the technological advances, from the telegram to the typewriter to the smartphone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/kingdom-of-characters/article64991078.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:50 IST,||Mahabharata: The Epic and the Nation||G.N. Devy Aleph Rs. 499 TheMahabharatahas been translated into numerous languages including Marathi, Kannada, Assamese, Tamil, Urdu, Gujarati, Bengali and Malayalam. Prof. Devy explains what accounts for its incredible effect on the subconscious of Indians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mahabharata-the-epic-and-the-nation/article64991077.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:49 IST,||Why They Killed Gandhi: Unmasking the Ideology and the Conspiracy||Ashok Kumar Pandey Speaking Tiger Rs. 499 This is a revised and updated translation of the Hindi originalUsne Gandhi ko Kyun Mara. Writer and historian Pandey presents evidence to argue that V.D. Savarkar knew about the Gandhi murder conspiracy. He lays bare the facts of the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/why-they-killed-gandhi-unmasking-the-ideology-and-the-conspiracy/article64991081.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:49 IST,||Can India Rebound from the Meltdown of the Century?||Anshuman Tiwari, Anindya Sengupta Bloomsbury India Rs. 799 After a devastating second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, two writers take stock on how the pandemic–lockdown ravaged the Indian economy and explores what could be the most sustainable way out of this calamity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/can-india-rebound-from-the-meltdown-of-the-century/article64991079.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:34 IST,||Faster spread of Omicron is not due to higher viral load||The Omicron variant became the dominant variant infecting both vaccinated and the unvaccinated persons in many countries just one month after the World Health Organization designated it a variant of concern on November 26, 2021. Two months since, Omicron has become the dominant variant in every country that is witnessing a new wave. In short, Omicron has replaced the Delta variant, which was considered highly transmissive in almost every country across the world. One of the defining features of a new variant is the higher transmissibility than the existing variant. If the Delta variant was found to be highly transmissible when compared with the Alpha variant, the Omicron variant has been found to be extremely transmissive when compared with the Delta variant. Early studies Earlier studies suggested that the extremely high transmissibility of the Omicron variant was probably due to higher viral load in an infected person. The higher the viral load in a person, the greater are the chances that the infected person can successfully spread it to others. This is because the infected person tends to release larger amounts of the virus. While the Delta variant require a relatively longer period of exposure before a person gets infected, the Omicron variant has been found to spread within a few minutes of exposure.  But the results of a study posted in medRxiv preprint server (and is yet to be peer-reviewed) has found that the viral load is nearly the same with both variants — Delta and Omicron.  Backed by mutations With the Omicron variant possessing many mutations that allows it to escape the immune system better even in previously infected or fully vaccinated people, the extremely high rate at which the Omicron variant is spreading might be due to inherent immune escape capabilities rather than the high viral load as it was previously thought. A team led by researchers from the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health in Boston, Massachusetts, obtained longitudinal, quantitative RT-PCR test results of swabs taken from the nose and throat of over 10,300 players from the National Basketball Association, the organisation responsible for professional basketball in North America. The period of study was restricted between July 5, 2021 and January 10, this year. From the beginning of the pandemic the players and other people associated with the Association have been undergoing regular testing. The league conducts frequent COVID-19 testing of its players and personnel. The researchers used RT-PCR cycle threshold (Ct) values of less than 30 as a proxy for viral load. The PCR test amplifies the genetic material from coronavirus through multiple cycles. Since the coronavirus has RNA, it is first converted into DNA, and each cycle of amplification doubles the amount of DNA. If there is just one DNA molecule to start with, the amount of DNA after 30 cycles of amplification will be one billion molecules. If there is more genetic material to begin with then fewer cycles of amplification would be sufficient to detect the DNA. Surprising results While the researchers were expecting that people infected with the Omicron variant would show higher viral load, the results were the just opposite. “The peak viral RNA based on Ct values was lower for Omicron infections than for Delta infections,” they write. For Omicron, the Cycle threshold (Ct) was 23.3, while for Delta the cycle threshold was 20.5. “These results suggest that Omicron’s infectiousness may not be explained by higher viral load measured in the nose and mouth by RT-PCR,” they write. The clearance phase was also shorter for Omicron infections — 5.35 days — while for Delta it was 6.23 days. Omicron and Delta  Another team led by researchers from the University of Geneva, Switzerland, went a step further to measure the number of infectious virus particles present on the swabs collected from 150 infected people. The results are posted on preprint server medRxiv, and the paper is yet to be peer-reviewed. They found that breakthrough infections caused by the Delta variant had lower number of virus particles than unvaccinated people with Delta infection. Surprisingly, the number of virus particles in vaccinated individuals with Omicron infection was comparable with individuals with Delta breakthrough infections.  Contrary to the previous notion that people infected with Omicron have higher viral loads than those infected with the Delta variant, the study by the University of Geneva found that vaccinated people infected with Delta or Omicron had nearly similar viral loads.  The peak viral RNA based on Ct values was lower for Omicron infections than for Delta infections||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/faster-spread-of-omicron-is-not-due-to-higher-viral-load/article64991100.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:34 IST,||Unravelling the molecular biology of asafoetida||Readers may recall our write-up in the column dated July 30, 2009 on Asafoetida ( hing in Hindi, perungayam in Tamil, inguva in Telugu, ingu in Kannada) and how this smelly spice has been of use in our cuisine and also in traditional medicine. It has been known since the Mahabharata times, and has been imported from Afghanistan. The Bhagavata Purana says that one should not eat hing before worshipping deity. Indian historical records suggest that we have been importing asafoetida since the 12th century BCE. The word a sa comes from Persian, meaning mastic, while f oetidus r efers in Latin to its strong and stinking smell. And W ikipedia s uggests that Jewish early literature mentions it as M ishnaha. R abindranath Tagore wrote about how he would buy from “Kabuliwala” dry fruits, but did not mention asafoetida, since it was surely in his family kitchen already!   It is a thick gum, or a resin, which comes from the perennial taproots of the Ferula family. The article in Indian Mirror titled Asafoetida points out that asafoetida has a wide range of applications in the field of medicine. It has been suggested to fight viruses such as influenza. It may thus be worthwhile for current day drug chemists and molecular biologists to study its mode of action. (Indeed, this has been done by Professor M. S. Valiathan of The Manipal Academy of Higher Education, and his collaborators). Ayurveda specifies three types of Dosha, or deficiencies in the body, namely Pitta, Vata and Kapha each of which has specific functions.  Balancing dose  Asafoetida is believed to be one of the best spices to balance the Vata Dosha. The site H ome Remedies for Hiccups says that asafoetida is good to stop hiccups! You mix it well with butter, and swallow –and the hiccups stop!  Make in India?  How long do we need to import it? Well, it appears no longer! In a report that has appeared in The Hindu dated November 10, 2020, and cited in The Wire, Science, Dr Sanjay Kumar, who is the Director of the CSIR Institute of Himalayan Biotechnology (CSIR- IHBT), says that the cold desert climatic conditions in the Lahaul–Spiti area in Himachal Pradesh are remarkably similar to those in the Iran and Afghanistan, and wondered whether asafoetida cannot be grown in India too. This led the IHBT to import its seeds from Afghanistan and began growing the plant in the research centre under the guidance of the National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources. The experiment was a success. Two types of asafoetida resins became available – the milky white type and the red type. He further points out that since currently the farmers in Himachal Pradesh largely limit themselves to growing potatoes and peas, motivating them to grow asafoetida and offer technical support will increase their income. The article mentioned above describes these efforts of the laboratory, colour photographs of the flowers and the large-scale production of the plant at the Centre. Dr. Kumar also told this to the T imes of India in the article, W hy ‘made-in-India’ heeng is a big thing. Long history  That this herb has been used for long in traditional medicine has a long history. Groups in Egypt have used it since long. Ayurveda scholars have known it for centuries. We had discussed earlier how Prof. M.S. Valiathan and collaborators had shown, using fruitflies as models, that Ayurvedic formulations are effective in vivo. Likewise, Eigner et al., have shown how the herb is effective in the traditional medical practices and diet in Nepal ( Journal of Ethnopharmacology, 1999; 67:1-6). It is in this context that an excellent and updated report by Dr. Poonam Mahendra and Dr. Shradha Bisht of the School of Pharmacy, Suresh Gyan Vihar University, Jaipur, titled, Ferula asafoetida: Traditional uses and pharmacological activity, in the journal Pharmacognosy Reviews, July-December 2012, Vol. 6, Issue 12, is of value.  Their analysis of its chemical constituents shows that the raw herb has about 70% carbohydrates, 5% proteins, 1% fat, 7% minerals, and has compounds of calcium, phosphorus, sulphur and various aliphatic and aromatic alcohols. It is the sulphide content in the fat that leads to the fecal odour. Chemical trials using rats in the laboratory suggests asafoetida plays an essential role in digestion. The group cites references to the role that the herb might play as an anti-cancer agent, and also against some women’s ailments. They list about 30 molecules which form the chemical constituents in the herb that play roles as anti-oxidants, anticarcinogenic, antibacterial and antiviral and even anti-HIV. Given this list, it is time for groups across India to isolate these molecules from this herb and study their roles in these diseases, using modern methods of molecular biology, immunology and drug design. Let us go for it! dbala@lvpei.org  The practice is to mix asafoetida with butter and swallow, for hiccups to disappear!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/unravelling-the-molecular-biology-of-asafoetida/article64991098.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:34 IST,||New study documents the songs of frog species||Frogs have different types of call to suit different occasions, a new study finds. It was known that birds sing different songs depending on context, yet this kind of behaviour has not been documented among the so-called simpler animals, the anurans (frogs and toads). This study, conducted by researchers from Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, has been published in the journal Animal Behaviour. Semantics and frogs When we humans speak, we use words to build up sentences. Only some arrangements of words have meaning and this is what we use. The same appears to be true of frogs, too. Some typical needs among frogs are to communicate a mating call to attract a member of the opposite sex and to guard one’s territory against other males. It is important that the calls given out in such different contexts be unambiguous, so that both, the calling frog and the listening frog, understand the difference. However, frogs have a limited repertoire of “notes,” and hence, using different notes for different contexts is impossible. “We wished to address whether these frogs arrange their notes into sequences in different ways in different contexts,” says Ananda Shikhara Bhat, the first author of the paper, who is with the Department of Biology, IISER Pune.  The group studied two species of frog – Humayun’s Night Frog (Nyctibatrachus humayuni) and Amboli Bush Frog (Pseudophilautus amboli). Two species  “While N. humayuni produces calls with two notes (ascending and descending), P. amboli produces calls with six-note types,” says K.S. Seshadri from Centre for Ecological Sciences, IISc, Bengaluru, who along with Anand Krishnan of Department of Biology, IISER, Pune, led the study. Dr. Seshadri explains that they found that alone, individuals of N. humayuni produce a single ascending note but in the presence of another male of the same species, the individual adds up to seven descending notes to the ascending note. “In contrast, individuals of P. amboli use a different set of note types [note type 1–3, as classified by the authors] when alone or when in the presence of another male but use note types 4–5 when engaging in a physical fight with another male,” he adds.   Shikhara Bhat and Varun Sane who is now a researcher at the University of Cambridge, U.K., recorded the calls of N. humayuni in June–July 2019 from roadside streams in Adarwadi and Matheran in Maharashtra. The calls of P. amboli were recorded at Sirsi in Karnataka, in July 2020. “Calls from 19 N. humayuni and 50 P. amboli individuals were recorded and used for analysis,” say the researchers.  This is the first study to examine “sequences” of vocalisations in frogs. “To the best of our knowledge, our novel data analysis method, named ‘co-occurrence analysis’, is the first of its kind that is free of assumptions about the underlying data, and is widely applicable to analysing vocal sequences of all sorts of animals,” says Shikhara Bhat. Endemic to region “Both species of anurans are endemic to the Western Ghats. The two species were chosen intentionally because they were common where they are found and belong to two distantly related lineages of anurans,” says Dr. Seshadri. This allowed the researchers to examine if and to what extent the vocalisations varied. “Ask anyone if they know how frogs call, and they will likely say ‘Croak’ or ‘Ribbit’. Our work shows that anurans go beyond this simplistic [picture]. Some of the anurans, half the size of our thumb, are capable of stringing together sounds with varying levels of complexity depending on the context.” says Dr. Seshadri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/new-study-documents-the-songs-of-frog-species/article64991103.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:34 IST,||Inducing regeneration||Is it possible to regrow a frog’s lost leg?  Researchers have come a step closer to the goal of regenerative medicine by successfully triggering regrowth of a lost leg in a frog using a five-drug cocktail contained in a silk protein gel and kept in place over the stump for a day. That brief treatment sets in motion an 18-month period of regrowth that restores a functional leg. The research was carried out by scientists at Tufts University and Harvard University's Wyss Institute (Science Advances) .  The researchers triggered the regenerative process in African clawed frogs by enclosing the wound in a silicone cap, which they call a BioDome, containing a silk protein gel loaded with the five-drug cocktail. Each drug fulfilled a different purpose.. The combination and the bioreactor provided a local environment and signals that tipped the scales away from the natural tendency to close off the stump, and toward the regenerative process, according to a press release from Tufts University. The researchers observed dramatic growth of tissue in many of the treated frogs, re-creating an almost fully functional leg. The new limbs had bone structure extended with features similar to a natural limb's bone structure, a richer complement of internal tissues (including neurons), and several "toes" grew from the end of the limb, although without the support of underlying bone. The regrown limb moved and responded to stimuli such as a touch from a stiff fibre, and the frogs were able to make use of it for swimming through water, moving much like a normal frog would.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/inducing-regeneration/article64991102.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:34 IST,||Not so quiet||Analysing ice cores from Greenland and Antarctica, researchers present evidence of a massive solar storm that took place 9,200 years ago, during the Sun’s “quiet” phase, when fewer sunspot activity takes place. The study, published in Nature Communications, is puzzling, as solar storms are usually associated with “high activity.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/not-so-quiet/article64991101.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:34 IST,||Song sparrow playlists||A new study finds that male song sparrows, a common bird in North America, deliberately shuffle their repertoire of songs when wooing females. This could be a ploy to keep them interested. The study, published in Proceedings of the Royal Society B, shows that singing males keep track of the order of the songs and how long they’re sung, for about 30 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/song-sparrow-playlists/article64991099.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:39 IST,||Flashback 75: Partition in virtual reality||“God was a little late that day,” says Iqbal-ud-din Ahmed, before recounting how the dread of the Partition claimed the soul of his village (Ropar in East Punjab), as a bleak sense of terror hung in the air around charred houses and dreams doused forever.  Ahmed’s character is voiced by actor Salman Shahid in Child of Empire , the docu-drama directed by Delhi-based Sparsh Ahuja (24) and London-based Erfan Saadati (27), which premiered at the ongoing Sundance Film Festival. In the 17-minute immersive animated virtual reality (VR) film, two men from the Partition generation — Ishar Das Arora (voiced by Adil Hussain), an Indian Hindu who migrated from Pakistan to India, and Ahmed, a Pakistani Muslim who made the opposite journey — share childhood memories of their experiences while playing a board game. And it goes straight for the jugular, sticking to the facts of the Partition itself.  “Our original plan was not to go the animated route,” says Ahuja. “But when COVID-19 hit, we were left with no choice.” However, Ahuja and the team would realise that the animated format was a blessing in disguise: it was far better placed in mirroring the horrors of Partition.  The film was created by Project Dastaan — a peacebuilding initiative that reconnects individuals displaced during the 1947 Partition with their ancestral villages through VR — in association with Anzo films. “It is immersive, immediate, haunting, moving, and destabilising; one lives the days exactly as refugees in 1947 would have, fleeing, migrating, witnessing massacre and loss,” says oral historian and author Aanchal Malhotra ( Remnants of a Separation: A History of the Partition Through Material Memory ), one of the advisors on the project. “To be a listener of such stories is one thing, but Child of Empire may be the closest in imagining what millions of people experienced and survived.”  Another adviser, historian William Dalrymple, says that he was both “moved and astonished” by the power of the medium and the material itself. His son, Sam Dalrymple, is a co-producer. Fragmented lives The team at Project Dastaan had an ambitious target before them: to complete 75 interviews of the Partition survivors (across the U.K., India and Pakistan, in five languages) on the eve of India’s 75th year of Independence. However, COVID delays meant only 35 could be completed. “When we were sifting through the recordings, I was biased towards my own maternal grandfather’s experience,” says Ahuja. In the documentary, the characters of Arora — based on the experiences of Ahuja’s maternal grandfather, Ishar Das Arora (who migrated from Bela, a village in West Punjab’s Attock Tehsil to Tilak Nagar, New Delhi) — and Ahmed — jointly based on the memories of the latter (who migrated from Ropar, East Punjab, to Lahore) and Jagdish Chandra Ahuja (Ahuja’s paternal grandfather who migrated from Dera Ghazi Khan in West Punjab to Tilak Nagar, New Delhi) — recount stories of crouching under the seat of a humid train as a mob lashes at it, with images showing of candles turning into ransacked villages. More than anything, both share how each was saved by a member of the other religion. For Ahuja, this was telling of a larger political shift in his own family. “My maternal grandfather was saved by a Muslim man but many in my family, who have now become fervent nationalists, had no idea that this was the case,” he says. Last year, Sparsh and the team at Project Dastaan had the rare opportunity of actually visiting Pakistan. And he managed to track down the family of the Muslim man who had saved his grandfather’s life. “This was in a small hamlet that goes by Bela,” he recounts. “The man had passed away a while back, but his family was overjoyed to see me.” He recorded the entire experience in a VR format for his grandfather to experience back home. “They wanted me to stay there for at least a week and even attend their cousin’s wedding. I collected some pebbles from the village to fashion them into wearable jewellery.” But there was a surprising revelation at the heart of this experience: Ahuja would soon understand that this Pakistani family, much like his own, had sympathies for the extremists in their country — despite being happy for each other. “It’s strange and ironic how history plays out. In a different world, we would be a single unit.” Throughtheeyesof a child Nearly every frame of the docu-drama features a child — either crouching under a train seat, running away from a frantic mob, or simply sitting next to burning pyres. It appears that their presence is both a metaphor for the many children quite literally lost to us and a searing indictment of just how unfair it was that they were witnesses to our country’s blackest spot.  Ahuja believes that if we were to remove the two central narrators, Child of Empire would essentially parallel a single, tragic migration story. “It’s important to note that both the narrators are Punjabis,” he says. “They have internalised the political shifts of their time, which shows in the way they narrate their stories. When they recalled their experiences in the interviews, you could see the trauma in their eyes. It is that very experience that we want our viewers to come close to.”   The way Arora sees it, for the uninitiated viewer, Child of Empire provides just the right context to understand how multifaceted the Partition experience was. “The fact that both the characters have so much in common helps. We wanted the most moving and human stories to make it to the film from over two dozen interviews.”   Towards the end of the documentary, a soulful rendition of Subh-e-Azaadi — originally penned by the Pakistani revolutionary poet Faiz Ahmad Faiz, composed by Vasundhara Gupta, and sung by Amira Gill — beckons the viewer to contemplate the sheer human price of one of modern history’s largest and bloodiest forced migrations; and the price of freedom itself.   Child of Empire is currently screening on-demand at sundance.org, as part of the ‘New Frontier’ programming slate,which showcases works at the crossroads of film, art, and technology. This year, their ‘Spaceships’ programme allows viewers to experience the films by teleporting themselves to the festival using virtual avatars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/flashback-75-partition-in-virtual-reality/article64990978.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 06:07 IST,||Smart City Vizag - ‘Jewel on the East Coast’||City of many traits, Vizag is not only a picturesque tourist destination, it is also the informal financial capital of Andhra Pradesh. It is a bustling city and an industrial centre. It is a futuristic smart city that boasts of heritage buildings, ancient temples, Buddhist monuments, natural wonders, golden beaches, art, history, culture, museums. In fact, the city also has a submarine and Sea Harrier fighter jet for tourists to gawk at. Called the ‘jewel on the East Coast’, Vizag is believed to have been part of the famed Dandaranya of the Ramayana era. This area has also been mentioned in the Mahabharata, with the story of Bheema killing Bhakasura being associated with Bheemunipatnam (Bheemli) - satellite town and also the oldest recognised municipality in India. The coastal city of Visakhapatnam has witnessed the reigns of various kingdoms – Kalinga, Asoka, Pallavas, Cholas and Gangas. In more recent history, a Dutch colony was established in this shore-city in 1735. Later, in 1765, Visakhapatnam became a part of the Northern Circars, initially under French control and later under the British. The city evolved under the British. It was the natural topography of the area that helped the city prosper. Visakhapatnam has been gifted with a natural harbour that made it a mercantile centre long before the city itself took proper shape. The natural harbour has been used for trade with the neighbouring south east Asian countries, which boast a Hindu-Buddhist link since ages. Tourism is one of the major trades in Visakhapatnam. With the azure blue waters of the Bay of Bengal beckoning on one side, there the verdant green hills of the Eastern Ghats enticing the adventure sport enthusiast on the other. Nature has been busy playing around and sculpting the landscape; creating breath-taking art in the form of the Borra Caves, Araku valley with its innumerable waterfalls and lush valleys and the Erramatti Dibbalu. There are well developed parks, entertainment hubs and activities to indulge in. It is because the inherent advantages offered by the natural inner harbour that the headquarters of the Eastern Naval Command of the Indian Navy was established here. Likewise, the ship building yard and a huge dry dock came into existence. Visakhapatnam is the largest city in Andhra Pradesh—in terms of area and population. Since the country’s independence, the city’s growth till about two decades ago, had been slow and steady; the Hindustan Shipyard Ltd came in 1940. In 1950s and 1960s, the Government of India and the private sector set up some large-scale industries like Bharat Heavy Plates and Vessels (BHPV), Hindustan Zinc Ltd., Caltex oil refinery (later acquired by government as HPCL), Coramandel Fertilizers, etc. 1980s saw a major development with the development of Vizag Steel Plant and other major industries. Economic liberalisation in the 1990s brought a modest growth to the city like the setting up of Vizag Export Processing Zone, Simhadri Thermal Power plant of NTPC, etc. but not as much as in the last fifteen years or so. In addition to the Visakhapatnam Port and the Naval Dockyard, there is also the Gangavaram Port adding to the city’s revenue. The city has quite a few heavy industries and PSUs as well, like BARC, Naval Science and Technological Laboratory, Dredging Corporation of India, GAIL, Strategic Petroleum Reserve, NMDC, MMTC, Container Corporation of India, Visakha Container Terminal, East India Petroleum, Andhra Pradesh Medtech Zone Limited. There are a number of distinguished educational institutions for engineering, medicine, law, management and other specialities in and around Visakhapatnam. Visakhapatnam is also the driving force of the economic development of Andhra Pradesh. With a number of infrastructural projects in the pipeline, considerable investments in the growing IT sector, hospitality sector and the health-care sector, the city has shed its once famed laid-back image. It is now a smart city on the move. Boosting trade, the Visakhapatnam Port Trust One of the leading major ports of India, Visakhapatnam Port Trust is located on the east coast of India in between Chennai and Kolkata. The Port has three harbours viz., outer harbour, inner harbour and the fishing harbour.This is the only port in India and first of its kind in South Asia to have a Cavern facility for LPG – a mined rock cavern at a depth of 200 mtrs. below sea level with a capacity of 60,000 T. The Port is well connected to the Chennai-Howrah NH-16 by a 4-lane connectivity road for movement of cargo towards the North and South. It is also the only Indian port to have three international certifications; ISO 9001 – Quality Management System, ISO 14001 – Environmental Management System and OHSAS 18001 - Occupational Health and Safety Management System. The Port contributes significantly to the maritime trade with the economies in the Asia and Asia Pacific regions at economic cost besides economies in the Persian Gulf, Europe, Americas and Africa. Planning a smarter and greener city, The VMRDA Vizag has seen a tremendous growth after the announcement as one of the smart cities in India. And actively promoting its growth is the Vizag Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA). Thanks to the initiatives taken up, the city is now boasts of solar-power plants, eco-friendly LED street lights and many sustainable projects. VMRDA is the urban planning agency ofVisakhapatnam. It was set up for the purposes of planning, co-ordination, supervising, promoting and securing the planned development of theVisakhapatnam Metropolitan Region, that includes the districts ofVisakhapatnamand Vizianagaram. It coordinates the development activities of the municipal corporations, municipalities and other local authorities. The VMRDA is presently focussing on the Bheemili-Bhogapuram Greenfield Beach Road corridor amongst its many other development activities. Actively aiding atma-nirbhar-Bharat, RINL Vizag Steel Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), is a Navratna PSE under the Ministry of Steel. Visakhapatnam Steel Plant-popularly known as Vizag Steel, is the market leader for bars and rods in the country with a market share of about 9.3%. The principal products of Vizag Steel include Rebars, Wire Rods, Rounds, Structurals, Billets & Flats. Manufactured from 100% virgin steel, with stringent tolerances in both physical & chemical properties, Vizag Steel is the preferred steel for a wide array of customers. RINL-VSP is the first integrated steel plant to be certified for ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001, ISO 27001 & OHSAS 18001 standards. It is also one of the first Indian Steel Companies to be certified for ISO 50001 – Energy Management Systems. The company has pan India presence with 24 Branch offices and more than 600 retailers/dealers to cater to the steel requirements across the country. Being a shore-based company, the company has been giving due importance to exports. Further, multi-modal transportation in coastal route has been initiated for its 3 stockyards on the West Coast. Foreseeing the imported forged wheels requirement of Indian Railways, RINL came forward for producing and supplying forged wheels to Railways to meet their growing demand substituting the imports. RINL is one of the promoters of M/s International Coal Ventures Limited, which has been operating Coking Coal mines in Mozambique. Focussing on sustainable development and energy efficiency initiatives, RINL’s philosophy of managing operations in harmony with nature has been followed meticulously since inception. Out of the total land bank of 8100 Ha, 3600 Ha has been identified for the development of green belt and afforestation. Addressing the needs of the society, RINL has been the driving force behind the upliftment of the community in and around it through its multifarious initiatives ranging from health to employment, and education to sanitation. The PSU has also been actively in Swachh Bharat initiatives, educational and self-employment out-reach projects. - UMA CHODAVARAPU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/smart-city-vizag-jewel-on-the-east-coast/article64990951.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:31 IST,||TEST - print headCentre’s response awaited on law on inter-faith marriages||Print changes - The law that governs inter-faith marriages in the country, the Special Marriage Act (SMA), 1954, is being challenged for endangering the lives of young couples who seek refuge under it. More than a year after a writ petition was moved before the Supreme Court, seeking striking down of several of its provisions, the Union government is yet to submit its response. “The court has admitted our petition and it was heard once on September 16, 2020. A notice was issued to the Centre and we are awaiting its counter-affidavit,” says advocate Kaleeswaram Raj. Twenty-seven-year old Aafreen Ansari* was under tremendous pressure from her family to get married. But she was already in love with a Hindu boy and the idea of an inter-faith marriage was vehemently opposed by her parents. So, without any further delay, she and Mohan Sharma*, decided to have a court marriage under the SMA around August 2020. She and Mr. Sharma went online and submitted their application. When they reached the Sub-Divisional Magistrate’s (SDM) office for the verification of their documents, the staff dissuaded them in multiple ways. “They were rude, and they deleted our application on flimsy grounds. They threatened to stop our marriage over a spelling error. And then they told us we were required to wait for 30 days and issue a notice inviting objections to our marriage from the public and that this notice would be stuck on the court premises,” recounts Ms. Aafreen. Section 5 of the SMA requires a person marrying under this law to give a notice of intended marriage, and Section 6(2) says it should be affixed at a conspicuous place at the office of the marriage officer. Section 7(1)allows any person to object to the marriage within 30 days of the publication of the notice, failing which a marriage can be solemnised under Section 7(2). Such was the terror of being discovered, that the couple approached the Delhi High Court a few days later, challenging Sections 6 and 7 of the Act. The couple are now married, but the court is yet to give its decision. The law doesn’t require such a notice to be sent to the families, but there are often instances where marriage officers and State governments go over and beyond the law to scuttle these marriages. Some State governments can also be overzealous in implementing the law. Haryana, for instance, created a checklist for marriages under the SMA, with 16 criteria that require a couple to publish a notice inviting objections in a newspaper and that such notices be sent to their parents. But even without such over-reach, several provisions in the law put the lives of these couples in danger. “Some States require couples to also seek a no-objection certificate from their parents. The Maharashtra (Department of Registration and Stamps) publicly shares the details of these couples on its website, from where communal elements can access them,”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/test-print-headcentres-response-awaited-on-law-on-inter-faith-marriages/article38347240.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:31 IST,||Prove allegations or apologise: Cong. to BJP on illegal mining||Alleging that the BJP had falsely blamed the Congress leaders for illegal mining in Goa to win the elections in 2012, the Opposition party on Saturday demanded an apology from the BJP. The Congress said the BJP-led State government has failed to recover any ‘scam money’ in the last decade. Addressing reporters in Panaji, Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar said the BJP had accused the then Congress-led government and its leaders of involvement in the mining scam that allegedly caused a loss of Rs. 35,000 crore to the State exchequer. “These allegations were based on the findings of a Public Accounts Committee of the State Legislative Assembly. The allegations were raised in 2012. Why then did the BJP fail to recover the money in the last ten years in the so-called mining scam?” he asked. Mr. Chodankar said the BJP had made up the entire issue in 2012 to win the election and after that, they stopped talking about the mining irregularities. “We want the BJP to prove the allegations (of Congress’s alleged involvement in the mining scam) or apologise to our leaders and the general public for misleading them,” he demanded. Justice M.B. Shah Commission had estimated the loss to the exchequer due to illegal mining in Goa to the tune of Rs. 35,000 crore. The controversial PAC report of 2011 had indicted the then chief minister Digambar Kamat and some other Congress leaders. The report was drafted by the PAC headed by then Leader of the Opposition Manohar Parrikar of the BJP, who later became the Chief Minister of Goa after the 2012 Assembly elections. The Congress has raised the illegal mining issue ahead of the February 14 Assembly elections in Goa.  Shah Commission had estimated the loss to the State exchequer to the tune of Rs. 35,000 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/prove-allegations-or-apologise-cong-to-bjp-on-illegal-mining/article64990982.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:31 IST,||NGT asks 100 industrial units to pay Rs. 186 cr. for water pollution||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered around 100 industrial units in Tarapur MIDC area of Maharashtra’s Palghar district to collectively pay around Rs. 186 crore as environmental compensation for polluting water bodies in the region by releasing untreated effluents into them. In the order passed on January 24, the Tribunal also pulled up the Enforcement Directorate for failing to take action under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against the industrial units despite offences like releasing untreated pollutants into water bodies, and said this ‘inaction’ has encouraged them to continue with the violations ‘with impunity’. It said the ED was taking action under the PMLA in a ‘narrow sphere’ although the scope of the law was widened in 2013 after amendments. Criticising the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board officials for their ‘extremely negligent and lax approach, careless attitude, non-bona fide conduct and lack of devotion to duty’, the NGT also said the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation has contributed in causing pollution ‘by failing to ensure its functions of maintenance of pipelines, non clearance of sludge in a regular manner’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-asks-100-industrial-units-to-pay-rs-186-cr-for-water-pollution/article38347951.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 03:31 IST,||Awards & consent||The story so far: The Padma awards were announced on January 25, and former West Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee refused the award. His refusal brought to the fore the question under what circumstances a recipient can decline the award. The awards are always announced a day before the Republic Day celebrations. The awards are given away by the President at ceremonial functions held at Rashtrapati Bhavan usually in the months of March-April every year. The functions for the 2020 and 2021 awardees were held together last November because of the COVID-19 pandemic. This year the President approved the conferment of 128 Padma Awards.  What are the Padma awards? After Bharat Ratna, Padma awards are the second highest civilian awards in the country and are given in three categories. It recognises achievements in public service in the field of art, social work, public affairs, science and engineering, trade and industry, medicine, literature and education, sport and civil services, among others. The awards, initially known as Padma Vibhushan and then categorised as Pahela Varg, Dusra Varg and Tisra Varg, were first constituted in 1954. They were later renamed as Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri in 1955. The Padma Vibhushan is given for exceptional and distinguished service, while the Padma Bhushan and the Padma Shri are for distinguished service of a high order and distinguished service respectively. Who decides the awards? The awards are conferred on the recommendations made by the Padma Awards Committee constituted by the Prime Minister every year. It is headed by the Cabinet Secretary and includes the Union Home Secretary, the Secretary to the President and four to six eminent persons as members. However, the names of the eminent members of the committee are not revealed. Even the names nominated and shortlisted by the committee are revealed after the awards have been announced. Even self-nomination can be made to the committee. The recommendations of the committee are submitted to the Prime Minister and the final list is signed by the President before it is notified in the Gazette of India. Can a recipient decline the award? The rules are silent on this. The convention is that the Home Secretary calls up each awardee and informs them of the civilian honour on January 25. The individual has the option of declining the award then, following which the name is removed from the list before it is sent to the President for approval. For example, eminent artistes, percussionist Pandit Anindya Chatterjee and vocalist Sandhya Mukhopadhyay turned down the awards when they received the call this year and their names were not inserted in the final list. In the case of Mr. Bhattacharjee, the call was received by his wife as he is ailing. A Home Ministry official said she was informed of the conferment of the Padma Bhushan on the former West Bengal Chief Minister. “If he had to decline the award, they could have called back and said so, the name would have been removed,” said the official. The official said there is no such rule to refuse the award once it has been announced. “I know nothing about this award. No one has told me anything about it. If they have decided to offer the Padma Bhushan to me, I refuse to accept it,” said a statement issued by Mr. Bhattacharjee on January 25 after the awards were announced in the evening. Is there a precedent? In 1992, former general secretary of the CPI(M) E.M.S. Namboodiripad had declined the award. The party said in a statement last week, “The CPI(M) policy has been consistent in declining such awards from the state. Our work is for the people, not for awards.” P.N. Haksar, principal secretary to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, was offered the Padma Vibhushan days after he retired in January 1973. He wrote to the then Home Secretary Govind Narain, “I have a difficulty in accepting the award. All these years, I have often said to myself that one should work so that one can live with oneself without regret.” Swami Ranganathananda of the Ramakrishna Mission refused the award in 2000 as it was given to him as an individual and not to the Ramakrishna Mission. Historian Romila Thapar has declined the award twice. What does the award entail? At the ceremonial function held at the President’s House in Delhi, the recipients are presented a ‘Sanad’ (certificate) signed by the President and a medallion. A small replica of the medallion is also given to them which can be worn during any ceremonial or State function. The award does not amount to a title and cannot be used as a suffix or prefix to the awardees’ name.  The awards are decided by the Padma Awards Committee set up by the Prime Minister every year. Besides the Cabinet Secretary, the Union Home Secretary, Secretary to the President, four to six eminent persons are members||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/awards-consent/article64991107.ece
30 January 2022||January 30 2022 05:31 IST,||‘Sandhya Mukherjee a living legend, beyond awards’||For several years now, Bangladeshi photographer Jannatul Mawa, a resident of Dhaka, has been pleading with friends in Kolkata to take her to the singer Sandhya Mukherjee so that she can take pictures of — in her words — the living legend. Luck has eluded her so far. “That’s all I want in life — to be face to face with Sandhya Mukherjee just once, even if for a few minutes, to click her pictures, and maybe have her sing a line from one of her songs,” said Ms. Mawa, whose most memorable moments in India, so far, include clicking pictures of shehnai maestro Bismillah Khan’s house in Varanasi.  “When I visited, Khan saheb was no longer alive, but I saw the cot where he would sit and meet people.I felt his presence in his absence. In Sandhya Mukherjee’s case, I am still hopeful of meeting her in person someday,” said Ms. Mawa, who is surprised that the 90-year-old singer should be at the centre of a controversy.  Ms. Mukherjee — just two years younger than another living legend, Lata Mangeshkar — has been in news since last Tuesday when she turned down the Padma Shri and was subsequently hospitalised for complications arising out of COVID-19. She continues to be in hospital, where her condition is stated to be “critical but stable”. The singer, according to the Bangladeshi photographer, represented an entire era in Bengal and was way beyond awards and recognitions. “For my parents’ generation, love was expressed through songs, and love songs necessarily meant Hemanta Mukherjee-Sandhya Mukherjee duets. Things weren’t very different even when I was growing up. She is aware of her stature, that’s why she had the courage to refuse the award,” said Ms. Mawa. Living legend: that’s how fans in Kolkata also describe her; the two words come most easily even to those who enjoy her songs but who may not be diehard fans. Whether or not she dominates your playlist, she dominated your life at some point; her voice certainly dominated your parents’ life — that’s how it is in Kolkata. “For Bengalis, if Suchitra Sen was the face of romance, Sandhya Mukherje was the voice of romance,” said classical singer Ratna Basu. “She has had such a long career, her body of work is so wide and varied, to offer her a Padma Shri is a mindless act.” Ms. Basu said what was more mindless was the fact that many younger Bollywood singers have already got the Padma Shri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sandhya-mukherjee-a-living-legend-beyond-awards/article64990981.ece
